October 13, 2020||Business||GST Council meet ends without reaching consensus on compensating states||NEW DELHI: The stalemate over compensating states for the shortfall in GST collections continued on Monday with a meeting of the GST Council ending without reaching any consensus on the issue. The panel, which is the highest decision-making body on indirect taxes, for the second time in a week failed to reach a consensus on the Centre's proposal of states borrowing against future GST collections to make up for the shortfall. This was the third meeting in a row that discussed compensation shortfall without a decision. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who heads the Council, said the Centre cannot borrow and pay states for the shortfall as it would lead to rise in bond yields, resulting in rise in borrowing costs for the government and the private sector. However, this would not be the case if states borrowed against future GST receipts, she said, adding 21 states had agreed to borrow as suggested by the Centre. The Centre is open to anyone needing facilitation, she said, adding, "Option 1 already a lot of people have said and they even today said tomorrow morning we're approaching for the borrowing from the market." On the other hand, she said, some other states insisted on a decision being taken by consensus. "Unfortunately we were not able to arrive at a consensus," Sitharaman said. Briefing the media after the over five-hour long meeting, she said it was a continuation of the 42nd GST Council meeting and it was decided to extend the cess beyond five years. In its previous meeting last week, the Council had decided to extend the surcharge on taxes on luxury goods such as cars and tobacco products beyond June 2022 but failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states for loss of tax revenue. On the way forward on the compensation issue, she said, "If there are states which want to borrow we will facilitate and I have also kept completely the option open for states to come and talk. If they have any questions, I ready to engage with them." The projected total compensation shortfall in the current fiscal stands at Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre had in August given two options to the states -- to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market. It had also proposed extending the compensation cess levied on luxury, demerit and sin goods beyond 2022 to repay the borrowing. Following a demand by some states, the amount of Rs 97,000 crore was increased to Rs 1.10 lakh crore. As many as 21 states -- which are BJP-ruled or have supported it on various issues -- have opted to borrow Rs 1.10 lakh crore to meet the compensation shortfall. "A large number of states are now ready for this kind of system to be operated. And once they actually come with the exact figures so that would be worked out for each of the states. "So I think this is what needs to be understood and emphasised in this whole scheme of things, that the issue which is being raised is not something that I'm paying for my pocket but it is a separate pocket that is there that will be used to pay for all these," economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj explained. The Centre has released Rs 20,000 crore to the states towards compensation shortfall so far in the current fiscal. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods, and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. But due to a slowdown in the economy, collections have fallen short of the money needed for compensating states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-council-meet-ends-without-reaching-consensus-on-compensating-states/articleshow/78627771.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Goa||Goa Basketball Association gets innovative with online skill challenge||Panaji:The Goa Basketball Association (GBA) is strongly focussing on honing the skills of budding cagers from the state even during the coronavirus pandemic. With basketball courts unavailable to many, the GBA first introduced an online certificate course for students last month with different modules that could be executed at home. Keeping in line with the same, the GBA is gearing up for another online challenge with the All-Goa Basketball Ball Handling Challenge 2020 for all age categories on October 30. “It is basically movement of the ball and dribbling by an individual person with no second person involved,” GBA secretary Ralin De Souza told TOI on Monday. The event will be held in U-10, U-12, U-14, U-16, U-18 boys and girls categories. As per the guidelines, four days before the final competition, a video for each age category will be released. The players will be asked to imitate and create their own one-minute video and submit for the event. This is in preparation for the next event to follow for the 16-city National Basketball Ball Handling Challenge to be held on November 14. The concept was developed by coach Amar Gaikwad from Mumbai who conducted this competition at Maharashtra level after the lockdown was imposed in March. He contacted fellow coaches in other cities and will now conduct the 16-City challenge privately. “Videos will have to be submitted for the state level competition, whereas the 16-city event will be held completely with live video feed so we are getting our players accustomed to it. The pattern is exactly the same they will do for the national event,” said Ralin. Each event category will have one final winner for boys and girls and will be given a basketball along with certificates for winning their category. All others will be awarded an online participation certificate. Players can obtain details from Michael Dias (8390894926), Royston Costa (9822124349) or Manjusha Salgaonkar (9545614563). Details and registration process is also available on the GBA website (goabasketball.com).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-basketball-association-gets-innovative-with-online-skill-challenge/articleshow/78628130.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 13, 2020||India||Hathras victim’s family asks HC to shift case out of UP||LUCKNOW: Family members of the Hathras alleged gang rape case victim on Monday requested the high court to shift the case out of Uttar Pradesh. Appearing before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, the parents and siblings of the victim also said that their consent was not taken for her cremation. The bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Ranjan Roy heard the depositions of the victim's family members and top UP government officials who were summoned by the court while taking suo motu cognisance of the incident, in which the alleged rape victim was hurriedly cremated by police after September 29 midnight. Hathras DM Praveen Kumar Laxkar, who also appeared before the court, took full responsibility of the cremation. He told the court that there was no pressure from the government and it was the decision of the local administration keeping in mind the law and order situation and also because the body was decomposing. The division bench took up the case around 2.20pm and concluded the hearing by 4pm and posted the next hearing on November 2. The bench, however, did not dictate any order immediately and said that it would write it in the chamber. The copy of the order, however, was not uploaded on the high court’s website till late night. Read AlsoNikki Haley slams Biden, Harris for their policiesPopular Republican politician Nikki Haley has hit out at Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden for being a "status quo" on China and wanting to revive the Iran nuclear deal while accusing his running mate and Senator Kamala Harris for advancing the leftist agenda.When the court asked the victim’s family, during the course of their deposition, if they had a lawyer, they pointed towards advocate Seema Kushwaha, who had also represented Nirbhaya's family in Delhi. Kushwaha requested the court to transfer the probe to the CBI and the trial to Delhi. Additional advocate general VK Sahi informed the court that the probe had already been transferred to the CBI. Read AlsoCBI puts up FIR on its website, removes it within hoursNEW DELHI: Hours after putting the Hathras rape case FIR on its website, the CBI removed it sensing possible violation of a Supreme Court order that FIRs in cases of rape and sexual assault, including those against minors, should not be put in public domain by police. The agency, however, did notTalking to reporters after the hearing, Kushwaha said that the family had told the bench that their consent had not been taken before cremating the girl. "We have also requested that the family should be provided security cover till the trial is completed, regardless of whether the case goes to Supreme Court," she said. Earlier, security was tightened around the HC premises since Monday morning. The family members were brought to the court around 1pm under tight security. Though the HC is taking up cases through video conferencing nowadays, it had decided to take up this case through physical hearing. Additional chief secretary (home), DGP, ADG (law and order), Hathras DM and SP categorically stressed that the cremation was conducted in the night due to law and order issues. The DM said that there was no instruction or pressure from state authorities in Lucknow regarding the cremation. He said that it was an independent decision of the local police and administration and the victim's family had been taken into confidence. Appearing for the state government, Sahi argued that the administration had acted in a bona fide manner. In the course of hearing, senior advocate JN Mathur, who had been appointed amicus curie by the HC, pleaded that every citizen has a right to be cremated with dignity and as per his or her religious rites by family members under Article 25 of the Constitution. The bench had taken suo motu notice of the issue on October 1, 2020 and registered the case as a PIL titled "Right to decent and dignified last rites". It had expressed concern over the manner of cremation of the Hathras victim and summoned top government officials and the family to narrate the facts of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-victims-family-asks-hc-to-shift-case-out-of-up/articleshow/78628991.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 13, 2020||India||Pakistan, China colluding on border rows: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: Forty-four permanent bridges providing connectivity to forward areas on the western, northern and north-eastern fronts were formally inaugurated on Monday, even as defence minister Rajnath Singh warned against a collusive China-Pakistan agenda to create trouble on India’s borders. “You are well aware of the conditions created on our northern and eastern borders. First, it was Pakistan, and now also China…it seems border disputes are being created as part of a mission,” said Singh while inaugurating the bridges. “We have a border of about 7,000 km with these countries, where tension prevails on a daily basis,” added Singh while dedicating the bridges built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) at a cost of Rs 286 crore. He also virtually laid the foundation stone for the proposed 450-metre long Nechiphu tunnel on the road to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh. The bridges, with spans varying from 30 to 484 m in seven states and UTs, have been completed at a time when India is engaged in a military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh since early-May. The Line of Control with Pakistan also remains extremely volatile, with around 3,300 ceasefire violations already being recorded this year, breaking all annual records since 2003, as was reported by TOI earlier. Eight of the 44 bridges are located in Ladakh, including a crucial one over the Shyok river on the strategic Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) road. The 70-tonne class bridge can withstand the weight of tanks and provides Indian troops easier access to the crucial Depsang and Galwan Valley areas. The other bridges are in J&K (10), Himachal Pradesh (2), Punjab (4), Uttarakhand (8), Sikkim (4) and Arunachal Pradesh (8). Noting that the dedication of 44 bridges in one go was a record, the defence minister said the Modi government was ushering in historic changes in all sectors of infrastructure development despite the challenge posed by Covid-19 and the border tensions caused by Pakistan and China. “These bridges have improved connectivity in the far-flung areas of western, northern and north-east sectors and fulfilled the aspirations of local people. They will also meet the transport and logistics requirements of the armed forces throughout the year,” he added. BRO’s annual budget, which varied from Rs 3,300 crore to Rs 4,600 crore from 2008 to 2016, has been substantially hiked to over Rs 11,000 crore in 2020-21, he said. BRO chief Lt-General Harpal Singh, in turn, said special emphasis has been laid on construction of bridges, which saw 28 major ones being completed last year. Fifty-four of the 102 major bridges earmarked for this year have also been completed, he added. Watch Border dispute created as if it was under a mission: Rajnath Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-china-colluding-on-border-rows-rajnath-singh/articleshow/78629153.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Andhra HC orders CBI to probe social media posts about judges||VIJAYWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday ordered a CBI inquiry into allegedly objectionable comments about judges and the judicial system in social media posts by some individuals, including those in prominent positions, in the wake of the court staying the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s decision to introduce English as the medium of instruction in state-run primary schools. "In a democratic state, if such a war (is) initiated against the judicial system by persons holding high positions, certainly it will create unnecessary doubt in the mind of the citizen, which may cripple (the) entire system," the bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi said. The judges directed the CBI to examine if the attacks were part of a larger conspiracy and act against the culprits, irrespective of their official positions, if the conspiracy was established. The judges said the CBI could register more FIRs if the material available on record indicated cognisable offences. They also directed the agency to get all the allegedly defamatory posts on social media removed, besides taking steps to block such users. The CBI is required to file a report within eight weeks. The state government has been asked to extend all possible assistance to the agency. The court's order came in response to a petition filed by the registrar general, seeking action against the allegedly defamatory posts. The registrar general had also lodged a complaint with the state CID. He later filed an interlocutory petition objecting to the CID not registering cases against YSRCP members accused of posting objectionable comments about the judiciary. On Saturday, chief minister Reddy had stirred up a controversy by writing a complaint to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde about a Supreme Court judge and some high court judges. An advocate thereafter filed a PIL in the apex court, seeking suitable action against the Andhra Pradesh government for holding a press conference to level unsubstantiated charges against the judiciary and a judge. The petitioner said the government crossed the line in seeking to tarnish the judiciary's dignity. In an earlier high court hearing, the standing counsel had told the bench that assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram, too, made objectionable comments about the judiciary. The bench said the speaker would be covered under contempt proceedings if the remarks were made outside the House. Watch Andhra HC orders CBI probe into defamatory social media posts on judges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/andhra-hc-orders-cbi-to-probe-social-media-posts-about-judges/articleshow/78629326.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 13, 2020||Business||No consensus in GST Council, states can borrow to meet shortfall||NEW DELHI: For the first time, the GST Council failed to arrive at a consensus due to sharp division along political lines, allowing the Centre to let 20-odd states issue bonds to raise funds and meet the shortfall in collection. Continuing from where they left, the 10 opposition-governed states and UTs pressed for the Centre to borrow the funds, something that finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman refused to do, arguing that higher-than-announced borrowings will increase the cost of funds for the government and the private sector. “The impact will be less if states borrow… The Centre will facilitate borrowings to ensure cost is equitable for all states,” she said after the meeting, sticking to the stand taken even before the borrowing calendar for the second half of the year had been finalised. At Monday’s four-hour meeting, the third on the issue, there were 12 states that supported the Centre’s preferred option to raise Rs 1.1 lakh crore, out of the Rs 2.3 lakh crore, estimated shortfall from the market. “Whoever wants to talk, please talk. As many states also said, further talking, holding other states will only make them appear very poorly back home… they can’t go back to repeatedly say ‘sorry the Council could not arrive at a consensus so till then I’m not doing any expenditure’… Does our conscience allow us to hold back states which have opted for something till the time a consensus is arrived at?” Sitharaman said. Read AlsoGST Council meet ends without consensus, finance minister says states need to borrow: Top developmentsThe GST Council failed to reach any consensus for the second time in a week overcompensating states for the shortfall in GST collections. The meeting -- chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman -- was a continuation of the 42nd GST Council meet held last week. Sitharaman said that the CentreSome of the states such as West Bengal had proposed that the dispute resolution mechanism be invoked to decide on the issue within seven to 10 days. Alternatively, a group of ministers could be set up, others suggested. But the proposals were rejected with some of the states describing the meeting as a show of “majoritarianism”. “There is no dispute, we can have differences,” Sitharaman said, adding that the GST Council had the powers to decide on issues such as an extension of the compensation cess beyond June 2022, which had been done. She also said states have been assured that they do not have to bear the burden from their budget. The opposition-ruled states have, however, not decided their future course of action, although, as reported by TOI last Tuesday, it was clear that the Centre was not going to allow voting on the borrowing plan, citing the legal opinion that it was an issue that was outside the scope of the GST Council. Watch No consensus in GST Council meet on state's compensation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-consensus-in-gst-council-states-can-borrow-to-meet-shortfall/articleshow/78629400.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Government to spend Rs 37,000 crore, give sops to spur festive demand||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced additional allocation of Rs 37,000 crore towards capital expenditure, and put money into the pockets of government employees ahead of the festival season, hoping to trigger demand of Rs 1 lakh crore in her latest bid to revive economic activity. The much-awaited “stimulus”, however, did not contain measures to address the lack of demand in sectors such as hospitality and tourism that have been hit hard by Coronavirus with demand remaining tepid even after opening. PM Narendra Modi had held consultations with his top economic advisors as far back as July on boosting spending on core sector projects in a bid to spur demand for cement, steel and other inputs, which culminated in Monday’s announcements. Centre hopes states, pvt cos too will offer LTA schemeAlong with the conditions, Sitharaman has placed a lot of reliance on state governments and the private sector taking a cue from the Centre to and come up with similar schemes. The additional capex and leave travel concession and festival loan benefits for central government employees come with riders, and the impact will depend on how many employees opt for this scheme. For instance, the Rs 25,000 crore allocation for additional capex by March-end will be made for defence infrastructure, roads, water supply and urban development, provided the equipment is manufactured locally. There was another Rs 12,000 crore support to the states, which is to be provided in the form of interest-free loans for 50 years. But the rider is that the money has to be spent by March and there is a Rs 2,000 crore allocation for states which meet three of the reform criteria announced earlier such as power sector reforms or one-nation one ration card related initiatives. Similarly, those availing of the LTC benefit need to spend three times their entitlement in purchasing cars, fridge, mixers or vacuum cleaners. The measures marked the government's fresh efforts to revive sentiment and give some push to the economy which has been battered by the Covid-19 induced lockdown and growth has plunged nearly 24% in the June quarter and full year GDP contraction is estimated at 9.5% in the current fiscal year. Using “conservative estimates”, the Centre pegged the cost of the LTC cash voucher scheme at around Rs 5,675 crore with another Rs 1,900 crore coming from state-run banks and companies. This is estimated to result in demand of around Rs 19,000 crore with another Rs 9,000 crore coming from the states. Apart from this Rs 28,000 crore, the government expects that its Rs 10,000 festival advance to each employee this year will result in loans of Rs 4,000 crore by the Centre and another Rs 8,000 crore by the states, which will also boost demand. “Although this round of stimulus is quite limited in scope, another boost to demand, perhaps in the fourth quarter of FY21, may not be ruled out when the economy has fully exited from the lockdowns and started to gather momentum,” said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at EY India, adding that the scheme “may be beset by excessive conditionalities”. Sitharaman, however, emphasised that the bottom line for the government was not to burden taxpayers or excessively borrow. While Srivastava estimated the fiscal cost at 0.4% of GDP, other such as Barclays put it at 0.16% of GDP. In any case, economic affairs secretary Tarun Bajaj said the annual borrowings of Rs 12 lakh crore has already budgeted for this. Some economists said the measures fell way short of expectations. "Too little and too late. When the economy desperately needs a stimulus of an additional 2% of GDP, the announcement of fiscal stimulus of less than 0.1% would barely move the needle if at all. Some improvement in demand was expected this quarter due to a combination of pent up demand and festival driven demand. But if fiscal intervention only leads to a little bump without being able to ensure demand sustainability, the economy is quite unlikely to be better off," said Kunal Kundu, India economist at Societe Generale. Watch FM announces Rs 10,000 interest-free festival advance to employees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-to-spend-rs-37000-crore-give-sops-to-spur-festive-demand/articleshow/78629573.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Aligned with India along shared goals: US||NEW DELHI: India and US have entered a “fundamental alignment along shared security and geopolitical goals, shared interests, and shared values,” according to US deputy secretary of state Steve Biegun, who arrived here on Monday to prepare for the “2+2” meeting between the two countries later this month. The Quad is increasingly the focus of the new alignment. Biegun said, “The Quad is a partnership driven by shared interests, not binding obligations, and is not intended to be an exclusive grouping. Any country that seeks a free and open Indo-Pacific and is willing to take steps to ensure that, should be welcome to work with us.” Addressing the India-US Forum in New Delhi, the top US official said, “As the US assesses our own interests and how they intersect with India’s, we have seen the conditions emerge for an organic and deeper partnership—not an alliance on the postwar model, but a fundamental alignment along shared security and geopolitical goals, shared interests, and shared values.” Biegun directly addressed the debate in India about retaining its “strategic autonomy” and about the “elephant” in the room, China. “India has a strong and proud tradition of strategic autonomy, and we respect that. We do not seek to change India’s traditions. Rather we want to explore how to empower them and India’s ability to defend its own sovereignty and democracy and to advance Indian interests, across the Indo-Pacific region.” His remarks showed a renewed US interest for a country like India which takes care of its own defence interests, a distinct difference from US’ traditional security allies like Australia, Japan, South Korea and others. President Donald Trump in particular, has been exhorting America’s traditional allies to take on greater responsibilities for their security. Biegun addressed the reasons for the Quad fast emerging as the lynchpin of the Indo-Pacific strategies for many countries. “The United States and India represent multi-ethnic, multi-confessional, democratic societies. Together with Japan and Australia, we are four democratic anchors in an Indo-Pacific region buffeted by changing winds and shifting currents. We each have our imperfections, of course, and our own histories that steered our democratic paths, but we share values as well as common interests, and together our democracies represent the voices of a nearly a quarter of the world’s population.” For India, the priorities post pandemic is in new age technologies and sectors like renewable energy and healthcare as well as resilient supply chains. For the present, defence and security cooperation dominates the India-US environment, not least because of the growing security threat China poses to India. Biegun said, “The United States has already begun some of these efforts, including increased foreign military sales and intelligence sharing with India. But there is more that we can do, including strengthening India’s ability to defend itself and by promoting interoperability among our militaries through regular exercises and exchanges, common defence platforms, and co-development. The upcoming 2+2 ministerial meeting between secretary Pompeo and minister Jaishankar and their respective defence counterparts will be an excellent opportunity to explore next steps on some of these issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aligned-with-india-along-shared-goals-us/articleshow/78629693.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Mumbai police make 5th arrest in TRP case, from Mirzapur in UP||MUMBAI: Mumbai crime branch probing the TRP manipulation racket on Monday arrested one more person who was part of the network that allegedly distributed money among households to watch particular TV channels. Police arrested Vinay Tripathi, a former relationship manager of Hansa Research, from Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh. This takes the number of people arrested in the case to five. Four persons were arrested last week. Police have also frozen the bank accounts of Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi channels and of their two heads. A team led by API Sachin Waze recorded the statements of Praveen Nijhara, CEO of Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, and Hansa’s deputy general manager Nitin Deokar, who is the complainant in this case. On Monday, statements of Republic TV group CEO Vikas Khanchandani and the channel’s distribution head Ghanshyam Singh were also recorded for the second consecutive day. On Sunday, the police had questioned Khanchandani and Republic COO Hersh Bhandari in Mumbai, while Ghanshyam Singh had been questioned in Daman. “One of the arrested accused, Vishal Bhandari, told us that he would receive money from Tripathi to distribute it among households who were asked to watch specific TV channels,” said a Mumbai police officer. Police said that Bompallirao Mistri has emerged as the key person who operated the racket at the insistance of TV channels. He used to operate through Tripathi and Bhandari, police said. Four more persons are under the scanner, police added. Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema are being probed for rigging the viewership. Read AlsoTRP scam: Republic TV CEO, COO appear before Mumbai PoliceTop Republic TV officials appeared before the Mumbai Police on Sunday for questioning in the ratings manipulation scam. The crime branch of Mumbai Police had on Saturday issued summons to Republic TV's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani and two Chief Operating Officers (COO) forAmong the four people arrested earlier were heads of Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. Police said Tripathi worked with Hansa as relationship manager for four years and left the job in 2018 even before Bhandari had joined Hansa as relationship manager. “In June this year, Hansa found some suspicious trend in the TRPs and conducted an internal inquiry. At this juncture, Tripathi left Mumbai for Uttar Pradesh. He was not employed with Hansa at the time of the agency’s internal inquiry,” the police officer said. Tripathi’s call data records show he was in touch with Bhandari from November 2019 to March 2020. A police team comprising officers Santosh Kotwal, Riyaz Qazi, Prakash Howad, Nitin Londhe and Subhash Mutthe arrested Tripathi. He will be produced before a Mirzapur court on Tuesday for transit remand and brought to Mumbai. Meanwhile, Republic TV chief financial officer Shiva Sundaram has sent a letter to Mumbai police stating that he would join the investigation on Tuesday. Priya Mukherjee, the CEO of Republic TV, did not turn up on Monday citing health issues. Police said statements of 36 people have been recorded so far, and four bank accounts of Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi have been frozen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-police-make-5th-arrest-in-trp-case-from-mirzapur-in-up/articleshow/78629733.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 13, 2020||India||Even a few extra kilos up risk of severe Covid: CDC||NEW DELHI: The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Atlanta, has issued a warning saying not just the obese but even those with moderately excess weight may be at higher risk of severe Covid-19. The warning issued by the US public health institute may have serious implications for Indians as well because almost 40% Indians are obese and overweight, according to the fourth National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data. Doctors say the risk may be higher among overweight Indians. “Obesity is defined at a lower weight in Indians than white, because even at such levels of weight, high body fat seen in the former induces high cytokine load, which is markedly increased by Covid-19, leading to organ failure. Hence, even mild to moderate obesity in Indians may cause complications of Covid-19 to occur easily,” says Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis C-Doc. However, physical activity is seen as a better intervention to reduce the risk of infection. “Overweight or obesity seems to be one of the strongest risk factors determining poor outcomes after Covid. The good news is that by reducing weight, the risk of poor outcomes can be reduced. Physical activity, even in the absence of weight loss, can help to improve immunity by building muscle mass, reducing excess fat and improving insulin sensitivity and better control of type 2 diabetes,” says Dr V Mohan, chairman, Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Apart from overweight, other conditions for which there is limited or mixed evidence of increased Covid-19 severity include asthma, cerebrovascular disease and cystic fibrosis, the CDC said. The CDC has defined overweight and obesity by a person’s body mass index, a ratio of an individual’s weight and height. People with a BMI equal to or more than 30 are obese, whereas those between 25 and 29 are overweight. People having BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 are considered to be of healthy weight. The government guidelines on Covid-19 management also highlights weight management, particularly among people with any co-morbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/even-a-few-extra-kilos-up-risk-of-severe-covid-cdc/articleshow/78629829.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 13, 2020||India||3 Jammu and Kashmir teachers held under PSA, school faces terror scan||SRINAGAR: Three teachers of a CBSE-affiliated school in south Kashmir's Shopian that has allegedly produced 13 terrorists, including a teenager involved in the Pulwama attack, were arrested on Monday and booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) for "indoctrinating and inducing their students to wage war against the state". IGP (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar said the Jamia Sirajul Uloom Secondary School, a well-known institution that retained its seminary roots even as it transitioned to formal education, had been under the scanner for some time because of its alleged association with the banned Jamiat-e-Islami. Sajjad Bhat, the terrorist whose car was used in the February 2019 Pulwama suicide attack that killed 40 CRPF personnel, had studied in this school before he went missing. The 17-year-old was killed in an encounter a few months later. The three teachers accused of trying to turn the school into a terror factory have been identified as Abdul Ahad Bhat, Rouf Bhat and Mohammad Yusuf Wani. Besides the PSA, they have been slapped with cases under Section 107 of the CrPC, which deals with breach of peace. "Five to six other teachers of the school are under surveillance for their conduct," the IGP said. "Right now, we are taking action against individuals, but if the need arises, we will also initiate steps against the school." Muhammad Yousuf Matoo, the chairman Jamia Sirajul Uloom, contested allegations about the school functioning under the radar as an indoctrination centre for future terrorists. Disowning the arrested trio, he said none of them was a teacher at the school. On alumnus Sajjad being named among the main accused in the Pulwama bombing, Matoo said the institution should not be blamed for a former student's wrongdoing. "We had no role in it. Sajjad, who the police say was involved in the attack, had been a student here only for some months. He was working as a mechanic before joining the terrorist ranks. How can one assume that we made him do that?" Most students at the institution are from the terrorist-infested districts of Kulgam, Pulwama, Anantnag and Shopian. IGP Kumar said several terror outfits had recruited local cadres through a section of teachers at the school. Challenging the police to prove the allegations, the school's chairman said, "Our institute is recognised by the J&K government. The NCERT syllabus is taught here. Our oriental college is affiliated to Kashmir University. We are open to answering every question. Any media group can come and check our teaching methods and other affairs. Anyone can check our finances and syllabus resources. We are registered with the income tax department." Watch 'Terror factory' red-flagged: 3 Jammu and Kashmir teachers held under PSA, school faces terror scan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-jammu-and-kashmir-teachers-held-under-psa-school-faces-terror-scan/articleshow/78630028.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 13, 2020||India||NIA arrests terror suspect from Budgam||SRINAGAR: National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested Tafazul Hussain Parimoo, a resident of J&K’s Budgam, in connection with its probe into suspended J&K deputy superintendent of police Davinder Singh’s alleged connections with terror groups. “Tafazul played a key role in supplying arms and ammunition to accused Tariq Mir — former sarpanch of Maldera in Shopian who was arrested in April — who further supplied them to Hizbul terrorists active in Shopian,” the spokesperson added. DSP Davinder Singh was arrested in January while travelling in his car with Hizbul Mujahideen’s Naveed Babu. The NIA had said he had provided shelter to the terrorist on multiple occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-arrests-terror-suspect-from-budgam/articleshow/78630051.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 13, 2020||India||Pakistani Lashkar commander, aide killed in Srinagar encounter||SRINAGAR: A Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba commander wanted for a string of terror attacks on security forces since mid-August was shot dead early Monday along with another terrorist after being trapped in Srinagar’s congested Rambagh locality for hours as a cordon-and-search team swooped in for the kill, taking care to avoid collateral damage. Saifullah, not to be confused with his Pakistan-born Hizbul Mujahideen namesake “Dr Saifullah”, is the first Pakistani terrorist to be spotted and killed within Srinagar city since the resurgence of terrorism in Kashmir in 2016. J&K DGP Dilbag Singh said Saifullah, who infiltrated the Valley from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir earlier this year, had been masterminding one strike after another, including four consecutive attacks in which three CRPF and two police personnel were killed since August 14. Shifting base from north to south Kashmir, the Lashkar commander and his slain aide — identified as Irshad Ahmed Dar, alias Abu Usama, from Trichal in Pulwama — had moved further to enter Srinagar around 15 days ago, IGP (Kashmir range) Vijay Kumar told TOI. Together, the duo carried out a terror attack at Nowgam on August 14 in which two IRP cops were killed and another injured; at Kaisarmullah in Chadoora on September 24, in which a CRPF man was killed and his rifle snatched; and on October 5 on the New Bypass in Taingam Nowgam, in which two CRPF personnel were slain and four injured. Giving details of the operation against Saifullah and his aide, IGP Kumar said a joint team of Srinagar Police and the CRPF moved into the Rambagh area in the dead of night, based on intelligence inputs about the duo’s presence in a house there. The bodies of the two ultras, who had opened fire at the search party, were found in their hideout long after the first shots were fired. The two bodies will be sent to north Kashmir’s Baramulla for burial after completion of medico-legal formalities, including DNA collection. If their kin want to participate in the last rites, they can come forward for identification of the bodies, police said. DGP Singh said another terrorist known to be involved in a couple of attacks remains within Srinagar city. “He will be taken out soon,” the police chief said at a press conference here, adding that security forces had killed 180 ultras in 75 anti-terror operations so far this year. “All anti-terror operations conducted this year were clean,” he said, pointing out that only one civilian had died in the crossfire during an encounter in Srinagar’s Batamaloo area on September 17. On whether ultras from Lashkar and other outfits were trying to set foot again in Srinagar, the DGP said eight encounters took place in the city this year alone in which 18 terrorists including a top Hizbul Mujahideen commander were killed. “Whenever any terror outfit tries to establish its base in Srinagar, we successfully act against them with the help of intelligence and other sources,” he said. A total of 19 policemen and 21 CRPF personnel were killed in various terror attacks in Kashmir. “Army lost 15 soldiers and a majority of them were killed on the Line of Control,” DGP Singh said. Responding to a question about the rehabilitation of misled youth, the police chief said 26 Kashmiri youngsters who had taken up arms were brought back and reunited with their families this year. Asked whether these youth were being sent outside J&K, the DGP replied in the negative. On the topic of a rehabilitation policy for them, he said, “Officially, there is no policy as yet. Details would be shared when there is one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistani-lashkar-commander-aide-killed-in-srinagar-encounter/articleshow/78630083.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 13, 2020||World||Thousands take part in kisan rally in Birmingham to support agitating farmers in Punjab||LONDON: Thousands of British Sikhs took part in a second kisan rally in Birmingham on Sunday to show solidarity with farmers in Punjab who are agitating against newly enacted agri-marketing laws. It was the second big rally of its kind in the UK following one held in Southall a week ago at which British Sikh organiser Deepa Singh was fined Rs 10 lakh for breaching Covid-19 restrictions. Hundreds of tractors, cars, motorbikes, trucks and lorries took part in the four-hour rally on Sunday, which travelled in convoy slowly through Birmingham. Drivers honked as vehicles blasted religious music and Punjabi songs about fighting oppression. The convoy often stopped, causing road blockades and disrupting traffic. The rally began at Guru Nanak Smethwick, and then travelled via Birmingham city centre to Guru Har Rai Gurdwara, West Bromwich. Passengers waved orange and black flags, the former symbolising the Khalsa and the latter symbolising ‘ros’ (‘protest’ in Punjabi.) They mainly chanted “Kisan mazdoor ekta zindabad (Long live unity between farmers and labourers)” and “Kisan bachao (Save farmers)”, but some Khalistan slogans were also raised and a few Khalistan flags were seen. One of the participants, who did not wish to be named, said: “We went in vehicles because we wanted to make sure it went ahead. Because of Covid, large gatherings are not allowed at the moment so we wanted to keep it safe by letting everyone come in their cars as Birmingham is a high-risk area at present. We did not want to organise it on foot and then people turn up and get dispersed by the police straight away,” he said. No one was fined or arrested at the Birmingham rally, and the police helped direct traffic, he said. “We did it to show that Punjab is close to our heart. A lot of British Sikhs have family in Punjab and travel there regularly. That is our motherland. We feel their pain. It was mainly British Sikhs but we had students from Punjab who are studying here take part too. These new laws are a way for big corporate companies to extort from farmers. Farmers won’t get fair prices. The farmer suicides speak volumes. The laws will only benefit the corporates. The majority of farmers are against them. I do not know one farmer in Punjab who is for them,” he said. Watch Thousands of Sikhs take out rally in UK’s Birmingham in support of agitating farmers in Punjab||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/thousands-take-part-in-kisan-rally-in-birmingham-to-support-agitating-farmers-in-punjab/articleshow/78630088.cms||NAOMI CANTON
October 13, 2020||World||Graft charges: Imran accepts aide’s resignation||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday accepted the resignation of his special assistant on information and broadcasting Asim Saleem Bajwa, a retired lieutenant general, weeks after a report claimed that his family business grew in the US while he was serving in the army. Bajwa, who is also a chairman of over $60-billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) Authority, had submitted his resignation from the post. Earlier, PM Khan had refused to accept the resignation, claiming that he was satisfied with Bajwa’s explanation about his family’s assets. “I requested the honourable prime minister to relinquish me from the additional portfolio of SAPM (special assistant to PM) on Info & broadcasting. He very kindly approved my request,” Bajwa said in a tweet. He, however, will continue to work as chairman of the lucrative CPEC Authority. In August, a Pakistani journalist Ahmed Noorani had reported on the ‘Fact Focus’ website that Bajwa had used his offices, since 2002, when he was a lieutenant colonel, in setting up off-shore businesses of his wife, sons and brothers. Noorani provided documentary evidence of Bajwa and his brothers getting rich in the US and gave details of their pizza franchises and other companies in the US, the UAE and Canada. After staying silent for over a week, Bajwa, a former director general of Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), army’s media wing, responded by announcing his resignation as the PM’s aide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/graft-charges-imran-accepts-aides-resignation/articleshow/78630094.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
October 13, 2020||India||BJP calls Farooq’s Art 370 remark ‘seditious’, says it compromises country’s sovereignty||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR: BJP sharply criticised former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah for holding the decision to nullify Article 370 as responsible for Chinese aggression and suggesting it can be restored with Beijing's help as seditious and going against the unity and integrity of India. "It is very objectionable that a sitting MP is speaking about the restoration of Article 370 with the help of China. Farooq Abdullah said that abrogation of Article 370 disturbed China and tried to justify China's expansionist thought,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said at a press conference. He said this is not the first time that Abdullah had made such a statement. "Compromising or making statements on the country's sovereignty, unity and integrity is very sad and against the nation.” The BJP member said, "Both Rahul Gandhi and Farooq Abdullah are two sides of the same coin. This is the same Rahul Gandhi, who a few days ago said that the PM has gone into hiding, it is Congress that said that India has surrendered.” "Now, Congress has started speaking in support of China while giving statements against Modi. Both Farooq Abdullah and Congress keep politics ahead and the country behind," Patra added. He said on September 24, Abdullah said that if you go to Jammu and Kashmir and ask people if they are Indians, then they would say that they are not. “In the same statement, he also said that it would be good if we could join China,” the BJP spokesperson said. In his comments to a news channel, Abdullah said China "never accepted" the nullification of Article 370, and hoped that it will be restored with Beijing’s support. “Whatever they are doing at LAC in Ladakh, it is because of the abrogation of Article 370, which they never accepted. I am hopeful that with their support, Article 370 will be restored in J&K," Farooq had said. "I never invited the Chinese President, it was PM Modi who not only invited him, but did jhoola sawari with him. PM Modi even took him to Chennai and had food with him," Farooq Abdullah said. Reacting to the National Conference leader’s statement, Congress spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said, "With great respect, I will totally disagree. Irrespective of the merits of the Article 370 issue, it is completely wrong to even remotely refer to any foreign power, be it China or Pakistan. World's proudest democracy needs no interference from the world's largest and most hated dictatorship on the one side and a failed state like Pakistan on the other. Internal debates in India are a sign of vibrant democracy but they do not mean that responsible former Constitutional post holders can bring in such unconstitutional references." Abdullah, his son and former CM Omar Abdullah and PDP chief and another former CM Mehbooba Mufti were put under detention under the Public Safety Act. Farooq Abdullah was, however, first to be released in February this year followed by Omar. But Mehbooba Mufti continues to be in detention under PSA at her official house which was declared as subsidiary jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-calls-farooqs-art-370-remark-seditious-says-it-compromises-countrys-sovereignty/articleshow/78630122.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at hospital in Mulund; One dead, 40 patients shifted to other hospitals||MUMBAI: A fire broke out late night on Monday at a private hospital in Mulund, due to which authorities shifted 40 patients to nearby hospitals. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. One patient who was shifted to another hospital has died, the BMC confirmed. The fire, which was attributed to overheating of a generator set at the Apex Hospital, has been extinguished officials said. "We have five nursing homes in Mulund area. One of them in Apex hospital on Monday where a generator caught fire due to which three critical patients who were on ventilators were shifted and one of them died on the way. I also got to know that the condition of another patient is very serious," BJP MLA Mihir Kotecha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-breaks-out-at-hospital-in-mulund-one-dead-40-patients-shifted-to-other-hospitals/articleshow/78630143.cms||---
October 13, 2020||World||Nikki Haley slams Biden, Harris for their policies||WASHINGTON: Popular Republican politician Nikki Haley has hit out at Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden for being a "status quo" on China and wanting to revive the Iran nuclear deal while accusing his running mate and Senator Kamala Harris for advancing the leftist agenda. Indian-American Haley, 48, had so far refrained from publicly criticising 55-year old Harris, has now come out in open against the California Senator's policies, which the former US Ambassador to the UN said was reflective of Harris' leftist agenda. "Harris pledged to repeal the 2017 tax cut and invest in the American people, revealing the left's fundamental philosophy that government is better equipped to spend people's money than the people themselves," she said in a tweet. Haley is one of the most popular Republican politicians in the US after Trump and is seen as party's potential presidential candidate in 2024. The two-term Governor of South Carolina, Haley was the first Cabinet-ranking Indian-American in any presidential administration. Supporting Trump in his re-election, Haley also slammed Biden and Harris for their foreign policy views on issues like Iran and climate change issues. "While Biden and Harris want to revive the Iran nuclear deal, pouring billions of dollars into a terrorist regime, the Trump administration withdrew from the disastrous Iran nuclear deal & eliminated one of the world's most dangerous terrorist masterminds — a move that Biden opposed,” she said. Haley said Biden favors a USD 2 trillion version of the Green New Deal, and Harris pledged to rejoin the Paris climate agreement “with pride.” Vice President Mike Pence countered that America had already reduced CO2 levels through free-market innovation, like natural gas development, while creating new jobs, Haley said. "While Biden was part of the status quo on China, the Trump administration fundamentally altered the debate about China. The US has opened its eyes to China's communist threat and is beginning to take substantive action to stop Chinese spying and counter China in tech, manufacturing and defense," Haley said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/nikki-haley-slams-biden-harris-for-their-policies/articleshow/78630156.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||CBI puts up FIR on its website, removes it within hours||NEW DELHI: Hours after putting the Hathras rape case FIR on its website, the CBI removed it sensing possible violation of a Supreme Court order that FIRs in cases of rape and sexual assault, including those against minors, should not be put in public domain by police. The agency, however, did not retract or remove its media statement from the website. The FIR withheld the name of the Hathras victim but it was decided to withdraw it from public domain to avoid any controversy, sources said. In December, 2018, a Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Madan B Lokur directed the print and electronic media to not reveal the identity of victims of rape and sexual assault “even in a remote manner”. The apex court said FIRs in cases of rape and sexual assault, including those against minors, should not be put in public domain by police. The CBI took over the investigation in the Hathras case from the UP Police after registering an FIR on Sunday under IPC sections related to gangrape and murder among others, and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, officials said. It has assigned the case to its Ghaziabad unit with a special team to investigate the crime, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-puts-up-fir-on-its-website-removes-it-within-hours/articleshow/78630185.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||11-yr-old boy who stole Rs 20 lakh from Jind bank a contract thief||JIND: The 11-year-old boy who stole Rs 20 lakh from the teller’s cabin in the Jind branch of Punjab National Bank on September 28 executes thefts on contract, according to the Haryana police. The police said the pre-teen professional thief would take Rs 1-2 lakh advance per theft. And if he was arrested while stealing the money, the contractors would be responsible for all expenses. A police official told TOI on Monday that they believed the boy had committed a theft of Rs 6 lakh in a bank located in Loharu town, Bhiwani district. Police are trying to find out if he had committed other thefts. Police have lodged the accused boy in a borstal in Hisar district and launched a hunt for the other criminals, including his uncle and father, who are the main accused. Talking to TOI, Jind Civil Lines police station in-charge Hari Om said, “After getting access to Kadia village, in Rajgarh district of Madhya Pradesh, which is known for its hardened criminals, we managed to recover half the stolen amount. Our teams succeeded in entering the village after five days and conducted a raid at the house of the accused, but they had escaped. Our teams have since returned, but the MP cops have assured us that they will nab the accused.” The theft was first noticed late evening on September 28 when cash was being counted and matched at the branch at the end of the day. The bank employees unsuccessfully tried to match the cash transactions made during the day for hours but each time found a discrepancy of Rs 20 lakh. They finally approached the police late in the night about the “missing money”. After scanning CCTV footage, the police found that a young boy had “stolen” the cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/11-yr-old-boy-who-stole-rs-20-lakh-from-jind-bank-a-contract-thief/articleshow/78630189.cms||Vijender Kumar
October 13, 2020||India||Seven Indians abducted in Libya released||NEW DELHI: The government announced on Monday that the seven Indian construction workers who had been abducted from Asshwerif in Libya last month have been released. The foreign ministry reiterated there was a ban on travel of Indians to Libya, irrespective of purpose, since May 2016 because of the security situation. “Our ambassador to Tunisia Puneet Roy Kundal spoke to them over phone after they were handed over by the abductors to the company Al Shola Al Mudia. All of them are in good health,” the MEA said. The Indian nationals, from Andhra, Bihar, Gujarat and UP, were kidnapped from Asshwerif on September 14 when they were on their way to the Tripoli airport to catch a flight to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/seven-indians-abducted-in-libya-released/articleshow/78630202.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Medicos hack server to change marks||NEW DELHI: Ten foreign medical graduates — Indians who graduated from foreign universities — who appeared for the screening test for eligibility to practice in India were found to have hacked into the main server of the National Board of Examinations and changed their marks from failed status to pass marks. All 10 have been debarred from appearing in any future examination conducted by the NBE and all state medical councils have been asked to blacklist them. The NBE issued a statement that these foreign medical graduates (FMGEs) hacked into the server where they added their photos, contact details and so on to the list of passed students and changed marks to show that they had passed so that they could generate fraudulent FMGE pass certificates. After the 10 failed in the screening test held in December 2019, they filled the form for the screening test held in July this year. Six of them appeared for the July exam and failed again, while the rest did not turn up to write the test. According to the NBE, the breach in the security mechanism of the NBE servers was being investigated, systems strengthened and the matter was reported to the appropriate authorities including the police, cyber crime cell and all relevant ministries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/medicos-hack-server-to-change-marks/articleshow/78630205.cms||---
October 13, 2020||World||Pakistan complies with just 2 of 40 FATF directives||NEW DELHI: Taking note of the fact that Pakistan has improved its full compliance on only two of the 40 FATF recommendations to curb terror financing and money laundering, a regional affiliate of the financial watchdog has retained the country on its ‘Enhanced Follow-up’ list, according to Pakistani media reports. A report in Dawn News on Monday said the first Follow-Up Report on Mutual Evaluation of Pakistan released by the Asia-Pacific Group (APG) underlined that the country’s progress on the 40 FATF recommendations on the effectiveness of anti-money laundering and combating financing terror (AML/CFT) system largely remained unchanged — non-compliant on four counts, partially compliant on 25 counts and largely compliant on nine recommendations. The APG report noted that Pakistan’s measures against money laundering and terror financing “is not yet sufficient to justify a re-rating”. The APG’s report came ahead of the virtual FATF plenary scheduled for October 21-23 during which it would be decided if Pakistan should be excluded from its grey list, based on a review of Islamabad’s performance to meet global commitments and standards on fight against money laundering and terror financing. India has repeatedly stated that Pakistan has done nothing to check cross-border terrorism. FATF had placed Pakistan on its grey list in June 2018 and asked Islamabad to implement a plan of action by the end of 2019 but the deadline was extended later on due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Watch Pakistan complies with just 2 of 40 FATF directives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-complies-with-just-2-of-40-fatf-directives/articleshow/78630223.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Nirbhay missile fails test due to ‘engine trouble’||NEW DELHI: A flight-test of the Nirbhay land-attack cruise missile, designed to have a strike range of 1,000-km, failed due to a technical snag off the Odisha coast on Monday. The subsonic missile developed “engine trouble” within eight minutes of being launched from the integrated test range on Wheeler Island. “The missile was being tested with an increased indigenous content,” said an official. While DRDO will conduct a detailed analysis to ascertain the exact reason for the failure, the development will further delay the induction of over 1,000-km range cruise missiles into the armed forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nirbhay-missile-fails-test-due-to-engine-trouble/articleshow/78630242.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Covid-19 claims 2 ministers in Bihar, Nagaland||PATNA/KOHIMA: Covid-19 claimed the lives of two ministers — one from Bihar and the other from Nagaland — on Monday, taking the number of legislators who died of the infection and its related complications to 19. While senior Nagaland minister CM Chang died of the virus at a hospital in Kohima, Bihar cabinet minister Binod Kumar Singh succumbed to post-Covid complications on Monday at Gurgaon’s Medanta hospital. He had Type II diabetes and hypertension. Singh, who was BJP’s three-time MLA from Pranpur in Katihar district, was on intermittent ventilator support from August 19. His Covid test on August 19 was negative. Chang, who was minister for environment, forest & climate change and justice and law, is the first Nagaland MLA to succumb to the virus. He was an NDPP legislator from the Noksen seat. Chang had served the state government in various capacities as an IAS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-claims-2-ministers-in-bihar-nagaland/articleshow/78630246.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Ahead of FATF scrutiny, 19 forex dealers lose licence||NEW DELHI: In a move that seeks to ensure India’s compliance with Financial Action Task Force norms on money laundering, Reserve Bank of India cancelled licences of 19 big foreign exchange dealers who allegedly issued huge foreign currencies in cash to some high net-worth individuals, allegedly helping them stash black money in tax havens. In one case, a Mumbai-based forex dealer was found to have issued Rs 2,000 crore worth of forex based on forged documents. The government has now engaged multiple agencies, including Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), to carry out further investigation of the ‘clients’ of these 19 forex dealers and trail the source of cash flows. Read AlsoRBI announces portfolios of deputy governorsThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday reallocated portfolios of deputy governors, with the department of regulation entrusted to the newly-appointed M Rajeshwar Rao. Rao was executive director of the Reserve Bank before being elevated to the post of deputy governor. He took the new charge lastThe ban on forex dealers comes ahead of India’s scrutiny of anti-money laundering infrastructure later this month by the Financial Action task Force (FATF), the Paris-based inter-governmental body that sets standards and monitors each country’s effectiveness in combating money laundering and terror financing. While ED investigated the Mumbai forex dealer involving illegal forex transactions worth Rs 2,000 crore, the DRI busted a similar syndicate where it detected forex smuggling of more than Rs 180 crore out of the country. These foreign currencies were provided by money changers in cash based on bogus documents, according to an assessment report prepared by the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau (CEIB). Read AlsoDigital payments soar manifold in 5 years to FY20: RBIMUMBAI: Concerted efforts by the Reserve Bank to move to a non/less-cash economy by pushing digital payments have begun to pay rich dividends as the volume of such payments has jumped manifold in the past five years, the latest data from the central bank showed. Between 2015-16 and 2019-20, digital“Forged travel documents and photocopies of passports were used to obtain foreign exchange. Further investigation revealed that persons in whose name such forex cards and foreign currency were obtained had never travelled abroad,” the CEIB report said. The CEIB is also a member of a joint working group for monitoring and ensuring that India meets the FATF guidelines. Watch Ahead of FATF scrutiny, 19 forex dealers lose licence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ahead-of-fatf-scrutiny-19-forex-dealers-lose-licence/articleshow/78630255.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 13, 2020||India||Jagan plans to meet President, PM this week||NEW DELHI: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has sought appointments with President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Narendra Modi in Delhi this week to submit detailed complaints against some judges, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jagan-plans-to-meet-president-pm-this-week/articleshow/78630276.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||SC ex-judge Lokur: Sedition law being ‘weaponised’||NEW DELHI: Former SC Judge Madan B Lokur on Monday lamented that laws are being misused to curb free speech and cited “weaponisation” of the sedition law, “abuse” of prohibitory orders and “blanket” shutdown of the Internet, which impacted individual liberty. Delivering the 2020 BG Verghese Memorial Lecture on ‘Preserving and Protecting our Fundamental Rights — Freedom of Speech, Expression and the Right to Protest’ organised by the Media Foundation, Lokur said, “One of the worst forms of curtailment of the freedom of speech is charging a person with sedition.” He said the SC had laid down the sedition law clearly and cogently in 1962, yet authorities found various ways of “weaponising” it. Referring to new methods of “silencing speech”, Justice Lokur said these included attributing to a speaker something he or she never said and then instituting punitive proceedings against that person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-ex-judge-lokur-sedition-law-being-weaponised/articleshow/78630290.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Bihar polls: BJP suspends 6 turncoats, LJP’s 2nd list may have more rebels||PATNA/NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday suspended six members, including two former state vice-presidents, for six years for contesting election against NDA candidates. Incidentally, all six suspended BJP functionaries have joined Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is in alliance with the saffron party at the Centre. LJP is likely to release its second list of candidates on Tuesday for Bihar polls, which may include some rebel state BJP members, sources said. Though the Chirag Paswan-led party has decided to field candidates against (JD(U), there may be a few which may witness what it calls ‘friendly contests’ with BJP. At least two such such seats are Govindganj and Lalganj which are currently represented by LJP in the Vidhan Sabha. BJP has announced the candidates for these two seats which have come in its kitty in the seat-haring arrangement with JD(U). LJP sources said the party would repeat its candidates for these seats. Those who have been suspended are party’s former vice-president Rajendra Singh, who is contesting from Dinara and Usha Vidyarthi, who is contesting from Paliganj. Former MLA Rameshwar Chaurasiya has also been suspended for six years on the same grounds. A letter in this regard was issued by BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Monday. Also, just two days after the cremation of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, BJP reiterated on Monday that LJP is in no way associated with NDA in Bihar. Senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said only BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and VIP are part of NDA. He, however, did not mention the alliance at Centre, where late Ram Vilas Paswan was a minister in the Narendra Modi government. “BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP led by Mukesh Sahni are part of the alliance and we are contesting the election together. No other party is part of our alliance. We don’t have any kind of alliance with LJP in Bihar,” SuMo told reporters at Patna airport on Monday morning. SuMo’s reiteration came amid the rebellion in NDA by LJP national president Chirag Paswan. Following months of rift with JD (U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar, Chirag, on October 4, announced that his party will field candidates on 143 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-polls-bjp-suspends-6-turncoats-ljps-2nd-list-may-have-more-rebels/articleshow/78630361.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 13, 2020||---||Bihar polls: BJP suspends 6 turncoats, LJP’s 2nd list may have more rebels||PATNA/NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday suspended six members, including two former state vice-presidents, for six years for contesting election against NDA candidates. Incidentally, all six suspended BJP functionaries have joined Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is in alliance with the saffron party at the Centre. LJP is likely to release its second list of candidates on Tuesday for Bihar polls, which may include some rebel state BJP members, sources said. Though the Chirag Paswan-led party has decided to field candidates against (JD(U), there may be a few which may witness what it calls ‘friendly contests’ with BJP. At least two such such seats are Govindganj and Lalganj which are currently represented by LJP in the Vidhan Sabha. BJP has announced the candidates for these two seats which have come in its kitty in the seat-haring arrangement with JD(U). LJP sources said the party would repeat its candidates for these seats. Those who have been suspended are party’s former vice-president Rajendra Singh, who is contesting from Dinara and Usha Vidyarthi, who is contesting from Paliganj. Former MLA Rameshwar Chaurasiya has also been suspended for six years on the same grounds. A letter in this regard was issued by BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Monday. Also, just two days after the cremation of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, BJP reiterated on Monday that LJP is in no way associated with NDA in Bihar. Senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said only BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and VIP are part of NDA. He, however, did not mention the alliance at Centre, where late Ram Vilas Paswan was a minister in the Narendra Modi government. “BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP led by Mukesh Sahni are part of the alliance and we are contesting the election together. No other party is part of our alliance. We don’t have any kind of alliance with LJP in Bihar,” SuMo told reporters at Patna airport on Monday morning. SuMo’s reiteration came amid the rebellion in NDA by LJP national president Chirag Paswan. Following months of rift with JD (U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar, Chirag, on October 4, announced that his party will field candidates on 143 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-polls-bjp-suspends-6-turncoats-ljps-2nd-list-may-have-more-rebels/articleshow/78630350.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 13, 2020||---||Over 50,000 voters opt for postal ballot in first phase of Bihar polls||NEW DELHI: Around 52,000 eligible voters in Bihar have opted for the postal ballot facility for 71 constituencies, which will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. The Election Commission on Monday said that over four lakh electors in the above 80 years of age and physically disabled categories in these contituencies were approached by booth level officers with forms that they must fill up and return, declaring their decision to vote by postal ballot. Officials said that 52,000 electors will be provided postal ballots on pre-informed dates, with proper security and videography arrangements to ensure secrecy, safety and transparency in the process. This is the first time that postal ballot facility is extended for ‘senior citizens above 80 years of age’ and ‘persons with disabilities’ categories in Bihar polls. Meanwhile, the nomination process for 71 constituencies spread over 16 districts of Bihar, where polling is scheduled on October 28, ended on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/over-50000-voters-opt-for-postal-ballot-in-first-phase-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/78630369.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Over 50,000 voters opt for postal ballot in first phase of Bihar polls||NEW DELHI: Around 52,000 eligible voters in Bihar have opted for the postal ballot facility for 71 constituencies, which will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. The Election Commission on Monday said that over four lakh electors in the above 80 years of age and physically disabled categories in these contituencies were approached by booth level officers with forms that they must fill up and return, declaring their decision to vote by postal ballot. Officials said that 52,000 electors will be provided postal ballots on pre-informed dates, with proper security and videography arrangements to ensure secrecy, safety and transparency in the process. This is the first time that postal ballot facility is extended for ‘senior citizens above 80 years of age’ and ‘persons with disabilities’ categories in Bihar polls. Meanwhile, the nomination process for 71 constituencies spread over 16 districts of Bihar, where polling is scheduled on October 28, ended on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-50000-voters-opt-for-postal-ballot-in-first-phase-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/78630371.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Demand for CAs up 37%, pay packages rise too||CHENNAI: There has been a 37% increase in demand for Chartered Accountants (CAs) and their pay packages has seen an upswing too, this year, as the campus placement season draws to a close. In its first-ever virtual campus placement program concluded last month, 2,923 jobs offered for fresher Chartered Accountants compared to 2,135 jobs offered in the placements session last year. The average annual salary offered also rose to Rs 8.9 lakh from Rs 7.4 lakh in the placement conducted during last year. Atul Kumar Gupta, president at The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), the apex body for CAs said, “Their (Chartered Accountants) role is more important in prevailing circumstances. Today’s CAs can be complete business solution providers and companies across sectors are looking for “sound professional advisors who can manage their finances and working capital, thus providing lifeline to other functions,” he added. Companies including PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, TCS and Infosys, hired in the placements session this year. 133 companies offered jobs in the jobs drive this year compared to 137 in the previous year. At Rs 23.3 lakh, the maximum salary package offered for domestic posting this year was almost the same as last year’s Rs 24 lakh per annum. ICAI does not disclose the details of salary packages. “The major recruiters at the current year’s campus are from sectors including financial services, banking, IT, BPO and others comprising 80% of total recruitments, ICAI said. 18 new companies hired from the campus placements drive this year, the institute added. The institute did not specify the names of the new hirers. In addition to demand for freshers, the need for experienced CAs also rose this year. In ICAI’s jobs drive for experienced CAs held in September, the number of recruiters doubled and listed vacancies are reported to have grown four times as compared to last year. “As against 14 recruiters last year, 29 recruiters have registered for this programme declaring 899 vacancies as against 226 vacancies last year, for CAs with experience between 1 to 20 years,” a spokesperson for ICAI said. ICAI conducts placement sessions for newly qualified CAs twice a year post the results of its final examination, however, during the current year, ICAI organized it virtually in August-September 2020. Watch Demand for CAs rise 37%, pay packages increase too||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demand-for-cas-up-37-pay-packages-rise-too/articleshow/78627123.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation demolishes encroachments, illegal construction||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation carried out demolition in several parts of the city. The drive removed illegal construction of 1,200 square feet on the terrace of Tapan Hospital in Vasna. According to AMC the construction on the terrace was unapproved. Police protection was also sought for the demolition. AMC officials said encroachment and illegal constructions on the footpath near Acher Depot and near Sabarmati Railway stations were also removed. In Naroda area near Chunara Vas illegal shops on first floors were demolished. These buildings had plans sanctioned only for ground floor. In the North Zone, the AMC teams demolished 1315 sq meter of illegal construction and also removed encroachment from 1551 sq meter area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-demolishes-encroachments-illegal-construction/articleshow/78628753.cms||---
October 13, 2020||---||BJP suspends six turncoats who joined LJP||PATNA: BJP on Monday suspended six functionaries, including two former state vice-presidents, for six years for contesting election against NDA candidates. Incidentally, all six suspended BJP functionaries have joined Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is in alliance with the saffron party at the Centre. Those who have been suspended are party’s former vice-president Rajendra Singh, who is contesting from Dinara and Usha Vidyarthi, who is contesting from Paliganj. Former MLA Rameshwar Chaurasiya has also been suspended for six years on the same grounds. A letter in this regard was issued by BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Monday. Also, just two days after the cremation of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, BJP iterated on Monday that LJP is in no way associated with NDA in Bihar. Senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said only BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and VIP are part of NDA. He, however, did not mention the alliance at Centre, where late Ram Vilas Paswan was a minister in the Narendra Modi government. “BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP led by Mukesh Sahni are part of the alliance and we are contesting the election together. No other party is part of our alliance. We don’t have any kind of alliance with LJP in Bihar,” SuMo told reporters at Patna airport on Monday morning. SuMo’s reiteration came amid the rebellion in NDA by LJP national president Chirag Paswan. Following months of rift with JD (U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar, Chirag, on October 4, announced that his party will field candidates on 143 seats. LJP is fielding its candidates on a majority of seats contested by JD (U), maintaining that it has no differences with BJP. On SuMo’s statement and suspension of BJP functionaries for joining LJP, its national spokesperson Sanjay Saraf said, “Nitish Ji is so scared of our party that he is pressuring BJP’s state unit to take such actions. We challenge him to debate us on the issue of lack of development in Bihar during his regime. Also, we are still in the NDA at the national level and our ideologies differ at the state level. We continue to have faith in the leadership of PM Modi and believe that everybody, including Opposition parties, can use his name as he represents the entire country.” BJP, on the other hand, has been maintaining that those who don’t accept the leadership of Nitish in Bihar, cannot be part of NDA and such parties should not use either name or photograph of PM Modi in electioneering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-suspends-six-turncoats-who-joined-ljp/articleshow/78627704.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 13, 2020||Hubballi||Paper boats floated to highlight poor condition of roads in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Hubli-Dharwad Central Youth Congress on Monday conducted a paper boat race to mock at the bad condition of roads in the city. The boats carried the photos of district minister Jagdish Shettar to make him aware of the condition of the city’s roads. The protesters said that bad roads are bringing a bad name to the city, and making the life of motorists difficult. “Many motorists have skid off and suffered serious injuries due to bad roads,” they said, adding: “We are planning to start a begging campaign to raise funds for the treatment of poor who suffered injuries due to bad and pothole-riddled roads. People can send us the names and contacts of such victims so we can reach out to them.” The protesters also vowed that they would intensify the agitation till the roads in the twin cities are developed. “Elected representatives are in deep slumber. It is because of their negligent attitude the roads have turned from bad to worse,” they alleged. During the protest, children did paper boats and let them sail in water-filled potholes on Cotton Market Road. Rajat Ullagaddi, Chetan Bijwad, Shahzaman Mujahid, Laxman Gaddi, Manikanth Piragoji Naveen Shishnalli, Prajwal More, Hazrat Talwai, Srinivas Injaganari and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/paper-boats-floated-to-highlight-poor-condition-of-roads-in-hubballi/articleshow/78628222.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||It’s flying time for netas as poll dates inch closer||PATNA: The wheezing flying machine has started piercing the silence as some BJP leaders on Monday used helicopters to reach different destinations in the poll-bound Bihar. However, not many helicopters would be seen flying this election because of restrictions on the traditional mode of electioneering due to coronavirus. But several parties have hired helicopters after the Election Commission (EC) allowed small rallies and gatherings for campaigning. As electioneering gains momentum, political parties are in talks with the private aviation companies to hire choppers for the star campaigners. Use of flying machine in elections is convenient for the politicians to cover several constituencies in rural areas per day. Devendra Kumar, Patna incharge of Aurea Aviation Pvt Ltd, said on Monday that BJP has hired six helicopters while Congress and RJD one each. “On Monday, three helicopters hired by the BJP took off for Jamui, Jhanjharpur and Bettiah. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi along with other leaders such as Samrat Choudhary and Shailendra Prasad, left for Jhanjharpur on the twin-engined MD 900 helicopter around 11am,” he said. According to the officials at Patna airport, BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal, along with MP Radha Mohan Singh, former MP Janak Ram and Yuvraj Singh, left Patna on the Augusta 109 chopper to cover Bettiah constituencies. BJP senior Bhupender Yadav flew to Jamui with his close aides on Augusta 109 for electioneering. Devendra said the other parties would also book the helicopter for electioneering in the next few days. “VIP and JAP-L have contacted the private aviation companies to hire helicopters,” he added. Choppers are mostly used by star campaigners while private jets hired for national leaders from outside the state for electioneering. An hourlong journey in a chopper can cost between Rs80,000 and Rs3 lakh, depending on its size and seating capacity. An additional sum of Rs10,000-15,000 has to be paid to keep the helicopter overnight. The choppers are parked at the state hangar with the consent of the Airports Authority of India (AAI). RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said his party has hired one Augusta 109 for electioneering. “If required, we will hire more,” he said. JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary said one Augusta 109 has been already been hired. “CM Nitish Kumar would start the campaigning from October 14. He would visit Banka and Jamui. As only a fortnight is left before the first phase of polling, the CM would cover four constituencies through chopper and hold one virtual meeting in the evening every day,” he said. LJP would also hire helicopters for electioneering. LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said the party has not decided the number of choppers required. HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said one Augusta 109 would be hired by the party for its star campaigners, including party chief Jitan Ram Manjhi. “Helicopters are important to cover more constituencies in limited time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/its-flying-time-for-netas-as-poll-dates-inch-closer/articleshow/78627669.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||State’s amended Disturbed Areas Act given President’s assent: Minister||Ahmedabad: President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to the amended Disturbed Areas Act passed by the Gujarat Legislative Assembly last year, state minister Pradipsinh Jadeja said on Monday, adding that the amended law would stop polarisation and keep a check on attempts to cause any “demographic imbalance”. The Act bans the sale of property by members of one religious community to those from another community without the prior approval of the district collector in areas declared “disturbed areas”. To stop people acquiring properties in disturbed areas through illegal means, the Act proposes imprisonment between three to five years along with a fine of Rs 1 lakh or 10 per cent of the value of the property, whichever is higher, a state government release said. “The honourable President has given his assent to the amended Disturbed Areas Act which was passed by the Assembly last year. This Act will curb the illegal sale or transfer of properties in disturbed areas,” Jadeja, the minister of state for home, told reporters in Gandhinagar. “The new Act would ensure peace, stop polarisation and keep a check on attempts to cause demographic imbalance,” he said. The bill was brought by the BJP government last year to amend the The Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Eviction from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act, 1991, commonly referred to as the Disturbed Areas Act. The government added some stringent provisions amid complaints from people that the current Act was unable to curb the illegal sale or transfer of their properties in such notified disturbed areas. This Act has been in force in some communally sensitive areas of the state, including in Ahmedabad and Vadodara. As per the new provisions, the word “transfer” now includes sale, gift, exchange, lease or taking possession of the property by way of power of attorney. The scope of the term “transfer” in the Act was expanded as some elements were found to be unlawfully acquiring properties in disturbed areas through power of attorney or other illegal means without taking consent of the collector as mandated in the Act, said Jadeja. “Polarisation and demographic changes through illegal means of property transfer used to compel rightful owners to sell their property at a throwaway prices. The new Act would fix these issues,” the minister said. Under the amended Act, the collector can now check if there is any “likelihood of polarisation”, “disturbance in demographic equilibrium” or any “likelihood of improper clustering of persons of a community” if the transfer takes place. The collector can reject the application of transfer after making assessment on these grounds, said the release, adding that the aggrieved person can now file an appeal with the state government against the collector’s order. The Act also empowers the state government to form a “monitoring and advisory committee” to keep a check on the demographic structure in the disturbed areas. Such committee can also advise the collector about various issues regarding the implementation of the Act, the release said. Under the amended Act, the government can form a special investigation team (SIT) to assist the state government in forming opinion before declaring any area to be a disturbed one. It will also assist the monitoring and advisory committee in gathering necessary information, the release added. pti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-amended-disturbed-areas-act-given-presidents-assent-minister/articleshow/78628327.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Food delivery recovers to near pre-Covid levels||Bengaluru: India’s online food delivery volumes have made a full recovery to pre-Covid levels with a number of cities now at over 120% of the peaks set before the pandemic, according to Zomato co-founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal. In a series of tweets on Monday, Goyal said he expects 15-25% growth in the sector on a monthly basis for the “foreseeable future”. The recovery trends are similar at Swiggy, arch rival of Zomato and one of the two largest food delivery firms. The Bengaluru-based Swiggy said it has seen an 80-85% value growth compared to pre-Covid numbers. Restaurants, however, do not echo the same on recovery numbers. Estimates from the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) show a lower and varied growth in major Indian cities. But it also agreed the average order size has gone up as people buy more in one order for family and friends. The data from food delivery platforms come at a time when, among India’s online economy, food delivery and cab-hailing businesses have taken longer to show a recovery as against e-commerce, e-payments, online education and others. Goyal said Zomato, since March 23, has delivered a total of 92 million orders. “Over 100 million orders were placed on the Swiggy app for food, groceries, medicines and other household items since the lockdown. Almost 200 cities have reached 90% of their pre-Covid GMV (gross merchandise value) levels with 70 cities seeing a full recovery. In fact, they have seen double-digit growth over the past 4-5 weeks, especially when the lockdown opened and when the consumer fear factor of Covid-19 subdued. Certain micro pockets within the country have also reached 200% of their pre-Covid levels.” a Swiggy spokesperson said. NRAI president Anurag Katriar said the recovery in order volume is relatively better in Bengaluru and New Delhi, but Mumbai continues to see slower recovery. “The recovery varies from city to city. For example, Bengaluru is showing great recovery with 60-70% of pre-pandemic order volumes, but Mumbai is still languishing with 40-50% recovery. Delhi has seen 50-60% recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-delivery-recovers-to-near-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/78628269.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Police to hold 15-day drive to nab fugitives||Ahmedabad: As of last month, 1,035 convicts and undertrials have been absconding from jail or police custody, after getting furlough, parole or on getting interim bail. DGP Ashish Bhatia has directed cops, through CID crime to conduct a 15-day drive to nab these absconders. The next drive will aim to catch fugitives who have never been caught before. The figure of such fugitives will be about 20,000. On the instructions of Bhatia, CID crime issued a circular to all police commissioners, district SPs and range IGPs to conduct a special 15-day drive from September 8 to September 22, to nab as many of these absconders as possible. The circular says there has been a spike in the number of fugitives. DGP, CID crime, T S Bisht said the figure earlier used was between 900 and 950 but due to Covid-19, the number of prisoners who obtained furlough or parole and failed to return to jail has risen. “We have asked cops across the state to focus on prisoners held for serious offences like murder, extortion, robbery, spreading terror in society and those accused of offences against the body,” added Bisht. The circular also says that cops will have to provide the total number of fugitives held every three days, along with details such as their names and offences. “We have provided a format in which reports have to be submitted. The dates of surprise checks in jails must also be stated. Our next drive will be to nab fugitives who have never been caught. The figure might be about 20,000,” added Bisht. Police sources said most prisoners escape while being taken out of jail. NCRB figures for 2019 shows that 329 prisoners escaped while being taken out of the jail for judicial proceedings or medical check-ups in the entire country. “Of these, 163 or 49.5%, are from Gujarat,” added a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/police-to-hold-15-day-drive-to-nab-fugitives/articleshow/78628527.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
October 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents protest against move to demolish temple||Coimbatore: As many as 200 people staying on the banks of Muthannankulam protested the city corporation’s move to demolish the Muthumariamman Temple.The temple is 50 years old and had grown from an idol in a hut to a large concrete structure, with their contribution, sweat and blood and is the only pillar that unites them, the residents said, adding that they don’t mind losing their houses, but not the temple.On September 10, the Madras high court dismissed a writ petition filed by residents of 257 houses on the lake banks, giving the corporation permission to demolish encroachments. The civic body plans to set up walking and cycling tracks on the lake bund under the smart cities mission.Corporation officials had launched efforts to raze the remaining 257 houses along the lake on Saturday. On Monday, the residents launched a protest after the corporation stuck a demolition notice on the temple’s compound wall. “When they served demolition notice to the owners of houses here, we accepted it. But we want the temple to stay,” said Karunamurthy, a resident. “A few months ago, they said they will remove only the houses and not the temple.”While the temple trust was formed in 1983, it existed in a hut 15 years before that, the residents said. “The temple is the only memory of the physical and financial efforts we put into to develop it. We carried bricks and sand to build it,” said 70-year-old Angammal Natarajan. “We have fond memories of annual thiruvizha, ammavasai puja and Friday puja conducted there. We thought we could come back to the temple to pray even if we have to move away,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-protest-against-move-to-demolish-temple/articleshow/78627678.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Anisabad BSNL consumers a harassed lot||PATNA: About 200 pairs of BSNL landline connections and broadband links are non-functional for more than a month at Mitra Mandal Colony, Kalyani Nagar and other localities falling under the jurisdiction of Anisabad telephone exchange after roads in the area were dug up to lay pipes for underground drainage work. Intensive damage has been caused to BSNL underground telephone cables. According to a senior BSNL official, a private agency L&T, involved in the underground work, did not inform the BSNL authorities before digging up the Anisabad-Phulwari–Khagaul main road. “Damages are extensive and they need repair for which BSNL will seek permission from the traffic wing so that the Khagaul–Phulwari road at Anisabad for can be blocked for sometime to repair the damages,” the official added.  Anisabad telephone exchange SDO Dharmendra Kumar said, “It will take some time to restore the telephone services and broadband links in affected areas. BSNL has assessed the damages and repair work has been taken up after getting permission from the department concerned. Moreover, heavy traffic flow is often obstructing the ongoing repair work of the damaged cables.”  Expressing anguish and concern, several BSNL users said that they are a harassed lot. Due to non- availability of the broadband link on their modems they are unable to access the sites either to fill up various competitive examination forms or avail any netbaking services, they said . “Irked at poor BSNL services most of the users have switched over to private agencies to carry on their day-to-day work smoothly. All important work is being processed online these days including payment of electric and phone bills. Even railway tickets are booked online. Transactions are being made through online banking system,” said an aggrieved consumer Manish Kumar .  Due to non-availability of broadband link in the area, business work has also been badly affected. Despite repeated complaints, BSNL authorities concerned have not yet rectified the faults, a businessman Sourav Sinha said adding BSNL complaint on the number 1504 to register complaints hardly worked. Non-availability of broadband and phone links also paralysed work in several banking institutions located in the area. Besides, several job aspirants who have been waiting for their important mails, could not access the sites due to non availability of the connections at Mitra Mandal, Kalyani Nagar and its adjoining areas at Anisabad. “Will BSNL authority rise to the occasion to address the genuine grievances of the consumers,” ? asked an aggrieved consumer .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anisabad-bsnl-consumers-a-harassed-lot/articleshow/78626816.cms||Kumod Verma
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Molest charge on AC mechanic||Kolkata: A 25-year-old woman from Kankurgachhi alleged that an AC mechanic misbehaved with her after he reported at her residence for AC servicing in August. The woman had kept mum, but opened up to her elder sister on Sunday. The mechanic has been booked by Beliaghata police. The accused had been hired through a call to a service centre of a reputable electronic equipment manufacturer. “We are trying to ascertain why there was delay in registering the case. We have asked the service centre to join the investigation,” said an officer adding that personal enmity and service-related issues are also being probed. According to the FIR, the accused had come to the complainant’s house when her sister was alone. “However, on the pretext of calling for some equipment, he intended to insult the modesty of the complainant’s sister by forcefully showing her some unusual and dirty gestures. The accused even tried to touch her,” the FIR stated. A case of outraging the modesty of a woman has been registered at Phoolbagan police station. TOI made a call to the service centre at the area. “We are still not aware of the charges you are mentioning. We will need to check the docket number of the booking and need other details to ascertain if indeed someone working with us had attended the call,” said a manager from the service centre. She reiterated that the company has zero tolerance for such cases and if the cops confirm the allegations, the accused would be removed from service. Police too, said the probe was at a very preliminary stage. “We might ask the victim to record her statement before the magistrate. Once the accused is identified, he will be asked to join the investigation,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/molest-charge-on-ac-mechanic/articleshow/78627462.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 13, 2020||Patna||‘Nischayi Nitish Abhiyan’ launched||PATNA: JD(U) on Monday launched ‘Nischayi Nitish Abhiyan’ to link youths with the party through digital medium. JD(U) leader in the Lok Sabha and Munger MP, Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, also launched a dedicated portal -- ‘VoteForNitish.com’ -- and a mobile number to help youths get connected with the party. Speaking on the occasion, Singh said any person can connect with the JD(U) by giving a ‘missed call’ on the mobile phone number. “People can also connect with the Nitish Kumar-led party by providing certain information about them on the party’s dedicated portal,” he said. Singh further called upon people to spread information to each elector about the good works done by the Nitish government in the last 15 years. JD(U)’s state working president and building construction minister Ashok Choudhary said the state’s first-time electors, who are currently in the age group of 18 to 19 years, must have been below 5 years in November 2005 when CM Nitish Kumar came to power in the state and started working for the betterment of all sections of the society. “These first-time electors have not seen the bad days of Lalu-Rabri government. They cannot compare the works of the 15 years of Nitish government vis-à-vis the 15-year regime of Lalu-Rabri,” he said, adding the ‘Nischayi Nitish Abhiyan’ was launched to connect with such young electors and educate them about the differences between the two regimes, one led by Nitish and the previous one by Lalu- Rabri Devi. Choudhary called upon the youths to be part of the ‘abhiyan’ and inform common people about the good works done by Nitish in the state in the last 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nischayi-nitish-abhiyan-launched/articleshow/78627134.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Beliaghata clinic ransacked||Kolkata: A private clinic in Beliaghata has lodged a complaint saying outsiders had attacked the centre and threatened the staff last week. Based on the complaint by clinic centre head, Arnab Singha Roy, the cops have started an investigation. Singha Roy alleged that unknown persons came into Apollo Clinic on Hem Chandra Naskar Road around 12.40am claiming there had been medical negligence regarding a patient. At least four persons started a serious altercation, threatening the staff of the clinic. Some of these people then allegedly broke the sliding glass at the entrance. Singha Roy later lodged a complaint along with an order sheet issued by a Sealdah court asking cops to lodge a case against unknown persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/beliaghata-clinic-ransacked/articleshow/78627491.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: RJD launches campaign song||PATNA: RJD on Monday launched its campaign song, ‘Tejashwi bhava: Bihar’, along with a slogan ‘Iss bar Tejashwi tai hai’ (Tejashwi is certain to form government this time). Launching the song and slogan through a video at the party office, RJD attacks chief minister Nitish Kumar’s 15-year rule in Bihar by raising the issues of migrants, unemployment, hunger, poor health and education, corruption, crime and lawlessness in the state. The video song refers the Mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the one who stands with the poor like a brother and a son. Tejashwi has been compared with a burning lamp. Rajya Sabha member and RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha, who launched the video with the party’s state president Jagdanand Singh, said people wanted a change. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the party has prepared 30 raths with LED screens. “Our campaign song will be played on the screens of the raths, which will go across the state.” Political observers feel the RJD’s theme song is on the lines of Nitish Kumar’s 2015 slogan, ‘Bihar mein bahar hai, Nitishe Kumar hai’. Star campaigners: RJD also released its list of 30 star campaigners for the assembly election. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi tops the list with their sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and daughter Misa Bharti. RJD state president Jagdanand, national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari and former state chief Ram Chandra Purbey, all three party’s Rajya Sabha members — Manoj Kumar Jha, Ahmad Ashfaq Karimi and Amrendra Dhari Singh — besides Jai Prakash Narayan Yadav, Prem Chandra Gupta, Tanweer Hasan, Brishen Patel, Subodh Kumar, Sunil Kumar Singh, Mohammad Farukh, Suresh Paswan, Sukhdev Paswan, Rajvanshi Mahto, Sitaram Yadav, Urmila Thakur, Monammad Qari Sohaib, Anil Kumar Paswan, Mohammad Salim Parvez, Ashok Kumar Singh, Rambali Singh, Chandravanshi Narayan Mahto, Rajniti Prasad and Pratima Kushwaha are among the star campaigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-launches-campaign-song/articleshow/78631193.cms||---
October 13, 2020||---||Bihar polls 2020: 52,000 opt for postal ballots in first phase of polls||PATNA: More than 52,000 electors have opted for postal ballot papers to exercise their franchise during the first phase of state assembly polls scheduled on October 28. The electors above the age of 80 years and physically disabled would be provided postal ballot papers by the respective returning officers in the 71 constituencies spread over 16 districts. The nomination papers withdrawal for the first phase ended on Monday. This is for the first time when postal ballot facility is being provided to the electors of both the categories as the state assembly polls are being held amid Covid pandemic. The rest of the electors will have to visit their respective polling booths to cast their votes. Authoritative sources said postal ballots would be provided to eligible electors on pre-informed dates and with proper security and videography to ensure secrecy, safety and transparency in the process. Chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, during his visit to the state to review the election preparations, had said the electors of the two categories would be provided postal ballot facility. “The booth level officers visited the houses of around 4 lakh electors in the 71 constituencies going to the polls in the first phase and provided them requisite forms for the purpose. However, 52,000 of them opted for postal ballots,” EC’s under secretary Pawan Diwan said in a statement on Monday. He said the BLOs would visit 12 lakh electors’ houses during the next two phases of election in the state to provide them requisite forms. The second and third phase of elections would be held on November 3 and 7, respectively. The counting of votes will take place on November 10. The term of the present assembly will come to an end on November 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/52000-opt-for-postal-ballots-in-first-phase-of-polls/articleshow/78626980.cms||Ramashankar
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Delay in faceless assessment of imports causing pile up of cargo||AHMEDABAD: The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) recently rolled out faceless assessment of imports across the country. However, the delay in assessment of imported material is causing cargo to pile up at air cargo and inland container depots, according to customs brokers and importers. As a consequence, the cost of cargo handling goes up because warehousing charges keep adding up till it is cleared. Moreover, businesses also get affected due to shortage of raw materials and manufacturing is unable to run smoothly. A representation on the matter was recently made before the CBIC and the Union government by the city-based Federation of Custom Brokers’ Associations. “Examination orders for 100% of imports are raised, unlike earlier. Now queries about labelling are also raised which take time to clear. Moreover, there is no proper method or guidance for bills of entry or reassessment. Due to this and various other reasons, import clearance takes between four and nine days,” the representation says. “The system, even though it is aimed at making things simpler, has only made them more complicated, time-consuming and expensive. This is not adding to the ease of doing business because clearance of imports has slowed down as clearance of imported goods is causing a pile up,” said Girish Shah, an Ahmedabad-based customs broker. “Closure of queries raised by customs officials takes time to get cleared and this is leading to piling up of cargo,” Shah added. Manufacturers are also adversely affected because their imports are getting stuck. “Business has barely come back on track after the pandemic-caused disruption and such delays have had a cascading effect on manufacturing because raw materials don’t reach factories in time. Moreover, the cost of doing business also increases because manufacturers are forced to pay warehousing charges because customs have not cleared the imports,” said Parthiv Dave, another city-based customs broker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delay-in-faceless-assessment-of-imports-causing-pile-up-of-cargo/articleshow/78628346.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 13, 2020||Business||‘LTC fund diversion to hurt travel sector’||CHENNAI: An umbrella body of the hospitality industry expressed disappointment over the government’s decision to divert leave travel concession (LTC) to buy consumer goods. Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH), said that coming on the back of a prolonged lockdown, the travel and tourism was looking at festive season holidays to boost travel demand when people look to travel to their home state. After almost 8 months of nil to now very limited tourism activity, festive season was one of the few demand drivers that the Indian tourism travel and hospitality industry was looking forward to. The industry was hoping for more tax-based stimulus in the hands of all citizens to travel when spent against GST rated travel agents, hotels tour operators, tourist transporters and restaurants. “Instead redirecting the LTC money of government employees to buy consumer goods would dry up those funds for the travel sector. Additionally, it would also send a vote of no confidence to the tourism travel & hospitality industry which was looking to get back on its feet after ‘Unlock’,” FAITH said in a statement. Additionally, since this is a 4-year block scheme it will also cut away funds for future travel demand source for the next year when the LTC block ends in 2021. This goes against the spirit of domestic tourism push and year 2021 as domestic tourism year being planned by the tourism ministry. Watch LTC fund diversion to hurt travel sector, FAITH expresses disappointment||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ltc-fund-diversion-to-hurt-travel-sector/articleshow/78627366.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 52,000 opt for postal ballots in first phase of polls||PATNA: More than 52,000 electors have opted for postal ballot papers to exercise their franchise during the first phase of state assembly polls scheduled on October 28. The electors above the age of 80 years and physically disabled would be provided postal ballot papers by the respective returning officers in the 71 constituencies spread over 16 districts. The nomination papers withdrawal for the first phase ended on Monday. This is for the first time when postal ballot facility is being provided to the electors of both the categories as the state assembly polls are being held amid Covid pandemic. The rest of the electors will have to visit their respective polling booths to cast their votes. Authoritative sources said postal ballots would be provided to eligible electors on pre-informed dates and with proper security and videography to ensure secrecy, safety and transparency in the process. Chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, during his visit to the state to review the election preparations, had said the electors of the two categories would be provided postal ballot facility. “The booth level officers visited the houses of around 4 lakh electors in the 71 constituencies going to the polls in the first phase and provided them requisite forms for the purpose. However, 52,000 of them opted for postal ballots,” EC’s under secretary Pawan Diwan said in a statement on Monday. He said the BLOs would visit 12 lakh electors’ houses during the next two phases of election in the state to provide them requisite forms. The second and third phase of elections would be held on November 3 and 7, respectively. The counting of votes will take place on November 10. The term of the present assembly will come to an end on November 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/52000-opt-for-postal-ballots-in-first-phase-of-polls/articleshow/78631230.cms||Ramashankar
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Dine-out discounts to get patrons back to restaurants in Kolkata||KOLKATA: In a bid to help the hospitality industry bounce back to good times, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) has devised a scheme called Dine Out to Help Out (DOHO) to influence diners to come to restaurants on weekdays. HRAEI president Sudesh Poddar said this scheme has been devised following the initiative taken by the UK in August during the gradual unlocking there. According to the scheme, the participating establishments can offer a flat 20% discount on food and non-alcoholic beverages to patrons from Monday to Thursday from October 12 to November 12. The discount can be availed on a bill of Rs 500 or above. Most members of HRAEI, including five-star restaurants as well as others on Park Street, have shown interest in participating in this initiative. Some big names on the list are The Bridge (The Park), Waterside Café (Hyatt Regency Kolkata), Urban-Bar (Holiday Inn Kolkata Airport), Wykiki (Ambuja Neotia Vista Kolkata), Café Treat (Pride Plaza Hotel), Fuel Restro Bar (Pride Plaza Hotel), Kava (Fairfield by Marriott Kolkata), Vertex (Fairfield by Marriott Kolkata), Chili’s Grill & Bar, Bar-B-Q Restaurant, Flavours Of China, One Step Up, Moulin Rouge, Floriana Restaurant, Magnolia, Waldorf Restaurant, Songhai and Manthan. According to HRAEI, the DOHO offer will be on from Monday to Thursday every week except the six Puja days from October 21 to 26. Poddar pointed out that the association’s move is good news for hotels and restaurants, as well as for diners. “We have done a survey among regular diners at restaurants who are currently avoiding eating out for fear of the virus, or because they are being restrained about expenses. With the present dip in the economic situation of the country, discounts like these will be received with enthusiasm. This will gradually increase the footfall in our members’ establishments, which is imperative for businesses to succeed,” said Poddar. He added that the offer does not require any voucher and can be clubbed with other offers and schemes running in the restaurants. “The HRAEI has taken a commendable step to help restaurants, hotels and other establishments in the eastern part of the country to bounce back on their feet. I think such efforts are welcome in the hospitality industry across the country to support all players and give diners an impetus to visit restaurants, cafes and bars,” said T S Walia, former president of The Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI). Suborno Bose, senior vice-president of HRAEI, said, “This year, the festive season will be extra special for both diners and restaurateurs. Such schemes will add to the celebrations,” Sabrina Dey, director operations of Marriott, said she feels the initiative will help enhance footfall on weekdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dine-out-discounts-to-get-patrons-back-to-restaurants/articleshow/78627469.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Allahabad||Crackdown caused Rs 400 crore loss to gangsters in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: The crackdown against gangsters Atiq Ahmad, Dilip Mishra, Rajesh Yadav, Nihal Kumar alias Bachcha Pasi and Ram Lochan Yadav by Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration since August has resulted in loss of over Rs 400 crore for them. The joint team had first targeted mafia don turned politician Atiq Ahmad and dented his economic empire and hit his armoury through suspension or cancellation of arms licences. PDA officer on special duty Alok Pandey told TOI on Monday, “The crackdown against the properties accumulated through illegal means by gangsters and history-sheeters, including Atiq Ahmad, is continuing.” “The joint team demolished around two dozen properties owned or constructed illegally by gangsters or their henchmen in the district in the past two months. Besides, police and PDA also attached over a dozen properties of gangsters’ worth crores in the district,” he added. The action against land mafias, hardened criminals and gangsters will go on against all the men on radar to check organized crime, said a senior cop. Apart from demolishing the lodge-cum-complex of gangster Dilip Mishra, cops also attached his many properties in the trans-Yamuna area. After investigating the wealth of gangsters in Chakia, Jhunsi, Dhoomanganj, Kareli, Khuldabad, Andhawa Crossing road, and other areas, police have also prepared a fresh list of over 40 other criminals who have also accumulated wealth through illegal means. “The joint team has chalked out a plan to attach properties and demolish illegal structures, besides initiating their confiscation under Gangsters Act,” said a senior cop.Many illegal constructions by Atiq’s henchmen in Mehdauri, Beli Gaon and Bajupur have already been razed. On Monday, a joint team razed the house and guest house of history-sheeter Ram Lochan Yadav in Dhoomanganj. Both were constructed without approval of maps. “Gangsters have constructed illegal houses, guest houses in the city's west locality and some had occupied government or nazul land in other parts of the district. We are taking concrete steps of seizure, demolition and attachment of such properties,” said a PDA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/crackdown-caused-rs-400-crore-loss-to-gangsters-in-prayagraj/articleshow/78624941.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Social activists seek release of Fr Stan Swamy||PATNA: Demanding immediate release of Fr Stan Swamy, who was arrested in Ranchi by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Bhima Koregaon incident, social activists under the banner of ‘Lok Tantrik Jan Pehal’ staged a protest near Buddha Smriti Park here on Monday. Around 300 social activists from different communities participated in the protest, which was led by social worker and Catholic nun Sudha Varghese. Varghese said the social activists demanded immediate release of Fr Swamy, a Jesuit priest, who spent almost three decades of his life identifying himself with the Adivasi people and their struggle. “We believe that the charges against him are baseless. The NIA can’t send innocent people to jail. It is against the human rights,” she said. The social activists and civil society members pointed out that Fr Swamy had consistently denied any link with Maoists and he should be released from the jail. On National Solidarity Day, Patna Archbishop William D’souza SJ also extended his support to Fr Swamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/social-activists-seek-release-of-fr-stan-swamy/articleshow/78627118.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Case against Hardik, 32 others withdrawn||Rajkot: The state government on Monday withdrew a case of violation of notification against Congress working president Hardik Patel, Tanakara MLA Lalit Kagathra, Dhoraji MLA Lalit Vasoya and 29 others, which was committed in Tankara court of Morbi district. The FIR was registered against 33 accused in April 2017 under section 135 (3) of Gujarat Police Act for organizing a public rally without permission. Vijay Jani district public prosecutor of Morbi said “As per the instruction of state government the charges against all accused was withdrawn. The government has withdrawn some of the cases related to the Patidar movement and this case was also related to it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/case-against-hardik-32-others-withdrawn/articleshow/78626509.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Gamot acquires controlling stake in Chennai-based Anjan Drug||Gamot, an investment platform formed by private equity (PE) firm PAG along with PE funds CX Partners and Samara Capital has acquired a controlling stake in Chennai-based API manufacturer Anjan Drug.This is the first investment made by the Gamot platform. The quantum of stake acquired and the consideration remain undisclosed. “Partnering with Kalaichelvan and Anjan is a key first step in our plan to create the preeminent platform for Indian API. The company has a strong customer base in some of the world’s largest and best-regulated pharmaceuticals markets and maintains the highest quality manufacturing standards,” Nikhil Srivastava, MD and head of India private equity at PAG, said. PAG is currently investing out of its $6 billion PAG Asia III buyout fund, and said it plans to invest up to $1 billion in India over the next few years. Anjan makes APIs for nervous system disorders such as anxiety, depression, epilepsy, schizophrenia, and others. It counts pharma clients in markets including the US, Canada, Brazil and Europe.PAG though Gamot aims to create a drug ingredients platform with a diversified portfolio of products and said the acquisition was a first step towards this. Veda Corporate Advisors was the exclusive financial advisor to the deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gamot-acquires-controlling-stake-in-chennai-based-anjan-drug/articleshow/78627170.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Business||RBI rejigs roles of deputy governors||Mumbai: Newly appointed RBI deputy governor M Rajeshwar Rao has taken charge of key portfolios in the regulation, enforcement, inspection, risk monitoring and legal departments. He will also be in charge of communications. Rao was appointed deputy governor in place of N S Vishwanathan who retired three months ahead of schedule on March 31 for health reasons. Rao, a career central banker, was elevated to the executive director position on November 7, 2016 and was the senior-most among the EDs who interviewed for the position. The regulation and enforcement portfolio has gained significance after the RBI merged the department of regulations for banking, cooperative banks and NBFCs into one.The RBI on Monday rejigged the portfolios of all deputy governors. B P Kanungo, the senior-most deputy governor from the RBI, will be in charge of coordination, currency management, external investments, government accounts, IT, payments, RTI and forex department. M K Jain, the deputy governor from the banking industry, will hold the charge of supervision, financial inclusion, HR, corporate strategy and budget department. Michael Patra, the deputy governor representing the RBI in the monetary policy panel, will continue to be in charge of economic policy & research, statistics, deposit insurance, financial markets regulation and financial stability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-rejigs-roles-of-deputy-governors/articleshow/78628175.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Repaid Rs 3,200cr since Aug: Sahara||Mumbai: Troubled diversified group Sahara India on Monday said it has repaid a little over Rs 3,200 crore to about 10 lakh of its members in the last two and half months. Of the total number of investors who were paid their dues, about 22,500 were those whose payments were delayed, a release from the group said. It said that the payments were delayed due to the Supreme Court-imposed embargo. In the last 10 years, Sahara India has made maturity payment of around Rs 1.40 lakh crore to about 5.8 crore investors, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/repaid-rs-3200cr-since-aug-sahara/articleshow/78628102.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Walmart, Flipkart put $30m in Ninjacart||Bengaluru: E-commerce platform Flipkart and its US-based parent Walmart have jointly made an additional investment in fruits and vegetables supply chain startup Ninjacart. The investment is said to be around $30 million, but neither company disclosed the amount. Ninjacart, one of the leading startups in the space, will continue to help Flipkart in its grocery play to compete with rivals like Amazon and Reliance’s JioMart amid a wider adoption of e-grocery due to the pandemic. This investment will help the e-tailer to use Ninjacart’s capabilities for its grocery business and hyperlocal delivery. Ninjacart co-founder & CEO Thirukumaran Nagarajan said his firm continues to run pilots with Flipkart offering strategic play in the fresh produce business. “There are problems in certain cities, but most have come back to about pre-Covid volumes,” Nagarajan said. Ninjacart has a presence in seven large cities including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi. Ninjacart has at least 10,000-12,000 clients or small shops to which it supplies fresh vegetables and fruits. Before the virus outbreak, about 30% of its products were consumed by restaurants. But now the majority of its business comes from kiranas. The new investment is expected to close by the end of the month. Flipkart and its US parent Walmart first invested in Ninjacart in December last year. According to Nagarajan, the pandemic has also helped it with more kiranas and small businesses approaching it to secure fresh produce, instead of the other way round. It competes with rivals like Jumbotail, Udaan and Waycool. While consumer-focused online grocery has been seeing steady growth in India, the recent entry of JioMart and likes of Amazon India scaling up operations have intensified the competition in the space, which also counts vertical grocers like Bigbasket and Grofers. A recent report from market research firm RedSeer said the e-grocery market would be more than $3 billion in size by 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/walmart-flipkart-put-30m-in-ninjacart/articleshow/78628331.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Mazagon Dock lists at premium, UTI MF lower||Mumbai: As expected on Monday, Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders had a strong listing at a 49% premium to its IPO price of Rs 145, while UTI Mutual Fund failed to meet investor expectations and listed at a 12% discount to its offer price of Rs 554. On the BSE, Mazagon Dock listed at Rs 216, touched an intraday high at Rs 217 and closed at Rs 173 — a premium of 20% to the IPO price. Investors’ expectations were, however, higher for this stock after the blockbuster listings of Chemcon Specialty Chemicals and Happiest Minds in September, both of which saw their values more than double on listing. On October 1, when the Mazagon Dock IPO closed, it was subscribed 157 times, which made it the most successful such offer by any PSU. A day before the listing, in the grey market, the shares were valued at a premium of 70-75% to the IPO price. The listing of UTI MF was at Rs 490, a 12% discount to its IPO price. The stock touched an intraday high at Rs 530 and closed at Rs 477, a 14% discount to the IPO price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mazagon-dock-lists-at-premium-uti-mf-lower/articleshow/78627463.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Rights panel notice to Tirupur police||Coimbatore: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has issued a notice to Tirupur district superintendent of police Disha Mittal, seeking a report within three weeks about cops who asked the caste name of a motorist at Perumanallur in Tirupur district.P Sivakumar, a Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi functionary from Avinashi, said he was stopped by Tirupur rural armed reserve police constable Kasiraja, and constables Velusamy and Nataraj attached to the Perumanallur police station, when he was returning home with his wife on a motorcycle on Thursday. Sivakumar was not wearing a face mask, while his wife had one. Kasiraja confronted him for not wearing mask and asked his caste name, Sivakumar said. He refused to divulge the details and argued with him. He also recorded the incident using his mobile phone and circulated the video on social media. It went viral. Velusamy and Nataraj have been transferred to the Tirupur rural armed reserve police, sources said.If police fail to submit a report, the commission will take action, the notice issued by SHRC member A Chittaranjan Mohandoss said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rights-panel-notice-to-tirupur-police/articleshow/78627683.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||HC asks CS to tell why buses aren’t disabled-friendly||Chennai: Asserting that the Tamil Nadu government has done nothing to alleviate the troubles of people with disabilities except reserving a seat near the entry in government buses, the Madras high court has directed the state chief secretary and transport secretary to appear and explain the failure to procure only disabled-friendly buses as directed by the court. “Enough is enough, let the officers appear before the court and explain,” a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha said on Monday, directing the officials to appear through video conferencing on December 10. Pointing to Section 41 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, the bench said the provision mandated the government to establish facilities for persons with disabilities at bus stops, railway stations and airports conforming to the accessibility standards relating to parking spaces, toilets, ticketing counters and ticketing machines. “But nothing has been done. What is the point in passing legislation without implementation?” the court wondered. It has been almost a decade since these petitions have been filed, but nothing fruitful has been done, the bench added. The issue pertains to a batch of PIL seeking appropriate facilities for persons with disabilities for accessing public transport. When the plea came up for hearing, advocate T Mohan, amicus curiae appointed by the court, submitted that since 2017, the state transport corporation has procured 4,817 new buses, none of which are disabled-friendly in total violation of the court order. Earlier, representing the TNSTC, advocate Rita Chandrasekar submitted that the corporation is already facing financial crunch and it could not afford to buy buses with low-floor since they cost twice as much as ones currently procured. “Moreover, such buses cannot be operated on Chennai roads. The corporation must first improve road conditions to operate such buses,” she said. Procurement of such buses will be possible only if the state provides the funding to the corporation, she added. She further submitted that already buses fitted with hydraulic lifts are being tried on a pilot basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-cs-to-tell-why-buses-arent-disabled-friendly/articleshow/78629072.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Kukke witnesses ‘serpentine’ queues for rituals||Mangaluru: Ashlesha Nakshatra, the embodiment of Mercury and the strength of the serpent god, is keeping the authorities of Karnataka’s richest endowment temple — Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple — on tenterhooks. The eagerness of devotees for solutions to their problems on the day Ashlesha, the ninth nakshatra in the zodiac, has resulted in serpentine queues outside the ‘ashlesha bali’ ritual booking counters at the shrine, 113km from here. Keeping the burgeoning demand for the seva in mind, the temple authorities, during September-end, had increased the number of tickets to 75 from 30. They had also increased the number of batches to three by restoring the evening batch to go with batches in the morning. This meant that a maximum of 225 devotees can participate in the seva each day. One ticket allows entry to two persons, including the one offering the seva. Temple executive officer Ravindra M H told TOI that the confluence of the stars, and the accompanying rain, has further reinforced the faith of people. “This has led to a surge at the booking counter and we are managing it,” he said, adding: “Devotees, who come from far and wide, would naturally be disappointed if they cannot make the cut for the seva.” The average daily footfall, which was 3,000 before various sevas re-started under the Unlock guidelines, has reached pre-Covid daily number, which is in excess of 10,000. Before the sevas started, the devotees would have the darshan of the deity and leave. “With the government declaring Dasara holidays now, their number is expected to swell in the coming days,” Ravindra said, adding the temple is bracing to manage the rush. The temple initially offered 30 tickets each for Sarpasamkara, Nagapratishte Seva and as many for those wanting to perform Ashlesha Bali in two morning batches. Ten tickets were offered for Mahapooja and Panchamrutha Abhisheka Seva. People throwing Covid-related caution to winds has forced the temple to rethink the number of sevas. M J Roopa, additional deputy commissioner and administrator, said the demand for Ashlesha Bali peaked on general holidays, two days of ‘Shasti’ and on the day of ‘Ashlesha Nakshatra’. “To manage the rush, we increased the tickets for this seva on the above days to 100 from 75 in three batches. Devotees beyond this quota will only receive ‘prasad’ and are not allowed for ‘homa’. Only devotees with tickets will partake the lunch,” Roopa explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kukke-witnesses-serpentine-queues-for-rituals/articleshow/78628672.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Panel authorises min to talk to MBC representatives||Jaipur: The ministerial sub-committee on MBC (most backward class) reservation headed by B D Kalla on Monday authorised minister Ashok Chandna to talk to the representatives of Gujjar and other communities to understand their demands and issues that are pending. “Only after the talks with them, we will be able to understand their demands and take appropriate action. This was just a preliminary meeting. We have received some of their demands. After the minister’s meeting with them, we will get to know more about their issues,” said Kalla after the ministerial sub-committee meeting. Most departments barring 19 are yet to submit reports on the numbers of vacancies in their respective departments. The reports from some districts are also yet to come. The committee reviewed the progress of work on MBC quota and the pending issues since the enactment of the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panel-authorises-min-to-talk-to-mbc-representatives/articleshow/78629068.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mars at opposition today, at its brightest||Ahmedabad: For the sky gazers, Tuesday would provide an opportunity to witness the Red Planet up close – Mars would be at the opposition, which in astronomical parlance is the phenomenon when the planet is on the opposite side of the Sun, and thus at its brightest.Dr Narottam Sahoo, advisor to GUJCOST, said that Mars is at its closest to Earth until 2035. “Tuesday would make it a perfect time to see the Red Planet in the eastern sky. It appears as a stunning reddish light. After about every two years, Mars and Earth line up and are closest to each other,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mars-at-opposition-today-at-its-brightest/articleshow/78628634.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant tramples guest worker||Coimbatore: A wild elephant trampled a guest worker to death at Periyathadagam here on Sunday night.The deceased was identified as Z Sharitul Islam, 22, from Mayong village in Morigaon district of Assam. He had been working in a brick kiln unit at Periyathadagam for the last three months and staying in a room on the kiln premises. “The elephant attacked him around 8.45pm, when he ventured out to relieve himself. He suffered head injuries and a fracture on his left leg. Though he was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), he died without responding to treatment,” a police officer said.The Thadagam police have registered a case and informed the family of the victim in Assam.Forest department officials said that the units have not set up toilets for workers. They have sent a letter to the Coimbatore collector requesting him to order the units to provide basic amenities to workers. Man-animal conflicts can be checked if the units have such facilities, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-tramples-guest-worker/articleshow/78627680.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||BJP MLA invokes Sita and Valmiki to allay Covid fears||BETTIAH: The contrasting kick-offs of the Bihar election campaign by NDA partners BJP and JD(U) offer an interesting reflection of the US Presidential nominees inasmuch as Joe Biden’s readiness for a virtual debate being stonewalled by President Trump’s preference for a physical face-off. A day before JD(U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar took the virtual rally route to address eleven assembly constituencies spread over six districts on Monday, BJP national president JP Nadda had already set his party’s tempo. Images of BJP’s physical rally at Gaya on Sunday appeared to be in blatant disregard of Covid-19 safety protocol mandated by the Election Commission. The next US Presidential debate may be off, but President Trump’s affliction by the coronavirus, or the Covid fatalities among India’s own netadom, appeared least detrimental when at a rally at Bettiah’s Ramna Maidan on Monday, BJP’s sitting MLA from Lauriya, Vinay Bihari, ‘allayed’ the fears of the dreaded virus by invoking goddess Sita and sage Valmiki. A renowned Bhojpuri singer to boot, the MLA hooted: “Corona satat naikhe. Eenahwan Sitaji samayil bari. Valmiki ke tapobhoomi ha. Corona naa hoi (corona isn’t contacting (because) where Sita ji took abode beneath the earth and the place is sage Valmiki’s ascetic ground, Covid will not afflict (this sacred region).” The singer-politician’s oratory was, however, already preceded by a crowd throwing precautions to the wind. A majority were without masks and people rubbed shoulders, whether on chairs or otherwise. And when local MP and state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal’s chopper landed, ferrying BJP national vice-president and former union minister Radha Mohan Singh, too, to bolster support for former minister Renu Devi on her nomination day, the melee of leaders on stage also reflected an aura of invincibility to the Covid fears. Incidentally, Jaiswal himself is a Covid survivor though BJP’s Bettiah town president Kanhaiya Lal Gupta succumbed to Covid recently. What was threatening to be a lacklustre campaign, the country’s first poll during the pandemic has brought the colour and buzz of Bihar polls of yore alive. Curiously, observing the festivities from a safe distance, this reporter failed to spot EC video cameras, poll watchers or even health workers or an ambulance on the rally ground. “Thanks for the feedback,” DM-cum-district election officer Kundan Kumar said, when contacted for his reaction, promising to inquire. The organizers, BJP, too seemed ‘ignorant’ of the guidelines mandating that they ensure Covid-19 safety protocols like providing masks, hand sanitiser and thermal scanners. “We had a thermal scanner at Kali Dham temple where didi (candidate Renu) performed puja before going to the ground and subsequently to file her nomination papers,” BJP district chief Dipendra Sarraf said. “Anybody violating instructions on Covid-19 measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of IPC and other legal provisions as specified (in MHA’s order dated 29th July 2020),” the EC guidelines for India’s first Covid times poll say. Will the organizers be booked for violation of the poll code? “We will probe and find out,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-mla-invokes-sita-and-valmiki-to-allay-covid-fears/articleshow/78627609.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
October 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally mounts to 1.97 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 732 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Monday, taking the state’s tally to 1,97,000. According to state health department, 75,503 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. Officially, nine deaths were reported on Monday. With this, the state’s Covid toll has touched 955. With 1,85,593 recoveries, there are 10,450 active Covid cases in the state. As per the health department, two people from Darbhanga and Supaul died on Monday, taking the toll in these two districts to 22 and 11, respectively. One death each was reported from Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Madhubani, Patna and Muzaffarpur. AIIMS-Patna reported one death and the deceased was a 72-year-old man from Muzaffarpur. Hospital’s Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said cabinet minister Kapil Dev Kamat was in critical condition and on ventilator. His dialysis was being done once daily. He said an MLA was discharged from the hospital on Monday after he recuperated from the virus. Dr Sanjeev said 18 patients were admitted to the hospital and 19 discharged on Monday. As on Monday, there were 198 patients at the hospital – 73 in ICU and 35 on ventilator. No death was recorded at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Monday. As per the hospital’s administration, six patients were admitted and two discharged on Monday. Of 732 new cases registered on Monday, 217 were from Patna. With this, the district’s tally has risen to 30,946. However, with 28,278 recoveries and 230 deaths so far, there are 2,438 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Bhagalpur recorded 45 fresh cases, Madhepura 37, Purnia 37 and Supaul 31. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,369 more people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate, according to the minister, has touched 94.21%. So far, over 84 lakh samples have been tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-tally-mounts-to-1-97-lakh/articleshow/78627218.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Even priests are not safe in Yogi Adityanath regime, says Mayawati||LUCKNOW: A day after the priest of a temple in Gonda was shot at allegedly over a land dispute, BSP chief Mayawati hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government over the falling law and order situation, saying that even priests were not safe under another priest’s or Yogi Adityanath’s government. “Like Rajasthan, there has been an attempt to murder a priest in Gonda district by people wanting to grab the temple land. This attack is shameful and now even priests are not safe under a priest’s government. How much worse can the law and order get?” Mayawati asked. Asking the government to take the matter seriously and seeking strict action against the culprits, Mayawati said that the government must confiscate the property of the land mafia associated with this case. She also demanded that security of seers and priests in the state must be increased. The Gonda pujari was sleeping during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday when he was shot at reportedly by persons who wanted to take over some part of the temple land. An FIR has been filed against four persons in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/even-priests-are-not-safe-in-yogi-regime-says-mayawati/articleshow/78629839.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Minor, baby boy’s bodies exhumed||HYDERABAD: A suspicious death case was registered by Dharmapuri police in Jagtial district after they exhumed the bodies of a minor girl and her baby boy, who died after the minor’s mother helped deliver the baby at their house three days ago. Police said the girl was impregnated by an unidentified man and she was kept indoors by her mother for the last two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-baby-boys-bodies-exhumed/articleshow/78629078.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||40kg explosives seized in Jamui ahead of polls||PATNA: Security forces foiled a major Maoist operation ahead of the state election with the recovery of around 40kg of explosives from hideouts in Jamui district on Monday. Jamui is to go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. A joint team of CRPF, STF and the district armed police carried out a search operation in Maniksthan forest under Jhajha police station area in the district. The police operation started early in the morning and yielded ammonium nitrate stocked in three buried plastic containers. Jamui SP PK Mandal said, “The police got information about the meeting of armed squad members of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) led by Pintu Rana to chalk out an attack on security forces during the election. ASP (operation) Sudhanshu Kumar led the search operation.” The drive against Maoists will continue. According to authoritative sources, Pintu Rana has been camping in the area for the past few weeks. “The conversation of some top Maoist leaders was intercepted by intelligence agencies, which suggested that Rana was camping in Maniksthan forest,” a source said. In neighbouring Lakhisarai, police arrested a hardcore Maoist activist Sanjay Koda from a village under Chanan police station on Monday. Koda was wanted for the kidnapping of the mukhiya of Bhalui panchayat for extortion early this year. Channan SHO Srikant Suman said Koda was involved in the killing of the husband of the sarpanch of Borba panchayat earlier. “Senior police officers are interrogating the arrested Maoist, who was on the run for long,” the SHO added. The security forces have stepped up search operations in the Naxal-hit districts ahead of the October 28 polls. Majority of the constituencies going to polls in the first phase are affected by left-wing extremism. Gaya, Aurangabad, Nawada, Jamui, Lakhisarai, Munger and parts of Rohtas, Bhojpur and Kaimur districts are hotbeds of Maoists. However, their activities have been contained to a large extent in recent years. The state is hopeful of being allotted 300 companies of the central armed police forces for the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40kg-explosives-seized-in-jamui-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78627185.cms||Ramashankar
October 13, 2020||Patna||RJD allots tickets to 36 candidates for Phase 3 polls||PATNA: Don-turned-politician and former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin’s wife Hena Shahab will not contest assembly polls this time and instead support party’s Raghunathpur MLA Harishankar Yadav. Sources said Harishankar is a close aide of Shahabuddin. Even in the 2015 assembly elections, he had got Hena’s support while contesting from Raghunathpur constituency in Siwan district. Meanwhile, the RJD has started distributing tickets for the third phase. Till Monday evening, the party had allotted tickets to 36 contestants for the third phase. In a bid to accommodate some heavyweights, the RJD has cancelled tickets of few of its sitting MLAs. For instance, Yusuf Salauddin, son of LJP MP Chaudhary Memboob Ali Qaiser, has been made party’s nominee for Simri Bakhtiyarpur seat. In order to accommodate Yusuf, the party has denied ticket to its sitting MLA Zafar Alam, who had won this seat in the bypolls after JD(U)’s Dinesh Chandra Yadav was elected to Lok Sabha in 2019. Interestingly, Yusuf had contested from this seat on LJP’s ticket in 2015 and finished as the first runner-up. Another RJD MLA, Arun Yadav, had to sacrifice his ticket for Lovely Anand, who will be contesting from Saharsa. Turncoats have again been awarded by the RJD as former JD(U) MP Vishwa Mohan Mandal, who was once with BJP, has got the ticket from Pipra. Former Haryana governor Dhanik Lal Mandal’s son Bharat Mandal has been made RJD’s Laukaha candidate. Gautam Krishna, who resigned from the post of block development officer, has been given the ticket to contest from Mahishi and Avinash Mangalam Rishidev, a contractual teacher, will contest on RJD’s ticket from Raniganj. However, several sitting MLAs have managed to get the ticket, including Dr Shameem Ahmad (Narkatiya), Abu Dujana (Sursand), Sitaram Yadav (Khajauli), Faiyaz Ahmad (Bisfi), Anil Kumar Yadav (Narpatganj), Abdus Subhan (Baisi), Neeraj Kumar (Barari), Chandrashekhar (Madhepura) and Akhtarul Islam Shahin (Samastipur). RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s close aide Bhola Yadav, an MLA from Bahadurpur, will fight from Hayaghat this time. Pipra MLA Yaduvansh Kumar Yadav, on the other hand, will contest from Nirmali. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “Tickets are being distributed seeing the calibre of candidates. The party is trying to accommodate people of all professions and age groups, besides giving proper representation to all castes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-allots-tickets-to-36-candidates-for-phase-3/articleshow/78637313.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 13, 2020||---||RJD allots tickets to 36 candidates for Phase 3 polls||PATNA: Don-turned-politician and former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin’s wife Hena Shahab will not contest assembly polls this time and instead support party’s Raghunathpur MLA Harishankar Yadav. Sources said Harishankar is a close aide of Shahabuddin. Even in the 2015 assembly elections, he had got Hena’s support while contesting from Raghunathpur constituency in Siwan district. Meanwhile, the RJD has started distributing tickets for the third phase. Till Monday evening, the party had allotted tickets to 36 contestants for the third phase. In a bid to accommodate some heavyweights, the RJD has cancelled tickets of few of its sitting MLAs. For instance, Yusuf Salauddin, son of LJP MP Chaudhary Memboob Ali Qaiser, has been made party’s nominee for Simri Bakhtiyarpur seat. In order to accommodate Yusuf, the party has denied ticket to its sitting MLA Zafar Alam, who had won this seat in the bypolls after JD(U)’s Dinesh Chandra Yadav was elected to Lok Sabha in 2019. Interestingly, Yusuf had contested from this seat on LJP’s ticket in 2015 and finished as the first runner-up. Another RJD MLA, Arun Yadav, had to sacrifice his ticket for Lovely Anand, who will be contesting from Saharsa. Turncoats have again been awarded by the RJD as former JD(U) MP Vishwa Mohan Mandal, who was once with BJP, has got the ticket from Pipra. Former Haryana governor Dhanik Lal Mandal’s son Bharat Mandal has been made RJD’s Laukaha candidate. Gautam Krishna, who resigned from the post of block development officer, has been given the ticket to contest from Mahishi and Avinash Mangalam Rishidev, a contractual teacher, will contest on RJD’s ticket from Raniganj. However, several sitting MLAs have managed to get the ticket, including Dr Shameem Ahmad (Narkatiya), Abu Dujana (Sursand), Sitaram Yadav (Khajauli), Faiyaz Ahmad (Bisfi), Anil Kumar Yadav (Narpatganj), Abdus Subhan (Baisi), Neeraj Kumar (Barari), Chandrashekhar (Madhepura) and Akhtarul Islam Shahin (Samastipur). RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s close aide Bhola Yadav, an MLA from Bahadurpur, will fight from Hayaghat this time. Pipra MLA Yaduvansh Kumar Yadav, on the other hand, will contest from Nirmali. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “Tickets are being distributed seeing the calibre of candidates. The party is trying to accommodate people of all professions and age groups, besides giving proper representation to all castes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-allots-tickets-to-36-candidates-for-phase-3/articleshow/78627071.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man threatens to kidnap creditor’s kin||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Kathwada Road, Naroda, Bhavna Vyas, 58, lodged a complaint with Naroda police station on Sunday alleging that one Parthesh Trivedi of Vibrant Homes in Naroda to whom she had lent money, had come to her house on September 27 and threatened to kidnap her granddaughter. The woman has stated that about a year ago they had given Rs 1.4 lakh to Trivedi as he was in need of money. “She has claimed in the FIR that Trivedi had returned part of the money in instalments and Rs 50,000 was still to be paid. She used to call him and tell him to pay back their money,” said an offier of Naroda police station. On September 27, at about 4pm Trivedi came to their house and began hurling abuses, so neighbours gathered there. “In presence of onlookers, Trivedi threatened them that if they again called him for money he would kidnap their granddaughter and kill them,” said a police official. The complainant has stated that she was late in registering an FIR as others had advised her to reconsider. Police officials said they have registered an FIR against Trivedi and are searching for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-threatens-to-kidnap-creditors-kin/articleshow/78628458.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Mayawati concerned over rapes in poll-bound Bihar||PATNA: The alleged gang-rape of a 28-year-old married Dalit woman by seven persons in Buxar district took political overtone on Monday with BSP chief and former Uttar Pradesh CM Mayawati expressing concern over the incident, in particular, and rise in rape cases in Bihar, in general. The survivor’s five-year-old son was also killed. On Sunday, the woman was found unconscious under Murar police station area in the district and subsequently admitted to the hospital for treatment. Buxar SP Neeraj Kumar Singh said the victim’s medical report was awaited. He said her statement was recorded before the court under Section 164 of CrPC on Monday. One of the accused, Mina Ram (50), was arrested on Sunday while his accomplice Bhola Yadav had been absconding. The identity of 5 other accused was being ascertained, he added. Mayawati, whose party is contesting Bihar assembly polls in alliance with RSLP, expressed surprise over frequent incidents of rape in poll-bound Bihar. “I hope the Election Commission will take notice of the matter,” she tweeted. Mayawati’s statement assumes significance as it may become a poll issue. Some constituencies like Buxar have a sizable number of BSP supporters. The State Crime Records Bureau statistics revealed that a total of 825 rape cases were lodged in the state between January and July this year. The highest 152 cases were registered in June. In July, 149 incidents of rape were recorded. Authoritative sources said 1450 rape incidents were reported in the state in 2019. A study conducted by the state police revealed that 40% of the victims were below the age of 18 years. A senior IPS officer said the issue was raised during the review of law and order situation in the state. The SPs, IGs and the DIGs were asked to initiate steps to check the crime. He pointed out that the trial in a rape case under Sour Bazar police station in Saharsa district was concluded within a week and the accused was awarded punishment by the court. In the cases involving minors, there is a provision to book the accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012. The state government has also set up special Pocso court for speedy trial of such cases, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mayawati-concerned-over-rapes-in-poll-bound-bihar/articleshow/78627143.cms||Ramashankar
October 13, 2020||Patna||No ‘Ravan Vadh’ programme in Patna this year||PATNA: Residents of the state capital will be devoid of the annual ‘Ravan Vadh’ celebrations at Gandhi Madian this year owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said as per recent guidelines issued by the home department, ‘Ravan Vadh’ programme will not be held at Gandhi Maidan in order to avoid mass gathering. Numerous restrictions are in place for this festive season owing to Covid-19 pandemic. For the first time in recent decades, there will be no fair with light and sound and colourful pandals on streets of Patna during the 10 days of Durga Puja festival beginning October 17. Instead, it will be a plain and simple affair and puja of Goddess Durga will be organised only in temples and homes. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the state home department has issued guidelines putting a check on community puja and musical extravaganza, like garba, dandiya and Ramleela in hotels and clubs. “As the festivals will be celebrated amid the pandemic, the home department has directed not to allow congregation of people at any place,” he said. Since the state assembly elections are also being held, the district authorities will ensure that no programme or event organised during Durga Puja is in violation of model code of conduct issued by the Election commission. DM Kumar Ravi said the temples would also ensure that no pandals based on any theme are made during the Puja. “There will be no community feast or distribution of prasad, public function and welcome arches around the temples organising puja of the goddess Durga,” said the DM. Also, the administration will not permit eateries and other stalls near the Puja venues in temples as these may breach the guidelines to check the spread of coronavirus. The 10-day Durga Puja festival happened to be a grand celebration with streams of people from far places reaching here to be part of the festivities. But this time the festival would loss many of its features. No public address system will be used at any place and the Puja organisers in temples would have to arrange sufficient sanitiser. Ravi said the district administration has earmarked the places for immersion of idols that must be completed by October 25. “Instructions have been issued to SDOs, SDPOs and other officers to ensure adherence of the government’s guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-ravan-vadh-programme-in-patna-this-year/articleshow/78626797.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||CAs to pass new assessment if applying for ICAI membership after 3 years||In a first, CAs will have to ensure they have a valid membership to the industry body ICAI, else be ready to go through an assessment or refresher course. CA students who have not taken membership to ICAI for a period of three years after passing final exam, and ex-members who have not restored membership three years after removal of name due to any reason, will have to take an assessment or go through a refresher course. While details of the scheme are yet to be decided, the central government has given an in-principle approval to the proposal, and the ICAI has notified it in the Gazette for public comments, ICAI president Atul Kumar Gupta told TOI. ICAI’s Gupta said the aim is to ensure quality of services rendered by CAs. The seminars and education programs to keep CAs updated is mandatory only for the members of the institute, and those without membership lose advantage of such initiatives, he said. “On becoming members such persons shall be able to keep themselves abreast of the latest developments taking place in economic and professional fields from time to time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cas-to-pass-new-assessment-if-applying-for-icai-membership-after-3-years/articleshow/78627115.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 13, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-K, CDAC sign MoU for ‘PARAM Sanganak’||Kanpur: The Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) signed an MoU in the presence of Union minister of state for education, communications and electronics & information technology, Sanjay Dhotre on Monday. The MoU will help in establishing a 1.3 peta FLOP supercomputing facility at IIT-K under the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM). “One of the supercomputers, called ‘PARAM Sanganak’, will be established at IIT-K under the NSM with computing power of 1.3 peta FLOPS. PARAM Sanganak is designed and commissioned by C-DAC to cater to the computational needs of IIT-K, and various institutes of the region. Substantial components utilized to build this system are manufactured and assembled within India, which is a step towards the Make in India initiative of the government”, said director, IIT-K, Prof Abhay Karandikar. The NSM, approved by the government, aims to attain self-reliance in supercomputing and problem-solving in various domains of scientific and technological endeavours. The mission is steered jointly by the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) and the department of science and technology (DST). C-DAC and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, have been identified as the implementing agencies of this mission. MoUs were signed between director general C-DAC and the directors of several IITs, IISc and an NITs in the presence of additional secretary, MeitY, Dr Rajendra Kumar and secretary, DST Prof Ashutosh Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-cdac-sign-mou-for-param-sanganak/articleshow/78627225.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Gems & jewellery exports fall 27% in Sept||Chennai: Year-on-year growth in exports of gems and jewellery dropped by 27% to $2.4 billion and 25% in Rupee terms, in September.Form April-September, the overall gross exports of gold dropped by 43% at $8.5 billion, while silver jewellery exports grew 92% in the first half of 2020.“Gold exports are in the recovery mode as against the 40%-50% month-on-month drop seen in the last quarter. We saw good recovery in markets like the US, China and Europe last month,” Colin Shah, VP, Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC).Among categories, cut and polished diamonds saw a 19.6% decline, while gold jewellery fell by 55% in September, data from the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council showed. India cuts and polishes 90% of the world’s rough diamonds. “With decline in business growth getting arrested, we expect to make up the lost sales in between October 2020 and March 2021,” Shah said. For coloured gemstones, exports fell by 63% to $64.96 million between April and September 2020, from $176.1 million a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gems-jewellery-exports-fall-27-in-sept/articleshow/78627343.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 13, 2020||Patna||BJP takes lead in poll campaigning||PATNA: BJP has taken the lead in sending its star campaigners to Battleground Bihar. After party president JP Nadda kicked-off physical electioneering in Gaya on Sunday, senior functionaries such as national general secretary Bhupender Yadav, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal addressed several rallies on Monday. Owing to the relaxations allowed by the Election Commission for physical rallies amid the Covid-19 pandemic, politicians of all parties have started embarking on direct public meetings and door-to-door campaigns. JD (U) national president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, who is seeking a fourth term, started his campaigning with a virtual rally on Monday evening in which he addressed the electorate of 11 assembly segments. JD (U) functionaries claimed that Nitish’s electioneering would be a mix of digital as well as physical rallies from October 14. He would address public rallies in four assembly segments during the day and one virtual rally from Patna in the evening. RJD and Congress will also send their campaigners over the next few days. A senior RJD functionary claimed that party president Lalu Prasad’s younger son and opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will start electioneering on the ground from October 14. He will also accompany his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav on Tuesday when the latter will file his nomination from Hassanpur in Samastipur district. As politicos hit the ground for electioneering, they are also indulging in fierce verbal attacks on each other. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said in Banka on Monday that RJD and Congress have joined hands with Marxist and Leninist groups, which believed in terrorism. “I don’t understand the helplessness of RJD that he deserted Mahadalits, backward and extremely backward classes and joined hands with Maoists and Marxist-Leninist groups that believe in terrorism. There was a time in places such as Jehanabad, Gaya and even Paliganj in rural Patna that people used to fear going out during the night. I want to challenge them (RJD- Congress) on what kind of development path they will take by joining hands with such extremist forces,” Bhupender said, adding people will vote NDA to two-thirds majority this time. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha said people want change in Bihar. “Nitish Kumar has completely disappointed people in Bihar during his regime over the last 15 years. The one who ruled the state for 15 years before Nitish, gave equal disappointment to people and people have punished him for that as well. People are not going to forgive either of them, and a new alternative is needed. We have given that alternative by forming a strong alliance with different parties, people are like us and the result of this election is going to be in our favour,” Kushwaha told reporters at Patna airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-takes-lead-in-poll-campaigning/articleshow/78627729.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man who tried to rape girls arrested||Ahmedabad: Mohammed Rafik Rangrej, 30, who attempted to rape a 6-year-old girl and molested another minor girl in Danilimda late on Friday night was arrested by police on Sunday. According to police sources, the girls’ cries drew some residents, but at that time Rangrej managed to escape. Rangrej was caught on the CCTV camera of a nearby shop. Police sources said that the accused had been earlier arrested for rape and was sentenced seven-year imprisonment. He had come out of the jail on a 15-day parole due to death of his father. “He has also been arrested for burglary by Isanpur police,” added a police source. Inspector of Danilimda police station M M Laliwala said an offence was registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 354 (outraging a woman’s modesty). Sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act were also invoked against the accused. “On Friday night, while the girls — who were friends— were playing outdoors when Rangrej approached them,” said a police source. “The accused promised them to give toys and chocolates and took the girls about half a kilometre away into the external toilet of an empty house. Police sources said when the accused attempted to sexually assault the girls they started screaming for help as the accused fled from the spot. Laliwala said that through the CCTV footage and human intelligence they came to know that a man named Ranrej was involved in the crime and he lives at Millatnagar in Isanpur. “We immediately dispatched a team and held Ranrej. We have arrested him after his Covid-19 test came negative,” said Laliwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-who-tried-to-rape-girls-arrested/articleshow/78628610.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mysuru||PM to address UoM convocation on Oct 19||Mysuru: The centenary convocation of the University of Mysore will be held on October 19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the convocation virtually. The convocation this year was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The main event in the university will be held at Crawford Hall. The university is waiting for governor’s approval for the honorary doctorates which will be conferred in the convocation. According to UoM authorities, Modi will deliver his speech at 11am. Governor Vajubhai Vala will preside over. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan will be present. Over 700 research scholars will get PhDs at the event. According to vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, efforts will be done to ensure the convocation is carried out in a safe environment. According to sources, only invitees will be allowed to attend the event. “We are expecting the governor’s nod for the honorary doctorate list by Tuesday. The list of gold medal and cash prize winners will be announced on October 15,” said VC Kumar. A grand history UoM was established on July 27, 1916. It is Karnataka’s first university and is the sixth oldest in the country. It was founded as a result of the efforts of the Maharaja of erstwhile princely state of Mysore Krishnaraja Wadiyar IV and the then Diwan Sir M Visvesvaraya. In 2000, UoM became the first university to be accredited by NAAC with five-star status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pm-to-address-uom-convocation-on-oct-19/articleshow/78628318.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Avg wholesale onion price records season’s highest at Rs 4,100||Nashik: The average wholesale onion price on Monday recorded season’s highest at Rs 4,100 per quintal at the Lasalgaon APMC. The season’s previous highest was recorded at Rs 3,800 per quintal on September 21. The average wholesale onion price increased by Rs 550 per quintal against Rs 3,550 per quintal on the last working day on Friday. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 805 and Rs 4,552 per quintal, respectively. Around 7,500 quintal of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon APMC on Monday. According to APMC officials, the rise in demand as compared to supply has led to rise in average wholesale onion prices. Currently, the onions arriving in the market are summer produce harvested in March and April this year. The summer onions have a shelf life of six months and farmers prefer storing them with an aim to fetch better price for their produce. “But the shelf life of summer onions are coming to an end and farmers have started selling the produce from the storage. Around 60% of the total arrivals of the onions at the APMC are of poor quality and the remaining 40% are good quality,” an APMC official said. “The good quality onions are fetching in the range between Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,500 per quintal, while poor quality onions are being sold in the range between Rs 800 and Rs 2,900 per quintal. This has overall led to rise in average wholesale onion prices,” he added. “The price trend of wholesale onions is expected to be upward and the average wholesale price is expected to cross Rs 5,000-mark by the end of this week,” another APMC official said. On December 16 last year, the average wholesale onion prices had recorded an all-time high of Rs 8,625 per quintal at Lasalgaon due to scarce supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avg-wholesale-onion-price-records-seasons-highest-at-rs-4100/articleshow/78629834.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s paddy purchase doubles||Lucknow: The procurement of paddy by the state government in the ongoing season has almost doubled in comparison to last year, putting to rest all fears of farmers being hit by the recently legislated farm laws. The procurement of paddy between October 1 and 12 in Uttar Pradesh touched 15,850 metric tonnes, reveals government data. During the same period last year, the state government had procured around 837 metric tonnes of paddy. A government spokesperson said the procurement process is being speeded for the benefit of farmers. “This the first phase of paddy procurement. The procurement of paddy has been high following swift arrangements by the agriculture and food and civil supplies departments,” the spokesperson said. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had issued directions that farmers should not face any hardships in selling their produce. They should instead be given all kinds of facilities,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-paddy-purchase-doubles/articleshow/78629833.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||CID-CB team reaches Karauli to investigate temple priest’s murder||Jaipur: Rajasthan’s Criminal Investigation Department-Crime Branch (CID-CB) team will supervise investigation of temple priest’s murder in Karauli. Three accused have already been arrested in the case. The priest was burnt alive over land dispute and succumbed to his injuries on last Thursday. The police have collected CCTV footage of the petrol pump from where the fuel was allegedly purchased. Congress MLA Ashok Chandna met the deceased’s family on Monday and handed over a cheque of Rs 5 lakh and a bank draft of the same amount. He assured the family that they will be provided security for as long as they want. The victim was 55-year-old Babulal Vaishnav, while the accused was identified as Kailash Meena. The incident happened in Bukna village, Sapotra in Karauli where Vaishnav was the priest of Radha Gopal Temple. The murder also became a political issue with leaders meeting the deceased’s family. Karauli SP Mridul Kachawa, elaborating on the investigation said, “CID-CB team reached Bukna on Monday and went to the crime spot. They will look at various aspects in the case, the district police will also probe the case.” Foresic Science Laboratory team also took samples from the crime spot. People protested against the murder and the agitation halted only after officials agreed to the demands of the family. The demands included transfers of Sapotra SHO and Patwari.The victim’s family was also given a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a contractual job for one of the family members. Cops also recovered CCTV footage of the petrol pump though refused to divulge details. Mridul Kachawa, the SP said, “At present we cannot say if the CCTV footage shows the victim or the accused.” Initially sources had claimed that Vaishnav had set himself on fire. However, five persons were named in the FIR out of which three persons are in police custody, while two have been interrogated. Police personnel including women constable are providing round-the-clock security to the victim’s family. The priest is survived by his wife and seven children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cid-cb-team-reaches-karauli-to-investigate-temple-priests-murder/articleshow/78629083.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Admission data leaked to ABVP: NSUI||Ahmedabad: The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) has alleged that at a time when the admission process is going on at Gujarat University, the members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) are in possession of a list that has the names and addresses of the candidates who have enrolled for the first year of college admission. The NSUI alleged that such data was being leaked by the members of the admission committee. The NSUI has demanded an inquiry into the matter. Apart from complaining at the University level, the NSUI has also lodged a complaint with the police demanding an inquiry into the matter, claiming it was a case of cyber-crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/admission-data-leaked-to-abvp-nsui/articleshow/78628868.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Teen steers her tormentor to police station||Ahmedabad: A 19-year-old college girl, a resident of Thakkarnagar, lodged a complaint at Krishnanagar police station against one Vijay Omprakash Pandya, 24, of Mahemdabad on Sunday for teasing her and pressurizing her to be in a relationship. According to the FIR, the girl is a student of SY BCom and had met Pandya on a social media platform about a year ago. The girl has mentioned in the complaint that they used to meet but then Pandya started to pressurize her to keep a relationship with him which she denied. The girl has claimed in the FIR that as the colleges are closed because of Covid-19, she works at a cloth trader’s shop as a part-time employee. “For about 20 days, Pandya used to follow her to her workplace,” added a police official of Krishnanagar police station. On Sunday, Pandya again came to her house, according to the FIR. “The girl on the pretext of talking to him took him to Krishnanagar police station and handed him over to the cops. “We have registered an offence and have detained Pandya,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teen-steers-her-tormentor-to-police-station/articleshow/78628912.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Drones to be used to keep check on mining activities||Nashik: The state government has decided to use drones to keep a check on mining activities in the district and the pilot project for the same has been launched, said district collector Suraj Mandhare. Mandhare said, “This is the first time that the technology will be used in Maharashtra to calculate the scope of mining activity, volumetric analysis of the minor minerals and to keep a check on illegal mining activity to ensure the government does not lose its revenue from the same.” The use of this technology can be a game-changer as the exploitation of the permitted sites is rampant and the administration has been attacked whenever they visit such places. District mining officer Anand Patil said the drones have a range of scanning the areas of 5 sq km in 20 minutes and through this the district mining office will be able to keep a close eye on the illegal mining without risking lives. In the first stage of demarcation of mining activity, the drones will refer to Google coordinates – ‘triggers’, and thus survey the area, click images, where mining activities can be carried out. “After demarcation when the mining is being carried out, the periodical surveys using drones will help us know if the miners have crossed the demarcated points. It will also help in the volumetric analysis of the sand or other minor minerals that have been removed from the particular site which will help in determining if the activity is in the legal framework,” Patil said. “If the volume does not match with the royalty paid by the miners or the mining has crossed the permissible limits, appropriate action will be taken against the miners so that the government does not forego its royalty and at the same time action will be taken against illegal mining,” he said. The officer said this drone activity is being carried out in Nashik district on a pilot basis and would take around two to three months for the system to settle down. Currently, Nashik district has 114 authorised mining locations and the system will first carry out the survey of these locations and figure out the developments there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drones-to-be-used-to-keep-check-on-mining-activities/articleshow/78629831.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Wadhawan bros arrested in Rs 218 crore fraud case get bail||Chennai: DHFL promoters and brothers Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, arrested by Chennai police in connection with a Rs 218-crore cheating case, were granted bail by a city court on Monday. They had just returned from three-day police custody when a special court for cases under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest of Depositors Act (TNPID) granted conditional bail to them. Allowing the bail applications moved by counsel S Elambharathi and Abdul Salim, special judge S Sathi Kumar granted the relief to the brothers and directed them to deposit Rs 50 lakh each as a condition. The duo were also directed to produce sureties worth Rs 50 lakh each and report before the deputy superintendent of police economic offences wing of the Tamil Nadu police at 10am daily till further orders. “The accused shall cooperate with the pending investigation. They shall not threaten witnesses or induce witness or cause hindrance to the pending investigation. If there is any violation of conditions, the investigation officer is within his powers to move this court for cancellation of bail,” the judge added. According to the prosecution, an FIR was registered against the duo in view of a direction issued by the Madras high court against DHFL and 11 others for alleged offences of defrauding the money of investors by floating bogus schemes and non-repayment of Rs 218 crore of deposits collected. The accused were arrested on October 7 and remanded in judicial custody, the prosecution said. Elambharathi and Abdul Saleem said the FIR registered against the accused for offences under the TNPID Act is not maintainable as there are no depositors at all as required under the Act. “A perusal of the FIR indicates that a money claim is sought to be converted into an FIR. It does not in any manner disclose any criminality by DHFL nor the petitioners, who in any event of the matter cannot be vicariously held responsible,” counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wadhawan-bros-arrested-in-rs-218-crore-fraud-case-get-bail/articleshow/78629085.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Supplier of fake caps, labels arrested||Ambala: The Ambala police SIT investigating the illicit liquor smuggling case registered at Panjokhra in the district has arrested a Delhi-based man, who allegedly supplied fake caps and labels for the plastic bottles of spurious Old Monk Rum, the police have said. The accused, identified as Ravinder Pal Singh alias Bablu of Dwarka in Delhi, was arrested on Sunday and produced in the Ambala court, which sent him to four-day police remand for further investigations. Special Investigation Team (SIT) in-charge DSP Madan Lal said so far, they have arrested 19 persons in connection with the case registered at the Panjokhra police station on September 12 this year. DSP Madan said, “From the investigations so far, it has been established that Ravinder supplied the fake caps and labels for the seized Old Monk Rum bottles. More arrests are likely to soon.” The 19 arrestees include an Ambala-based liquor contractor Pradeep Mittal and his employees; a Vadodara, Gujarat-based accused Shankar Bhai More; and Dhananjay Singh of Gopalganj district in Bihar, who allegedly prepared the formula to make spurious rum, the DSP said. The case was registered on September 12 after several IMFL brands was recovered Kalarheri Chowk and Mandour village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/supplier-of-fake-caps-labels-arrested/articleshow/78629065.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Burglar nabbed, motorcycles and jewellery recovered||Ahmedabad: City crime branch sleuths on Sunday nabbed an alleged burglar, Hakimsingh Kushwaha, alias Kalia. Kushwaha has two addresses listed, at Manisha Society in Surat and in Pritamsinh Chawl in Meghaninagar. He is from Etawah in Uttar Pradesh. Crime branch sources said they recovered a stolen motorcycle and gold jewellery worth a total of Rs 1.96 lakh from him. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch D P Chudasama said that the accused confessed before them that his associate would steal a motorcycle and then inform him. “Kalia would then come to the city and the two of them would venture out at night to commit burglaries. After the burglaries, they would abandon the motorcycles. After his interrogation four more moorcycles were recovered,” said Inspector A Y Baloch of crime branch. Baloch added that the accused committed thefts in Krishnanagar, Vatva GIDC, Naroda and Vatva police station jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/burglar-nabbed-motorcycles-and-jewellery-recovered/articleshow/78628410.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on malpractices in MGNREGA||Madurai: Taking a serious view with regard to the malpractices and misappropriation of funds allotted for implementation of MGNREGA scheme, the Madras high court on Monday put forth a series of queries to the state.The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by M Seenivasagam, a resident of Athankaraipatti village in Madurai district. He stated that funds allotted for MGNREGA are misappropriated by the officials by issuing job cards to government employees and non-residents. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking action against the officials. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that MGNREGA is implemented with a noble objective to provide 100 days of employment for unskilled labourers in order to protect their livelihood. The judges noted that while that the works are not carried out properly in most villages. Hence, the judges directed the state government to file a report with regard to the allocation of funds under the scheme for each year since 2006. The judges also sought the kind of works carried out under this scheme and the number of works completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-malpractices-in-mgnrega/articleshow/78627682.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Two colleagues suspended after transsexual cop alleges sexual abuse||TRICHY: Two police personnel, attached to the police recruit school (PRS) at Navalpattu in Trichy were placed under suspension after a transgender constable on training attempted suicide last week alleging sexual harassment by the duo. Though the Trichy police had maintained that she consumed spirit due to mental agony, the suspension of the two personnel - sub-inspector Arul Ashokkumar and constable Isravel on October 10, brought to light the sexual allegation issue. Principal of the school, Muthukaruppan said on Monday that action was initiated against them following the charges levelled by Samyuktha, 25, of Pudukottai district. Samyuktha was assigned mandatory training for six months in the PRS after her induction into Tamil Nadu uniform service recruitment board. “She has been undergoing training here for the past three months. Her allegation is being taken up for further inquiry,” Muthukaruppan told TOI on Monday. Samyuktha had attempted to end her life by consuming spirit from the first-aid box on Friday morning. She was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital. Though she has recovered, she is still undergoing treatment. Sources said that the issue was fuming in the school for the past few weeks after Samyuktha had taken it up with the higher officials in Chennai.  The escalation of the issue had led to the inquiry of a senior police officer from Tuticorin at the school a day before she consumed the spirit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transgender-cop-alleges-abuse-2-cops-suspended/articleshow/78629069.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Virtual events, bhog at home for low-key Salt Lake pujas in Kolkata||KOLKATA: This year, Durga Puja will be a low-key affair in Salt Lake. Organizers have scaled their plans down from the usual grandeur and have cut down on budget. Community lunches and cultural evenings, too, have been cancelled. Some Puja committees, like the one at FD Block Sarbojonin, plan to organize virtual cultural events and send the bhog to the houses in the block instead of having residents queue up at the pandal area. “The performances will be recorded and shown online on all the Puja days. There will be no community lunch. The bhog and food will be packed in containers following all hygiene measures and distributed to residents,” said FD Block Sarbojonin Puja committee president Banibrata Banerjee, who has been a councillor of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. The CD Block puja, which is organized entirely by women, will also have virtual cultural programmes on all Puja days. “Our Block residents are recording performances at home, which will be compiled and shown online. Residents will also be able to see the puja rituals online,” said Central Durgatsav Committee of CD Block Citizens’ Council president Sutopa Chatterjee. The BJ Block puja is setting up a pandal with three open sides so that residents can attend anjali while maintaining social distance. “There will be no community lunch or cultural event this time. Bhog will be distributed from the pandal and there will be large space for people to gather while maintaining social distance,” said a BJ Block puja committee member. Most of the organizers will not be encouraging many people to gather at the pandal. Sarbojonin Durgatsav Committee BE Block (West) president Shampa Aich said they are working on plans to set up a platform to show the puja rituals and cultural events online. “There will be no seating arrangement at the pandal and there are plans to send food packets to residents’ homes,” she said. “We are fixing 50 extra loudspeakers across the locality so that the residents can listen to the anjali mantra and offer their prayers from their homes,” said AE Block (Part-II) Samaj Kalyan Sangha secretary Tapas Sengupta. The blocks in New Town also will also organize their celebrations following all Covid-preventive measures. There will be adequate space along with hand sanitizer at all entry points of pandals, which will be open on three sides. Pandals will follow the “no mask, no entry” norm. Residents will also have to bring their own flowers for anjali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virtual-events-bhog-at-home-for-low-key-salt-lake-pujas/articleshow/78627449.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 13, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: RJD launches campaign song||PATNA: RJD on Monday launched its campaign song, ‘Tejashwi bhava: Bihar’, along with a slogan ‘Iss bar Tejashwi tai hai’ (Tejashwi is certain to form government this time). Launching the song and slogan through a video at the party office, RJD attacks chief minister Nitish Kumar’s 15-year rule in Bihar by raising the issues of migrants, unemployment, hunger, poor health and education, corruption, crime and lawlessness in the state. The video song refers the Mahagathbandhan chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the one who stands with the poor like a brother and a son. Tejashwi has been compared with a burning lamp. Rajya Sabha member and RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha, who launched the video with the party’s state president Jagdanand Singh, said people wanted a change. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the party has prepared 30 raths with LED screens. “Our campaign song will be played on the screens of the raths, which will go across the state.” Political observers feel the RJD’s theme song is on the lines of Nitish Kumar’s 2015 slogan, ‘Bihar mein bahar hai, Nitishe Kumar hai’. Star campaigners: RJD also released its list of 30 star campaigners for the assembly election. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi tops the list with their sons Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and daughter Misa Bharti. RJD state president Jagdanand, national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari and former state chief Ram Chandra Purbey, all three party’s Rajya Sabha members — Manoj Kumar Jha, Ahmad Ashfaq Karimi and Amrendra Dhari Singh — besides Jai Prakash Narayan Yadav, Prem Chandra Gupta, Tanweer Hasan, Brishen Patel, Subodh Kumar, Sunil Kumar Singh, Mohammad Farukh, Suresh Paswan, Sukhdev Paswan, Rajvanshi Mahto, Sitaram Yadav, Urmila Thakur, Monammad Qari Sohaib, Anil Kumar Paswan, Mohammad Salim Parvez, Ashok Kumar Singh, Rambali Singh, Chandravanshi Narayan Mahto, Rajniti Prasad and Pratima Kushwaha are among the star campaigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-launches-campaign-song/articleshow/78627693.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||More Metro trains during peak hours in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The north-south Metro extended services from 9pm to 9.30pm on Monday and the last trains left the terminal Kavi Subhas and Noapara stations at 8.30pm. The morning and evening peak-hour frequency was also increased from 10 minutes to 8 minutes. On Monday, 77,565 people took the north-south Metro against 1.2 lakh e-passes issued while East-West had 494 passengers. “The increased frequency helped space out commuters and there was less rush during the morning and evening peak hours,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI. From next Monday, the trains will run till 10pm and the last trains will leave the terminal stations at 9.30pm. A new slot will, therefore, be added for booking the hourly e-passes. “For the Puja days, services may be further extended and the last trains would leave at 9.55pm. We are not likely to have night-long trains during the Puja. So I have asked my officials to explore the possibility of extending services to the pre-pandemic hours of 9.55pm,” Joshi said. The Metro services are currently split into 13 slots. The last 8pm-9.30pm slot is valid for an extra 30 minutes. Twenty-four trips are being added from Monday to Saturday. Six trips have been added for Sundays starting next week. “If Metro extends services till 10pm, the 14th slot will be identified by a new colour,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state appointed to develop the URL from where e-passes can be generated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-metro-trains-during-peak-hours/articleshow/78627457.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 13, 2020||Pune||Glitches in offline mode, SPPU promises better showing||PUNE: The first day of the final semester examination of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) was hit by delays especially for the students appearing for the offline examinations on Monday. The exam started at 10am for those opting for the online mode, but the offline examinations were delayed by nearly 90 to 120 minutes. As many as 2.5 lakh students will be appearing for the final semester exams and on first day about 8,000 to 18,000 appeared for the exam for nearly 64 subjects in various disciplines. Since one month, the SPPU has been preparing to conduct the exam and the final year students gearing up for the same. Of the 2.5 lakh students, two lakh have chosen the online option while 50,000 students decided on the offline mode at 113 examination centres. On Monday, 29,236 students were expected to appear for the online exams and 4,881 students for the offline exams. Of these, 17,118 students successfully completed the online examination and 1,811 students appeared for offline exams at various centres. Several offline subject papers were delayed at the centres in Pune city. The first paper which was scheduled at 10am started at 12.30pm. Another scheduled paper at 1pm started at 2.30pm at various examination centres in the city. A student, who appeared for the examination, Viren Rathi, said, “The exam was a bit of confusion for all of us as some questions were unclear. There were some questions where only options were seen and the question was not there on the screen. After sometime it was cleared and I proceeded with the paper.” The students said that difficulty level was average to high depending on the questions. For the offline exams, the 113 centres identified where the physical exams were conducted were in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. The mock test and question paper sets for practise started from October 8. These exams are of 50 marks with multiple choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. A student, Vidya Ravi, who appeared for the exam from Sir Parshurambhau College, said she received the question paper late. “We had to sit for the papers for nearly two hours, and it was quite frustrating. The management did not look up to the mark, she added.” SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “There was no issue in the online exams and in the first half more than 5,000 students had successfully appeared. But, for the offline exams at some of the centres there were some technical issues due to which they got delayed. We have found solutions to the problems faced today, and from tomorrow there won’t be any problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/glitches-in-offline-mode-sppu-promises-better-showing/articleshow/78629080.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Burglar nabbed, motorcycles and jewellery recovered||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths on Sunday nabbed an alleged burglar, Hakimsingh Kushwaha, alias Kalia. Kushwaha has two addresses listed, at Manisha Society in Surat and in Pritamsinh Chawl in Meghaninagar. He is from Etawah in Uttar Pradesh. Crime branch sources said they recovered a stolen motorcycle and gold jewellery worth a total of Rs 1.96 lakh from him. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch D P Chudasama said that the accused confessed before them that his associate would steal a motorcycle and then inform him. “Kalia would then come to the city and the two of them would venture out at night to commit burglaries. After the burglaries, they would abandon the motorcycles. After his interrogation four more moorcycles were recovered,” said Inspector A Y Baloch of crime branch. Baloch added that the accused committed thefts in Krishnanagar, Vatva GIDC, Naroda and Vatva police station jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/burglar-nabbed-motorcycles-and-jewellery-recovered/articleshow/78628376.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||60% certificate-to-diploma seats vacant||AHMEDABAD: Students enrolling for ITI or other certificate courses after Class 10 are given admission in the second year of diploma engineering courses. For this, 10% seats are reserved in diploma colleges. The registration process for such seats was carried out recently in which 3,168 students were successfully registered for a total of 9,550 seats. Of the 3,168 students registered, 2,916 made it to the merit list. Hence, more than 60% of seats are vacant before the admission process begins in certificate-to-diploma courses. Of the students who were registered, 259 are from the technical education board and 2,909 are from ITI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/60-certificate-to-diploma-seats-vacant/articleshow/78628829.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||BJP suspends six turncoats who joined LJP||PATNA: BJP on Monday suspended six functionaries, including two former state vice-presidents, for six years for contesting election against NDA candidates. Incidentally, all six suspended BJP functionaries have joined Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is in alliance with the saffron party at the Centre. Those who have been suspended are party’s former vice-president Rajendra Singh, who is contesting from Dinara and Usha Vidyarthi, who is contesting from Paliganj. Former MLA Rameshwar Chaurasiya has also been suspended for six years on the same grounds. A letter in this regard was issued by BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal on Monday. Also, just two days after the cremation of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, BJP iterated on Monday that LJP is in no way associated with NDA in Bihar. Senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) said only BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and VIP are part of NDA. He, however, did not mention the alliance at Centre, where late Ram Vilas Paswan was a minister in the Narendra Modi government. “BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) led by Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP led by Mukesh Sahni are part of the alliance and we are contesting the election together. No other party is part of our alliance. We don’t have any kind of alliance with LJP in Bihar,” SuMo told reporters at Patna airport on Monday morning. SuMo’s reiteration came amid the rebellion in NDA by LJP national president Chirag Paswan. Following months of rift with JD (U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar, Chirag, on October 4, announced that his party will field candidates on 143 seats. LJP is fielding its candidates on a majority of seats contested by JD (U), maintaining that it has no differences with BJP. On SuMo’s statement and suspension of BJP functionaries for joining LJP, its national spokesperson Sanjay Saraf said, “Nitish Ji is so scared of our party that he is pressuring BJP’s state unit to take such actions. We challenge him to debate us on the issue of lack of development in Bihar during his regime. Also, we are still in the NDA at the national level and our ideologies differ at the state level. We continue to have faith in the leadership of PM Modi and believe that everybody, including Opposition parties, can use his name as he represents the entire country.” BJP, on the other hand, has been maintaining that those who don’t accept the leadership of Nitish in Bihar, cannot be part of NDA and such parties should not use either name or photograph of PM Modi in electioneering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-suspends-six-turncoats-who-joined-ljp/articleshow/78637131.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: 1,065 in fray in first phase||PATNA: Altogether 1,065 contestants remained in the fray for the first phase state assembly election in the 71 constituencies going to the polls on October 28. State CEO office sources said 25 candidates withdrew their nomination papers on Monday, the last date of withdrawal. The highest number of 28 contenders were in the Paliganj constituency in Patna district. Katoria in Banka district has the lowest number of 5 candidates in the fray. Altogether 1354 candidates had filed nomination papers in the 71 constituencies. The papers of 294 contestants were found invalid during scrutiny. Meanwhile, the personnel of central armed forces will start coming to the state from Tuesday. A total of 300 companies of the central forces are to be deployed in the state for election. According to sources, 65 companies each of CRPF, BSF and SSB, 60 companies of CISF, 30 of ITBP and 15 of RPF are likely to arrive by special trains by October 15. Sources said 255 companies of the central forces will arrive from outside the state while 45 companies are currently deployed in the state. The central security forces will be initially engaged in area domination exercise in the Maoist-hit districts and subsequently during polling. Meanwhile, UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari has asked the DMs of border districts to intensify vigil to check supply of illicit liquor from Haryana through his state. Tiwari’s move comes in the wake of EC’s displeasure over supply of liquor in Bihar despite prohibition in the state. The huge consignment of alcohol recovered during raids pointed to unholy nexus of bootleggers with officials of police and excise department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1065-in-fray-in-first-phase-of-polls/articleshow/78627505.cms||Ramashankar
October 13, 2020||Patna||South Bihar likely to receive light rain in next 48 hours: Met||PATNA: Weather experts have predicted that a depression in the Bay of Bengal is likely to cause light rainfall in south Bihar over the next 48 hours. Earlier, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had revised the monsoon withdrawal dates for Bihar from October 6-8 to October 10-12, but experts claimed that it would take a couple of days more. The evening bulletin issued by the IMD on Monday stated that the withdrawal line of the southwest monsoon was passing through Faizabad and Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh, Nowgong, Rajgarh and Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, and Vidyanagar and Porbandar in Gujarat. Talking about the reason for delay in withdrawal of monsoon, Shailendra Kumar Patel, an official at the Patna Meteorological Centre, told TOI, “Although the normal date for withdrawal of monsoon is October 10-12, it has been delayed this year due to low-pressure areas being formed in the Bay of Bengal and the South China Sea.” Meanwhile, the depression formed over west-central Bay of Bengal was situated 280km southeast of Vishakhapatnam on Monday and likely to develop into a deep depression in the next 12 hours. “The movement of depression in the western and north-western directions has led to the release of moist easterly winds in the lower level of the atmosphere across Bihar. Under its influence, light rainfall is expected in south Bihar over the next 48 hours,” Patel said. The mid-day bulletin issued by the Met office stated that dry weather was most likely to prevail in all the 38 districts of the state till October 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/south-bihar-likely-to-receive-light-rain-in-next-48-hours-met/articleshow/78627235.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Government guarantee ups MSME loans: Cibil||MUMBAI: Data released by TransUnion Cibil on fresh loan disbursements to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector shows that there has been a resurgence in lending to this segment in June. The bounce-back came after the government launched the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). Although outstanding bank credit to MSMEs has shrunk by 5.7% year-on-year to just under Rs 17 lakh crore, there has been a sharp pickup from June onwards. According to credit data released by TU Cibil, the ECLGS scheme has catalysed public sector banks to disburse a 2.6 times higher loan amount to MSMEs in June over February. Even private sector banks’ credit disbursals to the MSME segment for June were back at February levels. Within MSMEs, the micro loans segment increased by 1% year-on-year to Rs 4.5 lakh crore of credit outstanding as of June. In terms of numbers, MSME loans disbursed in urban, semi-urban and rural regions for June is over 3 times that of February and was at 1.9 times for metro regions. A similar trend is observed at the state level. That is, for the states of Bihar, Jharkhand, Punjab and Kerala, the number of MSME loans disbursed in June is over 4 times as compared to February, whereas for Maharashtra and Delhi it is 1.9 and 1.1 times respectively for the same period. The total loan book of banks has shrunk to Rs 67 lakh crore in June from nearly Rs 70 lakh crore a year ago in June 2019. Of this, the share of MSMEs currently stands at Rs 16.9 lakh crore as of June this year, and there has been a reduction in credit exposure across most sub-segments of MSME lending except the very small and micro sub-segments. Large corporates’ segment is at Rs 50.1 lakh crore outstanding as of June and has observed a y-o-y contraction of 3.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-guarantee-ups-msme-loans-cibil/articleshow/78627489.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Vedanta sinks 21% on flop delisting offer||MUMBAI: A day after metals major Vedanta, which is majority owned by the UK-based Anil Agarwal, announced that its delisting offer had failed, the stock crashed to its lower circuit limit at 25% in early trades on the BSE and closed 21% down at Rs 97, mainly because of speculative unwinding. On the NSE too, the stock lost more than a fifth of its value to close at Rs 97. More than 15 crore shares changed hands on the two exchanges on Monday, data from the bourses showed.Market players said that in the run-up to the delisting offer’s opening, a large number of speculators had amassed the stock, expecting a much higher final price than the delisting floor price of Rs 87.25 per share. Since the delisting failed, these speculators dumped the stock in the market to limit their losses, which resulted in the crash. On Sunday, Vedanta had issued a notice saying the delisting offer had failed because the promoters did not get the support of 90% of the non-promoting shareholders, which is required under Sebi norms. On October 9, the offer’s last day, insurance major LIC, also the largest public shareholder of the company, tendered its 6.14% stake at Rs 320 per share, at 3.7 times the floor price. Under the current rules, if the promoters had to accept the delisting offer, it had to pay Rs 320 per share to every shareholder that tendered their shares in the offer. Promoters did not accept this price and also did not come out with a counter offer. Some market players hailed LIC’s decision to offer their shares at a substantially higher price than the floor price offered by the promoters. They also criticised some of the brokerage houses, which had put per share value of the company at below half of LIC’s valuation, at Rs 150 per share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vedanta-sinks-21-on-flop-delisting-offer/articleshow/78627288.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Southern suburbs push for municipal corpn||Chennai: Since the government announced formation of Avadi municipal corporation last year, calls to form a separate municipal corporation from village, town panchayats and municipalities in the southern suburbs of the city is getting louder. Residents welfare associations from Chitlapakkam have written to the chief minister’s cell to consider the upgradation to extend better infrastructure facilities. Similar views were echoed by residents of Madambakkam, Medavakkam and other village panchayats around Tambaram. In their letter to the chief minister, the Chitlapakkam residents associations’ co-ordination committee noted that upgrading Avadi into a municipal corporation is a well-thought move and sought the government to take similar action with the southern suburbs under CMA (commissionerate of municipal administration). “All municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats within Chennai Metropolitan Area but outside corporation limits have the characteristics of a metro. Residents deserve better administration, quality civic services and formation of a new municipal corporation is the way,” P Viswanathan, convener of the committee stated. Residents complain that adequate manpower is not available with the local bodies to address day-to-day civic needs. “More importantly, no comprehensive scheme could be implemented as civic issues arise between two local bodies and they remain fragmented,” the letter stated, insisting the need to bring together all the local bodies under a municipal corporation. Areas in the southern suburbs include Tambaram, the gateway to the city from southern districts, Pallavaram, Pammal, Sembakkam, Anakaputhur municipalities, Perungalathur, Chitlapakkam, Tiruneermalai, Madambakkam, Kundrathur town panchayats and village panchayats such as Kovilambakkam, Medavakkam among others. Almost all local bodies in the southern suburbs have water bodies, but due to continued dereliction, the lakes now function as sewage draining channels as many of the local bodies lack underground sewerage system, Viswanathan said. The whole region comprises a mix of vastly residential, semi-residential and commercial areas and has all requisite conditions to become a municipal corporation, said K Aathi Shree, an engineer from Medavakkam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/southern-suburbs-push-for-municipal-corpn/articleshow/78629092.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon closes down seven DCHC||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The Jalgaon district administration has now closed seven of the 38 Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) due to lack of patients. The number of active patients has dropped by 74 % in the span of just 30 days and the recovery rate has touched 93%. “The number of patients is weaning down at this point of time and hence, we have decided to provide relief to the health workers. We have, therefore, temporarily closed down seven DCHCs because of very low number of patients in these establishments,” Jalgaon collector Abhijeet Raut said. He added that the staff has been sent to adjoining centres so that the manpower can be used optimally. If the number of patients increase, these DCHCs will be restarted in no time, he assured. Raut said that since August 15, they followed the Nashik Municipal Corporation pattern of downsizing containment zones and effective and intense search operation in buffer areas. Further, more Class 1 officers were appointed to review the survey activity at periodic intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-closes-down-seven-dchc/articleshow/78629843.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 13, 2020||Bareilly||Three youths arrested for secretly filming girl while taking bath & uploading video||Pilibhit: Three youths of a village under Neuria police station were arrested on Monday morning for allegedly filming a 16-year-old girl secretly when she was taking a bath and uploading the video on social media networks. In his complaint to police, the girl’s father stated that taking advantage of the thatched bathroom, the accused — Aqil Ahmad (18), Rahul and Ajay (both 19 years) — of his native village secretly captured the video of his daughter when she was taking a bath. The father alleged that besides uploading the video on social media on October 10, they forwarded it on his and his daughter’s mobiles.“When I protested, the accused barged into my house and assaulted me, causing serious head injuries. They also hurled abusive at me and my daughter and threatened to kill us if we take the matter to police,” the father further alleged. SHO Jagat Singh said the accused were booked under sections 354 C (watching or capturing the image of a woman while engaged in a private act), 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and relevant sections of the Pocso Act and the Information Technology Act. They were arrested later, said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-youths-arrested-for-secretly-filming-girl-while-taking-bath-uploading-video/articleshow/78623561.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Student finds 13th c Asiriyam stone inscription in Madurai||Madurai: A college student has found a 13th century Asiriyam stone inscription in Koodal Sengulam tank near Madurai airport. The inscription, claimed to be the first of its kind to be found in the district to date, denotes a practice of mentioning the protector of the village or town in this region.Ranjith Kumar, an MA history student at Saraswathi Narayanan College, spotted the inscription about a month ago. He was among the history department students, who were going around in search of any article or inscription of historic significance in the locality.The stone tablet measuring 3.5 feet long and 1.5 feet wide was found amidst thorny bushes. The tablet’s top portion was damaged and it had five rows of Tamil letters. It was examined by assistant professors D Muneeswaran and M Lakshmanamurthi.“So far, only 75 Asiriyam stones have been identified and recorded in the state,” said Muneeswaran, adding that most of them are in Pudukottai, followed by Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga.The inscription at Koodal Sengulam had the words “Padi Nagarathevar Kandiya Devarasriyam.” According to Muneeswaran, the words could refer to a man named Kandiya Thevar who was the protector of Padi town. “It belongs to the 13th or 14th century Pandian era. The stone was found near Kombadi village, which could have been called ‘Padi’ then,” he added.Verifying his interpretations with the help of Madurai and Chennai-based senior archaeologists, Muneeswaran said the stone had a Pooranakumbam pattern at its bottom, which is a sign of an Asiriyam stone. “The inscription also had the words in five rows, typical of Asiriyam stones that have the inscriptions of five to seven rows,” he added.Asiriyam stones are kept at temples, central areas, and places where villagers gather. The protector mentioned on the stones is responsible for maintaining peace and conducting temple festivals without any hindrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/student-finds-13th-c-asiriyam-stone-inscription-in-madurai/articleshow/78627686.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn identifying shops for rent waiver||Coimbatore: Following the state government’s decision to waive off rent for two months during the lockdown period, the city corporation is in the process of identifying the shops and other establishments functioning in its buildings and on land that will benefit from the initiative.“The state government has decided to waive off monthly rent of the government-owned buildings for two months – April and May – to lessen the burden on people who had taken a huge hit due to the lockdown,” a corporation official said.The government order was released two weeks ago. “Subsequently, the corporation directed zonal assistant commissioners to identify the shopkeepers and other contractors who are functioning from its land and buildings and did not operate during the two months. The process is expected to complete within a month,” the official said. “Once the identification process is completed, the report will be submitted to corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian, who is also the special officer during the absence of the local body council, for approval.”Over 3,000 shops are functioning from the corporation-owned shopping complexes and buildings in the city. The civic body earns Rs 19 crore as rent per year. The corporation has also leased out its buildings and land where slaughter houses, markets, parking lots, gyms, cloak rooms and toilets are functioning. It earns close to Rs 5 crore as lease a year from the facilities.“The arrears is close to Rs 15 crore. We seal the shops if the keeper fails to pay the rent for two to three years,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-identifying-shops-for-rent-waiver/articleshow/78627691.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||SpiceJet postpones Jaisalmer flight operations||JAISALMER: Tourism industry in Jaisalmer is in for some bad news. SpiceJet that had announced to start flight services connecting Jaisalmer to Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and Jaipur from October 25 has now decided to postpone the operations. The next date for resuming flight operations has not been announced. According to sources the decision was taken due to lack of enough bookings. The tourism industry in Jaisalmer was expecting travellers during Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali. However, now with no connectivity to Jaisalmer through rail or air, the desert district will see no tourists. Mayank Kumar, a businessman, said that the tourism industry is disappointed. The businessmen here were hoping to receive tourists during the festival season. He said that so far there have been no hotel bookings. Hotel owner Giril Kumar lamented that the government has not made any efforts to attract tourists. Tourist guide Arun Purohit said that Jaisalmer’s economy is dependent on tourism, but if the present situation continues then other sectors related to tourism will also collapse. “If there is no money in the market then all businesses will crash. The problem of livelihood will also intensify for hundreds of families. Every year, by this time, tourists would start arriving in resorts at Sam and Kuhadi, but this time they are lying vacant. Hotels and restaurants in the city have also not opened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spicejet-postpones-jaisalmer-flight-ops/articleshow/78629089.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra man arrested for killing wife’s paramour, dumping body||NASHIK: A 23-year-old man, resident of Abhalwadi village near Gangapur dam, killed a man who was having extra-marital relationship with his wife. The victim, Nitin Tabale, was found dead near an open plot in Savargaon village in Trimbakeshwar taluka on Friday morning. Tabale was a resident of Harsul in Trimbakeshwar taluka. On Sunday, the Nashik taluka police arrested Ashok More (23), resident of Abhalwadi village for the allegedly killing Tabale. He was produced before a city court which remanded him police custody till October 16. The police said they got information from the villagers that Tabale had an affair with a married woman, who was staying with him for the past two months. Police officials said that they traced the woman’s husband Ashok More to a village in Mahadevpur Monali in Trimbakeshwar on Sunday. Though More initially gave vague replies, he allegedly confessed to killing Tabale over his affair. Tabale, who worked on building construction sites, had come to Savargaon. Since More was acquainted to him, he caught Tabale and beat him to death. The case was investigated under the guidance of SP Sachin Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-arrested-for-killing-wifes-paramour-dumping-body/articleshow/78629854.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger spotted in Kannaigudem||HYDERABAD: Villagers spotted a tiger in the forest areas of Kannaigudem mandal of Mulugu district four days ago. The forest staff directed by district forest officer Pradeep Kumar Shetty visited the place and identified the pug marks of the tiger on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-spotted-in-kannaigudem/articleshow/78629082.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||Trucks parked on bypass a risk for moving vehicles||Pune: Numerous trucks parked along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass have been a cause for concern for motorists for long. The situation improved during the lockdown, but the vehicles are back, causing difficulty for motorists. The stretch between Tathawade and Kiwale, just before the entry to Pune-Mumbai Expressway, is a favourite halt for truck drivers, who stop at the dhabas along the road for meals or night halts. Motorists stated that the trucks, though parked on the road shoulder, often occupy the entire left lane on both sides of the road of the bypass. “These trucks reduce the carriageway by an entire lane, forcing moving heavy vehicles to the middle and right lanes. This slows down traffic considerably. Instead of parking on the service road or in the parking lot of the dhaba, they park on the main road, causing inconvenience to everyone. These parked vehicles also obstruct vision of vehicles that are coming out of the service lane and onto the main bypass,” explained Rajesh Jain, a regular commuter. Another frequent commuter along the stretch, Ashish Thorat said, “Not only do they eat into the carriageway, they also pose danger when they are looking for a parking spot or trying to get back on the road. While looking for parking, these truckers slam the brakes while on the road if they find an empty spot. While leaving the spot too, many do not look left or right and just turn into the main road. This can lead to fatal accidents.” Both stated that police action in the past has deterred truckers from parking along the road. “Whenever action is taken, the truckers disappear for a few days, only to come back later. A permanent solution on this issue is required if we want to prevent any accidents and fatalities due to this errant parking of trucks,” they stated. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) for Pimpri Chinchwad police, Sudhir Hiremath said that action against such parked trucks is taken regularly. If the menace has increased again, we will take action again. The absence of a truck terminal in the area causes truckers to park on the road. One truck terminal has recently come up at Talegaon Dhabade. If a similar terminal is developed in this area, it can put an end to this menace,” Hiremath explained. eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trucks-parked-on-bypass-a-risk-for-moving-vehicles/articleshow/78629084.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 13, 2020||Pune||Millennials pen down their thoughts of life during pandemic||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Millennials are capturing their pandemic moments for posterity by chronicling their everyday experiences in diaries. “As millennials, we’ve lived through the Y2K and several hoax apocalyptic predictions. But this is the first time we are experiencing something life changing and it’s worth documenting your journey. I’ve always wanted to pen down my thoughts, but procrastinated. I have documented how my diet has changed in the last few months and how I have become more accepting of what’s going on instead of freaking out completely,” said Sudeshna Sen (29), a telecom employee. “Though it is a dangerous time with Covid-19 cases rising, it is also a fascinating time as people’s lives have been upended. I used to be a shopaholic, but haven’t bought anything except household necessities since March. I gave my family haircuts, something I never thought I would. I have written about all these things in my diary,” said Minakshi Shah (30), a business consultant. Blogger Rashika Agarkar (26) said, “The lockdown gave us all time to introspect and some of us have chosen to write down our thoughts from a personal point of view. Consider it a sort of record of our own lives during the pandemic. Newspapers and media have documented the numbers, but through our journals we have recorded how it has been for us. Maybe, my grandchildren will read my diary one day and learn what daily life was during the pandemic,” she said. Video editor Rajiv Gulati (27) said, “My grandmother used to tell me stories of the Partition and I would be fascinated listening to them. I have started journaling so that I have some stories of my own of living through the biggest outbreak in our lifetime. In the initial days, going out for groceries reminded me of scenes from a dystopian fantasy-- walking down the road wearing masks, armed with sanitizer, paranoid about not touching anyone even accidentally, stocking up on food and so on. I started writing about living my life, doing everyday chores in that setting. I have done a lot doodling alongside my writing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/millennials-pen-down-their-thoughts-of-life-during-pandemic/articleshow/78629088.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Silent march against privatization of UMED||YAVATMAL: To protest against government’s move to privatize UMED-Maharashtra State Rural Livelihood Mission, hundreds of women from Self Help Groups and employees on Monday took out a silent march from the local Azad Maidan to the collectorate here. “The state government without any intimation terminated the services of 23 employees under UMED and proposed to terminate another 36 on October 14,” said Prashant Bhoyar while addressing the rallyists. Convener Mahesh Pawar pointed out that resource persons selected from rural areas are carrying out their work effectively since the introduction of the government-sponsored scheme in 2011 for eradication of poverty by building sustainable institutions of poor. Due to their efforts, 24,407 Self Help Groups have been formed in the district with 2,50,222 families as members. Led by Mahesh Pawar, Sushma Gadhve and Deepmala Bhoyar, a delegation met resident district collector Lalitkumar Warhade and submitted a memorandum of demands which include revocation of the decision to privatize MSRLM, enhancing honorarium for the grass roots level workers, reinstatement of employees already terminated from service, enhancement of revolving fund (RF) and community investment fund etc. “Today we are on the streets, but protesting in a peaceful way,” said Seema Kamble and cautioned the government of resorting to indefinite hunger strike if their genuine demands are not met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/silent-march-against-privatization-of-umed/articleshow/78629858.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar minister dies of post-Covid complications||Patna: The state backward and extremely backward castes welfare minister and BJP’s three-time MLA from Pranpur in Katihar district, Binod Kumar Singh (54), died at Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon on Monday. His death occurred due to the post-Covid complications. Singh had been found Covid-19 positive in July and underwent treatment at AIIMS Patna. He recovered from it and returned home, but again reported high blood pressure and sugar level. Singh was again admitted to AIIMS Patna where he suffered brain haemorrhage during treatment in August. Subsequently, he was taken to Delhi by an air ambulance and admitted to Medanta for more specialized care and treatment. Elected to the state assembly from Pranpur in 2000, 2010 and 2015, he first became mines minister after Nitish Kumar headed the NDA government in July 2017. Later, he was made the backward and EBC welfare minister. His tenure as state mines minister was notable, as the state government had launched offensive against what is called ‘sand mafia’ and, later, evolved a policy framework to control and regulate sand mining and its sales in Bihar. For some time, the state BJP had been grooming him as the party’s Koeri caste face owing to his oratory. Singh’s death sent shockwaves in BJP. Governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar mourned his untimely demise. Among those who expressed their grief over his death were deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, BJP state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and a host of the party functionaries, as well as senior ministers like Prem Kumar, Nand Kishore Yadav and Mangal Pandey, among others. Dr Jaiswal said the party has suffered a huge setback due to his death. Senior BJP functionary Sanjay Mayukh recalled Singh’s contributions in the ABVP and BJYM in Katihar district and his role as the party’s state kisan morcha vice-president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-minister-dies-of-post-covid-complications/articleshow/78627277.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Idol theft cases: HC dismisses bail plea of Subash Kapoor||Madurai: Directing a trial court hearing the idol theft cases to complete the trial as expeditiously as possible, the Madras high court on Monday dismissed as withdrawn the bail plea of a US-based antiques dealer who was arrested in connection with the cases in 2012.The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Subash Chandra Kapoor, 71, a resident of New York, who is presently confined as an under trial prisoner at Trichy Central Prison.The state public prosecutor A Natarajan informed that the petitioner was involved in theft of idols belonging to the Chola period which is worth crores of rupees. The petitioner was absconding for several years and was extradited from Germany. He further informed the court that the trial in this case would be completed soon and objected to the grant of bail to the petitioner. After the counsel appearing for the petitioner sought permission to withdraw the petition, justice G K Ilanthiraiyan dismissed it as withdrawn. The case of the prosecution is that several idols were stolen from two temples in Ariyalur in 2008. The petitioner, who is an Indian origin US citizen had displayed few of the idols in an art gallery ‘Art of the Past’ in the US. Based on the confession of the co-accused, the petitioner’s name was included in the case.After a Red Corner Notice was issued, Kapoor, who was in Germany was handed over by their government to the Indian government and he was remanded in judicial custody on July 14, 2012. The case, which was initially registered by the Udayarpalayam police was subsequently transferred to the idol wing CID. Final report was filed and the case is under trial before the Kumbakonam additional chief judicial magistrate court which is the special court for idol theft cases. Four other cases are pending against the petitioner.His earlier bail application was dismissed by the Thanjavur principal sessions court on September 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/idol-theft-cases-hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-subash-kapoor/articleshow/78627684.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Two siblings found dead in Noyyal river||Coimbatore: An 11-year-old boy and his seven-year-old brother, who had gone fishing on Sunday evening, were found dead under the Noyyal River bridge in Tirupur on Monday.The deceased were identified as B Mohammed Sameer and his younger brother Mohammed Zahir of Gurunatha Gounder Street in Tirupur. Sameer was a Class VI student and Zahir was in Class II. Their father Basheer Ahmed, 37, is a wall painter and mother Shabitha Banu, a home maker.After the parents filed a missing complaint, Tirupur south police personnel who launched a search for the boys, failed to find them on Sunday. Police received information about the bodies under the bridge around 9am on Monday and retrieved them from the river.The bodies were sent to the Tirupur Medical College and Hospital for postmortem and were handed over to the family on Monday afternoon. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-siblings-found-dead-in-noyyal-river/articleshow/78627685.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Robbers posing as servants arrested in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: A gang of thieves, posing as domestic helps and robbing their employers by lacing food with sedatives, was busted by Cyberabad police. The police helped by Uttar Pradesh police and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), who arrested three members of the gang, who are from Nepal, and recovered Rs 20 lakh worth stolen property. The kingpin Netra Bahadur Shahi (40) and his associate Sita Lawar (25) were caught in UP near Nepal border, while another aide Prakash Shahi (39) was apprehended in Hyderabad. Apart from Rs 5.2 lakh cash, 30 tola gold was also recovered. Police said Bahadur would identify people from his neighbouring villages in Nepal who are working for affluent families in Indian cities and convince them to commit thefts under his supervision. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/robbers-posing-as-servants-arrested/articleshow/78629098.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Operational logjam hits bus services between Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||VIJAYAWADA: The Telangana government’s stance on inter-state bus services, especially those coming from Andhra Pradesh, has not just caused inconvenience to pubic, but has also become a boon for private operators. People visiting Hyderabad or coming back from Hyderabad to their native places, are forced to take multiple modes of transport in the absence of bus services. While bus service between the two Telugu states have come to a grinding halt due to Covid-19 lockdown since March, services have not resumed even after the Unlock 5.0 guidelines were released by the Union government, lifting all restrictions on inter-state movement. Though the APSRTC is willing to operate buses, its Telangana counterpart has raked up the contentious issue of equal proportionate share of bus operations by both the states. The Telangana government is proposing to scale down bus operations by AP in their land which is equivalent to the same extent of TSRTC buses being operated in Andhra Pradesh. At the time of bifurcation, APSRTC used to operate buses covering over 3 lakh kilometres in Telangana, whereas the TSRTC operations in AP were about 94,000 km. The issue of parity in the number of kilometres covered by one state in the other became a bone of contention. However, the issue was resolved through deliberations at various levels after which APSRTC scaled down its operations to 2.65 lakh kilometres and TSRTC increased its operations to 1.52 lakh kilometres. The dispute seemed to have been resolved. But post the easing of lockdown norms, Telangana again raised the issue of bringing parity in kilometres covered by TSRTC in Andhra Pradesh, and wants APSRTC to reduce its operations to 1.61 lakh kilometres to match the number being operated by TSRTC. While the logjam continues between the two states, private operators are benefiting from the tussle. APSRTC sources said while they agreed to Telangana’s conditions on reduction of services, they also requested them to increase their services in Andhra Pradesh for the benefit of passengers. As TSRTC is not ready to operate buses in some routes like Bhimavaram, Narsapuram, Repalle and Bapatla, private players will get the benefit in these routes if APSRTC scales down its operations, they say. The AP government has even proposed an alternative to pay double the amount of tax to what they are paying now to the Telanagana government for the additional services. With the festive season fast approaching, APSRTC officials are again trying to reach out to their Telangana counterparts to resolve the issue. Some outcome is expected in the next one-two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/operational-logjam-hits-bus-services-between-ap-t/articleshow/78626505.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 13, 2020||Pune||4th student leadership conference at KHS||Pune: The Kalmadi Shamarao High School, Ganeshnagar, recently held its fourth ‘Student Leadership Conference’ online. The theme of the conference was ‘Me to We: Igniting the spirit of leadership’. As many as 97 students of classes IX and X from 16 schools across Pune participated in this event. At the inaugural function, Malati Kalmadi, secretary of Kannada Sangha, shared her views on leadership along with Neha Panchamiya, founder of ResQ NGO for animals, and Siddhant Bhargava, founder of Food Darzee. Keynote speaker, Vivek Sawant, former managing director of Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Limited shared his thoughts on how choosing the right role model is important for becoming a leader. Thereafter, Manish Freeman conducted a cooperative gaming session in which he emphasised the importance of games in life. On the second day, Anand Chabukswar, Hina Siddiqui and Sameena Manaswala, in their respective sessions, highlighted the significance of folk narratives and deriving leadership lessons from them. Students also interacted with Raj Raghunathan, professor of Business at University of Texas and an author. In his talk, he focused on ways to be happy and the biggest deterrents to being happy. On the third day, workshops by Archana Deshmukh and Anand Godse underlined the importance of a collaborative and entrepreneurship at an early age. The valedictory ceremony was presided over by Malati Kalmadi and Sameer Garde, president of CISCO India. It was followed by a question and answer session. Educator selected for ISS’s design challengeVandana Suryawanshi, science facilitator from Vidya Valley School, was among the six chosen from India for the World Design Organization’s ‘Design in Space for Life on Earth Design’ challenge held recently.The challenge was a two-week virtual workshop for industry leaders, designers and other professionals to apply design thinking to space-based research to develop solutions for life on Earth. The global challenge had 260 participants, out of which 70 were chosen. They were divided into five groups, with 16 participants along with eminent personalities from the International Space Station’s (ISS) National Laboratory. The challenge was to choose from the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) provided by the ISS and create a theme for the challenge. “Our team had chosen three sustainable development goals and decided to work on energy efficiency. I would like to thank the ISS National Laboratory, World Design Organization and principal Nalini Sengupta who had inspired me to pursue space learning,” said Suryawanshi. Their team focused on the challenge statement, ‘How can space-based research address UN sustainable development goals?” Each team was given 10 minutes to present the challenge in the final round. The participants will now proceed to the next level, dates for which will be announced soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4th-student-leadership-conference-at-khs/articleshow/78629095.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Leopard spotted at farm in Shivare village||Nashik: A leopard was spotted by residents of Shivare village in Niphad taluka of the district on Monday morning, following which the forest department was informed about the same. A team of forest officials visited the village to review the situation. Subsequently, a cage has been installed at a farm where the animal was spotted. Villagers said that theuy spotted the animal when they were on their way to work at the farm. This is the second incident involving the spotting of a leopard in the taluka within a span of 24 hours. Meanwhile, a horse was killed in an attack involving a leopard at Kasbe-Sukene village in Niphad taluka on Sunday morning. Forest department officials said that they have installed CCTV cameras in several villages to determine the presence of leopard. They told TOI that they have already erected cages at 15 locations to rescue the animals. According to forest department authorities, there have been presence of leopards in around 35 villages in Niphad taluka.“We have already installed cages at various locations in Niphad taluka in the last few days,” the officials said. “We are also finding out whether the leopard spotted in both the places in the last 24 hours are the same,” said officials. Apart from Niphad taluka, there have been several incidents of leopards sightings in various parts of the taluka, including Chadegaon, Deolali, Donwade, Babhaleshwar and Samangaon village belt, in the last four-five months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-spotted-at-farm-in-shivare-village/articleshow/78629859.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 13, 2020||Pune||MCOCA charges against 13, including RTI activist||Pune: The city police on Monday invoked provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) against 13 people, including an RTI activists, two dismissed constables and a reporter, reporter, for their involvement in extortion, fraud and blackmailing cases. The police said nine cases had been filed against the activist, who was accused of misusing provisions of the Right To Information (RTI) Act, and others so far. The MCOCA charges were invoked in connection with a cheating and extortion case registered with the Hadapsar police station. Besides, cases of cheating, extortion and threats against the RTI activist and the others were registered with the Wanowrie, Kothrud, Samarth, Deccan and Bund Garden police stations. A crime branch team headed by assistant commissioner of police Shivaji Pawar prepared the MCOCA proposal against the 13 people. The proposal was signed by the authorities on Monday. The police said the RTI activist, a resident of Bibvewadi, was heading an organized crime syndicate and it was \supported by the two dismissed police constables and the reporter. All the cases filed against the crime syndicate would be investigated under the MCOCA provisions. The activist has so far evaded arrest and his bail application has been rejected by the Supreme Court. The others in the cases were arrested in the past few months and some of them are out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mcoca-charges-against-13-including-rti-activist/articleshow/78629100.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Two IPS officers transferred||Jaipur: In yet another IPS reshuffle in less than a week, two officers were transferred on Monday night. Former Dungarpur SP Jai Yadav, who was transferred to CID-CB on October 5, has been transferred again to Kota where he will take over as the commandant of the 2nd Battalion of RAC. Rajesh Kumar Meena, the principal of RPTC, Jodhpur, has been appointed as DCP (headquarters and traffic), Jodhpur. According to sources, Yadav was transferred following the Dungarpur violence during which tribals protested and blocked the highway. Senior officials from Jaipur were sent there to intervene and contain the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-ips-officers-transferred/articleshow/78629099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Jamnagar gangster’s another aide caught||RAJKOT: Jaspalsinhh Jadeja, an aide of the gangster, Jayesh Patel, along with two others was arrested on Monday in a land scam worth Rs 3 crore in Jamnagar. Police said Jaspalsinhh (33), Ajay Baradia (33) and Amrutlal Maru (53) had allegedly made bogus ownership documents to stake claim to a plot of land worth Rs 3 crore in Jambuda village on the outskirts of Jamnagar in January. The complaint in this connection was lodged on May 21. The police had on October 8 arrested Bhavsang Jadeja and Ranjeetsinh Jadeja, who had allegedly threatened Kunal Busa, the owner of the land. They allegedly asked Busa never to enter the land as the land now belonged to them. “During interrogation, Bhavsang and Ranjeetsinh revealed the name of Jaspalsinh, saying that on his instructions, they had threatened Busa. Baradia and Maru confessed that they had made the fake land documents at the behest of Jaspalsinh,” said K G Chaudhary, inspector with Jamnagar local crime branch. “The accused were formally arrested after they underwent Covid-19 test,” added Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-gangsters-another-aide-caught/articleshow/78626541.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||Less than 1,500 new cases in MP, 1,700+ walk home in a day after beating Covid||BHOPAL: For the second time in more than a month, less than 1500 fresh cases were reported in a single day in the state on Monday. Overall a total of 1478 fresh cases were reported on Monday taking the count of Covid-19 positive cases to 148298 in the state. Since September 2, it was only on October 5 that less than 1500 cases were reported in the state. Monday was also the eleventh consecutive day when the number of people recovering from the disease outnumbered the number of people testing positive for it in a single day. While 1702 people recovered on Monday, only 1478 new cases were reported. With these new people recovering, the count of total people who had recovered from the disease reached 130721. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients as on October 12, stands at 88.14%. It was 76% as on August 31. Apart from the new cases 21 deaths were reported in the state, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 2645. On Monday fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of state. Of the total 24554 samples that were tested on Monday, 1478 people were found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-1500-new-cases-in-mp-1700-walk-home-in-a-day/articleshow/78627701.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Land of defunct co, earmarked for Ooty med college, ‘pledged’ to bank||Chennai: Can forest land be leased to a central public sector undertaking be mortgaged for loans? Can banks accept such leased land for extending loans exceeding Rs 18,000 crore? Hill station Ooty’s long-pending dream of having a government medical college has to first meet these legal points now, before the state government creates infrastructure on the now-defunct Hindustan Photo Films Limited premises. The issue surfaced before a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha on Monday, when the court was hearing a case over constructing new buildings or converting existing HPF buildings as medical college hostels. Canara Bank moved an implead plea and said the land had been given as security for loans disbursed to the company. “The land was offered as security in 1985. The government is also aware of it. Rs 18,700 crore of public money is involved in the issue,” counsel for the bank said. Pulling up the bank for not doing proper due diligence before accepting the land as security, the judges suo motu impleaded the registrar of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, as a party responded and directed him to respond to the issue. On his part, additional solicitor general of India R Sankaranarayanan told the bench, “The insolvency proceedings regarding HPF assets are pending before National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Till the proceedings are over, the land cannot be used for any other purpose.” HPF said the 300-acre land allotted for the hospital belonged to the company and it could not be earmarked for any other purpose. It all began with PILs to utilise the land and buildings leased and owned by Hindustan Photo Films for establishing the government medical college hospital instead of constructing new buildings causing damage to the hill environment. On September 14, the court refused to stay construction of the hospital in Ooty for alleged environmental violations. It, however, restrained the state from felling trees on the 300-acre land allotted for construction of the hospital. It had also directed the state to ascertain whether the existing buildings of HPF could be used for hostel and other purposes instead of constructing new buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/land-of-defunct-co-earmarked-for-ooty-med-college-pledged-to-bank/articleshow/78629101.cms||Suresh Kumar
October 13, 2020||Pune||FTII starts faculty training programme on basic animation||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) started its first faculty training programme on basic animation filmmaking on Monday, a year after receiving permission from the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to conduct postgraduate certificate courses.The FTII is also conducting the course on behalf of the AICTE, as part of requested the latter’s ATAL (AICTE Training and Learning Academy) programme. It aims to impart new skills in teachers and faculty across disciplines, including intensive use of information technology. The course is being conducted entirely online, and will end on Friday.Nearly 75 participants are part of the course from across the country, including FTII faculty and staff. The rest of the participants comprise faculty, research scholars, post-graduate scholars from institutions sanctioned by the AICTE, as well as staff from public sector utilities. According to the FTII, the request for such a course came from the AICTE due the ATAL programme’s insistence on cross-learning.FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said,“We are the only film and television institution that has courses approved by the AICTE. Since animation filmmaking is something which can also be used in classroom and training situations to teach better, AICTE requested us to design this course, as they encourage learning across disciplines. That is why most of our participants are faculty from AICTE-approved civil and software engineering courses, as well as other disciplines. According to the FTII, the course is geared towards an outline of animation, including its history and basic principles. The participants will also learn about the screenplay and the storyboarding process before creating an animated film of any length, as well as the visuals and editing process of that film. Besides the concept of chroma keying- layering visuals through the use of coloured background screens that is used heavily in animation, the participants will also be taught about stop-motion films, something that can be shot and edited on smartphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-starts-faculty-training-programme-on-basic-animation/articleshow/78629105.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Unauthorised living: How lines are getting blurred in Delhi’s rural ring||NEW DELHI: Along the Najafgarh drain, the last remaining farmlands of Roshanpura are being divided into 50-100 square yard spaces by narrow lanes. On its way to becoming the world’s biggest urban agglomeration by 2028, Delhi is fast losing its rural periphery, like at Roshanpura. And while, 1,731 unapproved residential areas are now in the list of regular colonies, the massive demand-supply gap in low-income housing and rapid migration continue to force the creation of informal housing localities. Villagers blame the lack of economic opportunities and builder-politician-bureaucratic nexus for the mushrooming of informal inhabitations. Parsuram, 74, the last pradhan of Roshanpura before panchayats were abolished in 1989, testifies to open agricultural spaces turning into ‘kachchi’ colonies right before his eyes. “Whenever a farmer requires money for family marriages, medical expenses or other needs, he sells his land to property developers who divide it into plots and sell them,” he said. “What earlier happened at night, now happens in broad daylight.” Master Plan Delhi 2021 envisioned 920 sq km of Delhi’s 1,483 sq km territory becoming urbanised by next year, up from around 732 sq km in 2005-06 and 823 sq km in 2015-16. However, the quality of this urbanisation is questionable, new Roshanpura being an example. Parsuram’s 16 acres — among the last remaining farmlands in Roshanpura — is hemmed in by concrete structures on all sides. “The vegetables I grow brings in Rs 40,000 per acre, but not all farmlands can sustain families,” the septuagenarian mused, noting that unapproved urban expansion could be stopped if the local administration and police stepped in. In Papravat village a few kilometres away, the same pattern is visible. Paras Tyagi, who runs the Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment, which deals with issues related to Delhi’s villages, claimed that land records of Papravat show that half of the village’s 1,000 acres have been sold, most of them to third party colony developers. “Agriculture land in Papravat comes under the land-pooling policy, but if land is converted into unplanned colonies, what will remain for development land-pooling?” Tyagi asked. Colonies cropping up on agricultural land has also been noted in Dhichaun Kalan, Lampur and Malikpur villages. Delhi adds more than 1,000 people to its migrant population each day, but there is no low-cost housing for them. In 2001, the proportion of migrants in the population growth of Delhi was 40%, rising 45% in 2011 and expected to cross 50% by 2021. Studies project urban land gravity centres moving to North-West and South-West districts, both of which have space in the form of agricultural land. Pradeep Dagar, 41, a farmer in Dhansa village abutting the Jhajjar border, rued that the city had left them behind. “Even as Delhi prepares the Master Plan for 2041, the provisions of MPD 2021 haven’t been fully implemented for us,” he grumbled. “Why can’t we get the benefit of land pooling? Why do banks deny us loans despite our having clear titles to our land?” Villagers confide that lack of access to bank credit leaves them vulnerable to property dealers. “Once sold, construction takes place on the plot at night, and within a week a housing colony is a fait accompli,” alleged Dagar. According to the projections of the 2019 economic survey of Delhi, the city needs 24 lakh new housing units by 2021, 54% of these in the low-income category. Of these, Delhi Development Authority has built only an estimated 3.5 lakh units. AK Jain, former planning commissioner of DDA and architect of MPD 2021, accused the government of encouraging unauthorised colonies by giving house owners ownership rights. “The profit margin for owners on regularisation of these colonies is huge, much more than formal properties,” Jain pointed out, citing Jamia Nagar, Sainik Farms and Mahendru Enclave as examples of well-to-do people using this route to double their investment in three years. While Tyagi said Delhi needed policy changes like the central Swamitwa scheme to update rural land records and the abolition of lal dora provisions, a revenue department official claimed that in 2015, a special task force was constituted to check illegal land activities and two weekly drives are conducted. In fact, he revealed, last month one inspection team was attacked by the locals of Surakhpur Road, with several municipal staff requiring hospitalisation. The official explained that the revenue department could only carry out demolitions, but prosecution was the responsibility of the land-owning agencies. To stop the cat-and-mouse game of illegal colony developers, the official said “villages have to be demarcated and fenced off, prosecutions initiated and steps taken to meet housing needs”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unauthorised-living-how-lines-are-getting-blurred-in-delhis-rural-ring/articleshow/78627699.cms||Paras Singh
October 13, 2020||Allahabad||Crackdown caused Rs 400 crloss to gangsters in Prayagraj||Prayagraj: The crackdown against gangsters Atiq Ahmad, Dilip Mishra, Rajesh Yadav, Nihal Kumar alias Bachcha Pasi and Ram Lochan Yadav by Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration since August has resulted in loss of over Rs 400 crore for them. The joint team had first targeted mafia don turned politician Atiq Ahmad and dented his economic empire and hit his armoury through suspension or cancellation of arms licences. PDA officer on special duty Alok Pandey told TOI on Monday, “The crackdown against the properties accumulated through illegal means by gangsters and history-sheeters, including Atiq Ahmad, is continuing.” “The joint team demolished around two dozen properties owned or constructed illegally by gangsters or their henchmen in the district in the past two months. Besides, police and PDA also attached over a dozen properties of gangsters’ worth crores in the district,” he added. The action against land mafias, hardened criminals and gangsters will go on against all the men on radar to check organized crime, said a senior cop. Apart from demolishing the lodge-cum-complex of gangster Dilip Mishra, cops also attached his many properties in the trans-Yamuna area. After investigating the wealth of gangsters in Chakia, Jhunsi, Dhoomanganj, Kareli, Khuldabad, Andhawa Crossing road, and other areas, police have also prepared a fresh list of over 40 other criminals who have also accumulated wealth through illegal means. “The joint team has chalked out a plan to attach properties and demolish illegal structures, besides initiating their confiscation under Gangsters Act,” said a senior cop. Many illegal constructions by Atiq’s henchmen in Mehdauri, Beli Gaon and Bajupur have already been razed. On Monday, a joint team razed the house and guest house of history-sheeter Ram Lochan Yadav in Dhoomanganj. Both were constructed without approval of maps. “Gangsters have constructed illegal houses, guest houses in the city's west locality and some had occupied government or nazul land in other parts of the district. We are taking concrete steps of seizure, demolition and attachment of such properties,” said a PDA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/crackdown-caused-rs-400-crloss-to-gangsters-in-prayagraj/articleshow/78624996.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Min inspects check dam work across Vaigai||Madurai: The check dam being constructed across the Vaigai river at Kodimangalam will benefit 3,360 acres of cultivable land apart from augmenting ground water level in the south of Madurai, said minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju on Monday.The minister inspected the construction work along with the district collector T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan. The ground-breaking ceremony for the project was held on September 19. The check dam will be 210m in length and 2.1m in breadth. Raju said that Madakulam, Thiruvariman and Keelamathur tanks will receive water whenever there is flow in the river. Madakulam, SS Colony, Achampathu, Ponmeni, Palanganantham and Ellis Nagar and surrounding areas will benefit from the project.“Farmers have been demanding the project for the past 40 years. Madakulam tank has already been desilted and kept ready to hold more water under the kudimaramathu scheme by spending Rs 90 lakh. All the inlet and outlet channels have been cleared and kept ready. The bund has also been strengthened. The excess water from Madakulam will be diverted to Thenkal and Nilaiyur tanks,” Raju said.“Kudimaramathu is a big hit in the state with 6,246 water bodies restored at a cost of Rs 1,428 crore from 2016. 56 water bodies in Madurai alone have been restored at a cost of Rs 31 crore,” he said.Another check dam has been planned at Paravai located 1.5km away from the Kodimangalam check dam. Technical sanction has been given and preparatory works have begun. The Mettur dam was desilted after 48 years while desiliting of Vaigai dam is in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-inspects-check-dam-work-across-vaigai/articleshow/78627703.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Money lender held on charge of attempt to run over man||PUNE: A 50-year-old licenced money lender was arrested by the Pimpri police on Monday on the charge of attempt to run over a 54-year-old employee of an automotive company on October 8 over a loan issue. The victim, who sustained an injury to his thigh in the alleged attack, lodged an FIR on Sunday against money lender Satesh Nanekar, a resident Pimprigaon. “We have arrested Nanekar under Section 307 (murder attempt) of the Indian Penal Code,” Ramesh Kengar, sub-inspector, Pimpri police, told TOI. Kengar said, “Nanekar runs a money lending business and has licence for it. About four years ago, Nanekar extended a Rs30,000 loan to the complainant, who claimed that Nanekar had been harassing him for payment of the loan. The complainant claimed that he had repaid the loan with interest, but Nanekar was abusing and threatening him over the same.” “In February, Nanekar had beaten the complainant and used lewd language against his wife. Following which the complainant registered a case of molestation against him. We had arrested Nanekar at that time,” the police officer said. In his FIR, the victim stated that Nanekar nursed a grudge against him over the molestation complaint. “Around 6pm on October 8, when the complainant was on his way to a bus stop to catch the company bus, the suspect knocked him down with his SUV and tried to kill him,” Kengar said, citing the complainant’s statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/money-lender-held-on-charge-of-attempt-to-run-over-man-with-suv-over-loan-issue/articleshow/78629107.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bareilly||DM suspends three officers for failing to procure paddy at MSP||Pilibhit: District magistrate Pulkit Khare suspended three officers in-charge of government procurement agencies on Monday for failing to safeguard interests of farmers, after receiving complaints of rice mill owners and private traders purchasing paddy directly from farmers at prices that are far lower than the minimum support price (MSP).Recommendations have also been sent to the state administration for stern action against Food Corporation of India’s procurement centre at Pilibhit agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC), for projecting sluggish performance and procuring merely 700 quintals of paddy in the last 10 days.Khare’s action came in effect after farmers complained of dictatorial conditions at procurement centres of Karmchari Kalyan Nigam (KKN), UP Cooperative Union (PCU) and the UP Cooperative Federation Limited (PCF).They alleged that center in-charge Anuj Kumar of PCU, Shiv Raj Singh of (KKN) and Sarvesh Kumar of PCF had declined to procure their paddy on the pretext of excess moisture compared to the 17% permitted, and of the government’s procurement website not allowing them to register. They alleged as a result private traders began to buy up paddy from farmers at Rs 1,100 per quintal from financially strained farmers, which is way below the MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal.“Moisture level in our paddy was found to be as per assigned standards during my spot inspection,” said the DM, adding that officials of APMC, food and marketing department and procurement agencies were given strict instructions to procure the entire paddy crop brought to APMC.Officials were also directed to ensure registration and verification of farmers’ records on spot, if any of them had not gone through the official process before. The officers in-charge of the three procurement agencies who were identified as defaulters were thus suspended with immediate effect, he said.Farmers welcomed the DM’s action with warm claps on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-suspends-three-officers-for-failing-to-procure-paddy-at-msp/articleshow/78623598.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Cinema hall owners will meet CM: Min||Tuticorin: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju on Monday said owners of cinema halls and representatives of the industry would meet chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in Chennai either on October 20 or 21 to discuss various issues pertaining to reopening of cinema halls in Tamil Nadu that have remained closed since the third week of March.Talking to reporters at Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district, the minister recalled the long pending issues faced by cinemas that were resolved by the present government. He also said that the guidelines to reopen cinemas (from October 15) were issued by the Centre considering the welfare of thousands employed in the industry.“But only theatre owners know how practical the guidelines are. There are lot of practical difficulties in immediately opening them by issuing an order. These practical difficulties should be discussed to arrive at a solution. The CM has agreed to meet owners of theatres,” Raju said.The chief minister might announce a decision on reopening the theatres the same day, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cinema-hall-owners-will-meet-cm-min/articleshow/78627706.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Daily hearing of petitions on capital shift to start from November 2||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court will begin daily hearing of writ petitions challenging the twin Bills for trifurcation of the state capital and other aspects of the capital issue from November 2. The high court bench, comprising Chief Justice J K Maheswari, Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy, reserved orders in the interlocutory applications moved on the issue of the proposed construction of government guest house in Visakhapatnam. The petitioners, who filed an interlocutory application, raised objections to the counter affidavit filed by the state government which stated three guest houses are being constructed in different parts of the state for administrative convenience. Advocate general S Sriram told the court that the proposed guest house in Visakhapatnam was also meant to provide accommodation to visiting government functionaries on administrative work. The AG said the guest house is not part of the proposed executive capital and bringing it under the ambit of status quo order on shifting of offices will affect developmental works. The HC also closed the interlocutory application on the issue of chief minister’s camp office without passing any orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/daily-hearing-of-petitions-on-capital-shift-to-start-from-nov-2/articleshow/78626533.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Man poses as devotee, steals silver crown of deity at Jain temple||Chennai: The Vepery police have launched a hunt for a man, who posing as a devotee, escaped with a 700g silver crown from a Jain temple at Purasawalkam on Saturday evening. After locking up Sri Purushadaniya Parshvanath Jain Swetambar Murtipujak Sangh temple on Tana Street at 8pm, the temple priest found the crown missing and informed Ashok Kumar of Muthial Street, secretary of the temple trust. A complaint was lodged at the Vepery police station and a case registered. While checking the CCTV camera footage, the police team found a man inching towards the deity and lifting the crown in the guise of praying. He is seen hiding the crown in a bag and going out. Police are trying to identify him with the help of CCTV camera footage. Police suspect that the man may have been a regular visitor to the shrine and may have noted down the crown and eyed for it for a long time. He was probably waiting for the right time to strike, an officer said. Investigators believe that the suspect, who appeared to be in his mid-30s and was dressed well to avoid suspicion of other devotees, is a previous offender. The CCTV camera clippings have been shared with personnel at other police stations in the vicinity as well as across the city to see if police can find more about the man. Further investigation is on to get hold of the suspect. Officials of the trust running the temple, which is open for rituals and prayers from 5pm to 8pm, said several restrictions were imposed after a majority of the lockdown norms were lifted. Only devotees wearing masks are allowed in and are also mandated to sanitize their hands before going in. People are not allowed to gather in large numbers to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-poses-as-devotee-steals-silver-crown-of-deity-at-jain-temple/articleshow/78629111.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Allahabad||AU’s iconic clock to start ticking again||Prayagraj: Time stopped for the iconic clock atop the Senate Hall in the Arts campus of Allahabad University around two decades ago when it stopped ticking, but its times may change again soon. The clock, having resemblance with those of the Big Ben series, has been lying defunct for nearly two decades. Now, the building works committee of AU has drafted a proposal, worth Rs one crore, for repairing the clock and associated structure. The task of repairing the iconic clock would be given to Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) based in Delhi, which will get it repaired by some expert agency. The clock, manufactured by J G Bechtler Son & Company, Allahabad, was installed atop the Senate Hall in 1912. Although many believe it is of the Big Ben series, it is not so. When the clock stopped working way back in 1999, an expert from the local Katra market, Mustaffa Bhai, repaired it successfully. But, the clock again fell silent after a few years. In the year 2012, Prof. C K Dwivedi and his team from J K Institute refurbished the clock and replaced the mechanical functioning by fitting quartz crystal and converting it into a micro controlled machine — a single chip computer having all the components of a computer, including micro-processor, input output interface, timing circuit etc. The main machinery was fitted with new gears and micro-motors so that it gives accurate time. Quartz crystal, widely used for giving accurate frequency in clocks, was also fitted in the clock.Later, the glass sheets on the four faces of the clock were replaced with polycarbonate sheets. The plan was to fit LED lights in all the four sides of the clock and the huge bells were to be cleaned and the hourly, half-hourly and quarter bells could start functioning again. However, the clock failed to function despite all the efforts. The recent initiative by officiating vice-chancellor Prof R R Tiwari has given a ray of hope as the building works committee approved the proposal for making the clock tick once again. AU registrar, N K Shukla said, “The building committee has approved the proposal which has to be passed by finance committee and executive council and then sent to INTACH for getting theclock repaired by an expert agency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/aus-iconic-clock-to-start-ticking-again/articleshow/78624964.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Village panchayat president, friend killed in Madurai||Madurai: A village panchayat president and his friend were murdered by unidentified people with sharp weapons in Madurai district. The deceased have been identified as Kunnathur village panchayat president P Krishnan, 50, and A Munusamy, 40.They were found dead at the foothills of a hill on the outskirts of the village on Monday morning. Based on the alert from villagers, a police team rushed to the spot. District superintendent of police Sujit Kumar also visited the spot.Kumar said that Krishnan used to visit the foothills regualrly to chat with his friends. People, who knew about his regular movement, must have been involved in the murder, he said.“The primary aim of the gang was Krishnan. It looks like Munusamy was murdered since he was there and could become a witness. We are pursuing all possible angles. We suspect previous enmity with someone during the elections could have been the reason. However, we have not concluded anything yet,” the SP said.Police sources said Krishnan was last seen by his brother Baskaran on Sunday night. He attended phone calls from friends and relatives till 10pm and could have been murdered after that. His wife, Chithra, a noon meal worker was on departmental training and not in the village on Sunday.Police are yet to identify the accused behind the murder. Police officials also brushed aside communal angle in the murder as Krishnan belonged to an intermediate caste, while his helper was a dalit. They suspect that mercenaries could have been hired to commit the crime.The bodies were shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/village-panchayat-president-friend-killed-in-madurai/articleshow/78627715.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 cases in Nashik drop||Nashik: Nashik city has recorded 420 coronavirus cases on an average in the last week as compared to 986 cases per day around a month back. Moreover, the city also recorded 294 new cases on Sunday, the lowest in the last one-and-a-half month. Earlier, 274 new cases were recorded in the city on August 24. Moreover, the city also recorded the lowest deaths since August 30. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said that the number of cases are expected to drop below 300 cases per day on an average in the coming days. The city had recorded its first patient on April 6 and had only 49 cases by May 19, but the cases had increased thereafter due to relaxations by the government in lockdown norms. By August 31, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city had increased upto 25,451 with 491 deaths while 20,773 patients had recovered by the time. But, there had been a spike in new cases in the city in September as 50% of the total 51,472 cases registered by September 30 were reported in the month alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-cases-in-nashik-drop/articleshow/78629861.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||New Covid-19 cases dip in south, central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts reported 489 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Monday. The deaths include two in Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli districts and one each in Dindigul and Ramanathapuram districts. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 476 cases taking the tally to 59,382. The region also reported four deaths taking the toll to 787. The deaths were recorded in Thanjavur and Nagappattinam.Madurai with 88 cases recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (86), Tirunelveli (62), Theni (60) and Tuticorin (59). Of the five districts with less than 50 cases two districts had less than 20 cases – Ramanathapuram (16) and Tenkasi (17) – followed by Sivaganga (25), Dindigul (34) and Virudhunagar (42).Active cases in three districts – Tenkasi (181), Ramanathapuram (184) and Sivagangai (188) – are below 200. Virudhunagar (242), Dindigul (374) and Theni (444) also have less than 500 active cases.In the eight central districts, all districts except Ariyalur witnessed a drop in the number of fresh cases. In Thanjavur cases dropped to 189 on Saturday, 181 on Sunday and 146 on Monday. There was a sharp decline in the number of fresh cases in Trichy as well, from 87 on Sunday to 45 on Monday. The positivity rate of the district also came down to touch 4%. Pudukottai reported 43 cases taking the tally to 9,944.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-covid-19-cases-dip-in-south-central-dists/articleshow/78627710.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||PepsiCo to produce chips in UP by next year||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s food processing industry is set to get a major boost with PepsiCo announcing a Rs 814-crore green field project for production of potato chips in Mathura. The unit will be set up in Kosi area of the district and will start commercial production by the middle of 2021. Ahmed El Sheikh, chairman of PepsiCo India said that initially, an investment of Rs 500 crore in this project had been planned for which the company has signed an MoU with UP Government during the 2018 Investors’ Summit. However, it had been revised to Rs 814 crore. The plant is being set up in Kosi, in Mathura district on a 35-acre plot which has been provided by the UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA). The company will also be sourcing potatoes, its raw material, from local sources and thereby helping local farmers. Once ready, the plant will be providing direct and indirect employment to about 1,500 people. Satish Mahana, industrial development minister, said that the project was a reflection of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s pro-industries policies. “Such policies under which the government has implemented business reforms under ease of doing business has made UP a highly attractive state for investments. The result is that many companies like PepsiCo have shown faith in the UP Government and are optimistic about investing in the state,” he said. Infrastructure and Industrial Developmental Commissioner Alok Tandon said that that project started with the arrangement of land at the ground breaking ceremony held in July 2019. “The government has started an extensive exercise of MoU tracking, land allocation and labour related reforms because of which a transparent investment system is being established in UP,” he added. Since 1990, PepsiCo has been producing carbonated soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages in UP through franchisee. These units are functioning in Greater Noida, Kosi, Sathria-Jaunpur, Kanpur Dehat and Hardoi etc. This is the first time that the company is setting up a greenfield project in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pepsico-to-produce-chips-in-up-by-next-yr/articleshow/78629860.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Pandemic proves a thorn in the side of Delhi's flower sellers||NEW DELHI: The city’s biggest flower market at Ghazipur has wilted under the pressure of Covid-19. Having logged huge losses in the past six months due to the pandemic, traders are playing safe as the festive season approaches. But with restrictions on religious gatherings in temples or in pandals, weddings and social events, flower sellers are glumly looking at no more than 60% business this time compared with normal years. Jaiveer Singh said that the sellers are literally praying for flower prices to pick up. “Marigold, which cost Rs 20-25 a kilo in the non-peak season till last year, is available at Rs 15 now because there are no buyers,” he said. “I don’t think its price will rise to more than Rs 50 unlike earlier when the rate shot up to Rs 100 during Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali.” Singh said that 50 trucks, each with 15 quintals of flowers reached Delhi in the days before Navaratri every year. “This supply is almost the same this year, but the prices of different flower species are a third of the usual,” said Singh. Traders pointed that with flower markets from across India supplying 70% of their production to Ghazipur, the demand and prices of flowers at this Delhi market defined the situation in other flower hubs too. “In the flower markets in Kota, Ratlam and Mumbai, the price of marigold has not risen beyond Rs 5 per kg,” said seller Kishan Kumar. What rankles is the uncertainty about demand. “The government is doing its best to help us, but people are apprehensive about using loose flowers in decorations,” claimed Kumar. With the closure of flower mandi for two months due to the lockdown, there was no place for flower growers to sell their products and they disposed of their last pick in April-May.” Vijay Sisodia, chairman of the Ghazipur flower market committee, said, “Last year, between April and August, the market did business of Rs 125 crore. This year, this came down to Rs 25 crore.” He revealed that temples like Iskcon bought only 10% of their usual demand. Sisodia mused about a revival path and higher prices soon, pointing out that lack of supply of marigold in August had taken its price to Rs 200 a kilo. Imports have also been affected by the pandemic, so fewer cut varieties of exotic species are arriving from overseas. These constitute 30% of the flowers sold at the market and are mainly in demand for wedding decorations. “While popular international varieties like purple orchids from Thailand and anthurium from South Africa are not available due to no-supply, we have made arrangements for other popular cut flowers,” said Sisodia. “We are bringing tulip from Kashmir, lily from Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, carnation from Uttarakhand and gerbera from Maharashtra.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pandemic-proves-a-thorn-in-the-side-of-flower-sellers/articleshow/78627720.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Fought off Covid-19? Pollution may not let you breathe easy||NEW DELHI: Post-Covid complications are likely to increase with rise in pollution levels. City hospitals say they are already seeing patients who had recovered from Covid-19 complaining about breathing difficulty. Many of them have pre-existing respiratory problems, for example asthma, bronchitis and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), they add.  Track the pollution level in your city“Nearly 15% of all Covid-19 patients develop moderate to severe symptoms. Lung is one of the main organs that is affected and even after the infection subsides, damage caused to the organ remains. Exposure to pollutants prolongs the healing process,” Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine at Apollo hospital said. Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital and several private hospitals have started post-Covid clinics to deal with such complications. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, department of medicine at Max hospital, said asthma and COPD patients have started reporting with exacerbation of symptoms. The air pollution peaks in Delhi and surrounding regions every winter. Dr Arunesh Kumar, senior consultant and head, respiratory medicine and pulmonology in Paras Hospital, said, “We are seeing a surge in patients with worsening chest symptoms coming to the pulmonology OPD. It is important to seek medical advice if you notice worsening of chest symptoms. Get your pneumonia and flu vaccine if you have been advised to have one this winter.” He added, “Wearing a face mask is the single most effective way of keeping one safe from Covid-19 as well as pollution this winter. Avoiding strenuous outdoor exercise during peak pollution hours will also be beneficial. For people with chronic lung diseases, it is important to be compliant to their treatment.” Delhi Medical Association in collaboration with IMA branches and social organisations has started a mass campaign to promote wearing of masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Dr Harish Gupta, convener of the programme, said face masks could also help in reducing the effect of pollution. Watch Pollution aggravates problems of Covid-hit in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fought-off-covid-19-pollution-may-not-let-you-breathe-easy/articleshow/78627707.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||11 new Covid cases in Yavatmal, collector quarantined||YAVATMAL: On a day when the district saw sharp decline in new Covid cases after detection of 11 patients on Monday, collector MD Singh has been quarantined after he developed symptoms of Covid-19 infection. While 37 patients recovered in the day, one Covid death was reported from the city. The deceased was 82-year-old man from the city. There are now 543 patients under treatment. According to ZP health department sources, 9,100 patients have been reported in the district so far of whom 8,174 have recovered. Singh’s swab samples have been sent to lab for RT-PCR test and the report is awaited. In a press release, the collector informed that he experienced tiredness and other symptoms from Sunday night and hence he would remain at home for some days and would not attend office from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-new-covid-cases-in-yavatmal-collector-quarantined/articleshow/78629863.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Defer public auction of TNHB sites: Activists||Trichy: Even as the conduct of grama sabha meetings was called off citing the Covid-19 fear, the public auctioning of land parcels belonging to Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) in four districts scheduled to be held in Trichy has earned public criticism. TNHB in an advertisement has invited applications for participating in the public auctioning of land parcels in Trichy, Ariyalur, Pudukkottai and Karur districts comprising several approved layouts in various towns and villages namely Manapparai and Musiri. Layouts classified as small and medium town (SMT), Tamil Nadu urban development project (TNUDP) and neighbourhood scheme (NHS) are to be auctioned. Officials said that the layouts will have to be used by the successful bidder only for the designated purpose such as building schools, shops, markets and religious institutes. So far, around 500 applications were said to be received by TNHB from across the state. The auctioning is scheduled to be held at the TNHB office complex in Khajamalai colony on October 15. “Will Covid-19 spread only in the grama sabha meetings? When such important events were cancelled, there is no rush to conduct the public auction,” P Aiyarappan, an RTI activist said. “For each type of the layouts to be auctioned, we have fixed time slots for the process. We will not conduct the public auction at one go,” a senior official with TNHB Trichy said. Although only the applicants will be allowed to enter the auctioning area, the activists said that the applicants will be accompanied by 2-3 persons, thus making the footfall to appear huge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/defer-public-auction-of-tnhb-sites-activists/articleshow/78629109.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 13, 2020||Pune||PCMC to pay Rs 20cr to PMC for Mula river bridge work||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will pay Rs20 crore to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for the construction of a 22-metre-wide bridge on Mula river near Aundh Wakad Sangvi road.According to PCMC officials, since the proposed bridge will involve construction on either side of the border of PMC and PCMC, both the civic bodies have decided to share the construction cost. The PMC will look into the work progress and formalities.Shrikant Sawane, executive engineer, PCMC, told TOI that the PMC and PCMC have reached an agreement according to which they will bear the construction work of bridges on the border of both the civic bodies.He said, “The actual cost of construction of the bridge is Rs 20crore. After the completion of the bridge, the approach road towards PCMC limits too needs to be constructed, which will cost another Rs10 crore.”The standing committee will decide on the approval of the said amount on Wednesday at its weekly meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-pay-rs-20cr-to-pmc-for-mula-river-bridge-work/articleshow/78629115.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Man, 37, with lung transplant recovers from Covid-19||Madurai: A 37-year-old man from Tirunelveli district who had undergone bilateral lung transplant four years ago, has made a successful recovery from Covid-19, which causes most damage to the lungs, thanks to doctors at the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). “The patient, suffering from breathlessness with CT scan showing severe lung involvement, was admitted in the ICU. However, after treatment with drugs by our doctors for 10 days he has made good recovery. It is a very rare case since he had undergone transplantation for both of his lungs and so it was challenging,” said dean of the Tirunelveli MCH, Dr M Ravichandran.Lung transplantation is a surgical procedure in which a patient’s diseased lungs are partially or totally replaced by lungs which come from a donor. Notably, Covid-19 causes most damage to the lungs. A senior interventional pulmonologist said that successful lung transplants is already hard to come by compared to other organs and that recovery from Covid-19 in such a patient as well, is even more rare to see. “When a person undergoes transplantation, the person would be on immunosuppressant drugs to prevent graft rejection. In such case, the immune system will be weakened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-37-with-lung-transplant-recovers-from-covid-19/articleshow/78627731.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||211 new cases in Bhopal in a day, 21 from Bagh Sewania alone||BHOPAL: As many as 21 new cases were diagnosed in Bagh Sewania here on Monday. They were part of the 211 who were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the city. Since the pandemic began, over 22,000 people have been infected with Covid-19 and 420 have died. Thirteen cases, linked to Bagh Sewania police station, were diagnosed in Saket Nagar. The administration has begun a special drive in the area to curb the spread of Covid-19. Four of the infected were aged over 78. More than half of the new cases of the infection in the area are among people under 35 years of age. Three of those diagnosed on Monday were minors. Nearby Katara Hills reported five new cases of the infection. Habibganj area reported 13 new cases. Shalimar Enclave reported three new cases of the infection. BHEL area reported 15 new cases, which includes Govindpura, Piplani and Awadhpuri. 12 new cases were diagnosed in Bairagarh, Kolar, Koh-e-Fiza and Shahpura. Forty-six of the newly diagnosed cases are under home isolation. The status of 33 were untraced and others were in Covid care centres, according to health department reporting. 88 of those who were diagnosed with Covid-19 provided their samples at Covid-19 fever clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/211-new-cases-in-city-a-day-21-from-bagh-sewania-alone/articleshow/78627739.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Varanasi||Three attacked with knives, two killed||Varanasi: Two youths were killed while one suffered serious injuries after some assailants attacked them with knives in Chakia Husainabad village under Nijamabad police station in Azamgarh district. Police suspect rivalry over illegal trade of railway ticket booking as the cause behind the attack. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said that initial investigations revealed that Arif alias Munna’s son, who was sent to jail in a case of illegal trading of railway tickets, and his accomplice attacked the trio. Teams have been engaged to nab the killers at the earliest, he said. On Monday morning, Asgar (23) of Chakia Husainabad along with Kazim (25) of Sanjarpur in Saraimir and Mushir (22) of Gambhirpur was near his village when the assailants attacked them and fled. Asgar’s family and others rushed the trio to a local hospital from where they were referred to the district hospital. On reaching the district hospital Asgar and Kazim were declared brought dead while Mushir was shifted to a private hospital following deterioration in health. A heavy police force has been deployed at the village. SP Azamgarh said that after exercising hard the police found out from the villagers that Arif’s son and his accomplices had attacked the trio with knives immediately after they entered the village. The image of the deceased had not been good as one of them had recently made his photograph brandishing a pistol viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-attacked-with-knives-two-killed/articleshow/78625686.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Man dies by suicide after placing head in machine||Madurai: A 33-year-old man from Keerathurai in Madurai ended his life by placing his head under a stamping machine in a utensil manufacturing unit, allegedly upset over his owner’s refusal to give him money for Diwali shopping.The man was identified as P Balamurugan and was working in the unit owned by Sivakumar. Police said the victim took the extreme step after visiting the unit, that was closed on Sunday. The incident came to light within minutes after the incident, as his colleagues, who are staying on the same premises heard the machine sound and rushed there.The Avaniyapuram police said that Sivakumar has been paying him Rs 3,000 a week. Balamurugan sought some extra money this time for Diwali purchase. But, Sivakumar spared only Rs 1,000. Distraught over this, he left behind a suicide note and ended his life.Police said that the CCTV camera in the unit has recorded the incident. Sivakumar’s father used to work in a unit ran by Balamurugan’s father. Later, Sivakumar set up his own unit some 15 years ago. After business loss, Balamurugan’s father closed his unit and started working in Sivakumar’s unit. Balamurugan too was working in the ever since it was started. Sivakumar had also helped during Balamurugan’s marriage. Balamurugan is survived by his wife Nandini, and a two-year-old daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-dies-by-suicide-after-placing-head-in-machine/articleshow/78627727.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Two booked for extorting Rs 70 lakh from Rajkot realtor||RAJKOT: Two persons were booked for the alleged extortion of Rs 70 lakh from a realtor on Pedak Road in Rajkot. Police said Rakesh Popat and Bhupat Babutar had allegedly extorted the amount from Dhaval Mirani in the past three years. In his complaint, Mirani said that he had bought a plot of land in partnership with Popat and Babutar. Popat and Babutar claimed that they had incurred the loss of Rs 2 crore in the land deal and that he would have to shell out Rs 50 lakh. “Mirani alleged that the accused had forced him to sell his house and made him pay 22 instalments of an SUV belonging to them,” said V J Jadeja, sub-inspector with Rajkot crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-booked-for-extorting-rs-70l-from-rajkot-realtor/articleshow/78627728.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn gets ADB nod for mega drinking water project||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has obtained clearance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the funding agency for the ‘package-4’ of the mega drinking water project proposed at an estimated cost of Rs 1,295 crore to get additional 125 MLD of drinking water to meet the future needs of the city. After getting the approval last week, the corporation also got technical sanction from a state-level committee for the project.“After getting the required approvals, we have initiated the process to float a tender. Package-4 is all about setting up a drinking water distribution network for the 28 newly-added wards of the city,” said an official.The project is much needed for the city as water supply is insufficient. Against the norm of 135 litres per capita per day (LPCD), residents are only getting around 100 LPCD. It comes down even during peak summer days, when the Vaigai riverbed becomes parched.Vaigai Drinking Water Project I and II are the major the drinking water source for the city, which has around 17 lakh population. They contribute 115 MLD of water out of the available source of 170 MLD. The project is utmost importance since the city’s water requirement is already 230 MLD. Officials said that once the project is completed, the city will not have another drinking water project for the next few decades, despite keeping in mind the growing population and future expansion.The project consists of five packages focusing on various works starting from drawing water from the Mullaperiyar dam to establish drinking water supply network for the 100 wards. Package-1 covers construction of a check dam and drawing water from the dam, package-2 covers construction of a treatment plant at Pannaipatti, package-3 covers laying of pipeline to bring water from Pannaipatti to Madurai.Package-5, proposed at Rs 310 crore, is focusing on water supply system in 57 out of the 72 wards in the core city. The remaining 15 wards in the core city are taken care of under the smart city project. Corporation officials said that work is underway for the packages 1, 2 and 3, whereas package-5 is yet to be approved by the ADB. Special attention is being given to the project and necessary file movements are ensured without any delay, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-gets-adb-nod-for-mega-drinking-water-project/articleshow/78627723.cms||V Devanathan
October 13, 2020||Varanasi||Bhoomi pujan of Ramlila Maidan at Birdghat held||Gorakhpur: The 172-year old tradition of Ramlila at Birdghat will not be discontinued due to Covid-19 pandemic, however the venue will be shifted to Sarrafa Bhawan this year, said the Ramlila organisers. Bhoomi pujan of Ramlila Maidan was performed on Monday evening. Pankaj Goyal president of Ramlila Samiti and general secretary Anup Agnihotri, said that Ravan Vadh will be held at Ramlila Miadan. From October 16 to 31, Ramlila will be staged at Sarrafa Bhawan, Bharat Milap on October 30 and Ram Rajyabhishek will be staged on October 31, he said. Covid protocol will be followed during all the programmes. “Ramlila at Birdghat began in 1858 and Raghavshakti Milan, was started in 1948. Noted author Premchand had also mentioned Ramlila of Birdghat in his story Ramlila,” said Goyal. Gorakhpur MP, who will play the role of Bharat in Ramlila at Ayodhaya said, “In my childhood I used to play the role of Ma Sita in my village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhoomi-pujan-of-ramlila-maidan-at-birdghat-held/articleshow/78625721.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati reports 23 new cases, 108 recoveries||AMRAVATI: Monday marked a remarkable fall in the Covid-19 cases as the district reported just 23 new patients. A report from civil surgeon’s office said the caseload reached 14,968 on Monday even as two deaths, both males aged 64 and 51 from Rajendranagar here and old city, Badnera respectively, took the toll to 332. The report further informed that 108 patients recovered today to take the recoveries to 13,131. The recovery rate swelled to 87.73% on October 12. This left 1,505 patients under treatment, including 694 in Covid Hospital, nine in Nagpur and 802 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-reports-23-new-cases-108-recoveries/articleshow/78629862.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No star-studded Ramlilas this year as Covid forces hand — ‘a first since Indo-Pak war’||NEW DELHI: For only the second time in almost a century, major Ramlila organisers will not be organising the enactment of story of Lord Rama in Delhi. Though permitted with restrictions, the organising committees said on Monday that the clearance for the religious shows came too late in the day to allow for proper preparations for festivities on a grand scale. Shri Dharmik Leela Committee, organisers of the Ramlila on Red Fort grounds attended by VIP guests like the prime ministers every year, pointed out that it had only once earlier not staged the Ram story. The committee’s Ravi Jain revealed, “We voluntarily decided not to organise the Ramlila in 1965 on the appeal of Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri. He had called upon the nation not to hold big celebrations, even skip meals and save food and to donate for the welfare of soldiers involved in the 1965 India-Pakistan war.” Dheeraj Gupta, general secretary of the committee, said Sunday’s guidelines for holding such gatherings were issued so late as to ensure no organising work could be done in any meaningful manner. “Permission and restrictions should have been issued a month ago, not four days remain before the start of Navratri. We have not booked the grounds, got police and fire clearances or managed power connections. These things take at least a month,” Gupta said. The committee plans now to hold a small puja on Vijayadashmi and telecast episodes from earlier Ramlilas during the nine-day festive period. Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, known for its lavish shows often featuring Hindi film industry personalities and TV celebrities, also decided on Monday not to go ahead with the annual extravaganza this year. Ashok Agarwal, committee president, said the government could have easily issued the same guidelines 40 days ago. “Sunday’s guidelines are based on open-air theatre norms that were included in the lockdown relaxations published more than a month ago,” he said. “How can we raise funds now, even for a one-day function? The Archaeological Survey of India alone is charging Rs12 lakh for ground booking.” Like Agarwal, who rued missing the tradition for the first since its first Ramlila was staged in 1988, Jagmohan Gotewala, general secretary of Nav Sri Dharmik Leela Committee, too was miffed about giving their 63rd dramatisation a pass. “We can’t fathom how a Ramlila can be held under the guidelines given to us,” said Gotewala. Prakash Barathi, his committee colleague, added, “We have never missed the Ramlila since 1958.” The municipal corporations have, meanwhile, opened bookings for space in its parks for organisers of Ramlilas and Durga Puja after Sunday's DDMA orders. All applications, however, will be routed through a committee of the district magistrate, deputy commissioner of police and the fire service. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the Ramlila Ground and other spaces were available for anyone who wanted to put up the Ram plays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-star-studded-ramlilas-this-year-as-covid-forces-hand-a-first-since-indo-pak-war/articleshow/78627745.cms||Paras Singh
October 13, 2020||Pune||Man fires at building material supplier in Mohammadwadi||PUNE: An assailant opened fire at a building material supplier at Mohammadwadi around 12.10pm on Monday and fled the spot, triggering commotion in the area. The bullet brushed the left cheek of the victim, Mayur Vijay Hande (29), police said. He was treated at a nearby private hospital and discharged. The police have recorded his statement. The daylight firing incident at a relatively crowded spot — an open space where suppliers offload building material for contractors and labourers of different projects — shocked people. This is the second incident of criminals opening fire on the city streets in a week after Rajesh Kanabar (64), a developer, was shot dead on October 5 in front of the SBI treasury branch near Pune district collector’s office. The Wanowrie police said they were ascertaining the motive behind the latest attack although they had no clear leads. “Hande has so far maintained that he had no enmity with anyone of the kind that would prompt such an attack on him,” an officer said. The police have detained two men for questioning on the suspicion that they were following Hande’s routine for the past few days. A motorcycle, which the police suspect the assailant might have used for reaching a place near the crime scene, and an autorickshaw that might have been used in conducting a recce of the spot have been seized. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil said, “We are working on a few potential leads and examining the CCTV footage of the crime scene to ascertain the identity of the suspect.” Senior inspector Krantikumar Patil of the Wanowrie police said, “Hande runs a business of supplying construction material to builders across Pune from an establishment in Handewadi. He has three tractors for transporting building material like bricks, sand and steel to the open plot near Inamdar ground in Mohammadwadi.” He said, “On Monday, Hande himself drove a tractor-trolley loaded with sand and bricks to Mohammadwadi for offloading the material. He parked his tractor on the open plot and got down from the vehicle. He was speaking on his cell phone when a man, face covered with a mask, came from the front and fired at him from a pistol. Hande took an evasive action on seeing the man firing at him. The bullet brushed his left cheek as he ducked. The assailant simply walked away from the spot after firing.” Two eyewitnesses have narrated the sequence of events, including the direction in which the assailant went walking, to the police investigators. “We have found an empty cartridge at the site. It suggested that the firearm used could be a country-made pistol. We suspect the assailant was following Hande for the past three days and Hande had noticed him once,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-fires-at-building-material-supplier-in-mohammadwadi/articleshow/78627742.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath only BJP CM in star campaigners list for Bihar||LUCKNOW: BJP has once again reposed faith in the campaigning skills of CM Yogi Adityanath by including him in the list of its star campaigners for Bihar elections. Yogi is the only BJP CM in the list which also includes PM Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda, and home minister Amit Shah. “Yogi has been one of the key faces of the party and had campaigned for assembly elections in other states as well. His selection as a star campaigner is also an endorsement of his significance in the party,” said a senior BJP leader. Another reason for the BJP to rope in UP CM for the campaign is that Bihar has a large number of followers of the Gorakshpeeth which is headed by Yogi, said sources. BJP sources said that Yogi could once again be the party’s Hindutva face post SC’s favourable judgment on Ram temple in Ayodhya. A state government spokesperson said that Yogi’s popularity has grown because of his proactive role in development of UP and very recently in handling the Corona pandemic. “Be it handling of migrants from across the country during the ongoing Covid pandemic and arranging jobs for them or successfully bringing back thousands of students from Kota (Rajasthan), the initiative proved to be a benchmark which was replicated in other states," he said.The central leadership has planned his rallies in Patna, Gaya, Nalanda, Sivan, Bhagalpur, Buxar, Bhojpur, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj and Darbhanga. The party has also named some former CMs in the list of star campaigners, including former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and former Jharkhand CMs Raghuvar Das and Babu Lal Marandi. From UP, the party has selected Lucknow MP and defence minister Rajnath Singh and Amethi MP and Union minister Smriti Irani as star campaigners. Some other names in the list are Giriraj Singh, Ashwini Kumar Chaubey, Nityanand Rai, RK Singh, Dharmendra Pradhan, Manoj Tiwari, Nand Kishore Yadav, Mangal Pandey, Ram Kripal Yadav, Sushil Singh, Chhedi Paswan, Sanjay Paswan, Janak Chamar, Samrat Chaudhary, Vivek Thakur and Nivedita Singh. BJP is contesting Bihar elections in alliance with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U). Two other parties — Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) — are also in alliance. BJP is contesting 110 seats in the 243-member assembly. The party has given 11 seats from its quota to the VIP. JD(U) will contest on 115 seats, leaving its remaining share of seven seats for the HAM. The assembly polls in Bihar will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The results will be declared in November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-only-bjp-cm-in-star-campaigners-list-for-bihar/articleshow/78629867.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Hearing on habeas corpus plea to go on||Vijayawada: The AP high court, which heard a batch of habeas corpus petitions on Monday, said it would examine other aspects to decide whether there was a constitutional breakdown in the state. The HC bench, comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi, said it would be better to hand over the investigation of the case to an independent agency. The high court had earlier ordered a judicial inquiry into illegal detention of one Reddy Gowtam and his wife Lochani. Arguing on behalf of the government, senior counsel S S Prasad said after the high court pulled up the police department in a habeas corpus petition, most of the erring officials have mended their ways. As the arguments ended inconclusively, the high court posted the matter for further hearing to Tuesday. — Srikanth Aluri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hearing-on-habeas-corpus-plea-to-go-on/articleshow/78626549.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 13, 2020||Varanasi||Law needed to stop vulgarity in Bhojpuri songs, films: Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan||GORAKHPUR: Actor turned politician and Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan condemned vulgarity in Bhojpuri songs and films and said he will raise the issue in parliament and demand a stringent law against it, besides setting up a censor board for Bhojpuri films. Addressing a press conference on the launch of shooting of a web series in Gorakhpur on Monday, Ravi Kishan said, “Bhojpuri language is 1,000 years old and is spoken by 25 crore people. Some people are tarnishing the image of the language by adding vulgarity in Bhojpuri songs. I’ll demand a stringent law against it and also discuss with CM Yogi Adityanath about setting up a censor board in Uttar Pradesh for films, especially for Bhojpuri language.” The MP said Gorakhpur will also become a film shooting hub adding not many people knew about Switzerland till they saw films of Yash Chopra who did shooting there. He thanked CM Yogi for announcing the film city in the state and said, “Gorakhpur will become a film shooting hub. It is a dream which I and CM Yogi had seen and I am very happy that it is coming true. Gorakhpur will become a film shooting hub, especially for regional cinema. Sixty episodes of a 500-episode web series, Crime Stop would be shot here. All the artists in the web series episodes shot will be from Purvanchal.” “I had a discussion with DDU Gorakhpur University vice-chancellor and discussed opening an acting and film making institute under it,” Kishan added. Producer of the web series Bobby Singh and ABZY Cool channel managing director Ranvir Singh were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/law-needed-to-stop-vulgarityin-bhojpuri-songs-films-mp/articleshow/78625732.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Sharpshooter nabbed from Nepal border||RAJKOT: Rohit Singh Thakur, a sharpshooter, who had allegedly shot dead history-sheeter Divyarajsinh Jadeja in Dhrol town of Jamnagar in March, was caught from near Nepal border in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. “We had already got the information of Rohit’s whereabouts. As we had come to know that he was from Nevari village in Kotvali taluka of Gonda district in Uttar Pradesh, we dispatched a team to that village and nabbed him from his residence with the help of Dehat Kotvali police station officials,” said K G Chaudhary, inspector with Jamnagar local crime branch (LCB). The Jamnagar LCB produced Rohit before a court in Jamnagar which remanded him to five days police custody on Monday. Thakur was the last to have been arrested in the Divyarajsinh Jadeja murder case. Earlier, Omdevsinh Jadeja (28) and Narendrasinh Jadeja (30) were arrested on September 18. On March 6, after Divyarajsinh was shot from point-blank range on a busy road in Dhrol, accused Anirudhsinh Sodha, Mustaq Pathan, Ajit Thakur and Akhilesh Thakur were arrested with in hours. On the day of the crime, seven rounds were fired on Divyarajsinh while he was in the process of getting into his SUV at Trikonbaug in Dhrol. Two of the bullets were lodged in Divyarajsinh’s chest. He was first taken to Dhrol Civil Hospital and then to Jamnagar GG Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Rohit and Akhilesh had taken ‘supari’ (contract) to kill Divyarajsinh from Omdevsinh and Sodha. Sodha and Pathan had accompanied the assassins as their helpers. Sodha had a dispute with Divyarajsinh over paying toll at the toll booth manned by Sodha’s men. Divyarajsinh had threatened Sodha with dire consequences if he continued to collect tax from his men who used to ply sand-laden trucks. Meanwhile, Omdevsinh also ran into a dispute with Divyarajsinh over the possession of a plot worth Rs 50 lakh. When both Omdevsinh and Sodha came to know that their common enemy was Divyarajsinh, they plotted to kill him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sharpshooter-nabbed-from-nepal-border/articleshow/78626574.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Meerut||Vedic hymns at event marking Muslim Union min’s death stir row, unsettle some clerics||Meerut: A ceremony, held amid the chants of Vedic mantras and Hindu rituals, marking the anointment of former Union minister Rasheed Masood’s son as head of the family in UP’s Saharanpur has perplexed many and irked some hardline clerics. Rasheed, former Congress minister at the Centre and five-term Lok Sabha MP from Saharanpur, died in Roorkee on October 5, just days after recovering from Covid-19. He was 73. And almost a week later, the ‘Rasam Pagdi’ event was organised. One of them, Asad Qasmi, said, “The ‘Pagdi’ ceremony was done according to the Hindu rituals. Some sadhus are also seen sitting there chanting Vedic mantras. Tying Pagri and choosing an elder in the family is a good tradition but it should have happened according to Islamic tradition.” The video of the event which was posted on social media platforms also invited several sharp reactions. In some parts of northern India, the ceremony is held days after the death of the eldest member of the family to fill the void left by him. The next surviving elder in the line wears the ‘Pagdi’-- a symbol of honour in the region. During such a ceremony held in Bilaspur village of Saharanpur on Sunday, Rasheed’s son Shazan Masood was tied ‘Pagri’ by the elders at the gathering full of relatives and supporters. Several Hindu rituals were also performed. The family meanwhile isn’t perturbed the way some clerics are. “It has been like that for ages. Similar ceremonies were organized for my grandfather and uncle by their Hindu friends. And now it was held for my father. His entire life was devoted to the Hindu-Muslim unity and we respect the sentiments of the people who wanted to pay tribute to him through the ceremony. Nobody should have an objection to it because Islam respects all faiths,” said Shazan, the man who was tied the ‘pagdi’. Imran Masood, the nephew of the deceased leader, also trashed the objection. “This is not a new thing. This is their way of paying respect to the departed soul. What is wrong in this? Who are they to come between me and God,” the former MLA asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/vedic-hymns-at-event-marking-muslim-union-mins-death-stir-row-unsettle-some-clerics/articleshow/78624548.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||Police form 5 teams to trace lawyer||Pune: The Shivajinagar police have formed five teams to trace a 32-year-od lawyer missing since October 1. Inspector Manisha Zende said the lawyer had gone missing after leaving home for a visit to the Shivajinagar district court premises. “The lawyer’s elder brother, who stays in Ahmednagar, initially lodged a missing person’s complaint on October 2. The case was later changed to that of an abduction for unknown reasons,” Zende said. The FIR stated the lawyer was last seen on the court premises at 3pm. “The family has not received any ransom call. We have collected CCTV footage from various sites in Shivajinagar,” Zende added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-form-5-teams-to-trace-lawyer/articleshow/78627758.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Land acquisition done for Thiruvanaikoil RoB service road||Trichy: The state highways department on Monday completed the acquisition of land required to finish the service roads for Thiruvanaikoil Periyar Nagar road over bridge (RoB). The work for the RoB is expected to be completed ahead of the monsoon. However, resorted to a protest on the Srirangam-Thiruvanaikoil road opposing the process.Although the four-lane RoB across the railway tracks of Periyar Nagar was inaugurated in June 2019, the service roads were not provided. Since then, the highways department has been completing the roads for Mambalasaalai end, Kallanai end and Thiruvanaikoil arms of the RoB. Except for 50m stretch in Thiruvanaikoil end, the department had completed the remaining stretches. As the occupants of the properties required for the service road did not vacate on their own, the highways department, revenue department and police personnel forcibly acquired the land. A portion of the land of Hazrat Syed Masthan mosque was also acquired. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M H Jawahirullah condemned the acquisition.“We gave them ample time to vacate their belongings. As they didn’t, we had to evict them forcibly to complete the service road. Compensation for land acquisition was settled, for a few, it is under process,” a senior highways official added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/land-acquisition-done-for-thiruvanaikoil-rob-service-road/articleshow/78629119.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||Multisystem inflammatory syndrome hits kids post-Covid||Madurai: Even as most children who have contracted Covid-19 suffer only mild symptoms or no symptoms at all after their recovery, in a few cases, after as much as four weeks or more, children are found suffering from multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). While it remained largely unreported and much is still unknown, now more cases of MIS-C are emerging across the state.“The cases of inflammatory syndrome in children are similar to Kawasaki disease wherein it was found that children previously had Covid-19 infection a few weeks or months ago. They would have had only mild symptoms then. But later, as they keep developing antibodies for Covid-19, there is a chance of causing inflammation. If the inflammation affects the heart and blood vessels, it can even lead to myocardial infarction,” said Dr T Karthikraj, senior assistant professor, department of paediatrics, Velammal Medical College Hospital. The doctor said that in such cases, the children may test negative for Covid-19 in RT-PCR test, but possess antibodies for Covid-19.It is now recognised that children seem to develop a new multisystem syndrome associated with Covid-19, said UK-based consultant paediatric rheumatologist AV Ramanan of Bristol Royal Hospital for Children and Royal National Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases. “There are several reports of children having this condition in the UK, USA, Italy, France and Spain. It is most likely that most children with Covid-19 will have little or no symptoms. But if a child has high fever, abdominal symptoms, they should seek prompt medical attention,” he said.Doctors at a state-run hospital for children said of the 1,000 children, some develop inflammatory markers. “All viral infections have changes in inflammatory markers. We saw it in H1N1 and dengue as well,” said senior paediatrician Dr Srinivasan, state coordinator for Covid-19 in children. But doctors at private hospitals said they were able to get children with serious complications. For instance, at the Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital, among 98 Covid-19 patients they could identify 40 patients with MIS. “Besides this, 25 patients who were antibody positive developed MIDs,” said Dr S Balasubramanian, medical director, Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust hospital.In Madurai and Coimbatore, MIS-C cases are reported. In Madurai district, 25 cases have been reported so far. PSG Hospitals in Coimbatore said it had seen around 30 children with multi-system inflammatory syndrome. Paediatrician in charge of Covid-19 treatment Dr A Jayavardhana says, “Many children come with inflammation of organs like brain, heart, lungs and gut among others. If their brain is affected, they come with seizures, if it’s lungs they come with pneumonia and in gut, they come with vomiting and fever.” However, the syndrome is treatable when identified early and so far no deaths due to MIS-C have been reported.(With inputs from Pushpa Narayanan and Pratiksha Ramkumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/multisystem-inflammatory-syndrome-hits-kids-post-covid/articleshow/78627750.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 13, 2020||Hubballi||Yogi Adityanath has failed to uphold social justice, says Cong MLA||Hubballi: Activists of various Dalit organisations on Monday held a rally in Hubballi to condemn the Hathras gangrape and murder. Scores of activists and elected representatives, including MLA Prasad Abbaya, participated in protest rally, organised under the banner of Vividh Dalit Sangarsha Sansthegala Okkuta (R). The rally started from the Ambedkar Circle, where the protesters garlanded the architect of the Indian Constitution, and terminated at the Hubballi suburban police station, where the activists submitted a memorandum to tahsildar Prakash Nashi seeking justice for the victim. The protest disrupted traffic on various thoroughfares including PB Road, Karwar Road, Gadag Road among others for more than two hours. Lashing out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Abbaya said, “The CM has failed to uphold the principles of social justice. He is pursuing votebank politics, and neglected the heinous crime perpetrated on a Dalit woman.” Demanding a judicial inquiry headed by an incumbent judge of the Supreme Court, the MLA said, “We do not trust the Central Bureau of Investigation or an SIT. The culprits must be brought to book and punished.” President of Mahanagar Jilla Congress unit Altaf Hallur, officebearers of Anjuman-E-Islam, activists Gurunath Ullikashi, M Arving and Ganesh Tagaragunti were among those who participated in the rally. A large number of women participated in the protest as well. Traffic police struggled to ensure smooth traffic movement in Hubballi for the duration of the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/yogi-adityanath-has-failed-to-uphold-social-justice-says-cong-mla/articleshow/78628740.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Madurai||MSU faculty for easing of PhD co-guide norms||Madurai: Faculty members of affiliated colleges under Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) which don’t have research centres have sought relaxation of norms on mentoring of PhD students. They point out that the current system that mandates having a co-guide in addition to a guide for PhD students is not flexible enough. At MSU, PhD guideship is given for faculty members in affiliated colleges even if they don’t have a research centre. However, in such case, apart from the guide, a co-guide usually from the university is also required to mentor a PhD student. “The concern is that already the guides are limited to mentoring only four to six PhD students. Now, it is becoming increasingly difficult for students to get a co-guide too. Since the student they mentor as co-guide also adds to their tally, faculty members are hesitant to come forward. There is conflict of ideas between a guide and co-guide too,” said a faculty member at an affiliated government college which does not have a research centre. The member said that often they are able to mentor much less than the total students they are allowed to mentor and this is also depriving poor students of opportunities.MSU authorities maintained that UGC guidelines are being followed for research at the university and that co-guides are there to ensure quality of research. “We always want to encourage research and have been liberal in approach. Research guides at MSU are all qualified and our priority is to maintain quality of research. Any affiliated college can follow due process to be upgraded to have a research centre and thereby become eligible instead,” said Dr K Senthamarai Kannan, MSU registrar (in charge).However, in the case of government colleges, the process for getting a research centre approved may take a long time and hence faculty are seeking flexibility. For a more efficient system, relaxation in norms was sought for co-guides such that if they mentor a student, it does not add to their tally and hence there would be more willing co-guides. “Infrastructure is also often an issue for non-research centre colleges. In such case, it could be allowed for the nearest college with research centre to provide the facility for the guides and students instead,” added the faculty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msu-faculty-for-easing-of-phd-co-guide-norms/articleshow/78627753.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cops seize Rs 47 lakh from arrested bookie||JAIPUR: A day after Rajasthan ATS arrested 14 people in the IPL betting racket, cops recovered Rs 47 lakh from one of the accused’s house in Jaipur. ATS had simultaneously raided five locations in three states on Sunday evening and arrested seven bookies from Cyberabad in Telangana while the remaining from Jaipur. In Delhi and Nagaur, the accused managed to escape the cops leaving their instruments behind. Police also recovered multiple mobile phones and latops which were being used for illegal betting. The arrested persons will be brought from Telangana to Jaipur by road once transportation is arranged. The raids were conducted after officials received information that persons from Rajasthan were in other states as bookies betting on the IPL matches which are currently under way in United Arab Emirates (UAE). Explaining the modus operandi of the bookies, Ashok Rathore, ADG (ATS and SOG) said, “The accused were involved in the betting work in layered form. They keep noting down all the calls for bets. Most of the bets are passed on to the person sitting at a higher level. On which they get commission. There are a few websites on which they keep monitoring the rates of bets. The settlement is done through hawala transaction." Cops recovered Rs 65,000 in the Cyberabad raid. During the raids, cops seized three cars, nearly 100 mobile phones, accounts diaries, LED monitor, range mobile location diverter and others. The accused would regularly change their locations to avoid getting caught. Cops are also looking at the possibility that this betting network on IPL could be related to match fixing and have international links. A total of four FIRs have been registered in this case out of which two are in Jaipur, while one each in Nagaur and Cyberabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-seize-rs-47-lakh-from-arrested-bookie/articleshow/78629120.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Varanasi||Extortion call from jailed MLA’s number baffles cops||Varanasi: Gyanpur Nagar Panchayat chairman Hiralal Maurya received an extortion call and was terrified since it had been made from the phone number of muscleman MLA Vijay Mishra. Maurya’s complaint left police surprised as Mishra is in jail, and his phone with the SIM card had been seized by Madhya Pradesh police at the time of his arrest on August 14 and handed over to Bhadohi cops. Taking note of Maurya’s complaint, SP Bhadohi R B Singh asked officials to probe the matter and register FIR after finding out how the number was used to make the extortion call. SP Bhadohi told TOI on Monday, “Maurya filed a complaint informing that he received an extortion call from the jailed MLA’s number on Saturday. The caller demanded Rs 50,000 from Maurya and told him to keep it at a betel shop in Gopiganj town.” “MP police had seized Mishra’s pistol, mobile phone and Rs 3 lakh cash when he was arrested on August 14. At the time of handing over Mishra to Bhadohi police, MP cops had also given all the seized articles. It is being checked whether the seized phone had a SIM card and how it is being used now,” Singh added. The efforts to trace the caller have started, he said. Mishra, currently lodged in Agra jail, had been booked under Goonda Act on July 18 for issuing threats to a contractor, who got the contract of realising toll at Lalanagar toll plaza on national highway-2 in Aurai. On August 8, the MLA’s relative Krishna Kanth Tiwari had lodged an FIR against him, his wife MLC Ramlali Mishra and son Vishnu alleging they forcibly got his property registered in their name. Mishra was arrested in Madhya Pradesh on August 14 while Ramlali and Vishnu are absconding and order for attaching their property has been issued by court. On September 19, Tiwari’s son Surya lodged an FIR against Mishra’s daughter Sima, grandson Vikas, Girdhari Pathak and four others for threatening him. On September 26, one more FIR was lodged against Mishra for misusing the letter pad of Usha Mishra, gram pradhan of his village Kaulapur, for recommending CB-CID or other high level probe in his case. Bhadohi administration and police also initiated the process for cancellation of seven arms licences of Mishra, his wife Ramlali and son Vishnu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/extortion-call-from-jailed-mlas-number-baffles-cops/articleshow/78627182.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Three including Jamnagar gangster aide held in Rs 3cr land scam||Rajkot: Jaspalsinhh Jadeja, an aide of the gangster, Jayesh Patel, along with two others was arrested on Monday in a land scam worth Rs 3 crore in Jamnagar. Police said Jaspalsinhh (33), Ajay Baradia (33) and Amrutlal Maru (53) had allegedly made bogus ownership documents to stake claim to a plot of land worth Rs 3 crore in Jambuda village on the outskirts of Jamnagar in January. The complaint in this connection was lodged on May 21. The police had on October 8 arrested Bhavsang Jadeja and Ranjeetsinh Jadeja, who had allegedly threatened Kunal Busa, the owner of the land. They allegedly asked Busa never to enter the land as the land now belonged to them. “During interrogation, Bhavsang and Ranjeetsinh revealed the name of Jaspalsinh, saying that on his instructions, they had threatened Busa. Baradia and Maru confessed that they had made the fake land documents at the behest of Jaspalsinh,” said K G Chaudhary, inspector with Jamnagar local crime branch. “The accused were formally arrested after they underwent Covid-19 test,” added Chaudhary. Box: Crores of rupees showered on marriage procession Crores of rupees in the form of Rs 2,000 notes were showered on the marriage procession of Jaspalsinh’s younger brother held in January this year. The video of this incident had gone viral on WhatsApp and social media. Jaspalsinh had arranged for a helicopter to transport the marriage party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-including-jamnagar-gangster-aide-held-in-rs-3cr-land-scam/articleshow/78627757.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh gears up to install power meters for farmers||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is getting ready to roll out reforms in line with the three new legislations enacted by the central government for the agriculture sector. The first among them is the withdrawal of free power and introduction of electricity meters for farmers, for which the state government is now preparing to install power meters to farmers across the state. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials of the energy department to create awareness among farmers on electricity meters and clear their doubts on the measure as a substitute to the promise of free power. The chief minister told officials and the minister concerned to counter the campaign of opposition parties against the government on free power and electricity meters to farmers. The chief minister told officials that the meters would give a chance to the government to make an assessment of the actual requirement of power in the agriculture sector and thus plan power supply to provide quality power to farmers. The chief minister held a review meeting on the energy sector with the minister and the officials at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday, where he told officials to educate farmers on the new measures. He said that the farmers should be told that the meters would be fixed to their present power connections free-of-cost. These meters would help the government collect data on consumption and plan for providing nine hours of quality power to the sector. The chief minister told the officials that the government would directly pay money for power bills into the bank accounts of farmers. He told officials to take up an extensive campaign across the state among farmers on the issue. He also told officials to form committees from the village to the district-level to create awareness about the new initiative. The officials said 14,354 linemen have been trained to create awareness among farmers on the installation of new electricity meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-gears-up-to-install-power-meters-for-farmers/articleshow/78626566.cms||Gopi Dara
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Scrap farm laws, demands Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday joined the party’s protest at Jantar Mantar demanding abolition of the recently passed farm laws. At the protest, organised by AAP’s Punjab unit, the Delhi chief minister demanded introduction of another law under which 100% of the crop should be procured at the minimum support price (MSP), which should be 1.5 times the cost of production. “This is what the farmers want,” he claimed. Alleging that Bharatiya Janata Party wants to take farming away from farmers and give it to corporates, Kejriwal said, “We want a complete rollback of the three farm laws. The sector cannot be compromised.” Only 6 per cent of the crop is procured at MSP across the country, he added. While BJP had promised to implement the Swaminathan Commission report that talks about higher minimum support price, the party has actually scrapped it after winning the Lok Sabha elections, Kejriwal added. He also slammed some political parties for behaving differently inside and outside Parliament. “When BJP formed a committee to draft the Bill, a party leader from Punjab was present in it. Another party leader was part of the Cabinet that approved the Bill and congratulated BJP for passing it. Now they are taking out tractor rallies and holding dharnas,” Kejriwal said. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann, who led the protest, said, “These deadly laws are not only anti-farmer but also anti-public, anti-Punjab and anti-country, and are being imposed in a dictatorial manner.” Scores of farmers and party workers reached Delhi on Monday morning to stage the protest. “The new laws will make the life of farmers miserable. We strongly oppose it,” said Kulwinder Singh, who came from Punjab’s Rampur village. A few protesters burned copies of the farm laws at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scrap-farm-laws-demands-cm/articleshow/78627779.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 13, 2020||Vadodara||Woman accuses husband, in-laws of body shaming her||VADODARA: A woman from Surendranagar has approached Vadodara police accusing her husband and in-laws of body shaming her. An offence of cruelty, assault and criminal intimidation was registered at JP Road police station. According to the complainant Namita Parekh, her husband Rushabh Parekh, who lives on Sun Pharma Road, and his parents Naresh Parekh and Stuti Parekh used to harass her immediately after her wedding in December 2017. She told police that they used to body shame her for being over-weight. Namita also alleged that they used to make her undergo thyroid tests repeatedly and give meals only once in a day. Namita also stated in her complaint that her husband and in-laws used to make her do exercise and forcibly make her do squats. Even if the house was clean, Namita was asked to clean, again and again, she said. Police said that the harassment went on till July 27 when she moved out of the house. “The woman has also made allegations of assault against her husband and in-laws which we are investigating. We have called her again on Tuesday to give a detailed statement,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-accuses-husband-in-laws-of-body-shaming-her/articleshow/78626485.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Woman cremated after govt promises ex gratia||Jaipur: Talks between officials and the family of the pregnant woman who died in Churu’s Sadulpur due alleged medical negligence reached a closure on Monday with the deceased’s kin finally cremating her body three days after her death.While officials had previously agreed to few of the demands, the matter was stuck on monetary compensation with the family demanding Rs 10 lakh but ultimately agreed to an aid of Rs 7 lakh. Political leaders in the opposition are also supporting the family and will shell out an additional Rs 4 lakh. Twenty-five-year-old pregnant woman Ratna Meena of Rampura village was brought to the hospital for delivery on October 9 and the family alleged that due to medical negligence, she died before giving birth. Following this, her family and villagers had started a protest stating that they will not cremate the body till all their demands were met. Churu SP Paris Deshmukh said, “The family will be given Rs 2 lakh from CM Relief Fund and Rs 5 lakh from Victim Relief Fund while the remaining amount will be given through crowdfunding. The family was satisfied and the body was cremated on Monday evening.” While autopsy was done on Saturday, family members and locals continued to protest in front of the government hospital till Monday afternoon alleging carelessness on the part of the medical staff. They refused to cremate the body and during the protest on Sunday, pelted stones at cops who in turn used batons and tear gas to control the crowd. On Sunday, cops had agreed to registration of FIR as well as removal of the hospital staff which were two of the three demands of the protestors. “We are investigating the case and if found that the medical staff was negligent then action would be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-cremated-after-govt-promises-ex-gratia/articleshow/78629124.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Allahabad||Learning in dark: 1289 govt schools in district running sans electricity||Prayagraj: There are nearly 1289 schools in Prayagraj district which are running without electricity, forcing thousands of students to study sans power. This comes at a time when the administration officials of around 2852 government-run primary and upper primary schools in the district are making efforts to impart education to the students enrolled in their respective units. Of the 1289 schools which are running sans power, there are 712 schools which are located at a distance of 40 metres or less from an electricity pole. Taking strong cognizance of this shortcoming, Chief Development Officer (CDO) Ashish Kumar had on September 25 ordered immediate action in this regard to ensure electricity connection to all these 2852 government primary and upper primary schools in the district. Taking note of the fact that electricity is essential for smooth functioning of schools, CDO instructed the Basic Shiksa Adhikari (BSA), Block Education Officers (BEOs) concerned and power department executive engineer to jointly make efforts to ensure proper power connections to these schools immediately. “Department of Basic Education had made payment for power connections in 1245 schools at the rate of Rs 6,955 per school in the financial year 2016-17. Even after four years 847 schools haven’t got electricity connection. Similarly, in the financial year 2017-18, Rs 6,955 per school was paid to the power department for electricity connection in 528 schools. Out of these once again, 442 schools did not get the electricity connection,” said BSA-Prayagraj Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha. In this way, if both financial years are taken into account, 1289 schools have not been granted power connections by the department despite the payments having been made in this regard. Of these, there are 712 schools that are situated at a mere distance 40 meters from an electric pole. Not only this, the power department had also not given the electricity bills of schools till March 2018 and due to which payments had not been made till date. The BSA said the block education officers have been directed to contact the principals of the schools concerned and secure electricity connections on a priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/learning-in-dark-1289-govt-schools-in-district-running-sans-electricity/articleshow/78624972.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||Cops arrest two, seize 100kg silver ornaments||Pune: The Wakad police on Monday claimed to have solved 34 cases of burglary following the arrest of a criminal and his accomplice. The police recovered 100kg of silver ornaments, 750gm of gold, three cars and a country-made pistol with five cartridges — all collectively worth Rs1.1 crore. The investigation showed that the main suspect, Vickysingh Jalindarsingh Kalyani (31) of Ramtekdi in Hadapsar, had shot at two police marshals on February 28, 2019, in Bopodi when they tried to stop him from burgling a jewellery store. “Kalyani has about 90 cases registered against him. He was in the past arrested in 41 cases and is wanted in 15 cases including two murders and one attempt to murder,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash told reporters on Monday. The major breakthrough was achieved last month, when three jewellery shops were broken into in Pimpri Chinchwad. The police found that two vans stolen from Loni Kalbhor and Lonikand were used in the crime. “We then focused on suspects from Chandannagar, Kharadi and Wagholi,” senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police said. He said teams led by assistant inspector Harish Mane and sub-inspector Siddhanath Babar had collected information for the past 10 days. “Based on that, we zeroed in on Kalyani. We heard that he was always armed and had fired at the marshals in Khadki,” Mugalikar said. The police studied CCTV footage to narrow down Kalyani’s location. On October 1, constable Pramod Kadam got a tip-off that Kalyani was travelling in a stolen sedan car. “Our men intercepted the car and arrested Kalyani and his brother-in-law Vijaysingh Junni (19) of Kalyan. We have recovered the loaded country-made pistol from the car,” Mugalikar said. During interrogation, the duo admitted to their involvement in 34 burglaries and vehicle theft in Pimpri Chinchwad. “We have recovered the gold ornaments, which Kalyani had kept in bags in his house,” Mugalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-two-seize-100kg-silver-ornaments/articleshow/78627796.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 13, 2020||Vadodara||Court orders retrial into acquittal of illegal Bangladeshis||VADODARA: A retrial has been ordered in a case in which five Bangladeshis were accused of using forged identity documents. The trial court had acquitted the Bangladesh citizens after it concluded that the prosecution had failed to prove the case against them. On getting the appeal against the lower court’s order, the court of additional sessions judge H I Bhatt has asked the trial court to summon the competent officials who issued PAN card and AADHAR card and the officer of the West Bengal government who confirmed that the birth certificate used by the accused was forged. “… when such people who unauthorizedly enter our country and commit crimes, they question the security of our country and in such cases, the court should not take a lighter view,” the sessions court stated. The five Bangladeshis – Mohammed Musaraf Mutbar, Aslam Akoan, Nurjamal Mohammed Mullah, Rony Munsi and Nur Jahan Munsi – were arrested in February 2018 by the prevention of crime branch after it received complaint of cheating from an autorickshaw driver Abbas Ali Saiyed. After arrests, cops found an AADHAR card and a PAN card in possession of Mutbar. Another AADHAR card in the name of one Sikander Ali was also found. During the investigation, it was learnt that the PAN and AADHAR cards were procured using forged documents from Domjur gram panchayat in West Bengal. Although the investigating officer attached all documents shared by PAN card issuing authorities and block development officer of Domjur, the lower court pointed out that since these officials were not examined in person, the prosecution has failed to prove its case. However, the sessions court pointed out that since the documents were shared by public officers to the investigating officer, the prosecution did not examine the officials to verify the genuineness of the papers. “If the prosecution fails in its duty, it is the court’s responsibility in such serious cases to summon the witnesses and examine them,” the court stated. BOX: Conned auto driver of Rs 15K The autorickshaw driver Abbas Ali Saiyed had complained about losing Rs 15,000 to the accused. The accused had given a wad of Saudi Riyals to Saiyed and had taken Rs 15,000 cash in exchange. Later, when Saiyed checked the wad, there were just three notes of Saudi Riyal 100 and remaining were blank papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-orders-retrial-into-acquittal-of-illegal-bangladeshis/articleshow/78626502.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 13, 2020||Pune||Plan to move slum residents for Metro work gains pace||Pune: The authorities have expedited the process to relocate slum dwellers from the Kamgar Putala area near the district and sessions court and hand over the vacated land to MahaMetro.On Monday, Pune Municipal Corporation issued a notice to the slum dwellers, telling them submit a proof of address and all necessary documents in the next 15 days. Deputy municipal commissioner Nitin Udas said they would scrutinize the documents and then, prepare a list of eligible families slotted into various categories. A rehabilitation plan will be chalked out after this process is completed, Udas said. The PMC plans to rehabilitate the residents at transit camps and buildings where the infrastructure is ready. The entire area of Kamgar Putala, Rajiv Gandhinagar and Juna Tofkhana has about 1,300 houses.This proposal has been under consideration since last year. The civic administration, the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) and the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) are working together on. MahaMetro officials said they have a work plan ready. “We will not be able to initiate civil work unless the land in question gets vacated. We have offered the PMC all the necessary assistance to expedite the process,” a MahaMetro official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plan-to-move-slum-residents-for-metro-work-gains-pace/articleshow/78627784.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Sarhad Dairy to diversify into fruit processing, set up Rs 25cr unit near Bhuj||Rajkot: If all goes as planned, people of Gujarat will be able to relish juices and other value-added products of Kutch’s famous fruits like kesar mangoes, pomegranate and dates throughout the year.Kutch’s Sarhad Dairy, which is member of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that owns brand Amul, is mulling to set up a fruit processing plant near Bhuj. The fruit juice and pulp extracted would be used for making different value-added products which will be marketed under brand name Amul. The Sahad Dairy authorities have been mulling to diversify into fruit processing since last two years. But the final decision in that direction was taken after its survey of yearly fruit production in Kutch revealed that they would have enough fruits for processing after domestic consumption and exports. The dairy has initiated a process to appoint a consultant to prepare a project report for fruit processing plant. Talking to TOI, chairman of Sarhad Dairy Valamji Humbal said, “A consultant will be appointed soon, who will prepare a project report on the viability of this project. We are planning to invest Rs 25 crore in a processing plant.” “Amul will market the juice, pulp and other value-added products made out of Kutch’s popular fruits,” added Humbal, who is also vice president of GCMMF. According to Sarhad Sairy’s primary survey report 1.25 lakh metric tonne (MT) dates, 1.50 lakh MT pomegranate and 80,000 MT kesar mangoes are produced in the district annually. The survey suggests that nearly half of the fruit could land with the dairy for processing. “The fruit growing farmers often don’t get a reasonable price of their produce. Many a time, the fruits, especially dates get spoilt as farmers don’t know how to make value-added products out of it. The fruit processing plant will also support fruit farmers of Kutch,” Humbal explained. The dairy is also exploring use of the fruit juices and pulp in products like ice creams, flavoured yoghurt and milkshakes. Dates can also be used for making mouth freshener||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sarhad-dairy-to-diversify-into-fruit-processing-set-up-rs-25cr-unit-near-bhuj/articleshow/78627804.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Ramesh, who had sought VRS, now fin corporation MD||Jaipur: IAS officer P Ramesh, who had earlier sought voluntary retirement after being appointed Udaipur divisional commissioner, has now been made managing director (MD) of Rajasthan Financial Corporation in an order issued by the department of personnel (DOP) on Monday. The additional charge given to him as MD mines and minerals corporation (Udaipur) has also been withdrawn.Kailash Chand Verma, who was MD of Rajasthan Financial Corporation, is the new secretary of science and technology. The transfer order to appoint Vikas Sitaramji Bhale as commissioner of tourism department and MD of Rajasthan Tourism Department Corporation from the post of Udaipur divisional commissioner has been cancelled. Ramesh had met chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup on Wednesday and put forward his grievances.Ramesh, who was earlier chairman and MD of Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited, had applied for voluntary retirement following the DOP order to transfer him to Udaipur as divisional commissioner. He was not “happy” with the order.Meanwhile, in another order issued by DOP, the timeline for recording Personal Appraisal Reports (PAR) by All India Services officers retiring from June 30 to October 31 (for the current year 2020-21) has been extended beyond extant timeline of one month after their retirement, but within December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ramesh-who-had-sought-vrs-now-fin-corporation-md/articleshow/78629123.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||6 Covid deaths in Wardha, 36 new cases||WARDHA: Six Covid patients died during treatment on Monday while detection of 36 new infection cases took the district’s caseload to 5,447. Also, 104 persons were discharged taking the total number of recovered patients to 3,490. The deceased include three men (40, 68 and 70) from Wardha, a 73-year-old man from Arvi, a 60-year-old man from Deoli and a 63-year-old from Ashti. The total Covid deaths in the district has now reached 167. As on Monday, 1,790 patients are under treatment. Out of 346 test reports, 36, including that of 18 women, was positive and the cases came from Wardha 18, Hinganghat 5, Deoli and Arvi 4 each, Selu and Karanja 2 each and Samudrapur 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-covid-deaths-in-wardha-36-new-cases/articleshow/78629875.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 13, 2020||Kanpur||Rape of minor girl in polytechnic hostel: Eight accused held within hours||Jhansi: Police have arrested all the eight accused involved in the rape of a 17-year-old girl, extorting money and making her obscene video in the polytechnic hostel on Sunday. All the accused were sent to judicial custody on Monday. The accused have been identified as Rohit Kumar Saini (22) of Mahoba, who is said to be the main accused. The other accused are Bharat Kushwaha (19) from Mahoba, Shailendra Pathak (19) from Gonda, Mayank Shivhare (22) of Tehroli, Jhansi, Bipin Tiwari (24) of Prayagraj, Monu Parya (20) of Mauranipur, Dharmendra Sen (19) of Mauranipur and Sanjay Kushwaha (20) of Mahoba. All the accused are the second year students of the Government Polytechnic. On Sunday, a 17-year-old girl, who had gone to meet her friend, was dragged inside the hostel campus by the accused and was raped by one of them. The accused also thrashed the friend of the victim and then made an objectionable video of both of them and extorted money from the victim. All the accused have been booked under section 120B, 376D, 395, 386, 323 IPC, section 66D of IT Act and Section 3/4 POCSO Act. Police had arrested two of the accused within hours of reporting of the incident on Sunday, while the reaming were arrested on Monday. However, a major question still remains unanswered: How the students got access to the hostel which is closed due to corona pandemic. SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P, said, “We had lodged an FIR against one named person and 10-15 unknown persons on Sunday. During investigation, eight persons were identified and they were arrested within 12 hours. We have interrogated all the accused and eight were identified by the victim.” During further investigation, if more people are found involved in the incident, they too will be arrested, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rape-of-minor-girl-in-polytechnic-hostel-eight-accused-held-within-hours/articleshow/78627361.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda reports 156 new Covid patients, 3 deaths||CHANDRAPUR: Three Covid deaths and 156 new cases were registered in the district on Monday. The toll has risen to 187, while the total Covid-19 caseload has climbed to 12,233. The day also saw discharge of 134 patients taking the recoveries to 8,977. It has left 3,069 patients under treatment. The three deceased include 56-year-old person from Babupeth and 59-year-old person from GMCH premises in Chandrapur and 65-year-old man from Ballarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-reports-156-new-covid-patients-3-deaths/articleshow/78629881.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 13, 2020||Kanpur||Man held for beating, abusing girl student in Lalitpur||Jhansi: A 20-year-old man has been arrested on Monday on charges of abusing and thrashing a girl student in Lalitpur. As per reports, the victim along with her mother and uncle approached the City Kotwali on Monday, and alleged that the accused, Karan, living in the vicinity, was regularly abusing her and have also beat her. The victim, whose exact age is yet to be established by the police, claimed in front of the local media that she has subjected to continuous harassment for the past six months so much that she is not able to step out of her house. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-held-for-beating-abusing-girl-student-in-lalitpur/articleshow/78627364.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Cops solve theft case in unique way, allow buffalo to identify its owner||KANPUR: Police in Kannauj found a rather simple way to decipher the rightful ownership of a buffalo while disposing of a criminal complaint on Sunday. It all began when one Virendra of Ali Nagar in Jalesar town of the district reached Tirwa Kotwali and lodged a complaint stating that his one-time friend Dharmendra of Madhav Nagar has stolen his buffalo and sold it to a man named Muslim of Rasoolabad village. When Dharmendra denied the charge and insisted that the buffalo belonged to him, the police found itself in a fix. Then the senior sub-inspector (SSI) thought of a unique method to find a solution. He got the buffalo brought to the police station, let it loose and asked Dharmendra and Virendra to call the animal. The buffalo walked to Dharmendra and did not pay heed to Virendra’s call. The case was decided. Vijayakant Mishra, the SSI of Tirwa Kotwali, told TOI that one Virendra of Ali Nagar in Jalesar town approached policemen on duty with a complaint in which he had levelled charges against his one-time friend Dharmendra of Madhav Nagar, who he claimed had stolen his buffalo and further sold it to one Muslim hailing from Rasoolabad village. On Sunday, while Muslim had taken the animal to sell it further in a cattle fair, Virendra caught hold of him and entered into a scuffle with him claiming that it’s his buffalo. Muslim, rubbished his claims and stated that he had purchased this buffalo from one Dharmendra of Madhav nagar. However, on being summoned by the police, Dharmendra denied the charge, saying he didn’t steal the animal. He said that it was his buffalo and he had sold it to Rasoolabad man for Rs 19,000 a few days ago. “The police were, however, left perplexed and brought the matter to me. I asked them not to worry and gave them a unique idea to let bovine decide who it’s real owner is. Then buffalo was left between the two claimants Dharmendra and Virendra. I asked both of them to call the animal. The duo gave a call to the animal. However, after a while, the buffalo stares and ran towards Dharmendra and recognised him as it’s real owner and the case was quickly solved,” the officer said. The bizarre incident which took place on Sunday soon became talk of the town and everybody praised the sensible decision of the SSI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-solve-theft-case-in-unique-wayallow-buffalo-to-identify-its-owner/articleshow/78627417.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra government considers revamping sand policy||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is considering a revamp of its sand policy. Though the government had introduced a new sand policy in 2019, several shortcomings in supply have arisen over the last year. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to review the sand policy with officials and the minister at his camp office on Tuesday, where a decision is likely to be taken. The state government had introduced a new sand policy through GO Ms 70 on September 4, 2019, in which sand was given to people free-of-cost. Only transport charges would have to be borne by the consumer under the policy. The government had also assigned mining and transport activities to AP Mineral Development Corporation, which opened stockyards to ensure early and speedy supply of sand. “The chief minister had asked us to give a report on the sand policy which is being implemented for the past one year. We have identified several defects in the present system and have made some recommendations to correct them,” said minister for mines and geology, Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. He further said the chief minister is studying the sand policies of different states and polices implemented in AP in the past. — Gopi Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-considers-revamping-sand-policy/articleshow/78626606.cms||Gopi Dara
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 50 dengue cases in a week take tally to 316||NEW DELHI: With 50 dengue cases reported in the past week, the overall number this year touched 316, stated the weekly vector-borne disease report issued by the municipal corporations on Monday. Of them, 114, the maximum, were reported from south Delhi, 90 from north and 28 from east Delhi. New Delhi Municipal Council witnessed 22 cases, so far, while two other cases were reported from Delhi cantonment, the report said, adding that over 60 cases remained untraced. In the zone-wise analysis of dengue cases, Najafgarh topped the tally followed by south and west zones — all three of which fall under South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). TimesViewAt a time when the city’s health staff is primarily focused on combating Covid-19, a spurt in dengue cases could increase pressure on the strained hospital infrastructure. In this backdrop, municipal authorities must raise their game, especially in affected areas. Regular fogging and constant inspection at homes can help reduce cases substantially.While the mosquito-borne diseases remained relatively lower than last year, the capital has seen 189 malaria and 71 cases of chikungunya this year. In the past week, the municipal workers had detected positive mosquito breeding sites in 5,954 houses. The weekly report stated that, so far, 7,919 people had been prosecuted for negligent behaviour. A maximum of 3,299 such prosecutions were started by North Delhi Municipal Corporation, followed by 2,639 in SDMC and 1,981 in east Delhi. With corona cases still emerging, and twin condition of malaria-dengue with Covid causing extreme complications, public health experts have suggested people to be extremely cautious in not letting water accumulate in their neighbourhood, which could become a breeding site for mosquitoes. The pandemic has also drastically reduced the house visits carried out by domestic breeding checkers. Compared with 2.8 crore visits made last year, only 1.7 crore were made this year, the report claimed. Reduction in checks could also be attributed to a large chunk of field staff been diverted to disinfection drives in containment zones, while Delhiites have also been reluctant to let people enter their houses due to pandemic, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/50-dengue-cases-in-a-week-take-tally-to-316/articleshow/78627790.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Teen killed in Dausa, villagers hold protest||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old boy was killed in Dausa’s Lalsot police station area on Monday morning after a tractor filled with bajri overturned, crushing the teen under it and resulting in his instant death. Following this, his family and villagers sat on a dharna and refused to permit post-mortem till their various demands were met, reports Yeshika Budhwar. The deceased boy has been identified as Sanjay Kumar Bairwa who was on a bike when the accident happened. Consensus was finally reached on Monday night Jaipur: This is the third incident in less than a week when families of victims have resorted to protests, refused to conduct post-mortem and demanded compensation. Last week, the family of a temple priest, who was killed in Karauli, had refused to cremate him till the accused were arrested and given financial compensation. This was followed by the death of a pregnant woman in Churu whose family agitated for three days before cremating her. They too received monetary compensation. “It seems the tractor driver, transporting the bajri, was trying to avoid the bike on which the teenager was riding and lost control of it. The vehicle overturned and crushed the boy. He died on the spot,” said Jaipur Range IGP S Sengathir to TOI. After the accident, the driver fled. The family started the protest. Sources claimed that the cops had to resort to mild force to control the crowd. “The protesters are demanding Rs 25 lakh as compensation along with a government job for a family member. We are investigating the matter,” said the official. After day-long talks, a consensus was finally reached late night on Monday following which it was decided to give a compensation of at least Rs 5 lakh to the family. A proposal will also be sent to the government for a contract job to one of the kin. The protesters also demanded registering a case of murder against the driver and action taken against the mining department. Following the postmortem, the body of the deceased teen was handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-killed-indausa-villagershold-protest/articleshow/78629136.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||NIT-Trichy, C-DAC Pune sign pact to boost research||Trichy: With the signing of an MoU with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) Pune on Monday, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has become part of the national supercomputing mission (NSM), of the government of India. Mini Shaji Thomas, director, NIT Trichy, and Hemant Darbari, director-general, C-DAC, signed the MOU. The MoU was signed with the virtual presence of Sanjay Dhotre, minister of state for education, communication, electronics and information technology, Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, department of science and technology (DST) and Ajay Prakash Sawhney, secretary, ministry of electronics and information technology (MeITY). A total 10 centrally-funded institutions have been inducted into NSM, including IISc Bangalore, Seven IITs and NABI, in addition to NIT Trichy. C-DAC Pune will be installing the supercomputer at NIT Trichy and all other institutes. Mini Shaji Thomas said that the MoU will lead to a possible increase in research output and the number of societal projects in the areas of health, agriculture, weather, financial services and social media. She also said that supercomputing facility will be made available to the neighbouring educational institutions. The objective of NSM is to empower technology institutions with high-performance computing capabilities that can be used for solving computationally intensive problems. The institution has been sanctioned a super computer worth Rs 17.11 crore by the department of science and technology (DST) and ministry of electronics and information technology (MeITY). The facility will be helpful for research scholars and faculty who are working on projects involving high-end computing for carrying out various research and sponsored projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-trichy-c-dac-pune-sign-pact-to-boost-research/articleshow/78629129.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Labourer crushed by crane in sleep in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old construction labourer was killed after being mowed down by a crane in outer Delhi’s Alipur on Sunday morning. The victim was sleeping close to a construction site when the errant driver ran the crane over his head. Police are looking for the accused driver who fled from the scene after the incident. The deceased has been identified as Manoj Saini. According to the cops, a PCR call was received around 7.45am informing them about a man who had been mowed down by a crane. “Other labourers and the contractor present at the site said Saini was sleeping on the roadside close to the construction area. Around 2am, a crane came to deliver construction pipes and since it was dark, the driver wasn’t able to spot Saini and crushed his head,” said a senior police officer. The other labourers noticed Saini lying in a pool of blood around 3.30am. He was dead by then. The labourers called their contractor from Narela and informed Saini’s family members, a police officer said. The driver of the crane, who had fled from the spot, was later identified as Inder Kumar. Cops are yet to arrest the accused. Deputy commissioner of police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said a case under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. “The crane has been seized and search for the driver is on,” he added. Sharma said Saini’s body was sent for postmortem exam, following which it was handed over to his family members. In the past week, seven people have lost their lives in three different accidents involving heavy vehicles. Meanwhile, the driver of the tractor, who was involved in the death of three people in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar on Sunday, is yet to be arrested. Cops tracked the owner of the tractor who initially misguided them. “We traced the owner to Rohtak in Haryana who misguided us about the errant driver and a team was sent to Meerut. Later, he changed his statement and told us about another place. We will soon nab the accused,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/labourer-crushed-by-crane-in-sleep/articleshow/78627799.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Amaravati||Amaravati farmers’ protest enters 300th day||AMARAVATI: The Amaravati farmers’ protests against proposed trifurcation of the capital entered its 300th day on Monday, with many opposition leaders joining protesters in raising slogans against the government’s move. National general secretary of TDP and MLC Nara Lokesh, former legislator Vangaveeti Radhakrishna, Jana Sena spokesperson Pothina Mahesh were among those who spoke on the occasion. Lokesh said the protests will continue till the government changes its decision. “Amaravati was designed to be the people’s capital due to its location, which is in the middle of the state. The farmers voluntarily sacrificed over 33,000 acres of cultivable land land for the capital. They didn’t do it for money, they did it for the state’s development,” Lokesh said. Radhakrishna said Amaravati is not related to any particular region or community. “It was meant to be the people’s capital. The ruling party is trying to tone down the issue by portraying it as a regional issue,” he alleged. YSRC leader Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said farmers were being instigated by people with vested interests. “The YSRC government is committed for development of all regions of the state, not just Amaravati,” said Sajjala. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/capital-region-farmers-protest-enters-300th-day/articleshow/78626628.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation looks to divert Rs 60 crore from HCMTR for flyover||PUNE: The civic administration will table a proposal to divert at least Rs 60crore from funds reserved for the High Capacity Mass Transit Route (HCMTR) project towards the completion of Chandni Chowk flyover. The proposal would be tabled before the standing committee on Tuesday. Pune Municipal Corporation officials said the funds would be used to acquire land and other properties for the project. An official in the know said PMC would also pay Rs20 crore for 0.48 hectare of defence land. PMC data shows that nearly 15 hectares of open plots and 100 properties are to be acquired for the project. More than 95% of the acquisition has been done at the cost of Rs450 crore. “Funds diverted from HCMTR will be used for this acquisition and to undertake some construction work,” a senior official said, adding that a majority of land owners have sought cash compensation. “Given the situation, it is imperative that we get more funds to speed up the process.” Work on the flyover has started on Mulshi Road, Vedvihar Road, Shringeri Road, near Ramnadi Road and the road towards Mumbai. Around 25% of the work is over. However, the construction has hit a bump in Kothrud and Bavdhan over land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-looks-to-divert-rs-60cr-from-hcmtr-for-flyover/articleshow/78627809.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 40 lakh seized; one held||RAJKOT: Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) bottles worth Rs 40 lakh were seized from two different raids in Rajkot and Sayla in Surendranagar district on Sunday night. A bootlegger was arrested in one of the operations. In Rajkot, a total of 3,300 bottles of IMFL worth Rs 14.28 lakh were seized from a cement concrete miller. Policearrested Balwantsinh Sahu (45) who was driving the miller. Meanwhile, on the outskirts of Vanaki village of Sayla taluka, a total of 5,940 IMFL bottles worth Rs 25.62 lakh were seized from a truck and two SUVs. Cop said,there were seven bootleggers who were there at the spot but managed to escape just before the raid. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-40l-seized-one-held/articleshow/78626625.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Protest against closed DPCs in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Despite the officials claim that 267 direct procurement centres (DPC) are functioning across the district, a section of farmers from Thennangudi staged a protest on Monday by dumping paddy on the road alleging that a procurement centre remains closed for the past three days. The farmers from Thennangudi in Thanjavur district protested along the Thanjavur-Budalur road. They said that they had been stocking their paddy on an open space. There was no shelter and nobody provided polythene sheets to safeguard the grains from rain. Following the protest vehicular traffic was affected on the stretch for some time. On information, Kallapperambur police rushed to the spot and pacified the farmers after informing to the TNCSC authorities. Based on the assurance given by the officials to procure paddy, the protesters dispersed. Meanwhile officials from the TNCSC said that as there was no space to stock the paddy bags after procured them from the farmers, and the authorities had temporarily shut the centre to facilitate the workers to clear the stocks. Once the process is completed, procurement would resume as usual, they said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/protest-against-closed-dpcs-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78629150.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Amaravati||Report dashes farmers’ hopes of free borewell||AMARAVATI: Hopes of farmers in upland areas on getting free borewells under YSR Jalakala scheme took a hit following the government’s decision to take the 2016 groundwater survey report as the basis to dig borewells. The survey had listed 1,094 villages for over exploitation (OE) of groundwater which resulted in a ban on digging new borewells. Barring Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam, several areas from the 11 remaining villages were banned from digging new borewells under the Walta Act. While not allowing new borewells in areas where groundwater levels have already touched rock bottom is seen as a good move, farmers are calling for the government to take up a fresh survey to notify the ban. Given the state has witnessed unprecedented rainfall over the last two years, there was significant improvement in groundwater levels, particularly in Rayalaseema districts. Upland areas in the four Rayalaseema districts, Prakasam and Nellore have seen a recharge of groundwater in many areas. Farmers of such areas were hopeful of getting free borewells under YSR Jalakala scheme following good rains in the last two seasons. Anantapur district, which received highest rainfall in the current season after several decades of drought, has nearly 266 villages in the OE category and faces ban on digging of new borewells for agriculture needs. The government also decided to extend the ban on new borewells in 1,094 villages based on the advice of the Union water ministry last February, much before the announcement of the YSR Jalakala programme. “We can’t allow new borewells in 1,094 villages for irrigation needs as per sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Act,” said Panchayat Raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. He, however, said that they could sink the borewell for drinking water needs in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/report-dashes-farmers-hopes-of-free-borewell/articleshow/78626657.cms||Samdani MN
October 13, 2020||Pune||Saswad tehsil clerk held on graft charge||Pune: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Monday arrested a clerk at the tehsil office in Saswad on the charge of demanding and accepting Rs6,000 bribe from a landowner. According to a complaint lodged by the landowner, Mohammad Rafibhai Ganibhai Mulani (55) demanded Rs6,000 for issuing photocopies of 7/12 extract and verifying changes in the same. The landowner lodged a complaint, following which an ACB team laid a trap at the tehsil office and arrested Mulani. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/saswad-tehsil-clerk-held-on-graft-charge/articleshow/78627830.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Facilities are better now but would-be mothers must be strong in Covid times: Doctors||Nagpur: According to doctors who are treating Covid-19 positive pregnant women and have experience of conducting their deliveries, the situation has improved significantly in Nagpur in last one month or so. The doctors claimed that there are more hospitals ready for Covid-19 deliveries now and fortunately, cases are also reducing. “Protocols for Covid-19 deliveries are clear now and doctors in government hospitals have gained ample experience in this field,” said Dr Shama Kedar, who was from the team of doctors at IGGMCH that conducted city’s first Covid-19 delivery in April. “I would like to appeal to would-be mothers to follow physical distancing very meticulously. They should wear masks, wash hands, and avoid going out. However, if you still test positive for Covid-19, there is no need to worry as hospitals are better prepared now,” she said. Dr Seema Dande, who was one of the first private doctors to start deliveries of Covid-19 patients, said the experience in last one month was valuable for doctors. “Our teams are attuned to Covid deliveries now. We know the processes, precautions and investigations. With cases going down, the situation is expected to be better,” she said. But there is still a prediction of second wave of Covid-19 cases. “If second wave comes in November and December, more expecting mothers may turn Covid-19 positive. While there is no need to fear, we must continue to take care. Don’t be casual till this year end,” said Dr Dande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/facilities-are-better-now-but-would-be-mothers-must-be-strong-in-covid-times-doctors/articleshow/78629890.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 13, 2020||Pune||Haze on revised flight schedule from October 26 confuses passengers||Pune: Working professional Ayush Mathur is keen to visit his Jaipur home for Diwali but is in two minds about booking the flight ticket because of the haze on the planes’ revised schedule from October 26, when the city airport would be operational only between 8am and 8pm.“I almost booked a ticket for a 5am SpiceJet flight on November 10 before I heard about the runway restrictions. I have been asking the airline for options to no avail,” he said. The efforts of many flyers with confirmed tickets to get clarification have come a cropper. “Worse, many airlines are still confirming bookings of night flights,” said Sameer Singh, a flyer.Mahesh Ashok Yadav is booked in a GoAir a flight from Pune to Bengaluru, supposed to take off from around 1.30am, in November. From there, he has a connecting flight to Varanasi at 4.50am. He is confused now. “I have been messaging GoAir on social media but have not got a proper response so far,” he said.TOI sent queries on the issue to all the airlines last week and followed them up with WhatsApp reminders. Responses from GoAir and SpiceJet are still awaited, while to comment. IndiGo said intimations were being sent to customers about the cancellations. “Customers can visit Plan B on the website to modify bookings or cancel tickets for a refund,” an IndiGo spokesperson said.Chetan Bhartia booked tickets from Pune to Dibrugarh via Delhi for November 12 through a travel website, before he was informed by IndiGo about the change. “I cancelled my ticket, and the airline sent the refund to the travel company, but I am yet to get my money back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haze-on-revised-flight-schedule-from-october-26-confuses-passengers/articleshow/78627861.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Robbers kill aged woman in Palitana||Rajkot: Three robbers were detained on Monday for allegedly strangling a 60-year-old woman to death in Palitana of Bhavnagar three months ago. Police said Mukesh Mer (30), Vikram Mudia (34) and Vanraj Dabhi (35) had entered into the house of Ramu Thakor with the intention of robbing her. The accused had allegedly strangled Thakor. However, they could not find any valuables or cash to loot. “The trio were traced on the basis of their cellphones’ locations near the crime spot,” said V V Odedara, inspector with Bhavnagar local crime branch. “The accused confessed that Thakor used to boast about gold jewellery she possessed in her neighbourhood. This had given them the idea of looting her,” added Odedara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/robbers-kill-aged-woman-in-palitana/articleshow/78626703.cms||---
October 13, 2020||---||LJP's second list of candidates may include some BJP leaders||NEW DELHI: The second list of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) will be released on Tuesday and it may include some state BJP leaders, sources said. Though the party has announced to put candidates where the JD(U) nominees are in the fray, there would be exceptions in a couple of seats which LJP won in the last election. At least two such seats are Govindganj and Lalganj which are currently represented by the LJP in the Vidhan Sabha. The BJP has announced the candidates name for these two seats which have come in its kitty in the seat sharing arrangement with JD(U). LJP sources said the party would repeat its candidates for these seats. Just a day before the BJP approached the Election Commission to stop LJP from using the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the LJP chief Chirag thanked the PM for his support in the last journey of his father and he hoped Modi will continue his “blessings” and “affection” to the young leader in the future. Responding to the BJP's move, party’s national spokesman Sanjay Saraf said, “The PM is the leader of the country and we have the highest regard for him. If they don’t want this, we won’t use his photo. Our late leader Ram Vilas Paswan ji is our guiding force. It’s clear that Nitish Kumarji has persuaded some leaders, who are close to him, for this. Let the CM have a debate on issues of development such as how many hospitals and stadiums have been built; what his government has done to mitigate floods and to create jobs for lakhs who migrate every year from the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljps-second-list-of-candidates-may-include-some-bjp-leaders/articleshow/78630440.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 13, 2020||India||LJP's second list of candidates may include some BJP leaders||NEW DELHI: The second list of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) will be released on Tuesday and it may include some state BJP leaders, sources said. Though the party has announced to put candidates where the JD(U) nominees are in the fray, there would be exceptions in a couple of seats which LJP won in the last election. At least two such seats are Govindganj and Lalganj which are currently represented by the LJP in the Vidhan Sabha. The BJP has announced the candidates name for these two seats which have come in its kitty in the seat sharing arrangement with JD(U). LJP sources said the party would repeat its candidates for these seats. Just a day before the BJP approached the Election Commission to stop LJP from using the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the LJP chief Chirag thanked the PM for his support in the last journey of his father and he hoped Modi will continue his “blessings” and “affection” to the young leader in the future. Responding to the BJP's move, party’s national spokesman Sanjay Saraf said, “The PM is the leader of the country and we have the highest regard for him. If they don’t want this, we won’t use his photo. Our late leader Ram Vilas Paswan ji is our guiding force. It’s clear that Nitish Kumarji has persuaded some leaders, who are close to him, for this. Let the CM have a debate on issues of development such as how many hospitals and stadiums have been built; what his government has done to mitigate floods and to create jobs for lakhs who migrate every year from the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ljps-second-list-of-candidates-may-include-some-bjp-leaders/articleshow/78630442.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Farmers want uninterrupted water supply from Kallanai, petition PWD||Thanjavur: Farmers from delta districts have urged PWD authorities to withdraw the turn system in releasing water from Kallanai and instead release water continuously in all the rivers including Cauvery, Vennaru, Kollidam and GA canal for samba cultivation. At a meeting held in Pattukottai in Thanjavur headed by A Govindaraj, district vice president of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association, they raised objection to the turn system and have decided to stage a protest demanding continuous release. As per the water sharing from Kallanai regulator, Vennaru gets 6,500 cusecs of water for the first six days. During these six days, Cauvery will get only 100 cusecs, GA canal 2,000 cusecs and Kollidam 1,000 cusecs. In the next week of turn system, 6,500 cusecs will be released in Cauvery while Vennaru gets 100 cusecs. The other two rivers will getting the same quantum. “Usually, turn system would be adopted after two months from the date of release of water from Kallanai. However, this year the flow was there in the rivers only for one month. Except Mahamaham tank, no temple tank in the district was filled, as there was no continuous flow in the rivers,” Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. “Water is yet to reach several water bodies. With the help of borewells, farmers managed to irrigate kuruvai crops. However, for samba, the crop needs continuous flow of water. PWD authorities should withdraw turn system and release water in all channels without interruption,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-want-uninterrupted-water-supply-from-kallanai-petition-pwd/articleshow/78629157.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Hotels asked to register for SAATHI initiative||Trichy: Following the poor response to the system for assessment, awareness and training for hospitality industry (SAATHI) an initiative by the central government, Trichy district collector has asked all the hospitality units including hotels, lodges and service apartments to register themselves for the initiative. Trichy district tourism officer T Jegatheswari said that across the state, 1,600 hospitality units have registered so far. Whereas in Trichy district only 59 hotels out of more than 500 units have registered in www.hotelcloud.nic.in and www.saathi.qcin.org websites. She said the initiative is to integrate all the hospitality units across the country for better coordination and effective operation to handle overseas and domestic tourists. This database may be used for future renewal of licence and star rating of hotels besides GST payments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hotels-asked-to-register-for-saathi-initiative/articleshow/78629162.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kanpur||‘Satta king’ with Dubai link held,brought to city for questioning||Kanpur: Sonu Sardar, the ‘king’ of illegal IPL high-tech betting racket with Dubai connections, was arrested from Rajasthan’s Jaipur on Sunday and brought to the city on Monday for questioning. Police have also arrested one of his aides, Ranjit Singh alias Rinku Singh, who lives in Pandunagar area of the city, from Naubasta bypass on Monday. They are believed to be involved in the world-wide IPL betting racket, police said. Sonu Sardar, who hails from Jawahar Nagar area of the city, was on the radar after the police busted two back-to-back illegal IPL cricket betting rackets with the arrest of more than a dozen persons and recovered cash worth Rs 1.3 crore, besides Rs 25 lakh in Nepali currency from their possession. The police have also detected hundreds of calls from their mobile numbers to the mobile number of Sonu Sardar. Police informed TOI that Sonu Sardar’s network was spread to Dubai, besides neighbouring Sri Lanka and Nepal. “His direct involvement in IPL cricket betting, however, was unearthed when the police raided Nazirabad, Fazalganj and Kakadeo areas about a month ago and busted a racket. Though police managed to arrest eight persons, Sonu Sardar and his aide Ranjit managed to give a slip and were absconding,” said SP South Deepak Bhukar. He added, “The police have specific inputs on Sonu Sardar regarding his connection with master operators in Dubai, besides other countries.” “On prior information that Sonu was expected at his hideout in Jaipur, the sleuths of a special police team that was rushed from Kanpur, laid a trap and arrested him as soon as he appeared on Sunday evening,” said SP (West) Dr Anil Kumar. Kumar further said, “During questioning, Sonu Sardar told the investigators that he used to sell 533 IDs and passwords in a single day with the help of bookies having their base in other parts of the country and world. Each ID and password cost Rs 14,400, and only one who purchases an ID and password is eligible to place a bet during IPL matches.” “The accused have further disclosed that they operate the online racket using Android mobile phones and laptops connected to each other with a specific software and website. Sonu Sardar had confessed to placing bets upto Rs 20 to 25 crores in a single day on IPL matches. Police have recovered five Android phones and two laptops from their possession,” Kumar added. Sonu Sardar was brought to Kanpur from Jaipur on Monday for questioning. “We will further question them after procuring their remand and investigate their network within the country and abroad,” Kumar informed TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/satta-king-with-dubai-link-heldbrought-to-city-for-questioning/articleshow/78627383.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Man petitions collector over house under PMAY scheme||Thanjavur: A retired staff of a cooperative printing press petitioned the district collector after he received a message congratulating him for getting a house under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme here on Monday at the spot where he currently stays on rent.According to officials, the petitioner Ilamvazhuthi, 64, has been residing at a rented house in Karanthai in Thanjavur along with his wife and two daughters for years, as he does not own a house or even a housing site.Despite his refusal to apply for a house under the PMAY scheme stating that he had no housing site to build his own house, some locals had got his signature in an application a year ago, Ilamvazhuthi said.“I was shocked to receive a message wishing me for completing the construction of a house under the PMAY scheme on the same spot where I am residing for rent. So, I petitioned to the district collector to look into the issue,” he said. Based on his petition, officials assured to conduct an inquiry, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-petitions-collector-over-house-under-pmay-scheme/articleshow/78629172.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Goa||In ‘Har Ghar Jal’ Goa, PWD minister’s backyard depends on tankers||SANVORDEM: On Friday, the Union ministry of jal shakti announced that Goa became the first state in India to cover 100% of its 2.3 lakh rural households with functional household tap connections. CM Pramod Sawant basked in the laurel, while PWD minister Deepak Pauskar said the achievement earned Goa additional funds to set up water treatment plants in every taluka. But for residents of around 800 households in Ambeudok and surrounding wards in the PWD minister’s own constituency of Sanvordem, these announcements of Goa's success in Har Ghar Jal — the Centre's scheme to provide tap water to every rural household — are empty words. Sandeep Prabhu Pauskar, Sanvordem sarpanch and brother of the PWD minister, admits that piped water supply is yet to reach this part of rural Goa. “It is a long-pending problem in this area,” he said. “This area has been without water supply since Goa’s Liberation. Our target was to provide piped water supply to Ambeudok and surrounding areas by May 2020. But the work got held up due to the lockdown and resulting labour shortage. Now, our aim is to provide piped supply to the area by December, or latest by January 2021.” He said that under the JICA project, work on two overhead water tanks has been completed, while that on a third is currently in progress. JICA refers to the Japan International Cooperation Agency, which funds some water-related projects executed by the government. “Half the pipeline network has been laid in the area,” the sarpanch said. For all his life, water supply for 32-year-old Maruti Naik has meant the tankers that come by his home two-three times a week. The mornings the tanker arrives are marked by quarrels, to get the supplier to empty a few more litres of water into the blue plastic barrels stationed outside every house. “This has been the state of every household in Ambeudok, Periudok, and Guddemol,” said Naik. “For years now, we have only been hearing of deadlines from the government for completion of water tanks and laying of water supply pipelines with JICA funds. Work on one overhead water tank is still not finished. Meanwhile, in the monsoon, the tankers make even fewer trips.” As this part of Sanvordem makes up South Goa’s mining belt, mining companies would supply water to households here while iron ore extraction was on. Thus, the state government did not prioritise providing piped water in Ambeudok and surrounding areas. Water shortage became a major issue when mining came to a halt from March 16, 2018 after a Supreme Court order. Soon, mining companies stopped water supply by tankers, and it was left to the PWD to take over. “It is a shame that Ambeudok has ‘water’ as part of its name (udok being Konkani for water) and we are struggling for water supply,” said Chetali, Naik’s wife. “I was told nine months ago, before I was to marry here, that piped water supply connections would be provided sometime soon. Nine months later, there is no sign of things improving.” Another villager, Sanam Naik, said that a handful of the affected households had been provided tap connections some years ago, supply for which would come from a borewell dug nearby. “But it did not last long,” she said. “Due to mining, the water table went down, and taps ran dry. There are wells, but in Ambeudok itself, there is one well for 200 households. From my home, it is around a kilometre away, so the better option is to haggle with the tanker driver for more water.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-har-ghar-jal-goa-pwd-mins-backyard-depends-on-tankers/articleshow/78629165.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 13, 2020||---||Judge me by work of 15 years & vote, Nitish urges voters||PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar on Monday called upon the people to give him one more opportunity to serve if they liked his work in the last three terms, reports Madan Kumar. He appealed to the voters to judge him on the work done in the last 15 years. Launching his party’s poll campaign by addressing the electors of 11 assembly constituencies through JD(U)’s dedicated digital platform, Nitish said: “In democracy, aap malik hain (you are the master). If you did not like our work, then you have the right to make your decision. But I promise you more development in each area of the state and progress of all sections of the society.” Making a veiled attack without taking the name of the opposition’s CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Nitish said, “I tell you they want to divide the society. But I work for unity among all sections of the society. Some people only talk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/judge-me-by-work-of-15-years-vote-nitish-urges-voters/articleshow/78630458.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Judge me by work of 15 years & vote, Nitish urges voters||PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar on Monday called upon the people to give him one more opportunity to serve if they liked his work in the last three terms, reports Madan Kumar. He appealed to the voters to judge him on the work done in the last 15 years. Launching his party’s poll campaign by addressing the electors of 11 assembly constituencies through JD(U)’s dedicated digital platform, Nitish said: “In democracy, aap malik hain (you are the master). If you did not like our work, then you have the right to make your decision. But I promise you more development in each area of the state and progress of all sections of the society.” Making a veiled attack without taking the name of the opposition’s CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Nitish said, “I tell you they want to divide the society. But I work for unity among all sections of the society. Some people only talk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/judge-me-by-work-of-15-years-vote-nitish-urges-voters/articleshow/78630460.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||‘Palaeontology could help postpone 6th mass extinction’||Trichy: While the world is rapidly moving towards the sixth mass extinction, palaeontology is one area that can rescue mankind by helping us evolve ways to postpone or avoid the next mass extinction, said young palaeontologist Aswatha Biju. She was part of a seminar cum fossil exhibition organized by Tiruchirappalli notaphily Society (TNS) along with government museum, Trichy on Monday. Aswatha said most of the ecological terms that we use in daily life is derived from the key resources called fossils. Palaeontology—a study of the history of evolution by examining fossils, preserved traces of dead animals and plants can help us understand the reasons for previous mass extinctions. “The geological record and history of a small fossil can help us know the temperature, climate and ecology during a specific time in the geologic past. The last five extinctions happened millions of years back was natural. Analysis of these factors can help us mend our ways to postpone mass extinction,” she said.She was fascinated by ammonite – fossil of ribbed spiral-form shell that lived in sea millions of years ago. Palaeontology is one of the lesser liked subjects in India because of which only a very few institutions offer this course even though resources are aplenty, she said. She said that there is a need to celebrate international fossil day by organizing such awareness events. President of TNS P Vijay Kumar along with C Siva Kumar, curator, government museum, Trichy explained the exhibited fossils collected from several parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/palaeontology-could-help-postpone-6th-mass-extinction/articleshow/78629226.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Goa||‘Private hospitals pressured govt to cancel DDSSY Covid cover’||PANAJI: The government decision on Sunday to cancel the notification covering Covid treatment under the Deen Dayal Swashtya Seva Yojna (DDSSY), which was issued last week, was taken under pressure from private hospitals, two senior government officials told TOI. Late on Sunday evening, health minister Vishwajit Rane, through a social media post, declared that after discussion with chief minister Pramod Sawant, the government decided to cancel the Covid-19 treatment under DDSSY. A fresh notification will be issued in consultation with the CM, he said. A senior official said that private hospitals treating Covid patients were not happy with the two packages — Rs 64,400 for 14 days of treatment for mild covid and Rs 92,400 for 14 days for severe illness — offered under the amended DDSSY. The government’s caps for Covid treatment in private hospitals are much higher. The per-day charges for admission to a general ward has been capped at Rs 10,000 per day, whereas the rate for admission to an ICU with ventilator has been capped at Rs 24,000 per day. “With capped rates being high, certainly private hospitals would not have accepted the DDSSY packages as it meant that they would not be able to bill patients more. The government has given in to the pressure by the private hospital lobby,” a top official said. With the majority of the state population being covered under the DDSSY scheme, people who would otherwise have avoided a private hospital for Covid treatment for being unable to afford their charges, would try to get admission at a private facility if insurance cover was available. “With the notification withdrawn, private hospitals are now free to charge as per the capped rate,” the official said. “We do not know when the government will issue the fresh notification. The capped rates were much higher when the first order was issued more than a month ago. Charges were marginally reduced following a hue and cry by the public, and a fresh order was issued last month.” Another official said that even the re-capped rates of the Goa government are much higher than the packages offered by the Maharashtra government. “In Goa, hospitals dragged their feet even in accepting Covid patients, and now when they have opened a few beds, they are dictating terms to the government,” a senior official said. “I don’t understand what has stopped the government from invoking the Epidemic Diseases Act to act if private hospitals are unwilling to comply with the government order even during the pandemic.” Since the pandemic began, a majority of the patients are treated in government hospitals, while private hospitals stepped in only in August. There are around 800 beds in government hospitals, whereas four private hospitals have around 100 beds between them. ’Rane didn’t respond either to a call or a message by TOI seeking explanation for the government’s changed stance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-hosps-pressured-govt-to-cancel-ddssy-covid-cover/articleshow/78629206.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Dalits allege bias in selection of bishops||Trichy: The National Council of Dalit Christians (NCDC) has appealed to the bishop council of Tamil Nadu to appoint qualified dalit priests as bishops in the diocesan and end casteism and discrimination against dalits in Catholic church. Addressing reporters here on Monday, E D Charles, national secretary of NCDC, said that Catholic church is one of the biggest congregation in India, particularly in Tamil Nadu. Many of the Catholics in India are dalits, he said. “However, among 188 bishops, only 11 are from the community across the country. In Tamil Nadu, only one of 18 bishops is from dalit background. No priest from dalit background has been nominated in the past 14 years in India,” Charles added. Despite several representations sent to the Vatican in the past 50 years, no concrete steps were taken to give an opportunity to qualified dalit priests. “We also appealed to the catholic church, the apostolic nuncio to India and the Pope to curb visible and invisible untouchability practices that exist in the selection of bishops,” he further stated. A meeting of Tamil Nadu Catholic Bishop Council has been scheduled to be held on October 13 in Trichy. “We also appeal to the bishop council of Tamil Nadu to select dalit priests for bishop posts that are vacant in Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Cuddalore diocese.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dalits-allege-bias-in-selection-of-bishops/articleshow/78629205.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Two youths washed away, body of one recovered||Thanjavur: Two youths were washed away while they were taking bath in Grand Anaicut canal near Manojiapatti in Thanjavur on Sunday evening. While fire and rescue personnel fished out the body of one of the youths and search is on for the other who is still missing. According to police, the victims have been identified as C Hariharan, 18, and G Nithish, 19, both residents of Manojiapatti. Both of them had gone to the river for taking bath along with seven of their friends. Hariharan and Nithish were swept away by a strong current while taking bath. Their friends informed the police and fire and rescue departments. The police and firemen rushed to the spot and conducted an intensive search for the youths. However, as it was getting dark they did not succeed in their attempt. They resumed their search on Monday morning and after a few hours managed to recover the body of Nithish. The search is still on for Hariharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-youths-washed-away-body-of-one-recovered/articleshow/78629239.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Goa||After 33 years, Goa gets new police districts in Mapusa & Ponda||PANAJI: In a major decision, the state government has decided to create two new police districts — Mapusa and Ponda — to further facilitate maintaining of the law and order situation in the state. The Mapusa district will cover police stations in Mapusa and Bicholim talukas, while the Ponda district will include police stations in Ponda, Quepem and Sanguem talukas. “There will now be a total of four police districts with four district SPs. This decision will enable better and effective control over law and order, and prevention of crime,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Reacting to the government decision, director general of police Mukesh Kumar Meena said that the last police district was created in 1987. The situation is different today, Meena said. The chief minister’s office (CMO) stated that since North and South Goa districts are geographically vast, it had become difficult for one superintendent of police to manage the entire district to prevent crime and to maintain law and order effectively. The CMO stated that Goa is a most favoured tourist destination and sees domestic and foreign visitors all year round. The large number of arrivals has resulted in tourism-related crimes and other issues. With Goa hosting many intnational events and participants and visitors coming from the higher echelons of the society, it has put a strain on the police machinery. Likewise, frequent visits of VVIPs require elaborate police arrangements involving large-scale police deployments during their visits. “In order to handle these situations and keep the crime and law and order under control, it is necessary to increase the number of police districts in Goa, so that there is effective control over the crime and security situation and better supervision over the police force during exigencies,” the CMO stated. It stated that the overall security scenario and the upward crime graph needs increase in police districts in the state of Goa. Over the years, the role and tasks of Goa police have expanded, and its functioning has become highly complex calling for a higher degree of professional skills and expertise. “Creation of new district at Mapusa and Ponda will enable better and effective control over law and order and in prevention of crime. It will also facilitate the people from remote places to visit district superintendent of police within a short time. Likewise, district SP will also be able to attend meetings with people in remote areas,” the CMO stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-33-yrs-state-gets-new-police-districts-in-mapusa-ponda/articleshow/78629252.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Trichy||Man arrested for sexually assaulting minor girl in Pudukottai||TRICHY: A 52-year-old grocery shop owner was arrested on charges of sexually assaulting a 9-year-old girl in Pudukottai on Monday. The accused identified as Mohamed Ravuthar, 52, was booked under two sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. According to All women police station (AWPS) Aranthangi, the accused sexually assaulted the victim whenever she visited the shop for buying edibles. On Monday, the victim injured herself after falling down, while trying to escape from the sexual advancement of the accused. “The victim told her parents that Mohamed touched her private parts inappropriately and she fell down while trying to escape from him,” police said. Based on a complaint from victim’s parents, a case was registered against Mohamed under section 9 (L) (sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly), section 9 (M) (sexual assault on a child below twelve years) and section 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault). The accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-52-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl-in-pudukottai/articleshow/78629258.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Supreme Court seeks shield for trans people against sex assault||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s response on a PIL seeking to fill a void in penal law to protect transgenders from sexual assault by introducing punishment provisions in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for sexual crimes against the third gender. Advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for petitioner-advocate Reepak Kansal, told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that penal laws recognised men and women as the two genders, leaving the third gender without remedy against sexual assaults. “It is a good issue,” the bench said and asked Singh to provide details of judgments through which the apex court had resorted to temporary legislations to fill the void in the legal field. Singh said the SC had protected women from sexual harassment by laying down elaborate guidelines in its 1997 judgment in Vishaka case which became a law in 2013. Singh said he would give a compilation of case laws in which the SC had resorted to temporary legislation to fill the void in the legal field. Times ViewTransgenders are sexual minorities and often targets of abuse. The demand to modify the IPC needs to be considered seriously. After all, the touchstone of any modern, progressive state is how it treats its minorities and acknowledging them is the first step in that direction.“Statistics show that one in two transgender individuals are sexually abused or assaulted at some point in their lives... In cases of sexual assault of transgenders, the law enforcement agencies are often at loss to ascertain applicable provisions of law as there is no provision in IPC,” Kansal said in his litigation. He said the void in law to provide legal remedies to transgender people against sexual assaults deprived them of their right to dignity, which is part of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. “Moreover, it put the state in breach of its avowed objective of ensuring that no one was discriminated against on the ground of gender,” Kansal added. Watch Crime against transgenders: SC admits plea; issues notice to Centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-seeks-shield-for-trans-people-against-sex-assault/articleshow/78630471.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 13, 2020||Goa||Deposit Rs 25 for each case you didn’t reply: NGT to GCZMA||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) to deposit Rs 25,000 per case for not having filed replies sought by it. The authority has been asked to deposit the sum in the account of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) within a week, and it will be used “for improvement of environment matters”. The NGT has said that the GCZMA’s counsel has requested an opportunity to file a reply, but that the request will only be allowed after the Rs 25,000 per case is deposited by the authority. The NGT also transferred the case to the principal bench of the NGT in New Delhi. The NGT asked why proceedings against GCZMA should not be initiated. It was hearing an application concerning CRZ violations against four-star hotels by Goa Paryavaran Savrakshan Sangharsh Samiti. This is the fourth time in less than two weeks that the NGT has expressed its unhappiness with GCZMA for not having complied with high court and Supreme Court orders to act against violators as per the 1991 CRZ notification. “Inspite of the notice, GCZMA has not submitted the reply, and since no prayer is made in writing to file reply, issue notice to the GCZMA why the proceeding may not be initiated ex-parte against the GCZMA,” the NGT said. For the second time, the NGT called GCZMA a law protector-turned-law violator. “The notification issued in 1991 has not been complied with till date, and with the conspiracy aid and assistance of GCZMA, the polluters and violators of law are still continuing their activities,” the NGT said. “It is surprising that the notification of 1991 and several orders of the high court and Supreme Court had not been complied with, and the CRZ notification has not been acted upon till date due to various reasons,” said the NGT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deposit-rs-25-for-each-case-you-didnt-reply-ngt-to-gczma/articleshow/78629274.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mangaluru||A well dug up in Ullal Dargah to solve water woes of locals||Mangaluru: There is no shortage of water in Ullal town in Dakshina Kannada, but the tragedy is that not a drop of this is fit for drinking plunging the residents in a sea of woes. Pushed to desperation, the residents sought help from the administration of the Ullal Syed Madani Dargah, a shrine that is as much associated with piety as it is for the efforts it has made towards ensuring communal amity. Once the residents appealed to the dargah for help, the management, along with assistance from various donors and Mangaluru MLA UT Khader, had a well dug up on the premises of the shrine. A pumping station powered by a 10HP engine was installed to supply drinking water to households. Khader said that water from the well would be supplied to all residents of Bandikotya and Millath Nagar in Ullal. “Work on the well at the dargah started a year ago. We are pleased that the project has now been completed, and water is being supplied to the people in the town. I sanctioned funds for the well from the Local Area Development (LAD) funds for laying the pipes to ensure supply of water to homes. The primary objective is to solve the problem of drinking water crisis in Ullal. We will identify more places to dig open wells in Ulla,” Khader told TOI. Haji Abdul Rasheed, president of the Ullal Dargah committee, said that the decision to have the well on the premises of the shrine had been arrived at unanimously by the members of the committee. Admitting to the local administration, including elected representatives, having worked towards supplying drinking water to all households in Ullal, Rasheed said, “The pipelines of Ullal City Municipality and the schemes of local MLA supply water to individual households. We have enough water in Ullal, but it is not fit for consumption. Hence, people from Millath Nagar and Bandikotya are facing difficulties due to lack of potable water. When people from those area made a request to the Dargah Committee, none of the members opposed the idea of digging a well.” Khader subsequently provided Rs 5 lakh for the installation of the pumping station and for the pipes, Rasheed added. Another donor, who Rasheed said had wished to remain anonymous, had also offered financial assistance towards the project. “I request all residents to obtain water from the municipality, and use the water from the well judiciously,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/a-well-dug-up-in-ullal-dargah-to-solve-water-woes-of-locals/articleshow/78626621.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||Schools across MP to remain shut till November 15, online classes to continue||BHOPAL: Schools across the state from Class 1 to 8 will continue to be shut till November 15 due to Covid-19. Issuing the guidelines on Monday, the school education department stated that partial classes from Class 9 to 12 will however continue. School associations have appealed the state government to allow the proper classes from Class 9 to 12 as the campus has been shut for the past 7 months and it is hampering the academics of the students. The central government allowed all states to reopen schools outside the containment zone from October 15 under Unlock 5.0 guidelines. But, the right to take the final decision was given to the states. Regular classes will not be conducted and online reading and learning activities will continue. It will be compulsory for all schools to follow the SOPs and guidelines on health and safety, stated the guidelines. Private schools were disappointed by the government’s decision after permission were denied to them to open school from October 15. Vice president, Association of Un-Aided Private Schools, Madhya Pradesh, Viny Raj Modi said, “We fully hoped that in the light of the decisions taken by the neighboring states, the state government in MP should have at least allowed 50% attendance in regular classes from Class 9 to 12. Unfortunately, this is not done in the latest guidelines which is a big loss for the students.” He added that the schools in the state have been running classes continuously since September 21 for guidance and all the member schools are providing education to their students in a safe environment by following the SOP. Emphasizing that more than half of the teaching sessions have passed and commissioning of secondary classes is a must, president of the association Anupam Choukse requested the state government to re-consider order issued by the government. He demanded that the state government should allow regular classes for at least Class 9 to 12 with 50% attendance from November 1. Even students have started realizing that there is a need to open schools. “I am in Class 12 which is an important board exam. I can’t continue my studies only through online. With atleast 50% attendance schools from Class 9 to 12 should be allowed to open,” said Akshay Tyagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schools-upto-class-8-to-remain-shut-till-nov-15-partial-classes-for-class-9-to-12-to-continue/articleshow/78626790.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 13, 2020||Mysuru||BS Yediyurappa formally invited to Mysuru Dasara||Mysuru: District minister S T Somashekar, who heads the Dasara Executive Committee, on Monday extended formal invite to chief minister B S Yediyurappa to attend the Dasara festival. The district minister, accompanied by mayor Tasneem and other officials, explained to the chief minister about the measures taken to check Covid-19 spread across the district. The team also met Dr C N Manjunath to invite him to inaugurate the festival atop Chamundi Hills on October 17. Accepting the invitation, Dr Manjunath expressed his gratitude for the CM and Somashekhar for inviting him and other frontline corona warriors for the inauguration of the festival. “This will be a fitting tribute to the medical fraternity,” he said. Recalling his student and college days in Mysuru, the cardiologist said that the city is not new to him. “I have enjoyed the beauty of the iconic Mysore Palace, witnessed Jamboo Savari, and taken in the beauty of the illuminated city with my friends many times,” he recalled. He also appealed to people to wear masks, maintain social distancing to keep the infection at bay. With the government giving permission for the presence of only 300 persons during the inauguration of Jamboo Savari, Somashekhar said that the DC will come out with details on the participation of elected representatives, officials and journalists shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bs-yediyurappa-formally-invited-to-mysuru-dasara/articleshow/78627920.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Goa||Carambolim ryots oppose ‘illegal’ polls of tenants’ body||Panaji: Noisy scenes were witnessed outside the Carambolim panchayat hall on Monday morning as farmers of the Dhado Khazan Tenants’ Association protested the conducting of the managing committee elections. They demanded that proper procedure be followed as per the rules. Following the uproar, the special general body meeting was adjourned to October 20 on grounds that there was no quorum for the election. The Tiswadi mamlatdar had announced the election earlier and talathi Munnesh Gaonkar, as his representative, had arrived amidst tight police security to conduct the same. The farmers, however, alleged that the election was irregular as no list of voters was displayed at the panchayat. They also alleged that other procedures had been bypassed. On Saturday, the farmers had held a meeting in the panchayat hall where they decided to boycott the poll. They allege that there was a lack of transparency in financial matters related to the operation of the sluice gate by the office bearers. They also told the official that they would oppose an election till the voters’ roll was updated, a request they had made three years back, they said. “We are not averse to an ad hoc committee being appointed or even the mamlatdar taking charge, but no new committee should be chosen till a proper revision of the roll is done,” one farmer said. The farmers also objected to the sluice gate operator being allowed to enter the hall. Further, they demanded that the flooded fields be drained, as per the August orders of high court of Bombay at Goa. “Till date no steps have been initiated to restore the fields,” a farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carambolim-ryots-oppose-illegal-polls-of-tenants-body/articleshow/78629442.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||ESIC relaxes eligibility conditions||Aurangabad: The industrial workers with two years of Employees State Insurance Corporation’s (ESIC) membership will get 50% of their salary if they lost their jobs during the Covid-related lockdown. Sudesh Rana, the ESIC branch manager here said, “The scheme has been relaxed and the workers will get half of their salary from the ESIC for the time between March and December if they lost their job amid the lockdown.’’ He said, in a statement issued on Monday, it was decided at a meeting recently to change the eligibility criteria of Atal Bimit Vtakti Kalyan Yojana. He said, “It has been decided to provide relaxation in the existing condition of ‘insured persons’ (IPs) who have lost their employment during the Covid-19 epidemic. The condition of relaxation to be given under the scheme will be available for the period from March 24, 2020, to December 31, 2020.’ He said, “For maximum 90 days of unemployment, the amount paid under the scheme has been increased from 20% of the average wage to 50%. People can submit claims directly to the ESIC branch office instead of it being forwarded by the last employer. The payment will be made to the insured’s bank account.’’ To avail this scheme the person has to go to the IP portal of ESIC, and fill the online form, after which the form has to be submitted to the ESIC branch. With the form, the person has to get a notarized affidavit on non-judicial paper of Rs 20, and copy of Aadhar card and the passbook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/esic-relaxes-eligibility-conditions/articleshow/78625692.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC polls issue: SC orders status quo||Aurangabad: The Supreme Court (SC) has ordered a status quo on the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) elections and directed notices to be issued to the state election commission, the government and other authorities concerned in response to the special leave petitions (SLPs) filed by a former corporator and others challenging the Bombay high court ruling of May 2020. The Aurangabad bench of the high court had rejected a bunch of writ petitions, including that of former corporator Sameer Rajurkar, that had challenged the state election commission’s notification and ward formation process claiming that there was bungling and irregularities in the entire process. The petitioners then approached the SC through lawyers Devdutta Kamat, Devdutta Palodkar and Shashibhushan Adgaonkar, challenging the high court ruling, maintaining that “entire process of ward formation/delimitation suffers from violation of the principal of natural justice”. The matter recently came up for hearing before the SC bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobade. The ordered issuance of notices to the authorities concerned states that “the parties are directed to maintain status quo prevailing as on date until further orders from this court”. The Aurangabad civic body elections were scheduled to be held in April this year as its tenure ended on April 28, but the election had to be postponed by the state election commission because of the Covid-19 pandemic after request from the state government. In the SLPs, the petitioners pointed out that the state election commission had appointed a committee under the sugar commissioner to take a decision on their objections. However, the decision was taken by an authority who never heard them. They pointed out that the population of the municipal area as per 2011 Census was required to be divided into 115 wards and thus the ratio of population per ward would come to 10,769 and 10% fluctuation is permitted under this ratio. “Thus, the maximum population limit per ward is 11,747 whereas the minimum is 9,611. The ratio of population is required to be maintained strictly as it has direct nexus with the reservation of seats for SC/STs,” the petitioners said. . “There were incidents of breach of confidentiality and violation of the minimum and maximum population norms in 28 wards. This was done either to reserve or de-reserve the ward for convenience of certain people. The entire process was evidently clouded by the influence of certain political leaders, yet the state election commission turned a blind eye to it,’’ they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-polls-issue-sc-orders-status-quo/articleshow/78625668.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad district reports 120 cases||Aurangabad: The district reported 120 fresh Covid-19 cases by Sunday late night, taking the total number of active cases to 3,103. The district also recorded four Covid deaths. The district has recorded a total of 35,332 Covid patients so far. Meanwhile, 31,230 patients have recovered from the contagion and 999 patients have succumbed to Covid-19.  Of the fresh 120 patients, 31 people tested positive through antigen testing carried out in urban and rural parts of the district. Of the deceased, two died at the government medical college and hospital while two patients succumbed to Covid at private hospitals.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-district-reports-120-cases/articleshow/78625705.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kochi||CM inaugurates reconstruction of Alappuzha-Changanassery road||Alappuzha: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday virtually inaugurated reconstruction work of Alappuzha-Changanasserry (AC) road as semi-elevated highway. The reconstruction project was inaugurated as part of 100-day action plan of CPM-led LDF government. The chief minister said the state has attained big achievements in the public transport system after his government came into power. “The re-construction of 5,000 roads under Chief Minister’s Local Road Rebuild project is progressing swiftly. Besides, a sum of Rs 14,864 crore from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is spent for road-reconstruction works in the state. The state government has spent Rs 1,883 crore for renovating roads that were damaged in consecutive floods. The government is giving utmost priority for the time-bound completion of all the infrastructure-development projects. The construction of roads spending Rs 950 crore allotted by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has reached its last leg. The government could able to make 98% of roads in the state motorable,” Vijayan said. The CM said his government could complete the construction of 9,530km of roads under public works department utilizing modern technologies. “At least 189 roads, which are reconstructed spending Rs 1,451 crore, will be opened for traffic within three months. The government will soon complete the construction of roads totalling 158km under Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP), 21 bridges including Vyttila and Kundanoor flyovers and KIIFB projects to the tune of Rs 671 crore. Kovalam-Bekal water way will soon be made operational,” the CM said. Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society has been entrusted for reconstructing AC Road. The 24.14-km road will be reconstructed spending Rs 671.66 crore and the new project will save the AC Road connecting Alappuzha and Kottayam from monsoon floods. The work under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative is aimed to be completed in 30 months. The detailed project report has been prepared in tune with the geography of Kuttanad. During every monsoon, the road remains submerged blocking traffic for 15 to 20 days. In 2018 floods, the road was under flood water completely, blocking traffic for two months. This new project was fashioned in order to solve these issues. As part of the project, 20.04km of the road will be raised and strengthened. The project also includes five flyovers, causeways, 13 minor bridges, drains, retaining walls, culverts, bus shelters and a host of road-safety features. Apart from that, three existing bridges at Kidangara, Nedumudi and Pallathuruthy will be widened. The Muttar bridge across the AC canal will be reconstructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-inaugurates-reconstruction-of-alappuzha-changanassery-road/articleshow/78626858.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Agra||Yogi Adityanath should apologise for resistance oppn faced on Hathras: Jayant Chaudhary||AGRA: The Rashtriya Lok Dal, led by party vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, organised a mahapanchayat in Mathura on Monday, the second since he and his workers were lathicharged by UP Police when they were on their way to meet the Hathras victim’s family. “It was decided at the mahapanchayat that another large rally will be organised in Bulandshahr on October 17 … Our aim is not to disrupt law and order. We had gone to Hathras to seek justice for the girl,” he said, adding that chief minister Yogi Adityanath should have apologised for the resistance opposition members met while going to Hathras. “This is not acceptable in a democracy.” Former MLA from Akali Dal Jagmeet Brar, MLA from INLD Abhay Chautala and former MP from Samajwadi Party Dharmendra Yadav were among those who attended the mahapanchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cm-should-apologise-for-resistance-oppn-faced-on-hathras-rld/articleshow/78626852.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||No end to worries: Covid-19 cases fall, but dengue on rise||LUDHIANA: Even as the Covid-19 cases are witnessing a fall, challenges for the authorities have not ended. The dengue cases are witnessing a jump and the number is higher than the previous year. As per the latest data of the health department, till October 11, suspected dengue cases in Ludhiana district were 978, of which 571 were confirmed ones. Ludhiana has 194 suspected and 115 confirmed cases from other districts of the state. As many as 28 suspected and 20 confirmed cases were from other states. With the addition of cases from outside, the total number of suspected cases is about 1,200 and the confirmed ones is 706. The data shows that Ludhiana urban has the highest number of confirmed dengue cases of 526, Koom Kalan has 15, Pakhowal 11, Sahnewal six, Payal four, Sudhar and Samrala have two each and Khanna, Raikot, Sidhwan Bet, Manupur, and Malaud have one each. Till October 11, Hathur, Machhiwara and Jagraon had no cases. As compared with the past two years, the number of confirmed cases till October 11 was highest this year, which was around 12 times of 44 cases reported in the corresponding period last year. The number in 2018 was 145. Sources in the health department said this year a large percentage of their manpower remained busy with Covid-19 duties, so they couldn’t dedicate much time to check dengue. They said with cases of Covid-19 dropping, the health department employees would now be deputed to check dengue. President of the Ludhiana chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Sunil Katyal said dengue cases witness an increase in alternate years and this year more serious patients were coming with significant fall in platelets, which was apparently because of mutations in the virus that causes the disease. Dr Katyal said both people and the government have a role in checking such cases, as cleanliness has to be maintained and water should not be allowed to stagnate. The government should ensure regular fogging and the department concerned should also create awareness among people by distributing pamphlets and installing boards at public places, he added. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they have taken steps to check the spread of dengue and besides municipal corporation, they have also constituted 18 teams, comprising two members each, including an assistant malaria officer (AMO), to check the disease. Health department officials said these teams were visiting each sub-division, besides they have divided the city into two parts and have deputed male supervisors and multipurpose health workers to monitor high-risk areas. The department’s anti-larvae workers, multipurpose health workers and mosquito breeding checkers have already been deputed to survey high-risk areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-end-to-worries-covid-19-cases-fall-but-dengue-on-rise/articleshow/78626861.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 13, 2020||Mysuru||State schools defer online mid-term exams||Mysuru: City-based private schools affiliated to the state board postponed online mid-term examinations scheduled to begin on Monday following directions of the department of public instruction (DPI). Classes conducted through digital platforms were also cancelled by the schools. They informed parents that the online classes scheduled till October 30 have been cancelled. However, CBSE and ICSE affiliated schools have continued the online interventions. According to the block education officers, the private unaided state syllabus schools have postponed examinations and deferred online classes. “The order was related to Vidyagama initiative, yet state board schools postponed the examinations and classes,” said a BEO. According to the school heads, a decision to this effect was taken as per the government directives. “In state schools, classes and exams have been postponed. However, all the activities are continuing in CBSE and CISCE schools,” said district representative of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS). R Manjunath Srivatsa, joint secretary, and legal cell head, the CBSE, ICSE & State Board Private School Managements Association (CISPMAM) said the online classes were conducted as per the schedule on Monday. “Several parents approached us seeking clarification on the issue. We will take a final decision on announcing the Dasara holidays for children in the next couple of days,” he said. “For Mysuru residents, Dasara is very special. So, it is tough to conduct classes or exams in any school during the festival season,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/state-schools-defer-online-mid-term-exams/articleshow/78628374.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||25-year-old rape accused flees Covid facility in Beed||AURANGABAD: A 25-year-old rape suspect, who tested positive for Covid-19 at the time of his arrest a week ago, escaped from a government hospital-cum-Covid Care Centre at Shirur taluka in Beed district during the wee hours of Monday. The centre had no police guard posted for keeping an eye on the suspect, who is a tribal from a hamlet in Shirur taluka, while he was undergoing treatment there. The police have since deployed various teams to trace the suspect. Beed’s superintendent of police R Raja told TOI, “Before being arrested in the rape case, the suspect was found to be positive for Covid-19 and had to be admitted to the Covid care centre. We were waiting for him to fully recover so that we could arrest and produce him before a special court (Pocso Act) for his custodial remand, but he fled.” Assistant inspector Suresh Khade, who is investigating the rape case, said, “The suspect was on the run ever since the registration of the offence and we somehow managed to detain him a week ago. Prior to his arrest, he was screened and found to be Covid-19 positive.” Khade cited the suspect’s medical reports and said, "He was responding well to the on-going treatment and was expected to be discharged in the next few days. Anticipating his arrest, the suspect left his bed around 4am on Monday on the pretext of answering nature's call and walked out of the ward, before fleeing from the government hospital.” Around a month ago, the suspect is alleged to have raped his 15-year-old niece while she was alone in her house in a neighbouring hamlet. Shirur police had then registered an offence of rape and under the provisions of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rape-suspect-flees-from-covid-centre-in-beed-soon-after-arrest/articleshow/78625728.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Medics welcome move to scrap curbs on single-doc clinics||KOLKATA: Physicians on Monday welcomed the Bengal government’s announcement of freeing single-doctor establishments (such as certain clinics) from several regulations under the Clinical Establishment Act, 2017. This came as a welcome change, especially for those who practice in low-income group areas. The biggest relief, doctors said, came after they were no longer mandatorily required to maintain a huge infrastructure for the establishments.  “It is not always possible for all the doctors to have huge infrastructure in place. It is particularly difficult for those who charge Rs 100-150 per patient. Therefore the neighbourhood doctors, especially those in low-income areas, had been hit hard. If they have to provide for a receptionist, the cost would automatically be passed on to the patients,” said Santanu Sen, state secretary of the Indian Medical Association. According to Subhasis Samanta, who has a clinic in the Girish Park area, this will reassure doctors. “Not all doctors can charge hefty fees. But their role is very crucial in providing health care to the marginalized sections,” Samanta said. The Clinical Establishment Act mandated that a public grievance cell must be maintained, apart from help desks. Implementation of e-prescriptions and maintenance of electronic medical records were also mandatory. “We had a series of meetings with the government, including with the CM, in which we highlighted the troubles of single-doctor establishments. These rules are good for the corporate set-up. But the norms were restricting other doctors from conducting ECG tests, or providing primary treatment, like stitches, to patients. Such investments are not feasible for neighbourhood clinics. This has now changed,” said Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors. The state government hopes that the move will facilitate better facilities for neighbourhood doctors. “The decision of the government will definitely help the practitioners to extend their services to the common people. This will have a better impact in the rural areas where well-equipped clinics are rare,” said Pinaki Dey, who has a chamber in Sinthee. Saurabh Ghosh, who opened his clinic in north Kolkata on Monday, said, “The clinic was closed due to the restrictions. But I opened it again on Monday as single-doctor establishments are now free of many restrictions. This is heartening for many such neighbourhood doctors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/medics-welcome-move-to-scrap-curbs-on-single-doc-clinics/articleshow/78629450.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Last year, vehicle-lifters struck the most in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana commissionerate of police (CP) registered maximum cases of auto/ motor vehicle thefts in Punjab in 2019, according to an official data. A total of 850 cases of vehicle theft under the police commissionerate constituted 25.9% of all such cases in the state last year. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report for 2019 suggests that the vehicle theft cases under the Ludhiana CP also saw an increase of 19% over the preceding year. In 2017, as many as 490 auto/ motor vehicle theft cases were reported under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana CP, which increased by 45% in 2018 to reach 711 and further to 850 cases in 2019. The data for the entire state shows that total 3,282 cases of auto/ motor vehicle theft were reported from different parts of Punjab during the same year, out of which maximum 850 were registered under the Ludhiana CP. With 500 cases, the Amritsar CP was at number two, followed by SAS Nagar with 301 cases. The other districts to report vehicle thefts were Patiala (241), Sangrur (185) and Bathinda (144). According to the Ludhiana police, in the majority of cases, it has been observed that vehicle-jackers steal vehicles and sell those in parts after dismantling it to get easy and risk-free money. However, some petty vehicle-jackers have been found to be drug addicts, who sell stolen two-wheelers to meet their need for drugs. Expensive vehicles and SUV cars are also sometimes used by criminals for executing crimes. An assistant commissioner of police said, “Criminals always use stolen vehicles or vehicles without registration number plates to execute crimes, like snatching, burglary and even firing. However, in the majority of cases, it is observed that the vehicles stolen are sold to scrap dealers, who dismantle them and make handsome profits. In some cases, bikes, scooters and cars are sold at throwaway prices, without documents, to poor people.” He added that the Ludhiana police has busted several such vehicle-lifting gangs and also arrested scrap dealers, who sold stolen vehicles or their parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/last-year-vehicle-lifters-struck-the-most-in-ludhiana/articleshow/78626877.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: A third of KMC health workers have antibodies||KOLKATA: Tests conducted on civic health employees revealed that nearly a third of them have developed antibodies against the novel coronavirus. Civic staffers, who underwent antibody tests, were mostly health workers or frontline Covid warriors who have been at the forefront of the fight against the dreaded virus. Hence, it isn’t surprising that some of them developed antibodies without their knowledge. What came as a surprise was the ratio of asymptomatic persons in the department’s workforce. “The serological survey (sero-survey in short) showed that several of our colleagues, who were asymptomatic, had the virus in their bodies. We need to take adequate precautions to ensure that physicians, who form the backbone of the Covid-task force, do not fall prey to the virus,” said a department official. The doctors who tested positive in the sero-survey chose not to undergo the confirmatory Covid-19 tests as they had no apparent symptoms. The decision to conduct the sero-survey was taken after it was found that the virus was rapidly spreading among members of the Covid task force. Senior physicians and the administrative staff were asked to be present at the headquarters 10 days ago to undergo the test. Of the 100 physicians and managerial staffers who underwent the test, traces of antibody were found in 30. “Presence of antibodies indicates that these people have contracted Covid-19, but their immune response had been able to fight it off without any major symptom. The more we have such people, the faster we can move towards herd immunity. A good immune response means that the virus will not be transmitted and will eventually die out bringing an end to the pandemic,” said AMRI Hospital consultant Debashish Saha. Among the senior KMC health department officials who tested positive for the antibodies were chief municipal health officer Soumitra Ghosh, deputy chief health officer Bibhakar Bhattacharya, and advisor to the civic body’s health department T K Mukherjee. While Ghosh and Bhattacharya tested positive for Covid-19, Mukherjee tested negative in the Covid antigen test. There were over half a dozen physicians and health workers who were not tested for Covid-19, despite testing positive in the sero-survey as they were asymptomatic. According to a KMC physician, officials were more worried about a repeat attack of the virus on its frontline Covid-19 health workers. “We have reasons to believe that a Covid-19 positive patient, who has developed an immunity against the virus, will not get infected for the next three-four months. Keeping this in mind, we shall conduct more antibody tests to determine the immunity status among the civic body’s health and conservancy staff who need to be protected against the virus,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-third-of-kmc-health-workers-have-antibodies/articleshow/78629459.cms||Saikat Ray
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Transporter loses Rs 14,000 to conman||LUDHIANA: A conman duped a transporter of Rs 14,000 in Jamalpur Colony on Monday morning. Harwinder Singh, 23, of Amritsar said in his police complaint, “I had come to Ludhiana to deliver goods at a shop in Jamalpur Colony. While the workers were unloading the vehicle, a man came out of the shop and asked workers to give me a glass of water. I thought he might be the shop owner or an employee. After collecting my payment, I was putting it in pocket when that man saw that I had cash with me. A few seconds later, he said he needed Rs 2,000 notes and would give me notes in denomination of Rs 500 in exchange. I agreed and gave him Rs 14,000. He then made a call to someone and said he was coming with the cash.” The man asked Harwinder to follow him. “He was on a two-wheeler and I in my pickup van. As I got stuck in a traffic jam, he escaped from there. I then returned to the shop and asked for the man. But the shop owner said he did not know him and he thought the man was with me,” he added. Moti Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur said, “We are looking into the case. Footage of CCTVs installed near the spot is being scanned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/transporter-loses-rs-14000-to-conman/articleshow/78626869.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||6 days on, 2 arrested for firing at man in Haibowal||LUDHIANA: The police on Monday claimed to have solved the October 6 Haibowal firing case, with the arrest of two. Three illegal country-made .315 bore pistols and seven live cartridges were recovered from the possession of Shubham Sonu, 19, of Civil City, Haibowal, and Gurwinderpal Singh, 20, of New Kundapuri. Six days ago, the duo had fired at Saurav Sharma, a resident of Thapar Colony, Haibowal, when he along with his friend was standing outside his house. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “Shubham and Gurwinderpal knew Saurav. About a year ago, Saurav had a fight with a friend of Shubham. At the time, Shubham had tried to pacify them, but Saurav thrashed him. After that Saurav would often make a mock of Shubham, which is why the latter held a grudge against him.” On October 6, Saurav along with his friend had gone to a gym. After returning home, Saurav was standing outside with his friend when the accused approached them. They asked Saurav to come along with them, but he refused. “About 15 days before the incident, the accused had procured three illegal weapons from Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh, for Rs 5,000 each. They planned to take Saurav along to an isolated place, thrash him and threaten him with a weapon. But when Saurav refused to go with them, Shubham opened fire at him. Suarav received a bullet injury in stomach,” the ADCP added. Saurav was admitted to a hospital and a case was registered under attempt to murder charge. Both the accused were unemployed. It was being checked if they had a criminal record. The condition of Saurav was stated to be stable, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-days-on-2-arrested-for-firing-at-man-in-haibowal/articleshow/78626892.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Rural police sign MoU with pvt hospitals to reserve 50 beds for personnel, kin||Aurangabad: Aurangabad rural police have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a private hospital to reserve 50 beds for police personnel and their families. It also covers the clerical staff and others directly employed under the superintendent of police’s office.Not completely relying on the already overburdened state health mechanism, this MoU was signed.Rural police have reported a total of 155 Covid cases among police personnel, out of which 148 have completely recovered. Six personnel are currently undergoing treatment while one has succumbed to the contagion. Mokshada Patil, the superintendent of police, said the move is aimed at assuring our police personnel that while performing their duties, they do not have to worry about the treatment, in case they get infected.Amid reports of private hospitals overcharging, the latest move has provided a major relief to the police personnel and their families as the treatment would be carried under Maharashtra Police Kutumbh Kalyan Yojana.An officer privy to the agreement said at the time of admission, an amount of Rs 10, 000 will have to be deposited for the expenses that are not covered under the police’s mega health insurance plan, which covers Covid-19 treatment.As per the agreement, the private hospital has agreed to charge police personnel and their families in accordance with the notification issued by the chief secretary of the health department.The private hospital has also agreed to arrange special drugs such as Remdesivir, as per availability for the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rural-police-sign-mou-with-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-50-beds-for-personnel-kin/articleshow/78625738.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Fishing harbours in Kerala to be under CCTVs||KOZHIKODE: Fishing harbours and fish landing centres in Kerala will soon come under camera surveillance as part of steps to curb violations of Kerala Marine Fisheries Regulation (KMRF) Act, including illegal practices like catching juvenile fish, use of fish aggregator devices etc. To start with CCTV cameras will be installed at Sakthikulangara, Vizhinjam and Ponnani fishing harbours. The department has sanctioned Rs 1.3 crore for deploying surveillance cameras at these three harbours. Department authorities said the project will cover other fishing harbours and fish landing centres in state in phases. “It will help in ensuring sustainable management of marine fishery resources and help us prevent violations of KMFR Act. Enhanced monitoring at harbours is vital especially since there have been increased instance of catching juvenile fish and it will also be able to ensure responsible harvest, post-harvest operations and hygienic handling of fish at harbours,” said a senior official at the department. While Rs 58 lakh was allotted for deployment of surveillance cameras at Ponnani harbour, Rs 42 lakh was earmarked for Sakthikulangara and Rs 35 lakh was set aside for Vizhinjam fishing harbour. Kerala Marine Fishing Regulation prescribe specific length and horsepower ratio for fishing vessels and also prohibit the use of certain type of fishing gear. It also prohibits use of aggregating devices made using spadix, husk, leaf or other plants parts, plastic materials or used nets. “Fisheries department is acutely understaffed with around 1,000 personnel to oversee the vast fishing operations along the long coastline. Bringing fishing harbours under CCTV surveillance will help in implementing the rules for sustainable fishery practices,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/states-fishing-harbours-to-come-under-cctv-surveillance/articleshow/78626901.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Goa||Cops bust IPL betting racket, 4 held||Panaji: Crime branch of Goa police arrested four persons from a flat in Taleigao for allegedly organising betting on IPL. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena said that on getting information about the betting racket, a crime branch team led by PI Dattaguru Sawant went to the flat and found four persons accepting IPL bets online. All the arrested are Chhattisgarh residents and were identified as Ranjot Singh Chabra, Sunil Motwani, Kapil Tolani and Vinay Gangwani, Saxena said. He said that the four were accepting bets from their clients in Chhattisgarh over phone. Several mobile phones have been seized. A laptop has also been seized along with other related articles, all worth around Rs 2 lakh. The SP said that the accused had taken bets close to Rs 50 lakh in the current season, when they were operating from Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-bust-ipl-betting-racket-4-held/articleshow/78629535.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 3 lives, infects 61||TNNLudhiana: Three patients from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 61 tested positive on Monday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 57-year-old woman of Bharat Nagar; a 77-year-old man of Dugri, Phase I, with diabetes and hypertension; and a 71-year-old man of New Subhash Nagar, who had diabetes and hypertension.The day also saw a patient from Jammu and Kashmir succumbing to the virus and 14 from outside the district testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll has increased to 802 and that of outsiders to 290.To date, 3,28,268 persons have been tested. Of the 61 positive cases from Ludhiana, 21 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), five positive cases’ contacts, 25 from OPD, one health-care worker, eight through tracing process, and one pre-operative case.The district case count now stands at 19,235 and that of outsiders at 2,489.So far, 17,983 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.49% of the total cases.There are 447 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,903.On Monday, 104 persons were home isolated and 3,806 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones installed at CMCH.Eleven patients, including six from Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-3-lives-infects-61/articleshow/78626884.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Agra||Agra: 54 more test positive for Covid-19, active cases now 589||AGRA: At least 54 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 6,419. The patients included two staffers of Bah community health centre, five suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, four of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Moreover, 50 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 6,419 cases reported in the district, 88.7% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 589 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,698 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/54-more-test-covid-ve-inagra-active-cases-now-589/articleshow/78625743.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu dalit forced to fall at thevar’s feet; seven booked||TUTICORIN: In another case of caste atrocity in TN, a dalit goatherd was forced to fall repeatedly at the feet of a thevar man in apology after they had an argument. The incident, which took place on October 8 at Olaikulam in Kayathar taluk in Tuticorin district, came to light after a video that was recorded by the perpetrators of the atrocity went viral on social media. On Monday, the Tuticorin police booked seven thevars under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Information Technology Act on a complaint from the goatherd, A Paulraj, 60. Four of the accused have been arrested and a search is on for the rest. In the video, the accused are seen asking Paulraj to fall at the feet of one of them and also threatening to slit his throat. Paulraj, who has four children, said he felt humiliated as the video was shared on social media and sought action against them. In his petition to Tuticorin superintendent of police S Jayakumar on Monday, Paulraj said the trouble started when one of his goats ran into the herd of Sangili Thevar of the same village. “He called me names and spoke ill of my caste and I shouted back at him. He went to the village and soon returned with his relatives. They abused me by my caste, made me fall at Sangili Thevar’s feet and also took a video,” Paulraj said. Police sources said preliminary inquiries revealed there was an altercation between Paulraj and Sangili Thevar and the former beat the latter on his head with a staff. Though the two then patched up, members of the thevar community were upset and made Paulraj come to the same place where he attacked Sangili Thevar and made him fall at his feet, police sources said. The Kovilpatti deputy superintendent has been asked to conduct a probe and submit a report within seven days. The police superintendent told TOI that a case was registered against seven people under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 294(b) (uttering obscenities in public), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, read with sections 3(i)(r), 3(i)(s) and 3(2)(v)a of The SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Section 66 of the IT Act.Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol Thirumavalavan shared a 10-second video of the atrocity and stated that such uncultured incidents were not confined to North India but happened in Tamil Nadu too. Two days ago, a dalit woman panchayat president had complained that she was made to sit on the floor during meetings of the local body in Cuddalore district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-dalit-forced-to-fall-at-thevars-feet-7-booked/articleshow/78628129.cms||M K Ananth
October 13, 2020||Agra||Agra becomes 9th most polluted city in India, AQI 283||AGRA: Air quality in Agra, which falls within the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), has worsened in the last 12 days. According to the latest central pollution control board (CPCB) report, air quality index (AQI) in the city, which stood at 150 on October 1, rose to 283 on October 12, taking it to the “poor” category. On Monday, Agra was the ninth most polluted city in the country (sixth in UP) with PM2.5 the prominent pollutant at 348 µg/m³ (microgram per cubic metre), considered hazardous to health by doctors. According to CPCB, “poor” AQI causes breathing discomfort in most people on prolonged exposure. TOI on Monday had reported an increase in number of patients with respiratory ailments visiting SN Medical College (SNMC).” According to sources, large-scale projects that violate NGT guidelines are running across the district. Environmentalist Dr Sharad Gupta said, “Construction activities that violate green norms are behind the explosive rise in PM2.5 in Agra. Construction and demolition (C&D) debris and building material should be covered for storage and transport. Other NGT guidelines should also be followed.” Bhuwan Prakash Yadav, regional officer, UPPCB, said, “Notices have been issued to NHAI, Agra Development Authority, AMC and Agra Smart City Private Limited for violation of NGT norms, and a report has been sent to the TTZ chairman for further action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-9th-most-polluted-city-in-india-aqi-283/articleshow/78625763.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 13, 2020||Goa||Fisheries dept moots using khazan lands for agriculture, aquaculture||Panaji: In a bid to make optimal use of the state’s khazan lands, the directorate of fisheries has recommended that the government take a policy decision to set aside fertile khazan lands for the development of agriculture and aquaculture zones. The directorate has contributed suggestions for the preparation of a draft khazan management plan. Khazan lands presently occupy nearly 18,500ha of area in the state, of which about 3,500ha are fallow and marshy. The directorate of fisheries has stated that all khazans are agricultural lands, most of which have turned marshy or have become mangrove-infested after being left unused for a considerable period of time. As most of these tracts are tenanted, they cannot be used for aquaculture. They are not considered to be economically feasible for agriculture either, and are therefore left fallow. “In order to make these idle lands productive and with a view to increase the state’s fish production, it is strongly recommended that the state take a policy decision to set aside these fertile khazan lands for developing zones for agriculture, aquaculture and other allied agricultural activities,” the directorate has stated. In a khazan system, the sea is connected to an inland riverine body through a sluice gate. Khazan lands are fragile and have sluice gates as the only protection against inundation by saline waters. Hence, bundhs and sluice gates are the most important component of a khazan system’s structure. “Khazan lands are generally used for growing paddy. Fishing using traditional methods is carried out in the ‘poeim’. However, the system of rice production and fish farming in Goa is now being reversed and fish farming is gaining importance as a major economic activity. Hence, many vested interests are involved in ‘fake breaching’ and keeping protective dykes (bunds) and sluice gates in poor condition,” the directorate of fisheries has said. It has called for the need to re-survey fertile and fallow areas to identify tracts that are continuously inundated with saline water and has suggested that submerged land lying fallow for an extended period of time may be earmarked to be promoted as areas for pisciculture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fisheries-dept-moots-using-khazan-lands-for-agriculture-aquaculture/articleshow/78629545.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Agra||CBI forensics team may visit Hathras crime spot today||AGRA: The CBI forensics team is likely to visit the victim’s family and crime spot on Tuesday after studying the case, which they took over from UP Police on Sunday. Family members will also be back in the village by then from Lucknow, where they went to appear in a court hearing, a police officer said. The probe is being headed by a DSP from the CBI’s Ghaziabad unit, Seema Pahuja. The CBI registered an FIR in Hathras with charges of gang-rape and murder on Sunday on the basis of the FIR registered at Chandpa police station by UP Police on September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-forensics-team-may-visit-hathras-crime-spot-today/articleshow/78625779.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM Pinarayi Vijayan declares Kerala’s public school sector ‘fully digital’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state’s general education sector is now ‘fully digital’, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan declared on Monday, claiming to have spruced up over 16,000 secondary and primary schools with hi-tech classrooms and labs for a whopping Rs 595 crore. The facelift for government and aided schools that were going through a rough patch over the years has accentuated the alternative development agenda of the ‘Left’ when governments across the world continue to withdraw from funding the public sector, the CM said while announcing completion of the ambitious project at a virtual meeting in which general education minister C Raveendranath and several other ministers participated. According to the CM, Kerala has become the first state in the country to achieve the distinction. Under the general education rejuvenation mission, one of the flagship projects of the LDF government, as many as 45,000 classrooms in 4,752 secondary schools have been upgraded to hi-tech classrooms. Similarly, 11,275 primary schools have been equipped with modern lab facilities. “Kerala has set models for the rest of the country and the world by scaling heights in several fronts such as general literacy. However, we lost the momentum somewhere and were not keeping pace with developments we once achieved in the sector. This is an attempt to fill that gap. The successful completion of the flagship project has ushered in unparalleled change. This is a collective victory. The sharp increase in the influx of students to government and aided schools in recent years is the result of this intervention. There is no reason why anyone should not be elated. By modernizing public schools, we want to ensure that quality education is accessible to all children, irrespective of their financial background,” Vijayan said. He said the cost of the project was brought down from the original estimate of Rs 793.5 crore to Rs 595 crore as a result of the selfless contribution of local bodies and people from all walks of life. “Public contribution to the project is Rs 1,365.5 crore. Apart from this, the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) saved at least Rs 3,000 crore by way of using free software for two lakh laptops distributed to schools as part of the project,” he said. Vijayan called for earnest efforts of the teaching community, which he said should shoulder the responsibility to maintain the momentum and change with the times by adopting technology-aided academic transactions. “The ongoing virtual classes through Victers television and online channels are not an alternative to physical classes. Given the spread of Covid-19, we are not in a position to say when exactly we could reopen schools. But schools would be opened at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-declares-states-public-school-sector-fully-digital/articleshow/78626940.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mysuru||KSRTC plans to merge Mys urban, rural divisions||Mysuru: Mysuru rural and urban divisions of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will be merged soon. KSRTC chairman M Chandrappa, who on Monday held a meeting with the division officials here, said a decision to this effect will be taken after discussing the matter at a meeting of the board of directors and senior officials after the assembly bypolls. “Around 2,000 employees are working in both the divisions. Excess staff will be redeployed where there is shortage after the completion of the merger process. The exercise will help the department save money,” he said, adding: “The divisions, with a collective fleet of 1,100 buses (700 in rural division), have suffered a loss of Rs 70 crore during the lockdown in the district. Across the state, KSRTC suffered Rs 1,600 crore loss. The transport corporation is now recovering the cost spent on diesel and other overheads through bus operations across the state.” Chandrappa thanked chief minister B S Yediyurappa for releasing Rs 1,385 crore for paying salaries to 1.2 lakh employees. “KSRTC will provide free bus passes to all registered construction workers across the state. The distribution will start in Mysuru district on a pilot basis, and this will benefit 61,111 workers in the district. Talks are on with labour department officials in this regard,” he said. Depending on patronage, inter-state bus services to Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu will be resumed, he added. Chandrappa said that Mysuru district will get 50 new buses soon. The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has sanctioned these buses at no cost. “Instructions have been given to the department officials to utilise these new buses — on a priority — wherever there is a demand,” he said. Speaking on coronavirus infection, Chandrappa said 47 employees, including drivers and conductors, have tested positive in Mysuru rural and urban divisions. Thirty of them have been cured, while three have died. The rest are undergoing treatment in the district, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ksrtc-plans-to-merge-mys-urban-rural-divisions/articleshow/78628574.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Agra||ED team in Mathura, to probe financial ‘links’ of 4 men held||AGRA: A four-member team of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) reached Mathura on Monday and sought permission from the chief judicial magistrate, Anju Rajput, to question the four men who had been arrested last week when they were on their way to Hathras. They face sedition and terror charges, and being part of an “internationally-funded” conspiracy to stoke caste riots. The permission had not come through at the time of filing the report. The four — journalist Siddique Kappan, civil services aspirant Masood Ahmad, PhD applicant Atikur Rahman and their driver Mohammad Aalam — had been arrested near the Maant toll plaza on the Yamuna Expressway when they were going to meet the Hathras victim’s family. “They are likely to be questioned about their foreign links and associates,” a senior police official said. The permission is likely to be granted on Tuesday morning. The four men have been jailed in a temporary prison, awaiting Covid-19 test results. The police had registered an FIR against them saying that a close examination of the “evidence” — six smartphones, a laptop and pamphlets of ‘Justice for Hathras victim’ — had “revealed that the men were going to Hathras to disrupt peace.” The police has also said they are associated with Islamic organisation, Popular Front of India, and its student wing, Campus Front of India. According to the FIR, the four are “associated with people who incite riots and disrupt peace … It has been learnt that they use foreign funds to create disharmony. The money was not collected by fair means and the website was used to incite violence.” The reference was to a single-page protest website set up in support of the Hathras victim. On Sunday, police teams from Mathura had left for Malappuram in Kerala, where the journalist is from, and the three districts in UP the three others are from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ed-team-in-mathura-to-probe-financial-links-of-4-men-held-on-way-to-hathras/articleshow/78625799.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM, opposition decry arrest of Fr Stan Swamy||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the arrest of Jesuit priest and rights activist Father Stan Swamy (83) by National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Ranchi, in connection with the Bhima Koregaon- Elgar Parishad case. Vijayan said that Swamy has been working in the midst of tribal community members for decades. He said that Swamy is recognized as a person who has been supporting the fight by tribesmen for land and forest rights and studying such issues in depth. The chief minister expressed concern over the difficulties that Swamy has to face, especially during the time of Covid-19. The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event held in 2017 in Pune, where provocative speeches were made leading to violence and agitation in Maharashtra. According to the supplementary chargesheet submitted by NIA in its special court in Mumbai, seven persons, including Stan Swamy, conspired with other accused persons to further the ideology of terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and abetted violence, brought in hatred, incited disaffection towards the government and promoted enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, caste and community. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also protested the arrest of Swamy. He said the government should make it clear what was the situation under which a senior citizen like him was arrested late on Thursday night. He said that it was inhuman on the part of the agencies that he was arrested despite his assurance that he would cooperate with the probe and appear for interrogation. He said that the instance is a classic example of state-sponsored terror. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran too echoed similar views. He said that tribesmen, dalits and rights activists are viewed as anti-nationals by the government that reject them (who are the real owners of the land) and award the land to quarry and mining mafia. He said that it has also to be noted that Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren and state government had opposed the arrest of Swamy. The Syro-Malankara Catholic Church also criticized the arrest. In a release, Major archbishop of Trivandrum Baselios Cardinal Cleemis said the arrest is a gross violation of human rights and an inhuman act. He said that in spite of his request to interrogate him through video conference, considering his age and Covid-19 situation, NIA rejected his plea. He said that Swamy has been working among the indigenous tribal populace for the past few decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-opposition-decry-arrest-of-fr-stan-swamy/articleshow/78626986.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Entry restricted, Belur Math to live-stream Puja||Kolkata: Ramakrishna Mission devotees will not be able to attend Durga Puja at Belur Math this year because of Covid-related restrictions. But the Mission will not keep devotees out of the celebrations and will allow them on the premises virtually. The entire process of the puja, right from Panchami to immersion, will be live-streamed on social media. After 19 years, there will be no pandal this time and the puja will be conducted inside the temple, just as Swami Vivekananda had started it 121 years ago. A link has already been created on YouTube, which anyone can click to enter the puja premises and follow the monks and pujaris through the paraphernalia. Details of each day’s puja has been provided there. The website of Belur Math will also broadcast the pujas. In fact, this will be a closer and clearer view with no one to obstruct vision, which sometimes becomes an issue with hundreds of devotees trying to get a view of the puja. This year, Belur Math will go back to the old way of the puja, which was started by Swami Vivekananda inside the temple 121 years ago. The puja was conducted that way for 102 years till the Mission started erecting pandals 19 years ago. “We will do everything that the puja demands, excepting for allowing devotees to attend physically to keep everybody safe. Almost 80% of our monks are over 60 years, 70% are over 80 and 10% over 90. We have to be extremely cautious,” said RKM general secretary Swami Suvirananda. Kumari Puja, which is a special attraction at Belur Math, will happen too. Five days before the puja, all those who will be part of the process will be tested for Covid. After they test negative, they will be quarantined. According to norms, the puja will start with Bodhan on Panchami, there will be Kalparambha on Shashti followed by Amantran and Adhivas. The timings for the Sandhya Arati on Saptami, Kumari Puja on Ashtami and Sandhi Puja, the yajna on Navami and finally the Visharjan on Dashami have been provided in the YouTube link. “We understand the emotions that are deeply entwined with Durga Puja at Belur Math and we don’t want our devotees to miss any bit of it. The telecasting arrangements should make everyone happy,” Swami Suvirananda added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/entry-restricted-belur-math-to-live-stream-puja/articleshow/78628194.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 13, 2020||Goa||FDA cracks whip on mobile kiosks, home-based food business||PANAJI: Following news reports on the issue of food items being sold from private cars operating as mobile kiosks and several complaints, the food and drugs administration (FDA) has directed operators of such kiosks to apply to the department for a licence under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, “to avoid punitive action”. In directions issued by the FDA director, Jyoti Sardesai, consumers have been advised to check for FSSAI licence or registration certificate before making purchases at mobile kiosks. “It is alleged that consumers are being put at risk as no appropriate food safety and hygiene norms are maintained during the sale,” the note read. The directive was further extended to home-based food business operators, fast food suppliers, tiffin suppliers, bakers, etc, operating from their homes without obtaining the registration certificate or licence under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, and marketing their items through social media platforms. “All such food business operators who are operating roadside eateries, food carts and vans, and home-based food business operators selling food articles without registration certificate or licence are required to operate their food businesses after obtaining the same and adhere to the sanitary and hygienic norms stipulated under the act,” the note read. In previous reports, TOI had written about people that have lost their livelihood due to the pandemic adopting alternative solutions by selling fresh fruits, vegetables or fish in the back compartment of their private vehicle. These vehicles are often found parked along roadsides in villages and towns across the state. The transport department recently ordered a crackdown on such mobile kiosks based on a complaint made by the Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) who deemed its operation illegal. This invited the ire of the locals who claimed to have with them the panchayat NOC to operate. Individual panchayats merely take down their details, identity proof, the place of vehicle parking for the trade and permit them to sell the food articles. “Consumers should also be vigilant and check for the FSSAI licence or registration number of these food business operators and in turn report such violations if noticed,” the note read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fda-cracks-whip-on-mobile-kiosks-home-based-food-biz/articleshow/78629554.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Agra||In 3 videos, Hathras girl said she was raped, strangled when she resisted||AGRA: At least thrice before she died, the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras had said she had been raped. “Zabardasti” is the word that recurs in all three videos TOI is in possession of, in which she repeats the same harrowing account. This is how they are, she had said, and they had attempted this before. In the first, a 48-second video shot on September 14, she is lying on the floor outside the Chandpa police station, flies hovering and ants crawling about her. “They strangled me,” she says. A man asks why. She hesitates. Asked again, she answers, “I didn’t let them force themselves on me.” The man asks again, “Why did they strangle you?” She repeats, “Because I resisted.” When asked if she has any other injuries, she sticks out her tongue, full of gashes. Read AlsoHathras victim’s family asks HC to shift case out of UPFamily members of the Hathras alleged gang rape case victim on Monday requested the high court to shift the case out of Uttar Pradesh. Appearing before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, the parents and siblings of the victim also said that their consent was not taken for her cremation.The second video, 46-second-long, was shot at the district hospital in Hathras the same day. She was first taken there. Lying on a bed, she is asked by a journalist — who hurt her? “Sandeep,” she answers. “Tongue. Strangled me,” she manages to say, explaining where she was injured. She is asked again, why? “Koi baat nahin (Nothing). I had gone to gather fodder. He dragged me inside, tried to force himself on me. When I resisted, he strangled me,” she says. The man asks her, “Kya koi ranjish chal rahi hai (is there a feud)?” Yes, she answers. Read AlsoCBI puts up FIR on its website, removes it within hoursNEW DELHI: Hours after putting the Hathras rape case FIR on its website, the CBI removed it sensing possible violation of a Supreme Court order that FIRs in cases of rape and sexual assault, including those against minors, should not be put in public domain by police. The agency, however, did notThe third, part of the statement she had given to the police on September 22, was at Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. In the 5-minute 17-second video, the girl goes over what had happened again. “I was raped. Ravi and Sandeep were in together … They had tried to rape me a month ago, but I had run away,” she says through an oxygen mask. “But that day, I was raped. The two raped me, the rest ran away when they saw my mother approach. I was partially conscious by then.” When she is asked if she has been pressured into saying she has been raped, she says, “Koi dabav nahin hai (there is no pressure). Woh log aise hi hain (that is how they are) … He should not be spared, he can do this again. He threatens me, goli se uda doonga.” Before her statement, the video begins with her mother’s narrative. “She was lying in the field, her salwar pulled down, her tongue cut. There were five people. I saw only three. I was in the field, a little further away. She was out of my sight,” she says. When asked if she saw her daughter dragged away, she answers, “When I could not see her around, I started looking. Then, three of them I saw. There was Sandeep. He’s the one who strangled her … There was Ravi and another guy.” A senior police officer said the videos, which surfaced later, are now part of the CBI investigation. “All angles are being looked into. The first FIR was registered on the basis of a written complaint … After the girl’s detailed statement on September 22, rape charges were added and the other three accused arrested,” the officer added. According to the police, on September 14, she was brought to the Chandpa police station at 10.30am, from where she was taken to the district hospital at Hathras and finally admitted to the Aligarh hospital at 2pm. There’s a fourth video. Of the crime spot, where the girl was allegedly raped and left in a near-dead state. Part of the millet crop is flattened. Just ahead, a heap of fodder lies on a sack, as if ready to be carried back home. A sickle lies next to it, and a blue slipper abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-3-videos-hathras-girl-said-she-was-raped-strangled-when-she-resisted/articleshow/78625815.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers yet to be paid for procurred grains, arhityas say govt yet to transfer||KHANNA: Even though the procurement is well on its way, farmers in Ludhiana, who are already protesting against the recently passed farm laws, are dealt with another blow. Arhityas are yet to transfer the payment to farmers, as they are yet to get the same from procurement agencies. According to cash credit limit (CCL) system, the procurement agencies take credit from banks after government nod and then transfer the money to the account of arhityas who then pay the farmers. The government then pays the money to procurement agencies who repay the banks for the credit taken by them. The arhityas alleged that the Union government has transferred the CCL to the state government, who is yet to transfer the money to them. “Since we have not yet got the payment, we are unable to transfer the same to bank accounts of farmers from whom we have procured paddy. I am unable to go to my shop, as farmers approach for payment but I don’t have it,” said Yadwinder Singh Libra, secretary Punjab Arhityas Association and general secretary of Khanna Arhityas Association. “None of the arhityas in Khanna grain market have received payment, we feel bad that we are unable to pay farmers from whom we have procured grain on September 26 after procurement started. Farmers are also upset as they need payment for preparing for next crop and have to buy seeds, DAP (fertiliser), fuel for farm operations and have to pay their labour as well,” he added. Arhitya association leader said Khanna mandi, considered to be largest grain market of Asia, has around 300 arhityas who procure 20 to 25 lakh quintals paddy crop from nearly 30,000 farmers in the area. He added that they get 2.5% commission for procurement for their efforts, which include cleaning of grain as well. Manjot Singh, an arhitya at Khanna mandi said last year they had got the payment within a day or two after procurement started but it is late this year. “We are having a hard time as we are yet to get payment for our crop. We have to buy seeds, diesel, fertilisers for the next crop. We request the government to release payment soon,” said Surjeet Singh, a farmer. Meanwhile food and supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said Rs 900 crore has been transferred and the amount for procurement, which is around Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000 crore will be transferred in the next few days. Confusion prevails While some farmers, who have got their account details uploaded on government portal, were told they will get money directly in their accounts, president of Khanna mandi, Harbans Singh Rosha said all farmers will get payment through arhityas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-yet-to-be-paid-for-procurred-grains-arhityas-say-govt-yet-to-transfer/articleshow/78628189.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Mandi Board secretary inspects grain markets of Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: To ensure smooth paddy procurement operations in the state mandis, Punjab Mandi Board Secretary Ravi Bhagat on Monday visited various mandis in Ludhiana district to take stock of the arrangements. He also interacted with farmers, commission agents (arhtiyas) and officials to enquire about their problems related to purchasing. After inspecting procurement arrangements in grain markets, including Khanna, Doraha and Sahnewal, Bhagat said in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, it was a challenging task to gear up for procurement of paddy but the procurement has been going smoothly — all mandis have handwash stations, space to avoid chaos, proper sanitisation. He said this time the mandis have also been increased from 1,872 to 4,260 so that farmers can sell their crop in a hassle-free manner. According to him, so far state mandis witnessed an arrival of 30 lakh MT paddy of which 90% crop has already been purchased. The secretary said in order to avoid chaos in mandis, pass system was introduced during the previous season, which is proving to be successful and so far a total of 10 lakh colour coded passes have been issued. He appealed to the farmers to bring produce within specifications of moisture content laid by government of India. Bhagat said procurement will continue till November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-mandi-board-secy-inspects-grain-markets-of-ludh/articleshow/78628202.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Brakes on 5 lakh trucks on first day of 72-hour strike||KOLKATA: At least 5 lakh trucks stopped plying on the first day of the 72-hour strike, claimed the Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators Association. The strike is feared take a toll on the supply line and push up prices of essential commodities. However, the transport department has found a partial impact of the strike reported in six districts — Jalpaiguri, Malda, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakshin Dinajpur, Nadia and Paschim Midnapore. In rest of the state, there has reportedly been no impact of the strike. Load and unloading activities were carried out normally in other districts, said Biswajit Dutta, director (transport and additional secretary) of the transport department. “The impact of the strike will be felt on the second or the third day. However, our strike is not meant to cause any impact or trouble to common people. It is to bring the plight of truck operators to the notice of the authority. We have been demanding to allow 25% extra weight and penalize trucks that are violating overloading norms,” said Sajal Ghosh, secretary of the federation. The five-point demands that led to the strike also include putting a stop to police “atrocities” and “harassment” by various RTOs and BLROs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brakes-on-5l-trucks-on-first-day-of-72-hour-strike/articleshow/78628228.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Many test negative, but CT scan shows Covid-scarred lungs||BHOPAL: Numerous patients are alive due to the active detection and diagnosis of Covid-19 by the Gandhi Medical College (GMC) via a CT-scan. While an increasing number of patients are testing negative for Covid-19, they present classical pneumonia-like symptoms, linked to Covid-19. “In as many as 20% of critical cases, RT-PCR was negative for Covid-19. The CT-scan presented a different diagnosis. We treat such patients as Covid-19 positive,” said a GMC consultant. Chest CT is used in the diagnosis of Covid-19 and is an important complement to the reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, he added. Some studies have indicated that “Chest CT has a high sensitivity for diagnosis of coronavirus disease. Chest CT may be considered as a primary tool for the current Covid-19 detection in epidemic areas”. Experts are pointing out the situation as a result of poor sample collection and too early or too delayed testing for Covid-19 of a patient. There can be errors in sampling. “70% RT-PCR test is true when a patient tested at an ideal time. Acute inflammation is another indication of Covid-19. Given the values of HRCT scores for both disease severity and viral clearance, a standardised HRCT score system for Covid-19 is usually high,” he added. A negative test comes as a relief to patient and family members. However, when some of these patients are not discharged, there have been adverse reactions from the patient’s family members. “People need to be counselled about the difference in CT-scan and RTPCR test. CT scan can detect the extent of viral load on day 5 of the infection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/many-test-ve-for-covid-but-ct-scan-reveals-pneumonia/articleshow/78627015.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||CBI court discharges oil company officials||Ahmedabad: A special CBI court has discharged 37 officials of different oil companies from Rs 1,300 crore High Speed Diesel (HSD) scam, which was busted two decades ago. The court last week discharged the officials who were working with the oil companies like IOCL, BPCL, HPCL and IBP. They were facing allegations of conspiracy as HSD meant for processing was diverted to open market in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra by wilful non-compliance of sales tax provisions and guidelines of Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) as laid down by the ministry of petroleum and natural gas. Through their act of omission, they had caused huge financial loss to the government exchequer. When the scam was busted, the Gujarat high court ordered CBI to investigate it and monitored the probe for two years thereafter till 58 chargesheets were filed in this case accusing the officials of indulging in corrupt practices. After the probe was over, CBI sought prosecution sanction from the central government, but it was denied. The probe agency then approached the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) for permission to prosecute the officials, but CVC also declined the permission. Some 15 years later, the officers approached CBI magisterial court claiming that they had acted in their official duties and had not obtained for themselves any valuable things or pecuniary advantage. Even the higher authority and the sanctioning authorities considered this case as of negligence and thought that minor penalty is sufficient. They contended that there was no case of corruption made out against them. They also contended that the competent authorities and the CVC had declined prosecution sanction after giving a proper thought to the case. In May 2019, the magisterial court had rejected the request to discharge these officials with observation that the offence committed by these officials did not require prosecution sanction at all, and that they cannot be discharged without taking evidence. The officers approached the sessions court, which was of the opinion that “even if there is any mistake, negligence or any loss to the government exchequer is caused, is not because of any criminal intention or act but it is purely negligent act in performing official duty” of these employees. Only because some private persons diverted HSD in the open market and caused loss to the government exchequer, the officials cannot be dragged into criminal offence instead of making appropriate departmental proceedings against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cbi-court-discharges-oil-company-officials/articleshow/78628218.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||75-year-old retired railway officer commits suicide||AHMEDABAD: A 75-year-old man, a resident of South Bopal, on Monday evening committed suicide by jumping off the 11th floor of his apartment building, ostensibly because he had been suffering from a mental ailment for a long period of time, Bopal police officials said. Inspector D B Mehta of Bopal police said the incident occurred at around 5pm on Sunday jumped from the fire exit staircase of the apartment building. “The deceased, Kailashchandra Bhasin, was a retired railway officer and lived at Aarohi Elysium in South Bopal. He was living with his wife, his son, who works for a private firm, and daughter-in-law,” said Mehta. Mehta said the exact reason for his suicide was not known but his family members told cops that he was suffering from diabetes and had been taking medication for depression, which may have led him to commit suicide. “Before his death, he sat with family members for some time in the evening and then went out. As he was quite calm, no one realised what he was about to do. After a while, they heard a noise from the fire exit area and as his family members rushed there, they found that he had jumped off,” said Mehta. An ambulance was called and paramedics declared him dead. Bopal police later reached the spot and began legal proceedings. His body was sent for a postmortem, said Mehta. Mehta said a case of accidental death has been registered and an investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/75-year-old-retired-railway-officer-commits-suicide/articleshow/78628248.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sriram appears in court; secures bail||Thiruvananthapuram: IAS officer Sriram Venkitaraman – who is the prime accused in a drunken driving case that led to the death of journalist K M Basheer – appeared before the judicial magistrate court on Monday and was granted bail after the chargesheet filed in the case was read out to him. Sriram, who is currently the joint secretary in the health department, was served notice by the court twice earlier, but he had not appeared before the court. The court then gave an ultimatum to the officer to appear on Monday. The co-accused in the case, Wafa Feroz, had appeared before the court earlier and had secured bail. The court observed that the charge under IPC Section 304 (2), for rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide will hold against Sriram. The case will be handed over to sessions court for trial. Both Sriram and Wafa were asked to appear on October 27 when the court will consider the case. Proceedings to transfer the case to the sessions court will be initiated. The incident happened on August 3, 2019, when the speeding car driven by Sriram Venkitaraman with Wafa Feroz as the co-passenger, hit the bike of KM Basheer on the Museum-Vellayambalam stretch in the capital. Basheer was killed in the accident. Though witnesses said that the officer was in an inebriated state, the procedure lapses on the part of the police immediately after the accident went in favour of the officer, as the presence of alcohol in the blood could not be proven scientifically. Meanwhile, the departmental inquiry against the officer has currently been put on hold as the criminal proceedings against the officer is progressing. According to sources, the inquiry report against him has been temporarily put on hold as further decisions can only be taken on the basis of the decision of the court. "If the court finds him guilty, it will reflect appropriately in the disciplinary action against him. So, the disciplinary action against the officer cannot be closed at present," sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sriram-appears-in-court-secures-bail/articleshow/78627057.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Double-deckers to be back with Puja Parikrama duty in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Two double-decker buses, which will be inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday, will initially be used for ‘Puja Parikrama’. They will then be used for a city tour. The buses will be maintained and operated by the West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation (WBTDC). Though originally bought by West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), the buses were transferred to WBTDC following the decision at the highest level in the government. The drivers and conductors, however, will be supplied by WBTC. “We have thought of engaging the buses in Puja Parikrama before they are used for city tours on a long-term basis. However, everything will be decided tomorrow after the inauguration. The CM’s advice and instruction will be sought for its optimum use,” said a WBTDC officer. These buses, which have CCTV cameras and panic buttons as the latest safety features, were built by Jamshedpur-based BEBCO. In 2005, the Left Front government had scrapped the fuel-guzzler double-deckers. But after coming to power, Mamata Banerjee wanted to revive the city’s lost icon. However, the transport department found that double-deckers being manufactured by Ashok Leyland don’t comply with the emission standard. Thereafter, WBTC got the design approved by the Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT). The future of double-deckers hinges on the successful trial run of these two buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/double-deckers-to-be-back-with-puja-parikrama-duty/articleshow/78629566.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Area-specific traffic plans in cop focus||KOLKATA: Top police officers of the central division met on Monday to work out the crowd circulation plan for Durga Puja. They are chalking out traffic plans keeping CR Avenue in mind as this road is expected to bear the maximum pressure. In south, the stretch between Rashbehari crossing-Gariahat and New Alipore will remain the prime focus. For north, the Sovabazar-Ahiritola-Kumartli-Bagbazar axis remains crucial. The biggest change will be near Md Ali Park where most people are expected to converge. “Kaizer Street, which was used local train passengers, will remain mostly free this year. We expect the usual movement between Md Ali Park and College Square. But the crowd may then opt either for Hatibagan or return to CR Avenue to head towards Chorbagan or Sovabazar. That will mean a lot of cross movement in the area,” said an officer. Regarding setting up of stalls, the cops ideally do not want stalls in and around pandals. “But we have left it to the local police to negotiate. In any case, only food stalls will be allowed this year as an exception,” said an officer. Police said they will also be in touch with Metro Railways to know about e-pass bookings. “This will help us plan the crowd circulation better this year,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/area-specific-traffic-plans-in-cop-focus/articleshow/78628260.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to step up Covid surveillance in view of festive season||HYDERABAD: With the festive season round the corner, Telangana’s health authorities are gearing up for stricter surveillance to curb the spread of Covid-19.  Apart from urging people to be extra caution, it plans to ramp up monitoring of fever cases across districts and set tight targets for per day testing. The preparation also comes in the wake of neighbouring Kerala witnessing a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases recently – it recorded over 11,700 positive cases in a single day on Sunday – after keeping the virus under control for months. Local officials attributed the jump to the influx of people from Gulf countries, in view of Onam. “To avoid a Kerala-like situation, it is important that we have a stronger monitoring mechanism in place. Beginning next week there’s a slew of festivals -- Bathukamma, Navratri, Durga Puja, Dasara and Diwali – coming up in Telangana,” said an official of the state health department. He added: “Since Bathukamma and Dasara are celebrated on a large scale across districts, surveillance is being stepped up in districts. Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM) and Asha workers too have been asked to conduct regular checks for fever and other Covid-related symptoms. In the city, while there is no official announcement about the festivities being permitted or not, appeals are being made to people to avoid all gatherings.” Experts said, masks and social distancing will be key to keeping a surge in new cases at bay.  “Though we saved ourselves from a surge during Ganesh Puja and Muharram season, there is every possibility that we witness a second wave in the future. Therefore, it is all the more important to wear masks, frequently wash hands and maintain social distance at all times. People should try not to go to public places and shop online to avoid what happened in Kerala,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, general secretary, Indian Medical Association, Telangana State.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-step-up-covid-surveillance-in-view-of-festive-season/articleshow/78628256.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 13, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP councillor sits on protest outside mayor’s office||Ludhiana: Raising allegations against indifferent attitude of the civic officials towards ward number 57, BJP councillor Manju Aggarwal sat on protest outside mayor’s office at zone D on Monday. Her husband and former councillor Inder Aggarwal and BJP leader Deepak Sharma also participated in the protest. They sat outside mayor Balkar Sandhu’s office for 15 to 20 minutes. Mayor persuaded them to end the protest after assuring them to get the job done on priority. Earlier, BJP leader Inder said residents of ward number 57 were getting poor service as its councillor was from the opposition party. The sewerage system and road gulleys in the ward were in bad condition, he said. “The employees are not sent for repair work and if employees come they neither have sand or cement and even for patch work. We have been requesting the officials for the last two years. But every time they come up with excuses like ‘we do not have road roller’,” added Inder. He said they understand that the municipal corporation was in deep financial crisis and it was difficult to construct new roads. “But repair should be done on priority,” he insisted. The mayor assured the councillor and her husband that there was no partiality shown towards or against any ward and that he will look into their demands. Later in the evening patch work was started in the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-councillor-sits-on-protest-outside-mayors-office/articleshow/78628252.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents yet again protest over condition of Rahon road||LUDHIANA: On Monday, once again the residents of Jain Colony staged a protest, furious over the condition of Rahon Road. The workers of Bahujan Samaj Party also participated in the protest against the civic officials. Later, the protesters were given assurances by the police and municipal corporation (MC) officials. The protesters alleged that the MC officials and elected representatives are claiming to improve the condition of the road for more than three months, but instead of showing any improvement it is deteriorating every passing day. Due to stagnant water, commuters face the risk of accidents. Superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell of MC, Rajinder Singh said work to lay new sewer line at Rahon Road is complete and now they are connecting it to main line, which is a cumbersome task. He claimed that in next 10 to 15 days problem of water stagnation at Rahon Road will come to end. He said the process to construct new road has also started. Earlier too, the residents had protested against the condition of road, after which the authorties assured immediate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-yet-again-protest-over-condition-of-rahon-road/articleshow/78628245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||India||Activists stage protest, call for Stan Swamy’s release||PATNA: Demanding immediate release of Stan Swamy, who was arrested in Ranchi by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Bhima Koregaon incident, social activists under the banner of “Lok Tantrik Jan Pehal” staged a protest near Buddha Smriti Park here on Monday. Around 300 social activists from different communities participated in the protest, which was led by social worker and Catholic nun Sudha Varghese. Varghese said they demand immediate release of Swamy, a Jesuit priest, who spent almost three decades of his life identifying himself with the Adivasi people and their struggle. “We believe that the Bhima Koregaon case is baseless. The NIA can’t send innocent people to jail. It is against their human rights,” she said. Patna Archbishop William D’Souza SJ also extended his support for release of Swamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/activists-stage-protest-call-for-stan-swamys-release/articleshow/78630493.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records lowest one-day Covid-19 case count since July 18||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,224 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,58,591. This is the lowest single-day case total in the last 85 days after July 18 when 3,963 cases were registered. The aggregate toll increased to 6,256 as 32 more people succumbed to the pandemic on Monday. As many as 5,504 patients were declared cured. There are currently 43,983 active cases with 7,08,712 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 93 percent. East Godavari recorded 547 new cases on Monday. Other than East Godavari, all other districts posted fewer than 500 cases. Krishna district reported the lowest case total of the day of 86 new infections. There were less than 200 cases in seven districts on Monday. All districts achieved at least 90 percent recovery rate with Kurnool leading the table with 97% recovery rate. Of the 32 deaths reported on Monday, five each are from Krishna and Prakasam, four each from Guntur and Kadapa, three each from Anantapur and East Godavari, two each from Chittoor and West Godavari, and one each from Kurnool, Nellore, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam. AP conducted 61,112 tests on Monday and detected 3,224 cases, reflecting a case positivity rate of 5.2%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 11.4%. The mortality rate remained at 0.82%. The average daily infections, which hovered around 8,000 to 10,000 throughout August and till the fourth week of September, came down to 6,000 range in the last few weeks, leading to a significant improvement in the recovery rate as well as case positivity rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-lowest-one-day-case-count-since-july-18/articleshow/78626906.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||New-age high BP therapy cures man||Kolkata: A 55-year-old city resident has undergone renal denervation therapy (RDT), touted as the first such case in the country. RDT is a technology that helps in treatment of uncontrolled hypertension. The patient is doing well at AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria.The technology uses a catheter inserted into the patient’s body through the groin area. Then ablation method is used to paralyse the nerves, using radio frequencies. Once the nerves are paralysed, blood pressure reduces and ensures that resistant hypertension is mitigated. “The therapy helps in preventing strokes, heart attacks and atrial fibrillation. It even brings down the need for anti-hypertension medicines,” said P K Hazra, interventional cardiologist who conducted the procedure. “This is the first time it has been performed in the Indian subcontinent,” said Hazra.The patient, Amarendra Das, has been suffering from uncontrolled hypertension despite three medications. Also a diabetic, he had undergone surgery for two heart attacks earlier and had stents implanted. After the RDT, his blood pressure is under control. “I am feeling quite well after the therapy,” said Das.“We are confident that such technologies will help us add quality of life to patients” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals.Mahender Pala, the hospital unit head said, “We are proud to have hosted this path-breaking procedure at our unit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-age-high-bp-therapy-cures-man/articleshow/78629570.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Depression slows fish business at Vizag harbour||VISAKHAPATNAM: The depression since Sunday afternoon has hit business at the Visakhapatnam harbour on Monday. Incessant rain and a lack of fresh sea fish has resulted in significantly lower footfalls of traders and wholesalers at the harbour. Fishermen and boat owners said that the situation is likely to worsen as there is a forecast for another depression on October 14. “Following an SOS, around 4,500 boats at sea started returning since Sunday afternoon. Their catches too have been low. To add to that, incessant rainfall since Sunday evening has made the Monday fish market slow. Sales on Monday were negligible,” District Fishermen’s Youth Welfare Associtation secretary, Arijili Dasu told TOI. Fish traders and boat owners claimed that if the forecast for October 14 was to come true, it would take another ten days or more for conditions to return to normal. This is because the boats can only go back to sea after both depressions are over and it would take another three to seven days for the boats to come back with their catch. “Till then, we would only be selling fish that are in storage at the harbour. However, without proper storage facilities, the amount of stored fish is also quite low. Moreover, wholesalers and traders don’t prefer buying such fish,” said K Alleya, a boat owner. Monday morning saw only a few stalls operating at the harbour and their sales were low. “My boat was scheduled to return on Tuesday but it returned on Sunday afternoon after the depression forecast. Despite the catch being low, we were unable to sell all of it on Monday,” said S Raju, another boat owner. Meanwhile, people from the fishing community have assured that the problem will not have a big impact on the price of fish. “If fresh supplies are not available for ten days, we don’t see any major effect of prices of fish. Moreover, there has been no major impact on fishermen because of this depression. Only a few boats have suffered minor damages across the district,” added Dasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/depression-slows-fish-biz-at-vizag-harbour/articleshow/78626733.cms||Arpit Basu
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Continue with the alternate quarantine rule: Junior doctors to Telangana minister||HYDERABAD: After the state health authorities issued orders to cancel the alternate week quarantine rule in government hospitals, junior doctors have appealed to health minister Eatala Rajender to continue the rule or it will result in closure of several departments. The quarantine rule was imposed to cut down infections and have a buffer staff to fill in the place of doctors who test positive for coronavirus. But as per the new orders, all doctors, including professors and assistant professors, have to be present in hospitals in full strength. “We the Junior Doctors Association would like to bring to your notice that there is still an increase in Covid-19 cases and so far 297 post graduates and resident doctors have been infected. If the alternate week quarantine rule is not in place, there is a high chance of cross infection which may lead to a sudden shut down of all departments at the hospital,” stated the Osmania Telangana Junior Doctors Association in its representation to the minister. “When there was alternate week quarantine rule, many doctors got affected. Imagine how many will get affected if the rule is scrapped. Moreover, at the Osmania General Hospital, we have such congested wards that if doctors turn up in full strength there will not be enough space to do rounds. In such a scenario, the infection will spread faster,” said Dr P Rohith, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/continue-with-the-alternate-quarantine-rule-jr-docs-to-min/articleshow/78628272.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: After sudden rejig, wait gets longer for those eyeing berths||BENGALURU: The sudden cabinet reshuffle by chief minister BS Yediyurappa has virtually ended the hopes of a long list of ministerial aspirants. “The message is that the cabinet expansion may not happen soon. It also indicates the CM may not get the nod of the party leadership in Delhi for it. We’ll wait for another month and then decide the course of action,’’ said former minister MTB Nagaraj, who has been waiting to become minister since June last week when he was nominated to the legislative council. Two fellow Kuraba leaders, R Shankar and AH Viswanath, reportedly got Yediyurappa’s word about ministerial berths for their efforts to install the BJP government. They along with other 14 MLAs had quit JD(S)-Congress last year. The high command has also kept N Munirathna on tenterhooks as he wants to contest Rajajareswari Nagar assembly polls on a BJP ticket. Despite repeated reminders from Yediyurappa, there was no clarity about the BJP nominee. The heartburn for the Yediyurappa camp is that CT Ravi, identified with the rival camp, has been elevated to national general secretary and given in-charge of southern states including Karnataka. Ravi’s resignation as cabinet minister post has not yet been accepted by the high command, indicating that the one-man, one post norm will not be applicable for him. He continues as tourism minister. “It’s the chief minister’s prerogative to accept or reject a minister’s resignation. In this case, the chief minister has been kept out of the process. I don’t know how long we can tolerate this,” said an MLA in the Yediyurappa camp. Adding to the anxiety of the CM’s camp are rumblings about the possibility of top-to-bottom change in the government after the assembly bypolls in November. Following the ongoing bypolls, another set of bypolls is expected as two assembly seats — Maski and Basavakalyana —and Belagavi Lok Sabha seat are vacant. While there are indications of change of guard in in December or January, Yediyurappa loyalists are contemplating all means to put pressure on the high command with a message that they take Yediyurappa lightly only at their peril. Parallel to the hectic lobbying within the party, a section of leaders is actively consolidating various communities in favour of Yediyurappa. BJP leaders, however, deny any fissures and hope the confusion about cabinet expansion will soon be settled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-sudden-rejig-wait-gets-longer-for-those-eyein-berths/articleshow/78627931.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Six from Howrah to take NEET 2nd phase, none from Kolkata so far||KOLKATA: Six candidates from Howrah, who had suffered from Covid and were unable to write their NEET (UG) exam on September 13, will be allowed to appear for the second phase of the test that is being conducted across the country on Wednesday by the National Testing Agency (NTA) in keeping with the Supreme Court’s directive. NEET results are slated to be declared on Friday. While the NTA has asked the co-ordinator for Howrah to make arrangements for candidates who appealed for a re-test, the two co-ordinators in Kolkata have not been told whether they will have to arrange the second phase test for anyone. The North 24 Parganas co-ordinator too has not received any call from NTA about conducting the second phase of the test. The two city co-ordinators look after 68 NEET centres while Howrah has 16 centres. However, in Howrah, all the six candidates will have to write the test from one centre, Asian International School. Since it is a question of just six candidates, the NTA wants a centralised exam following elaborate safety protocols. Guidelines for the test will reach the Howrah co-ordinator by Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-from-howrah-to-take-neet-2nd-phase-none-from-kol-so-far/articleshow/78628275.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA to develop roads to connect Vizag suburbs||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government has accorded its administrative sanction to the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) to develop four master plan roads at a cost of around Rs 47 crore. These new roads will connect various suburbs of Vizag city to the main city. However, the VMRDA would have to spend funds from its own account for these roads. The VMRDA commissioner earlier furnished proposals to the state government for the formation of these roads. Explaining the growth potential in these areas and fast transforming suburbs, the metropolitan commissioner in his proposals mentioned that these roads would play an important role in the development of all areas located around the city. According to VMRDA officials, the existing road from Bheemili police station to Tagarapuvalasa would be widened to a 150-feet master plan road at a cost of Rs 17.3 crore. The VMRDA’s master plan roads would be usually limited to a maximum of around 80 to 100 feet. But the 150-feet road was proposed to match up with the growth phenomenon taking place around Bheemili and Anandapuram. The key offices of the executive capital, once branched out to Visakhapatnam, may also come up in these surroundings. Another master plan road would be laid from Pedamushidiwada junction to Tri-Junction, where the district administration and VMRDA pooled hundreds of acres of land for distribution of one-cent plots for the homeless. The tri-Junction is an intersection of five villages of Gajuwaka, Sabbavaram and Parawada mandals. The new road would be laid at a cost of around Rs 14.5 crore. The VMRDA would also take up widening and improvements to the existing road from Kottavalasa cabin gate to Sabbavaram national highway junction with Rs 9.7 crore. Another 80-feet master plan road would connect the Revenue Nagar road to the national highway passing through the city. According to the estimates, the road would cost about Rs 5.55 crore. VMRDA officials informed that they would soon go for tenders for these four new roads. In recent times, the VMRDA has already embarked on construction of several master plan roads in various parts of the city and these are under various phases of development, including the one passing through the Visakha Valley School and another master plan road from Law College to beach road. The existing 20-feet road near Visakha Valley School is being extended to 60 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-to-develop-roads-to-connect-vizag-suburbs/articleshow/78627205.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||Congress won max seats from Gwalior region, but ignored it: Jyotiraditya Scindia||BHOPAL: In a scathing attack on Congress and its regional leaders in MP, BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia said the party got the maximum seats in the 2018 assembly elections from Gwalior-Chambal region, but it neglected the elected representatives and the region. Addressing a poll rally in Shadora mandal of Ashoknagar assembly constituency on Monday, Scindia said, “Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh gave nothing to the people. Instead, the Congress stalled development of the region and neglected the local public representatives. This has now turned out into a battle for the honour of the entire Gwalior region." “They made Vallabh Bhawan (state secretariat) a den of corruption and the failure of their promises resulted into the fall of the government.” Scindia attacked Congress for its failure on promises made to the public and said that BJP will carry on with the development works stalled by the previous Congress government. He said his aim in life is to serve people and be in the hearts of the public and the party workers. He said Congress government in MP fell due to its failure to keep promises made to the public. Now the contest has turned into a battle for honour. "My life's goal is not the red beacon, but if I can make even a small place in the heart of the people and workers of my region, I will consider my life successful. Worker needs only honour, identity and self-respect. I have always been trying to get these things to every worker," said Scindia addressing a poll rally in Shadora mandal of Ashoknagar assembly constituency. Scindia also reached the residence of cabinet minister Mahendra Singh Sisodia to condole the demise of his mother. Meanwhile, the BJP has announced to launch digital chariots on October 13 for all assembly constituencies. The chariots will be launched by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state party president VD Sharma to reach the 28 assembly constituencies with the achievements of the central and state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-won-max-seats-from-gwalior-region-but-ignored-it-scindia/articleshow/78627062.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Hand over hosps if you can’t run them, Delhi govt tells corporations||NEW DELHI: The urban development (UD) department of Delhi government has written to the three municipal corporations that they may consider handing over their hospitals to the state government if they can’t pay salaries and are facing difficulties in running these facilities. In a letter addressed to the three corporation commissioners on Monday, the additional director (local bodies) of the UD department raised concerns regarding the non-payment of salaries, wages and other dues to doctors, paramedical and other staff working at the Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals. According to the letter, the corporations should clear the salaries and, in case they can’t, “they may consider handing over their hospitals to Delhi government to avoid any further anguish to medical, paramedical and other staff and inconveniences to patients/relatives/citizens of Delhi during the ongoing Covid pandemic”. The resident doctors and nurses of Hindu Rao Hospital have gone on strike since Sunday for regularisation of salary payment after North Delhi Municipal Corporation failed to clear their dues. “The situation has led to inconvenience and improper treatment of Covid patients” who had to be shifted from Hindu Rao Hospital to Lok Nayak Hospital of Delhi government for continuing medical care, UD minister Satyendar Jain said. Jain, who is also the health minister, said “it is evident that the corporations are finding difficulty in properly running their hospitals, which has led to anguish among doctors and paramedical staff and inconvenience to patients/relatives/citizens of Delhi during the pandemic and treatment of non-Covid ailments”. Referring to the release of funds, the letter stated that under the recommendations of the Fifth Delhi Finance Commission, the first and second instalments of the basic tax assignment by the UD department and the grant-in-aid by the health and education departments had already been released to the municipal corporations by Delhi government for the financial year 2020-21. “The corporations have to ensure sufficient provisioning of funds to pay the salaries for the frontline health workers in their hospitals during the Covid pandemic,” the letter added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hand-over-hosps-if-you-cant-run-them-govt-tells-corpns/articleshow/78628299.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh switch over to virtual convocations||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 pandemic, which abruptly ended the 2019-20 academic year, also opened up new horizons for educational institutions. After these institutions swiftly embraced the technology for the online classes and remote learning, it is now the turn of virtual convocation ceremonies. Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, several universities started switching over to virtual convocations for this year, replacing the conventional in-person ceremonies. A Visakhapatnam-based Deemed to be University decided to hold the convocation in a virtual mode next month, while a private university, which has a campus in Amaravati, celebrated the graduation ceremony in online mode last week. The Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), whose first batch came out this year, is also planning to opt for an online convocation ceremony. As was already happening, the state universities, which are in the midst of conducting final exams, are likely to opt for a combined convocation next year. Even though the graduating students will miss out the usual grandeur, celebration and physical experience of the in-person ceremonies, the educational institutions have no option other than moving to these virtual events, considering the safety and health of the students and their parents as well as the faculty and other employees. Speaking to ToI, Gitam Deemed be University Vice-Chancellor Prof K Sivaramakrishna said that convocation is a special moment in the life of a graduating student. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the convocation this year would be a virtual one. We have already issued the notification inviting the students to register their names for participating in the virtual convocation. The convocation committee will work out the details on holding the virtual event on November 7 to make it a memorable event for the students. We expect that around 3,000 students will participate in the virtual convocation,” said Prof Sivaramakrishna. Director, Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy, Prof VSRK Prasad, said that the recently graduated students already joined their jobs. “We are also planning to conduct an online convocation ceremony due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Prof Prasad. The state universities for several years are conducting combined convocations and they may go the same way this year due to the prevailing pandemic situation. For instance, Andhra University held its 85th and 86th combined convocation in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/edu-institutions-in-state-switch-over-to-virtual-convocations/articleshow/78627226.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ammonium nitrate cargo halted at Vizag port trust||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police and revenue departments have issued notices to Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) not to allow berthing of ships carrying ammonium nitrate. An attempt to berth MV Kraszewski carrying 20,041 tonnes of ammonium nitrate and unload cargo was halted by city police. The revenue issued notices under section 133 for maintenance of tranquillity in the port area while police enforced orders under CrPC section-144. The action comes in wake of the explosions that took place at Beirut port on August 5 where the blasts were caused due to ammonium nitrate. The move aims to enforce precautionary measures to safeguard human life and property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ammonium-nitrate-cargo-halted-at-vpt/articleshow/78627251.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tamarind tree axed for Sirimanotsavam in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: Authorities of Pydithalli temple, local leaders and devotees have axed a tree for Sirimanu of Pydithalli festival (Sirimanotsavam), the major folk festival of Vizianagaram town, which will be held on October 27. The tamarind tree for Sirimanu was identified at Balarampuram village, near Bheemasingi under Jami mandal. Locals believe the presiding deity appears in the dream of the temple priest and indicates where the tree is located for the ‘Sirimanu’. On Monday, Pydithalli temple priest Bantupalli Venkata Rao and others offered pujas at the tree following which Venkata Rao formally gave the go-ahead for felling the tree. Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar and other political leaders participated in the ceremony. While shifting the trunk from the village to Vizianagaram town, a bullock cart was damaged and another cart had to be used. The historic Sirimanotsavam at Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple is going to be a low-key affair this time in tune with restrictions on movement of devotees owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tamarind-tree-axed-for-sirimanotsavam-in-vzm/articleshow/78627013.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Man immolates self near collectorate at Anantapur||TIRUPATI: A man poured petrol and set himself ablaze while bystanders watched near the district collectorate at Anantapur on Monday. Though police immediately rushed him to the government general hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. N Rajasekhar Reddy (40), a resident of Gugudu village in Narpala mandal, reached the district collectorate to submit a representation during the Spandana programme. Moments before the programme was supposed to begin, Rajasekhar Reddy poured petrol over himself and set himself ablaze. District collector Gandham Chandrudu ordered a probe into the incident and sought a report from the DRDA project director. Following an enquiry, it emerged that N Rajasekhar Reddy’s mother N Rama Lakshmi and wife N Rukmini were members of a women self-help group (SHG) at Gugudu village. “Though the self-help group was disbursed Rs 5 lakh by the government, Rama Lakshmi did not avail her loan share of Rs 50,000. Another member C Lakshmi Devi in the group availed Rama Lakshmi’s loan share amount and was duly repaying her in installments. On September 11, the state government disbursed Rs 40,133 to the group, out of which Rs 4,000 was disbursed among the group members who availed loans,” the DRDA project director reported to the collector. “While this was the case, the deceased N Rajasekhar Reddy demanded C Lakshmi Devi give him his mother’s share of Rs 4,000 disbursed under the Asara scheme in September. But Lakshmi Devi refused, citing that Asara scheme disbursement was meant to benefit only those who availed loans. Unable to take the refusal, N Rajasekhar Reddy took the extreme step,” stated the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-immolates-self-near-collectorate/articleshow/78627160.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 13, 2020||Amaravati||Cotton farmers fear crop loss as rains continue||AMARAVATI: Continued rainfall in the cotton-growing areas of Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts will damage the quality of the cotton flower, worry cultivators, whose fears have been raised following rains lashing the region. A large number of farmers took up cotton cultivation this season keeping in view the high price is fetched last season and the early arrival of the monsoon. Area under cultivation went up nearly 25%, touching six lakh acres, up from four lakh acres last year. The crop is now about to reach the picking stage. While abundant rains in the first three months of the season helped farmers in upland areas cut down cultivation costs, heavy rain in the last leg will damage the prospects of a good yield. Farmers have also been expecting a high yield as the crop withstood the impact of the pink bollworm, which destroyed yield in the last two years, and other pests. “There were no big winds throughout the crop season this year which might have largely saved the farmers from the spread of pink bollworm,” said agriculture scientist Praveen Kumar. With markets started slowly returning to normal, there were expectations of high demand. While the price of cotton also depends on the quality of kapas, growers are afraid that heavy rains might not only damage the quality of kapas but also lead to discolouration, and loss of sheen and a low price. “It is really frightening to witness rains in the last weeks of the picking season. We are praying that our yields are not washed away,” said K Saradhi, a tenant farmer from Atchampet village in Guntur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cotton-farmers-fear-crop-loss-as-rains-continue/articleshow/78626775.cms||Samdani MN
October 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: B Sriramulu sulks over change in portfolio||BENGALURU: Unhappy over the sudden change in portfolio, newly appointed social welfare minister B Sriramulu is reportedly in two minds about accepting his new role. On Sunday, K Sudhakar replaced him as health minister. Sriramulu, who met Yediyurappa immediately after the notification on change of his portfolio was issued on Monday morning, conveyed his displeasure and took off for a secluded place, leaving behind his office vehicle. Sriramulu later held discussions with his close associates over the next course of action and is even contemplating going to Delhi to meet the BJP central leadership, party sources said. Sriramulu, who has time and again expressed his deputy chief ministerial ambitions, has been sulking because of the timing of the move. According to sources, he is worried that the abrupt change would cast aspersions on his capability and image as it has come amid rising Covid-19 cases inthe state. Further, he is also upset over the decision to take away the backward classes welfare department from him. ‘It will damage my reputation’ “I’m okay with any portfolio. But I’m not happy about the timing of the development. The change will damage my reputation and make people believe that I’m a failure as a health minister, which is unacceptable,” Sriramulu reportedly told the chief minister. The minister is also said to have taken objection to handing over the ministry to Sudhakar, claiming the latter has utterly failed as Covid-19 in-charge in Bengaluru city. “The Covid-19 daily caseload has touched 5,000 from 1,000 from the time Sudhakar took over as Bengaluru in-charge. This proves he has completely failed,” Sriramulu reportedly told the CM. On his part, Yediyurappa tried to convince Sriramulu that the decision to divest him of the health ministry was taken by the party high command and he had no role in it. Many senior leaders and his cabinet colleagues also tried to convince Sriramulu not to take any hasty decision. It is being said that Yediyurappa has invited the sulking ST strongman for another round of meeting on Tuesday morning, during which he might offer to return the backward classes welfare portfolio to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sriramulu-sulks-over-portfolio-change/articleshow/78627893.cms||Anil Gejji
October 13, 2020||Hubballi||Experts highlight need for long-term solutions to prevent extreme-floods in state||Hubballi: That the climate was anything but normal in North Karnataka in 2019 is a given, but meteorological data helps quantify the deviation from the normal pattern. The annual report of the Jal Shakti Ministry indicates that of the 33 extreme flood situations reported across nine states of India between May 1 and December 31, 2019, Karnataka registered the highest at 13, followed by Kerala (five), Maharashtra (four), Bihar and Rajasthan (three each), Tamil Nadu (two), while Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh each recorded one such extreme condition. An extreme flood is declared when the highest recorded flood level is breached. Citing the Union ministry report, experts have urged the state government to put in place systems to prevent recurrence of such disasters. Convener of Krishna Teera Mulugade Kshemabhivruddhi Samsthe GC Muttaladinni cited the failure of the agencies concerned to draw up a comprehensive disaster management plan before and during the construction of dams for the crisis that the vulnerable regions were currently grappling with. “The ill-planned construction of dams is bound to lead to a flood-like situation, regardless of the region. For instance, the outgoing capacity at the Hipparagi Barrage in Bagalkot is much too less, and the entire design needs to be changed. The height of the Chikka Padasalagi Barrage was raised but the consequences of this action not studied properly. The government is washing its hands off all responsibility by blaming encroachment for the whole mess. But encroachment accounts for only 10% of the problem when such disasters occur, whereas it is the lack of a comprehensive strategy that is primarily responsible for natural cum man-made disasters,” Muttaladinni said. An official who retired as the superintendent engineer from the irrigation department rued the lack of importance accorded to flood management by successive state governments. “This was why the submission of the report by the Wadnere Committee in Maharashtra triggered a political controversy in 2007. Instead of focussing on the long-term issue, which is to do with the mismanagement of dams, politicians are concerned only as to what happens during their tenure of five years,” the retired engineer said. An IAS officer, who served as deputy commissioner of a district in the Krishna basin, highlighted the ned for an inter-state flood management authority that involves effective coordination between the states involved and the central government. Another engineer, currently working on devising policy in the government, lamented the lack of initiative among the elected representatives to mitigate the damage caused by floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/experts-highlight-need-for-long-term-solutions-to-prevent-extreme-floods-in-state/articleshow/78626440.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Booze worth Rs 20 lakh found hidden in apple boxes||Ahmedabad: Sola police seized 2,700 liquor bottles, worth Rs 20 lakh, concealed in boxes of Kashmiri apples in a truck near Vaishnodevi Circle on SG Road in the wee hours of Monday. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said they got an input that four persons were moving with a liquor-laden truck on SG Road and a police team intercepted it near Vaishnodevi Circle at around 3am on Monday. The cops came across the truck, which was apparently laden with apple boxes, and was carrying four men. They stopped the truck and began searching it. Initially, they did not find anything but the apples from Kashmir. When they asked the four men about the consignment, they told police that they had apple boxes which they were to deliver to a trader in Bhavnagar. As police continued to check the boxes, and after removing about six boxes, the cops found there were some 225 boxes containing IMFL (Indian-made foreign liquor). Jadeja said the accused — Barkatkhan Sindhi, 25; Taharkhan Sindhi 25; Fotakhan Sindhi, 22, and Lakshmansinh Rajput, 22, all residents of Konara village in Barmer district of Rajasthan — were to park the liquor-laden truck in the parking lot of a hotel in Viramgam. They were not even aware of who was to get delivery of the liquor. They were just given a number which they were supposed to call once they reached the Viramgam hotel. Jadeja said they were booked under the Gujarat Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/booze-worth-rs-20-lakh-found-hidden-in-apple-boxes/articleshow/78628268.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Doctors fear rise in bacterial and microbial infections||VISAKHAPATNAM: Medical experts are now waiting to see the impact of seasonal changes on the coronavirus. Given the novelty of the infection, not much data is currently available. However, doctors pointed out that given the prevailing weather conditions in wake of the depression, lower temperatures and rains, the public has to exercise extreme caution as various bacterial and microbial infections are rampant under such conditions. They said that there needs to be a differential diagnosis between such diseases and Covid-19 as their symptoms are similar. “It has been observed that usually after heavy rains, a number of cases of bacterial leptospirosis are reported. Even bacterial scrub typhus, dengue cases or various types of flu occur more during and after the rainy season. Most of these ailments have common symptoms such as fever, chills, muscle ache, fatigue, breathlessness and it is easy to confuse these with (symptoms of) Covid-19,” said pulmonologist and civil surgeon at Government ESI Hospital, Dr Phanender Ketha. “The treatment modality of Covid-19 and dengue are totally different as one (Covid-19) needs anti-coagulants while the other (dengue) often needs blood (platelet) transfusion and therefore through proper testing, differential diagnosis must be done to avoid confusion with Covid-19,” Dr Ketha said. Meanwhile, Covid-19 nodal officer for north coastal Andhra Pradesh, Dr PV Sudhakar, is of the opinion that the incessant rain and cyclonic weather currently prevalent in Visakhapatnam and surrounding districts may bring down Covid-19 cases in the region. “Due to the frequent rains and squally winds since the last few days, most people will be staying home. There would hardly be any outdoor congregations or public events. Therefore chances of coronavirus infection will be less,” Dr Sudhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/docs-fear-rise-in-bacterial-and-microbial-infections/articleshow/78626983.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two minor girls sexually assaulted in Duvvada||VISAKHAPATNAM: In yet another incident of crimes against minors, two girls were allegedly sexually assaulted by two men at a shed under Duvvada police station limits in Vizag city. While the incident took place on Saturday night, it only came to light on Monday morning when the survivors along with their parents lodged a complaint against the accused. According to police, a 25-year-old from Autonagar area had befriended one of the minors, a 14-year-old from Gajuwaka. He introduced the girl and her friend, around 15-years-old, to his friend who is believed to be around 26. On the pretext of taking a long ride, the two men took the girls on their bikes to beaches and other places before going to an empty shed where the two allegedly sexually assaulted the girls. The girls narrated the incident to their parent on Sunday. Based on their complaint, Duvvada inspector K Lakshmi registered a case against the accused. The case was transferred to Disha police station for investigation. Disha inspector G Nirmala said that preliminary investigation pointed to rape. The accused, who are absconding, have been been booked under IPC section 376 and relevant sections of Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-minor-girls-sexually-assaulted-in-duvvada/articleshow/78626784.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Municipal Corporation conducts workshop for ragpickers||LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation (MC) in association with a Delhi-based company organised a training and awareness workshop for waste pickers at the conference hall of LMC Zone D office on Monday. About 115 waste-pickers attended the event and were all given safety tools like caps, gloves, masks, safety jackets and shoes. Mayor Balkar Singh said they were also given tips on efficient collection and segregation of waste that can enable them to get better prices for their efforts. They also got guidelines on how to stay safe from the current Covid-19 threat while carrying out their day-to-day work. The event concluded with a quiz for the participants. MC commissioner Pradeep Kumar Sabharwal and joint commissioner Swati Tiwana were among those present on the occasion. Delhi-based Gem Enviro is engaged in plastic waste management since 2013 and making efforts to formalise the collection chain to increase rate of collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-conducts-workshop-for-ragpickers/articleshow/78628266.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||To hell with modesty. I am bold, beautiful and daring: Khushbu Sundar||From the DMK to the Congress and now the BJP, Khushbu Sundar’s decade-old political career is pockmarked with controversies. But every time she was dragged into a political pothole, the gutsy and ambitious actor-politician managed to hold her own. In an interview with Jaya Menon and J Shanmughasundaram, the actor spoke about unpleasant experiences, lessons learned and the start of a new phase.Q: Why did you quit the Congress? In your letter you said you were "pushed and pressured". Can you elaborate?I don’t want to elaborate. I quit because I was not happy with the way the party was functioning. The Congress party has changed, people have changed, and the ideas of the party have changed. Q: Were you not convinced by assurances that the party would take care of your grievance and give you more responsibility?They are talking about giving me responsibilities after four years? For four years I have been telling them how local party leaders were treating me. You don’t wake up suddenly… That’s what they said when (Jyotiraditya) Scindia quit. Q: The PCC chief has said you were a water droplet on a lotus and merely an actress and not a leader and there would be no impact on the party. Comment?This is the kind of misogynistic remarks I have put up with. I may be merely an actor. But, the TNCC president K S Alalgiri is an unknown face. I draw crowds. Alagiri can’t. This is the attitude they have against women who are intelligent and eloquent. To hell with modesty. I am bold, I am beautiful, and I am daring. Q: When did you begin talks with the BJP? Have you met PM Narendra Modi yet?No, I haven’t met Modiji. But my idea to quit the Congress was taken in February. Among the many reasons, there was an incident when the party wanted me to address the media on an issue. I was denied permission to hold the press meet at the party headquarters (in Chennai). The then party president was never pulled up for behaving in such a manner. Q: Today, you said you have only "changed parties" but not your ideology. What is your ideology?My ideology is serving people and working for the nation. People say I am an opportunist. But I have not bargained for any party post. There have been compulsions to toe the party line. Q: Is the BJP secular? Has the party changed your definition of secularism?My stance on secularism has not changed. I joined the BJP because I see a change in my understanding of the party. The Congress takes up the cause of Muslims. Does that mean they are against the Hindus? It is the same for the BJP. 1/5BJP welcomes Khushbu Sundar at Chennai office Previous NextShow CaptionsQ: You said there are no corruption charges against the BJP. But you have been a vocal critic of Modi and his government.Yes, I am not going to deny that. I have posted several tweets and I can’t say it was my Twitter admin. When I was in the Congress, the moment I supported the Triple Talaq law or when I congratulated Modiji, there were problems. But I don’t oppose for the sake of opposing. It is the duty of the opposition not only to oppose but to find a solution to a problem. Q: When you took part in a protest on October 6, you criticised Modi. What changed your mind within five days?Nothing has changed. I have my ideas, but I was under compulsion to attend party meetings and heed to the directions of the high command. I will show loyalty to the party I belong to till the last minute. It is high time the Congress introspects on why there is a distance between the party and the people. The Congress does not have a chance to be in the opposition, let alone in the ruling dispensation. Q: You have expressed you views on unprotected sex and religious practices that are in stark contrast to the BJP. Do you stick to your stand?I have never changed my stand. Knowing me, the BJP would have thought 20,000 times before inducting me into the party. Q: Being an outspoken person, will you continue to raise your voice against the wrongdoings of the government?I don’t see wrongdoing. I am here in this party as I trust them implicitly. Let something happen and you will see. Q: You have moved from two parties – you joined the DMK in 2010 and then the Congress in 2014. There was talk then that you did not get along with M K Stalin. Is that true?I have never indulged in mudslinging and I don’t intend to. I had supreme respect for ‘Kalaignar’ (former DMK president M Karunanidhi). He knew why I quit. But I will never make it public. I still have some amazing friends in DMK and the Congress. Q:You have been accused of being a political opportunist within the BJP. Your comment?I am joining the party only today. There will be people in the BJP who may have reservations. That is bound to happen. I don’t blame them. It is alright. Q: Recently TN BJP leadership embraced Periyar. It was not opposed by many within the party. Will you continue to support Periyar?He fought for the empowerment and equal rights of women and the marginalised. I was in Congress for six years and Periyar was against Congress, but I remained a Periyarist and never changed my beliefs. I will continue to embrace Periyar. Q: The BJP government is accused of taking an anti-Tamil stand and tries to impose Hindi? Your views? We love to isolate Tamil Nadu from the rest of the country and who is responsible for that? It is the MPs who belong to opposition parties who raise these issues. Poet Bharathiyar, who was fond of Tamil, was a multi-linguist. I got an opportunity to learn multiple languages and as a mother, I want my children to learn many languages. There is no imposition of Hindi or any language. Watch Actor Khushbu Sundar joins Bharatiya Janata Party, hours after quitting Congress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/to-hell-with-modesty-i-am-bold-beautiful-and-daring/articleshow/78630257.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
October 13, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Judge me by work of 15 years and vote, Nitish Kumar urges voters||PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar on Monday called upon the people to give him one more opportunity to serve the state if they liked his works in the last three terms. He appealed to the voters to judge him on the works done in the last 15 years. Launching his party’s election campaign by addressing the electors of 11 assembly constituencies through the JD(U)’s dedicated digital platform, Nitish said, “In democracy, aap malik hain (you are the master). If you did not like our work, then you have the right to take your decision. But I promise you more development works in each area of the state and progress of all sections of the society.” Nitish also reiterated he would not compromise on the issues of corruption, crime and communalism. Making a veiled attack without taking the name of the opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Nitish said, “I tell you they want to divide the society. But I work for unity among all sections of the society. I want an atmosphere of love and social harmony in the society. Some people talk only. They have no interest in development works.” In an indirect attack on the RJD’s first family and its chief Lalu Prasad, Nitish said, “For me, people of entire Bihar is my family. But for others, the family is limited to only husband, wife, sons and daughters. Some people take decisions only in the interest of their personal family.” Nitish also called upon the electors to be aware of a particular person’s (read Tejashwi Yadav’s) promise of providing 10 lakh jobs at his first cabinet meeting. Without taking any name, he said, “You (electors) should find out how many meetings of the state cabinet used to take place during their (Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi) 15-year rule. The cabinet ministers had no respect in their regime. Maximum decisions during that period used to be taken “in anticipation of cabinet decisions”. Nitish also said, “Serving people is my religion. I always work with the motto of ‘development with justice’. But other people are trying to create confusion in the society by spreading lies.” Referring to the ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’, the JD(U) chief further asked people to consider his future plans for Bihar before deciding to vote. Earlier, in his 60-minute speech, Nitish talked in detail about the schemes and programmes to be undertaken under the ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’. “If you take a decision about your vote on the basis of the works, it will go in the larger interest of the state and the country,” the CM said. While recounting his government’s works done for the poor families during the Covid-19 epidemic and the help provided by the Centre under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, Nitish said the state government did its work in the best possible way and the Centre also cooperated by providing necessary assistance to the families below the poverty line (BPL). “The Centre helped us in the road sector, construction of medical colleges and provided free LPG connections to the BPL families under the Ujjwala Yojana. The Centre also provided free refilling of LPG cylinders for three months to poor families,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/judge-me-by-work-of-15-years-and-vote-nitish-urges-voters/articleshow/78628300.cms||Madan Kumar
October 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Safety and upkeep of hi-tech devices have authorities in fix||KOCHI: Even as thousands of digital devices such as laptops, projectors and DSLR cameras have been handed over to government and aided schools as part of the school and lab modernization project of the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), the uncertainty over reopening the institutions is raising concerns about their safety. Principals and headmasters say that besides the threat of theft in schools that remain closed, the task of regularly maintaining gadgets is an additional responsibility. Moreover, many schools are now entrusting teachers with the responsibility to charge devices like laptops and DSLR cameras to ensure battery life. Each hi-tech classroom is equipped with a laptop, ceiling-mounted multimedia projector, HDMI cables and faceplates, whiteboard / projection screen, speakers, high-speed broadband internet and access to Samagra resource portal. The IT labs feature laptops, sound systems and multifunction printers. In addition, each school has been provided with a 43” LED TV, Full HD webcam and DSLR camera. “If schools were open, the handling and safekeeping of gadgets would have proceeded systematically. Now, teachers take turns to come to school once in a while to maintain the gadgets. Laptops and cameras are charged once a week. We have dismounted all the projectors and locked them safely in a room,” said the principal of a higher secondary school in Ernakulam. KITE has already issued a circular regarding the safekeeping and handling of ICT gadgets in closed schools during lockdown. The organization’s district-level coordinators have constituted a team to regularly inspect their use and handling. “There were one or two thefts reported in Malappuram where projectors and speakers went missing from classrooms. We have directed school heads to ensure their safe keeping. The main challenge is to keep the gadgets in working order through regular maintenance,” a senior KITE official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/safety-and-upkeep-of-hi-tech-devices-have-authorities-in-fix/articleshow/78627098.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Are you fudging coronavirus death figures? HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC on Monday asked state government as to how Covid-19 death toll had remained constant at 10 per day in the past six months despite manifold increase in testing and more number of positive cases reported all over the state in the same period. It asked the government to provide a comparative data of Covid-19 in other states by November 16. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of PILs on Covid-19 tests, treatment and health infrastructure in the state and grilled both advocate general BS Prasad and public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao. The judges directed the government to collect data pertaining to Covid-19 tests, treatment and deaths in Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi during the same period and juxtapose those figures with that of Telangana’s figures and provide a comparative picture by November 16. “This will clearly show how death figures are fudged here,” the judges said. “You (government) will then wonder whether lord Yama Dharma has issued a stay order on deaths here,” the judges said in a sarcastic tone. The judges were also critical towards government when Kowturu Pavan Kumar, representing one of the petitioners, told the state was causing a double jeopardy by diverting health staff for uploading property details on Dharani website. “The crowds at Dharani activity is one danger and reduced health staff is another,” he said. At this, the judges directed the government not to divert health staff for non-health duties. Kruthi Kalaga, another counsel, urged the judges to direct the government to increase availability of non-invasive mechanical ventilation equipment at Covid-19 hospitals to help those struggling with breathlessness. Judges directed the health authorities to increase the number of helpline phone facilities. Taking note of the points raised by another counsel Qazi Salar Masood Aatif, judges asked government to explain why Telangana has only 62 Covid designated hospitals when neighbouring AP has 581 and Tamil Nadu has 1,259. They did not agree with the argument of Dr Srinivasa Rao that they were unable to get people for testing on holidays, leading to a dip in tests on certain days, and directed him to ensure more number of tests on all days. Responding to another plea by counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar, they asked the government to submit disaster management plans at state and district levels. Prasad said the government had increased the testing and strengthened the infrastructure. The case was adjourned to November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/are-you-fudging-coronavirus-death-figures-hc-to-t/articleshow/78628281.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Judge me by work of 15 years and vote, Nitish Kumar urges voters||PATNA: Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar on Monday called upon the people to give him one more opportunity to serve the state if they liked his works in the last three terms. He appealed to the voters to judge him on the works done in the last 15 years. Launching his party’s election campaign by addressing the electors of 11 assembly constituencies through the JD(U)’s dedicated digital platform, Nitish said, “In democracy, aap malik hain (you are the master). If you did not like our work, then you have the right to take your decision. But I promise you more development works in each area of the state and progress of all sections of the society.” Nitish also reiterated he would not compromise on the issues of corruption, crime and communalism. Making a veiled attack without taking the name of the opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Nitish said, “I tell you they want to divide the society. But I work for unity among all sections of the society. I want an atmosphere of love and social harmony in the society. Some people talk only. They have no interest in development works.” In an indirect attack on the RJD’s first family and its chief Lalu Prasad, Nitish said, “For me, people of entire Bihar is my family. But for others, the family is limited to only husband, wife, sons and daughters. Some people take decisions only in the interest of their personal family.” Nitish also called upon the electors to be aware of a particular person’s (read Tejashwi Yadav’s) promise of providing 10 lakh jobs at his first cabinet meeting. Without taking any name, he said, “You (electors) should find out how many meetings of the state cabinet used to take place during their (Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi) 15-year rule. The cabinet ministers had no respect in their regime. Maximum decisions during that period used to be taken “in anticipation of cabinet decisions”. Nitish also said, “Serving people is my religion. I always work with the motto of ‘development with justice’. But other people are trying to create confusion in the society by spreading lies.” Referring to the ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’, the JD(U) chief further asked people to consider his future plans for Bihar before deciding to vote. Earlier, in his 60-minute speech, Nitish talked in detail about the schemes and programmes to be undertaken under the ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’. “If you take a decision about your vote on the basis of the works, it will go in the larger interest of the state and the country,” the CM said. While recounting his government’s works done for the poor families during the Covid-19 epidemic and the help provided by the Centre under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, Nitish said the state government did its work in the best possible way and the Centre also cooperated by providing necessary assistance to the families below the poverty line (BPL). “The Centre helped us in the road sector, construction of medical colleges and provided free LPG connections to the BPL families under the Ujjwala Yojana. The Centre also provided free refilling of LPG cylinders for three months to poor families,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/judge-me-by-work-of-15-years-and-vote-nitish-urges-voters/articleshow/78631157.cms||Madan Kumar
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal airport stands fifth in customer satisfaction survey||BHOPAL: With the efforts of a dedicated team, Raja Bhoj airport of Bhopal has secured overall fifth position in the customer satisfaction survey (CSS). Airports Authority of India (AAI) issued the index on Sunday wherein Bhopal airport jumped 12 positions in the January-June survey. Bhopal was at the seventeenth position in the past survey conducted in July-December 2019. Another airport of MP, Khajuraho, secured the sixth position. The city airport’s points increased due to improved parking facilities, safety check-in time and catering facilities. Bhopal airport ranked better than Ranchi, Agartala, Gaya, Surat, Khajuraho, Vijayaawada and Tirupati airports. The CSS for round 1 (January to June) could be conducted for only 17 airports before the Covid lockdown. The overall Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) of 17 airports was 4.47 on a scale of 5 points. Bhopal airport secured 4.62, which is 0.06 points better than the previous survey conducted in July-December 2019. AAI releases the report every six months based on 33 parameters, including customer satisfaction scales like parking and restaurant facilities, check-in-staff’s efficiency and other infrastructure. Bhopal had secured 4.52 points in July-December 2019, which was 0.02 points better than the previous survey, which was conducted in 2018 (July-December). Bhopal airport director Anil Vikram said that securing 5th place means a lot to every employee in AAI. “I think the collective efforts and sincerity has made it possible for us. Our employees were on their toes from the day flights resumed from May 25. Whether it was lockdown or not, each employee always gives his/her best, which is proved in the latest survey,” said Vikram. Resuming the air services with only 348 passengers’ footfall per day in the last week of May, Bhopal airport has now garnered a footfall of 1,415. Bhopal is gradually improving its connectivity with other cities also. As of now, Bhopal is connected with Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kolkata. A couple of more cities are to be connected next month. Passenger movement at the airport could be also gauged from the fact that 76,799 passengers have travelled from Bhopal airport in the past four months. The airport director said that the movement of the passengers is encouraging. “This is a very positive sign. We are hoping that with the connectivity of more cities, the passenger footfall will be even better in the near future,” said Vikram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-airport-stands-5th-in-customer-satisfaction-survey/articleshow/78627094.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Daughter happily married, father alleged confinement||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has imposed fine of Rs 25,000 on a man who was seeking his daughter’s custody on allegations that she was forcibly detained, though he was very much aware that she was happily married to a next-door neighbour. A bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Nirzar Desai fined the person for filing a wrong habeas corpus petition with observation, “...when an attempt is made by the litigant to misuse such powers by patently false averments and calculated maneuvering, with the sole objective to get the desired result by misleading the Court, the same would warrant stringent response.” After asking the man to deposit the amount, the HC ordered the registry to pay the money to his daughter. In this case, the petitioner’s 23-year-old daughter chose to marry her neighbour against his will. He gave a missing complaint. His daughter went to the police station along with her husband and recorded her statement. The father too was present there. He also gave his statement accepting her marriage. The petitioner later filed an FIR against his daughter and her in-laws accusing them of theft of valuables. He also filed a habeas corpus petition accusing his son-in-law of illegally confining his daughter. When the HC came to know about the reality, it observed, “This is nothing but a hurt ego and an apparent vindictiveness of parents who are unable to come to the terms that their daughter aged 23, though legally capable, accomplished and matured, can choose her life partner without parents’ expressed consent !!” The judges further said, “It is an irony that the education and advanced age of children would enable them to be successful and proficient in all other walks of life, but in the realm of matrimony, their ‘immaturity and inefficiency’ would persist till there is a stamp of approval by the parents whose notions are predominantly colored by considerations of caste, class and such other parochial beliefs. Even if it is accepted to be initial reaction to her exercising her freedom, one cannot simply attempt to make the life of his own newly wed daughter miserable by multiple legal proceedings to bend her to his tyranny.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daughter-happily-married-father-alleged-confinement/articleshow/78628296.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||All NRI seats taken at West Bengal NUJS this year||KOLKATA: All 18 undergraduate seats reserved at the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) for candidates who are either children of NRIs or sponsored by NRIs have been filled up this time. Normally, vacancies remain in this category and these are then converted into general seats. However, there is no such scope this year, said the NUJS administration. The candidates who have secured admission in this reserved category have ranks below that of the candidates in the general category. These 18 candidates have CLAT ranks between 300 and 1,060. These candidates need to pay double the charges than general candidates since the fees are paid from NRI accounts. Most law schools in the country, like National Law School of India University, Bangalore; National Law University, Delhi and Nalsar University of Law, Hyderabad, have NRI quota. Among those who have taken admission in the NRI quota, only one is from Bengal and the rest are from across the country. However, no one in this category is of NRI parentage. “That would be an ideal situation, an example of reverse brain drain, if we see that NRI parents are getting their children to study law in India. This year, we have four in the foreigners quota who are citizens of the UK and the US,” said NUJS vice-chancellor Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-nri-seats-taken-at-nujs-this-year/articleshow/78628298.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 13, 2020||Mumbai||TRPs: Built On Houses Of Cards?||Television rating points are once again in the news after the Mumbai police claimed it had busted a racket involving manipulation of TRPs by unscrupulous channels to fraudulently boost viewership data and mislead advertisers.  The ongoing investigation has unearthed that five panel TV homes – households where meters are installed to capture viewership – were compromised to rig viewership of certain channels.  That’s correct, just five homes.  What difference can five homes make in a country with a TV viewing universe of 836 million? The answer: A big one among smaller genres like English news, niche categories like infotainment, and even some regional channels.  Take the example of Mumbai, the financial capital of the country. The city has over 2,000 bar-o-meters installed by Broadcast Audience Research Council India, which is around 5% of the 44,000 meters that BARC claims to have installed across the country.  As per last week’s viewership of the English news genre, the average reach of all the English news channels put together was 0.4% in Mumbai, and the average time spent per channel was around 15 minutes for the entire week.  Effectively, just eight panel homes watched these channels in Mumbai last week, giving them a disproportionate weightage in ratings.  Here’s how.  Hypothetically, if one channel identifies even two homes with these bar-o-meters and pays them to watch one particular news channel for 2 hours, instead of 15 minutes, in a week, the average time spent on that channel will go up by a whopping 175% to over 41 minutes. As reach has remained the same, TRPs of the channel in Mumbai alone will also go up by 175%.  The other fundamental issue with TRPs is the mechanism. While every effort is said to be made to keep the list of panel homes confidential, the vulnerability lies in the human chain: A TV channel bribes a relationship manager in the research set-up, who then ‘incentivizes’ a few households to keep the channel switched on. “Rigging of 10-20 homes or even up to 50 homes will not have any impact on mass entertainment channels, but for smaller genres, ratings will widely swing in their favour,” said a top TV executive of a channel.  TOI spoke with multiple executives across TV channels and media agencies and most of them asked for anonymity to speak freely as the matter is too sensitive and their clients are directly involved. Rig The Gig  Since the advent of the ratings system in India, channels have tried to use unscrupulous methods to manipulate ratings.  While BARC’s role as a ratings agency is now under intense scrutiny, its predecessor, TAM, which was a joint venture between Nielsen and Kantar, was also criticised on similar grounds. Earlier in July, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) had accused BARC of “conniving” with TV9’s Bharatvarsh, a Hindi news channel, to manipulate viewership.  Rajat Sharma, president of the NBA, told this correspondent that the events that have unfolded in the last few months and particularly the last three days, have clearly demonstrated that there are “weaknesses” in the rating system.  “BARC itself has acknowledged in its police complaints that metered homes are being manipulated. The investigation has exposed that panel homes were being compromised by certain channels. It has been done with the help of ex-employees who are familiar with the system and aware of which homes have meters,” said Sharma, who is also chairman of India TV.  Corrupted data, Sharma added, is creating a false narrative on ‘what India watches’ and is putting pressure on newsrooms to make editorial decisions that are distorted and based on inaccurate information.  Industry mavens say broadcasters themselves will have to stop the practice. “There is no vaccination against this man-made problem,” said the CEO of an ad agency. “All stakeholders have to understand that TV measurement is an industry service and the people who created the service should abide by a set of ethics.”  An email query sent to BARC India remained unanswered till the time of going to press.  A senior TV executive said that if people are intent on beating the system by unethical practices, there is no foolproof solution against such frauds. “There are numerous statistical forensic methods used continuously by the system. But one has to understand that between 44,000 meters, the system is generating data points for every individual every 8 seconds. The quality control algorithms check data points randomly, and will not keep checking the same household,” he explained.  Big Returns On ‘Investment’ TV channels, especially those that are free-to-air (FTA), are dependent on advertising revenues. For them, spending a few lakhs on tampering with viewership data could yield big gains.  “The upside is too big to not take such risks, which is why many channels keep doing this, instead of spending money on quality content,” said the distribution head of a TV channel.  BARC India uses third-party vendors for installation, maintenance, and operation of bar-o-meters at panel homes. For this, it pays between Rs 150-Rs 750 per month to these panel homes. Which makes it challenging to get higher socio-economic classes to allow these meters to be installed in their homes. In effect, it leaves the top 2.5% of Indian viewers out of the viewership measurement system.  “There is no motivation for most of the higher economic classes to allow bar-o-meters in their homes. Thus the entire ratings are coming from ‘economically weaker’ households, who are easy to target. It’s like elections, where people cast their votes in favour of one candidate for money,” said the business head of a channel.  BARC has been working on mitigating these risks. In April 2017, it set up a six-member independent disciplinary committee headed by Justice (retired) Mukul Mudgal to investigate and address complaints of viewership malpractices and tampering of its measurement system. In the next 28 months, the council referred 18 cases to the committee with evidence of malpractices.  “The issue is that BARC complains but police doesn’t lodge FIRs in many smaller cities,” said a person closely associated with BARC. “They think it is a frivolous thing to charge people for accepting money to watch more TV. Any attempts at rigging data need to be punishable under the law.” Vicious Cycle  The entire consumer classification system, or NCCS, based on the chief wage earner’s education and number of “consumer durables” (from a pre-defined list) owned by the family, is outdated, say media industry insiders. What’s more, it is based on a 2017 survey, after which a lot has changed in the TV universe thanks to sector regulator Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI)’s new tariff order (NTO). Post implementation of NTO, consumers can select only the channels they want to watch at the MRP of each.  “Does it actually represent India’s TV viewing universe? The answer is no. The sample is extrapolated on the basis of an old establishment survey, which was done two and half years ago. It doesn’t reflect the dynamic situation on the ground,” said a TV research executive. “It pre-dates NTO, which represented a tectonic shift in the distribution space. By gut feel we know that the TV universe has shrunk and many people have moved from cable TV to DTH. A lot of these shifts aren’t captured.”  Then there's the issue of sample size. Even at 44,000 meters, many in the industry feel that the sample is inadequate and there’s need for more boxes to diminish relative error in viewership. Ultimately, TV executives say it is a vicious circle that is going to affect the entire industry in the long term, which might see advertisers moving to digital platforms if not corrected immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trps-built-on-houses-of-cards/articleshow/78617478.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Covid reality check drives mental health issues closer home||The theme for World Mental Health day this year was, ‘Mental health for all – Greater investment Greater acceptance – Everyone, everywhere’ could not have been more appropriate than now, when the world is battling against a pandemic and its complications for more than nine months now. A report released recently by WHO, states that the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted or halted critical mental health services in 93% of countries worldwide while the demand for mental health is increasing.The mental health impact of Covid-19 was noticed quite early on, and the WHO and several countries addressed it prominently in the guidelines developed to tackle the pandemic. The factors contributing to mental health issues in the pandemic can be broadly classified as direct and indirect causes. The direct causes include the person or a family member being infected, frontline workers and those quarantined, while the indirect factors include changes in living conditions that constitute the new normal. The restriction on mobility, loss of livelihoods, displacement, being stranded, uncertainty about the future, fear of being infected, and boredom have been manifested through symptoms like insomnia, listlessness, fatigue and lack of motivation. The economic crisis has been a single major factor leading to marked depression and anxiety. This led to increased frustration, increased substance use, interpersonal conflicts inside and outside homes and domestic violence. Women and elderly are more prone for exacerbations and new mental health problems. Women have reported increased and unequal burden of household responsibilities during the lockdown. The increase in reports of domestic violence during the lockdown is a commentary on the household dynamics in our society. Alcohol and the lack of it was implicated as one of the key factors contributing to domestic violence.The increasing needs and demands for mental health services in the current scenario has compelled us to revisit our policies and plan better services. Persons with pre-existing mental disorders have not had an easy time during the pandemic. Accessibility to medication posed a big challenge to at least 30% of people while more than 60% had problems in counselling and psychological therapies. In several instances’ improvements achieved with treatments became undone due to the disruption and illness relapsed, requiring acute care services. With almost all hospital beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, persons with acute mental illnesses struggled to get necessary care.The spate of suicides among persons who tested positive for the virus brought mental health into sharp focus. Sensationalization of testing positive for Covid, the quarantine process and the associated shame and fear contributed significantly to the loss of lives. The lessons learned should help governments and hospitals refine guidelines and include provisions to address mental health issues in Covid wards and in the community sensitively.In the process, mental health became a topic no longer far removed from the common public. The exposure of lacunae in our systems, including mental health service delivery has opened dialogues and discussions on ways to improve. The pandemic has been a jolt which shook the world to stop, step back and reflect. Quality of life is as much about mental wellbeing as it is about physical health. A conscious effort to improve mental well being is needed and can be achieved by a healthy lifestyle. Like diabetes or hypertension, all mental illnesses are treatable and early identification is the key.(The writer is a psychiatristwith the SchizophreniaResearch Foundation)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-reality-check-drives-mental-health-issues-closer-home/articleshow/78630264.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||DPS East parents want kids admitted in Bopal||AHMEDABAD: After the recent decision to close down DPS East, parents of students studying at the school gathered at DPS Bopal campus where they met the school administrators. The parents met the school officials to discuss the possibility of admitting their wards to DPS Bopal from the next academic year, said sources. This issue of DPS East students seeking admission to DPS Bopal had cropped up in December 2019 following which the school management committee (SMC) of DPS Bopal was requested to admit DPS East students, said Unmesh Dixit, officer on special duty, DPS Bopal. The committee has duly consented this, he further said. “We have accordingly given a written communication to active parents representatives to provide a list of students seeking admission, so that the office can check availability. This list is still awaited from the parents,” said Dixit. “In the meanwhile we have set up a meeting with parents representatives on Thursday, October 15, to further this process,” he added. In all, there are about 450 students in the primary and secondary section at DPS East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dps-east-parents-want-kids-admitted-in-bopal/articleshow/78628301.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi minister Gopal Rai announces five-step plan to tackle dust from construction||NEW DELHI: Environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday announced five key measures that every construction and demolition site in the capital will have to follow to tackle dust pollution. Any violation will result in fines. Rai, who also announced a plan to micro-manage Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots, said that while Delhi’s government drive against dust pollution initially focused only on large construction sites — with an area of over 20,000 sqm — smaller sites could also be fined for violation of any of these five measures. The measures include installing windshields and barriers at the periphery of construction sites, covering debris and construction material with tarpaulin, using nets to prevent dust from blowing out, utilising sprinklers to settle dust — and anti-smog guns at large sites, and covering trucks and vehicles and washing their wheels regularly. “I want to request all government agencies and individuals to follow these five norms. Maintaining these norms are not expensive and if everyone follows these norms, it will help every citizen in the time of Covid to fight this toxic air,” Rai said, warning of stringent action in case of any violation. “I have witnessed that agencies are only putting covers at the sites when they are getting to know that Delhi government teams will be visiting. This is not the right attitude. This is a collective responsibility of all citizens,” he added. Referring to Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots, decided by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board last year, Rai said nine deputy commissioners of the municipal corporations had been appointed as nodal officers to ensure progress on the ground. The hotspots are Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri. Six hotspots come under South Delhi Municipal Corporation, five under the north and two under the east corporation. “Every government agency should stay in touch with these officers for any work that is required at these hotspots,” said Rai. Out of the 39 construction sites in Delhi with an area of over 20,000 sqm each, work was stopped at six sites after they were found flouting norms. The minister said the project site for constructing an office building for Rapid Metro between Delhi and Manesar by National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) at the DDA park opposite Vikas Sadan was the latest to be fined for not following dust norms. DPCC on Sunday fined it Rs 50 lakh. Delhi government’s Green app to record pollution-related complaints is likely to be launched soon, Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rai-announces-five-step-plan-to-tackle-dust-from-construction/articleshow/78628310.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||What happens to popcorn and fountain beverage sale at cinemas?||KOLKATA: As preparations are on in full swing to reopen cinemas on October 15, some exhibitors in the city have decided to do away with selling popcorn tubs and fountain cola. Others are talking to vendors so that lids can be put on tubs. Incidentally, in many plexes, the revenue depends as much on the box office collection as on the sale of food and beverages. “Sometimes, patrons even complain of high prices of unpacked food and beverage. Single screens, however, largely rely on box-office collection since the sale of food and beverages is negligible,” said a theatre owner on conditions of anonymity. With the standard operating procedure issued by the Centre stating “only packaged food and beverages shall be allowed,” many are confused about how to sell popcorn and fountain cola. Inox did not comment on this issue. At the nine properties of SVF Cinemas, beverage cans would be available, instead of fountain beverage. Popcorns will be sold in sealed tubs. Navin Choukhani, who will open Navina on October 21, will only sell packaged food and drinks. “But there will be no sale of fountain cola, popcorns and other unpackaged food items. We will encourage patrons to bring in their own food and beverages from home,” said Choukhani. For the first four days, Arijit Dutta of Priya will wait and see how “national theatre chains” are “interpreting the SOP” and then go forward. Satadeep Saha, owner of Ajanta Cinema, is hoping to reopen it on October 21 as the renovation work is still in progress. “I am still in dilemma over how to sell them,” said Saha. Suranjan Paul, owner of Minar, Bijoli Chhabighar, has done away with fountain cola. “Currently, repair work is going on in my cinemas. I will reopen when the repair work is over. But I have already decided not to serve fountain cola,” Paul said. Menoka is planning to reopen this Friday with Chhichhore and MS Dhoni: The Untold Story. “Selling fountain cola is out of question now. Burgers and sandwiches come packed. I have spoken to our popcorn dealer and asked if they can use lids. But the problem is if the popcorn turns soggy when kept for long,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/what-happens-to-popcorn-and-fountain-beverage-sale-at-cinemas/articleshow/78629572.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Howarh: Clash over eviction from ‘patrol special’ train||HOWRAH: A clash broke out at Liluah station in Howrah on Monday morning after authorities cracked down on people trying to travel by a ‘patrol special’ EMU local meant for railway staff. Suburban train services have been suspended for over six months now due to the pandemic. The ministry of home affairs is yet to grant the railways clearance to operate suburban train services. While the commuters demanded resumption of suburban train services, Eastern Railway CPRO Nikhil K Chakraborty said: “We are not to take such decision. Suburban services can only resume after we receive instructions from Delhi and chalk out plans with the state. We can’t allow people to board the trains meant for our staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clash-over-eviction-from-patrol-spl-train/articleshow/78629578.cms||Rupak Banerjee
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Season’s worst air day... and farm fires not to blame, yet||NEW DELHI: With a visible haze around the capital on Monday morning, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) touched this season’s high at 261, but remained in the “poor” category, states Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin.  Track the pollution level in your cityThe AQI deteriorated from Sunday’s 216, also in the “poor” category, due to low wind speeds, which led to trapping of pollutants locally. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), wind speeds remained below 5km/hr during the day while a change in wind direction to easterly is likely to cause another spike in the coming days. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a central forecast body, estimated the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 readings to around 3%, indicating the majority of pollution source was local. “Though stubble fires were observed on Monday around Punjab, Haryana and its neighbouring regions, with Safar’s synergised fire count estimated at 614 on October 11, the count is nearly one-eighth of the peak values observed in the last two years,” stated Safar. The peak values occur only by the first week of November. “The impact is likely to be negligible for the next two days,” it added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said, “Wind speed in the region was almost nil, which may trap pollutants locally. Wind directions, which were northwesterly, are also changing to easterly from Tuesday and this is also likely to lead to an accumulation of pollutants. In this transition phase, there could be a further spike in pollution as it can get trapped over Delhi-NCR.” Nasa’s satellite imagery showed crop fires were more widespread across India and Pakistan on Monday, with a “hazy” sky recorded across the Indo-Gangetic plains. Pawan Gupta, a senior scientist at Universities Space Research Association of National Aeronautics and Space Administration who analysed the satellite data, said PM2.5 readings were spiking across the Indo-Gangetic plains. “On October 11, there was high aerosol smoke detection via satellite, including over Delhi, which is now being recorded all the way to Indore,” said Gupta. The CPCB data shows AQI is already worse than what it was at the same time last year. Last week, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) had announced implementation of certain measures under Graded Response Action Plan from October 15, including a ban on diesel generator sets in Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Gurgaon. EPCA chairman Bhure Lal told TOI that EPCA might hold a review meeting if air quality touched “very poor”, an AQI between 301 and 400. “The CPCB-led task force may soon announce further measures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seasons-worst-air-day-and-farm-fires-not-to-blame-yet/articleshow/78628325.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 13, 2020||Chennai||Prehistoric rock arts with human figures found||A set of prehistoric rock arts with figures of human beings has been discovered inside a rock dwelling in Puthur hills near Usilampatti. Though rock arts have been earlier found in the western side of the hill, this is the first time they were found on the eastern side of it. The dwelling with seven human figures in white ochre shows it’s a matured drawing done with great care. Unfortunately, the dwelling where the rock arts are found, is today a hideout for vandals. Broken pieces of liquor bottles are scattered around the rock dwelling.It was after information from a friend about the dwelling in Puthur hills that rock art expert K T Gandhirajan decided to visit the site. A close look inside the dwelling revealed at least seven prehistoric art figures depicting human beings in white ochre inside it. As he has been surveying the region for documenting the rock art sites, he immediately photographed the art works. “Animals and symbols are common in many ancient rock art works, but the specialty of these works is that all are human figures. This is the first time I come across a site having only human figures,” said Gandhirajan, who has excavated many rock arts sites in Tamil Nadu. Why only human figures? “We need to study in detail the social context in which the works were created by our ancestors. If you look at the style of the works, you will know that they were done by a highly qualified artist,” he said. However, the site is being used by vandals as a hideout for long. “People from outside camp the site with liquor bottles. They drink, play cards and sleep over there. Some even add their ‘modern’ art works close to these ancient pieces of art,” he said.A couple of weeks ago, Gandhirajan had documented rock arts works on the western side of the hill, a little away from the present spot. “There is a need to document all the rock art sites in Tamil Nadu with immediate effect. Small sites like the one in Puthur hills should also be given importance. Otherwise, we will lose these works forever,” said Gandhirajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/prehistoric-rock-arts-with-human-figures-found/articleshow/78630268.cms||M T Saju
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After seven months, Academy set to open doors for shows on Thursday||KOLKATA: After a gap of seven months, the Academy of Fine Arts is going to resume operations on Thursday with Theatre Formation Paribartak’s play titled Ekti Uttor Adhunik Samajik Pala. Bookings have already been made by many groups, including Nandikar and Rangrup, for performances on October 18, 22, 23 and 24. On March 15, two plays were staged at the Academy before the curtains came down on theatre for seven months. At 3pm, Anik Ghosh’s Soham had staged Adha Adhure while the 6pm show had Belghoria Hatekhori performing Piu Mulo Nimbar. On Sunday, health protocols were discussed at a meeting attended by around 70 theatre professionals. Arpita Ghosh, who was present at the meeting, has decided to donate four no-touch sanitizing dispensers to the Academy. “I will do it in my personal capacity for my love towards Academy. Each costs between Rs 6,000 and Rs 8,000,” Ghosh said. On being asked when her group, Pancham Baidik, wants to stage a show, she said, “We will apply for November. Keeping in mind the health protocols, we want to go for a double-show booking on a Saturday. If the same group performs two back-to-back shows, it can perhaps reduce the health hazard.” During the lockdown, members of some 20 groups had formed a collective called Soubhratiwa to help needy theatre technicians. “Every month, we pay Rs 2,000 each to 204 theatre technicians. We have decided to donate a water filter to the Academy. We are trying to stage plays that don’t require a huge cast,” said theatre personality Sima Mukhopadhyay, a member of Soubhratiwa. The entire auditorium will be sanitized an hour before the show. Temperature checks and sanitizers for audiences are mandatory. The entire auditorium will be sanitized an hour before the show. Temperature checks and sanitizers for audiences are mandatory. Even the time slots of plays can be revised since conveyance is yet to be normalised and there might not be many takers for evening shows. Currently, the total seating capacity is 730 with 472 seats on the ground floor and 258 in the balcony. Kallol Bose, the joint secretary of the Academy, said after discussions on Sunday’s meeting, the occupancy will be restricted to 270 to ensure a gap of five feet between two viewers. Effectively, that will mean the occupancy will be brought down to 37% of the total audience capacity.  Discussions were also held regarding the fee structure. Currently, the Academy has three different fee structures depending on the time and day of hiring. For weekdays, the fees for morning, matinee and evening shows are Rs 8500, Rs 9500 and Rs 10500 respectively. For Sundays, the fees for the matinee and evening shows change to Rs 12000 and Rs 13500. For single group shows of theatre festivals, the fee is Rs 13,000. For theatre festivals involving multiple groups and sponsors, the morning show hiring rate is Rs 15,000. For the matinee and evening show, the rates are Rs 17,000. In addition, there are GST charges.  While some at the meeting were in favour of reduction of rates, others want to go ahead with the same fee structure. “Finally, it was decided that the fee structure will remain the same. However, we have agreed to consider if groups appeal for reduction,” Bose said. On October 17, a musical concert of Rahul Mitra will be held. On October 18, Chakda Natyojon will host a talk show with Debshankar Halder, Senjuti Mukhopadhyay and Ujjawal Chattopadhyay on “Obhinetar Mon O Somoyer Katha”. “Bhanusundorir Pala” will be staged. On October 22, Natodha will stage “Mahabharat”. The next day, which is Saptami, Rangrup will stage “Tokhon Bikel”. On Ashtami (October 24), Nandikar will stage “Panchajanya”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-seven-months-academy-set-to-open-doors-for-shows-on-thursday/articleshow/78628328.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 13, 2020||Meerut||Family members clash, hurl earthen pots, video of brawl a big draw on social media||Meerut: A simmering family dispute over a piece of property culminated in a full-blown brawl recently during which earthen pots were hurled at each other on a busy Hapur stretch. The video of the clash has become a big draw on social media platforms. The clash took place on Sunday afternoon in the Kothigate area of Hapur city area. “They are from the same family. The clash happened over a property dispute,” a police officer said. The drama unfolded on a busy street and onlookers and commuters took cover to save themselves from flying pots. “We had won a property dispute. My uncle and his four children landed at our shop. One of them was armed with a hammer and he began attacking us. They also vandalized items at our shop. Police instead of registering FIR took action against us,” Vishal Kumar, one of those involved in the clash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-members-clash-hurl-earthen-pots-video-of-brawl-a-big-draw-on-social-media/articleshow/78624958.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Business||Wow! Momo to raise Rs 60cr from Anicut capital||Kolkata: Wow! Momo Foods — which owns and operates two quick-service restaurant (QSR) brands — Wow! Momo and Wow! China — is raising Rs 60crore debt funding from Anicut capital as it sees a bounce-back from the Covid-19-induced slowdown. Sagar Daryani, co-founder of one of the largest QSR chains in India, said Wow! Momo continued to expand while a number of restaurant chains in the country have filed for bankruptcy due to the ongoing pandemic. Wow! Momo currently has a total of 357+ stores across Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Pune and Kolkata. Out of this, over 290 outlets are currently operational and over 60 of them are still shut. Daryani pointed out that from plummeting to 10% of monthly business in April 2020 as compared to February 2020 to 65% of topline in September, the company is growing stronger with delivery operations getting back to have 180% business if compared to the pre-covid times. “Wow! Momo recorded a whopping three lakh online orders last month. The company expects to get back to 75% to 80% of pre-Covid numbers in October with an aim to touch 4 lakh online orders,” he added. Talking about the announcement, Daryani said, “Ours has been a story of agility and adaptability. These crucial times may have brought our business down initially but we always found new ways and undertook initiatives which helped us stay afloat. We have been more robust than ever with a change in business models, newer collaboration with Café Coffee Day (CCD) to open shop-in-shop formats. Setting up new business verticals and a total of 31 new point of sales openings in the past six months. We have also taken a conscious call to shut down over 30 non-performing outlets nationally and the complete focus is to get back to profitability at the earliest as was the scenario in pre-Covid times.” Wow! Momo has been backed by The Indian Angel Network (IAN) and Light House Funds in the past. Last year, the company was valued at over Rs 860 crore by US-based Tiger Global with an infusion of Rs 120 crore directly into the business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wow-momo-to-raise-rs-60cr-from-anicut-capital/articleshow/78629581.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Road to DU starts from home||NEW DELHI: Seeing a handful of students on campus is rare on the first day of admissions in Delhi University. But with the entire applications process going online this year, students — and teachers too — did what was required from their homes on Monday, the first day of admissions for the new session. There were minor glitches with the admission portal, but the day’s proceedings went smoothly, according to college principals. And there were indications on Monday that a big number of Class XII high scorers, including those who got 100%, submitted their applications. The applicants said the online process was easier and less tiring than having to be physically present at the colleges to submit papers. Suryansh Verma, aspiring to an economics (H) seat at Hansraj College, said, “I faced no problem. I am now waiting for my papers to be verified by the principal.” Richa Singh applied for the history course at Ramjas College at 10am. “I got a message a couple of hours later that my documents were in order. Once I get the online payment link, my admission process will be completed,” she said brightly. This year, college principals are personally verifying each application. “We only want to make sure everything is proper. Today is the first day of admissions, and we took our time perusing through the applications,” said a North Campus college principal. According to Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava, by around 9.30pm, the institution had only approved over 110 admissions because it was taking time verifying the applications. A few aspirants, however, reached college campuses to have their doubts and queries looked into. Kirti, seeking admission in the BSc zoology course was at Hansraj College for clarity on the online admissions. “I wanted to be extra sure of my application because there are chances of mistakes when the submission is in online mode,” she said. Many colleges did not allow entry to applicants. Kunal Dedha, accompanied by two friends, left home in Noida and reached Hindu College only to realise at the college gate that the process was online. His marks had qualified him for admission in Hindi (H) at the college under the OBC category and he thought he had to submit his documents in person. “I did not know I had to apply online,” he said rather sheepishly. There were minor technical blips during the day. RK Dwivedi, admission convenor, Aryabhatta College, reported, “For around four hours, the server was down or fluctuating, thus slowing the process.” The glitch was confirmed by Kumar Ashutosh of College of Vocational Studies, who said there were times when the teachers could not access the application details on the university portal. Shobha Bagai, dean of admissions, admitted these minor setbacks, it being the first day the system was at work, but said they were quickly resolved. Most principals found the absence of crowd and chaos a welcome change. “This is how things should be,” declared Hansraj principal Rama Sharma. “Earlier, we used to have hundreds of applicants and parents milling on the college campuses. This year, their absence makes it easier to complete the process.” Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava agreed that the online process, while necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic, was good, but added, “There are some fundamental changes that, however, are required if this system is to continue in the future.” Bagai agreed that online admissions may be here to stay. “It is convenient for applicants, teachers and everyone involved because everything can be done from the comfort of home. The system will certainly evolve and can become a good substitute for physical admissions.” A marked absence on the day was politicking, normal from student organisations eager to woo new recruits. While DU Students’ Union had set up a helpdesk in North Campus, there were others set up by the student outfits in the colleges, but they were deserted. Students who had problems preferred to call the grievance contact numbers of colleges and the university. “We received calls about the admission process, on calculating aggregate marks and other minor details,” said a grievance cell member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/road-to-du-starts-from-home/articleshow/78628341.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Public health experts suggest reverse quarantine for elderly to tame virus||HYDERABAD: Reverse quarantine is a recent measure being advocated strongly by public health experts for saving the elderly from being infected with Covid-19 ahead of the festive season during when movement of people is going to increase. After following social distancing, screening people coming from outside, quarantining them and tracking and isolating contacts, public health experts are suggesting to the government to adopt Kerala model and formulate guidelines for reverse quarantine. “In regular quarantine when a person is infected, he or she is kept away from healthy people to prevent the virus spread. Reverse quarantine is the opposite of it. When a person is vulnerable and there is imminent danger of getting infection from other silent carriers, he or she is kept away until the danger passes within the house,” Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, professor and director, Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India, said. Health care workers visit the houses of those under reverse quarantine and examine them. “In a state like Telangana, it may not be possible to visit every house, but reverse quarantine can be experimented in thickly populated areas of Hyderabad and other hotspots,” Dr Kandamuthan said. A team of experts is gearing up to recommend reverse quarantine during festive season. The number of days for reverse quarantine can be decided by affected person and family depending on their condition, an expert said. Difference between Covid-19 cases pre and post Ganesh Chaturthi stands at 62,260. Same is the case with the number of deaths with percentage difference between pre and post-festival causalities is 302 . “It can also be observed by those with co-morbidities. It simply means staying away from other people and not using the same washroom and not dining together,” Dr Kiran Madala, a certified researcher with ICMR, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/public-health-experts-suggest-reverse-quarantine-for-elderly-to-tame-virus/articleshow/78628335.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Central India’s 1st surgery on elephantiasis done in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Vascularized lymph node transfer, a highly specialized and complicated surgery requiring about 8 to 10 hours, was done in the city recently on a 52-year-old teacher from Madhya Pradesh. This was first such procedure done in Central India on a patient of elephantiasis — which is considered as non-treatable and has predominant prevalence in Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, and parts of Madhya Pradesh. The surgery was performed at VIMS Hospital six months ago. Plastic, microvascular and hair transplant surgeon Dr Suresh Chaware and his team performed this surgery. Doctors were following up the case since then and reviewing results. In the first week of October, the patient has shown significant and lasting improvement after which doctors claimed success of this mode of treatment. “For the last six months, swelling was reducing gradually and the patient is much relieved of the swelling now. There are very few reports of this surgery in India. As far as Central India is concerned, this is the first case treated surgically and successfully,” said Dr Chaware. Lymphedema or elephantiasis is a disease of lymphatic vessels. Like blood vessels in our body, there is a third system of tiny vessels which help in transportation of fluid from tissue, specially underneath of skin. These are called lymphatic vessels. If theses lymphatic vessels are damaged due to infection like filariasis, it leads to accumulation fluid underneath skin leading to elephantiasis. As of now, there is no cure for elephantiasis. Only preventive medicines are available. Dr Chaware termed the success of this surgery as a new ray of hope for thousands of patients in Central India, especially in Vidarbha, suffering from elephantiasis. “Person suffering from this disease becomes incapacitated and his mobility becomes restricted due to weight, size and various complications like infection, cellulitis and skin necrosis. This surgery can bring patient’s life on track,” said Dr Chaware. According to figures available at divisional health office, there are 25,725 reported cases of lymphatic filariasis in Nagpur division alone. Chandrapur district has 11,329 cases, highest in Maharashtra. Over 45,000 such cases are in Vidarbha and this surgery can help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-indias-1st-surgery-on-elephantiasis-done-in-nagpur/articleshow/78628333.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 13, 2020||Delhi||FB case: Two witnesses seek transparency, better redressal||NEW DELHI: The assembly committee on peace and harmony on Monday examined two witnesses to discuss allegations and concerns raised in complaints received by it against Facebook. In continuation of its proceedings, the committee examined the editor of an online news portal and the co-founder of a fact-checking website. The committee said the editor had deposed that there was no transparency and accountability of Facebook in terms of its functioning, organisational structure, and grievance redressal mechanism. “He further deposed that there is a correlation between Facebook’s inaction and disturbance of peace and harmony in the society. He also mentioned that in stark contrast to the US, complaints to Facebook are met with inaction, when same/similar grievances are made by the Indian organisations,” it said. The co-founder of the fact-checking website told the committee that there was a usual surge in the flow of misinformation during every election cycle. “A sudden splurge was also seen during the Delhi riots in 2020... Facebook’s fact-checking and content moderation attempts are failing and, thus, need to be worked upon,” he told the panel. Both witnesses, it stated, stressed on “an imperative need of more transparency in the operation, functioning as well as grievance redressal system of Facebook particularly”. On Monday, the proceedings were livestreamed for public outreach to maintain transparency in the functioning of the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fb-case-2-witnesses-seek-transparency-better-redressal/articleshow/78628330.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC auditors missing, hospitals give inflated bills to Covid patients||NAGPUR: Private hospitals in the city have continued to charge far higher rates than those approved by the state government for Covid-19 positive patients. Relatives are running pillar to post to find the auditors appointed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and get the bills cross-checked. The NMC control rooms at zone-level and head office continue to be of no help to relatives. In one case, NMC employees and officials at the control room of Laxmi Nagar zone even told relatives there was no system of auditors for scrutiny of bills in private hospitals. A private hospital at Chhatrapati Square recommended discharge of a Covid-19 positive patient and gave final bill of Rs3.2 lakh for 12 days, at 10am on Monday. One of the relatives told TOI, “I had read in TOI about appointment of two auditors by NMC for each private hospital to scrutinize bills before discharge. I searched in the private hospital but could not find any. The hospital staff at the counter refused to give the name and mobile number of the auditor.” TOI contacted the Covid Control Room of NMC Laxmi Nagar zone, where the staffer did not have any idea about system of auditors. His senior, the zonal medical officer, too confirmed there was no such system in place. Then, TOI contacted NMC’s Covid Control Room, where an official said contact numbers of auditors were not with the control room. The control room looking after admission of patients too gave the same answer. With the discharge getting delayed, the relative contacted a police official who assured to help immediately. Meanwhile, TOI was able to get contact details of the auditor for the particular hospital. He said, “I was on leave for two days and informed NMC about it. Another auditor might have been appointed.” An NMC official called TOI and said another auditor will be sent to the hospital. At around 6pm, an auditor from NMC reached the hospital. The relative said, “Hospital charged almost Rs1.37 lakh more than rates approved by the government. Auditor said bill was inflated by Rs46,000 and went to speak to the doctors. He returned and said the private hospital had refused to reduce the bill. He suggested paying the entire bill and lodging a complaint with NMC. He also served notice to the hospital.” A top NMC official then spoke to doctors at the hospital, and the auditor asked the relative to pay Rs20,000 less and lodge complaint with NMC. “We had no option to pay and get discharge as it was 7pm,” the relative said. Another patient got discharged from a private hospital at Subhash Nagar on September 18. The patient’s wife lodged a complaint with NMC head office and sent a copy to a top NMC official. “We paid Rs6.88 lakh for 24 days. I received no reply from NMC head office despite complaint being lodged on September 23. It took me four days to find NMC’s auditor at the hospital. Till Monday, there was no reply from the auditor,” she said. NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said, “I will look into the two cases. It is mandatory for private hospitals to give information about NMC auditor, and also display his name and contact number on notice boards. We have instructed auditors to take permission before going on leave, so we can give charge to some other auditor. I will look into this particular auditor.” Sharma saw no problem in NMC Laxmi Nagar zone saying there was no system of auditor. “Auditors are reporting to NMC headquarter and not zonal offices,” he said. NMC has time and again claimed Covid control rooms at zone-levels will resolve all queries related to Covid, including availability and admission of patients in hospitals. TOI had reported on October 3 municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B’s claim that auditors checked 1,019 bills, and found variations of Rs32 lakh in 203 bills. He had also said patients got refund of Rs5-6 lakh. DISCREPANCIES IN PVT HOSPITALS’ BILLS* Govt fixed Rs4,000 for bed in ward, Rs7,500 in ICU and Rs9,000 for bed in ICU with ventilator * Charges include fees of consultation of doctors, monitoring and investigations like CBC, urine routine test, USG, X-ray, 2D echo, oxygen, drugs, nursing charges etc * Hospital at Chhatrapati Square levied separate charges for consultation of doctor * Hospital at Subhash Nagar levied s 10,000 for bed for some days, separate charges for nursing, dietitian, RMO, 2D echo, oxygen, drugs, monitoring and investigations * Hospital can charge for only one PPE kit per day as per govt order * Hospital charged for 96 PPE kits for 24 days * Hospital at Chhatrapati Square charged separately for consultation of doctors, Covid Clinical Care Charges, drugs, HRCT, monitoring and investigations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-auditors-missing-2-hospitals-give-inflated-bills-to-covid-patients/articleshow/78628362.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 13, 2020||Pune||Restaurant owners rue ‘random’ orders for staffers’ RT-PCR tests||Pune: The Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) has complained about “mishandling” and “half-knowledge” on part of the authorities checking restaurants for following SOPs laid out for functioning during the Covid-19 pandemic. Restaurant owners have accused the authorities undertaking these checks of demanding for RT-PCR test results of waiters and staff while inspecting the establishments for following the standard operation procedures (SOPs). The restaurant owners said such a condition was not mentioned in the state’s guidelines. The state SOP mentions thermal scanning of the restaurant staffers, while the Pune civic body’s circular underscores regular checking of the employees for Covid-19 symptoms. When contacted, Pune Municipal Corporation commissioner Vikram Kumar clarified that the RT-PCR tests were not required for the restaurant staffers and waiters if they did not exhibit any symptom for the infection.PRAHA vice-president Vikram Shetty told TOI, “It is nearly impossible to get an RT-PCR test done for all the restaurant staff. Each test costs Rs2,000. With a strength of 20-30 people at each restaurant, the total amount is huge. Officials checking the establishments are often insisting on the RT-PCR test results of the staffers after being shown their fitness certificates. In fact, we had an instance where a restaurant was told to get such tests done before the next inspection.”Shetty added that if any of the staff exhibited flu-like symptoms, the restaurants would then definitely get their RT-PCR tests don, for the safety of the patrons and employees. A doctor connected with Food Safety and Standards Authority of India said, “Employees at restaurants are being screened regularly. They are only required to undergo RT-PCR testing if they exhibit any symptoms.”Ganesh Shetty, president, PRAHA, said, “Pulse oximeter and temperature checks of staff are being conducted regularly at restaurants. We have also undertaken medical fitness tests of the employees. The SOP]s do not mention RT-PCR tests for waiters anywhere.”Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole also took up this issue with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar at a meeting in Pune recently. “Hospitality industry has been one of the most affected industries during the pandemic. Such random diktats by the inspecting authorities should not hamper rebuilding the economy. I have take up the issue with the deputy CM,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurant-owners-rue-random-orders-for-staffers-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78628351.cms||Neha Madaan
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Colleges process just 1,628 of 19,000 applications||NEW DELHI: Online admissions at Delhi University may have made things easy, but the first day saw slow progress. While the university received 19,086 applications, only 1,628 were processed. Last year, 24,000 admissions were approved across colleges on the first day. Some principals attributed the slow approval to technical glitches, while others said they were adapting to the new system and were being careful with each application. This year, all colleges are sharing the data received from applicants for different courses. Venkat Kumar, principal of Sri Venkateswara College, said the process was slow due to glitches in the system. “Our teachers were not able to access a number of documents on the portal due to technical issues. By the time it was resolved, a lot of time had passed,” he added. By 8pm, the college had approved only 50 applications. Ramanujan College, which had received 400 applications, approved 250 by 7.30pm. The maximum applications received by the college were for mathematics (H), BA programme and economics (H). In many colleges, like Hindu and Lady Shri Ram (LSR), they went above the limit of admissions. LSR, which had pegged the cutoff at 100% for three subjects, got the maximum number of applications for mathematics (H) and political science. Shri Ram College of Commerce received 200 applications for BCom (H), the cutoff for which was 99.5%. There were 135 applicants for economics (H). Miranda House received 730 applications, including several 100% scorers, in courses like political science (H) and history (H). Bijaylaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House, said, “Since the process is online this year, admissions are being conducted 24x7. There is a three-tier system through which an application goes from the department level before reaching the principal and getting approval.” Colleges like Hindu, Kirori Mal and Hansraj did not share their admission data, probably because the admission process was on 24x7. Kamala Nehru College principal Kalpana Bhakuni said, “Teachers are still getting the hang of the new system. Unlike previous years, when we had clarity on admission numbers, this year the process may go on till late at night as teachers are constantly verifying the applications.” Officials said clarity on filled seats would only be available on the last day of admissions for the first list. While the last day is Wednesday, students can pay fees till October 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/colleges-process-just-1628-of-19k-applications/articleshow/78628372.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Former speaker Sarat Kar dies at 81||BHUBANESWAR: Eminent politician, distinguished writer, prolific orator and former speaker of Odisha assembly Sarat Kar died at a private hospital here on Monday. He was 81. Kar, who was infected with Covid-19, recovered and was discharged from hospital a few days back. But his condition deteriorated again and he was admitted to the Covid hospital in a serious condition, where he breathed his last, informed a family member. His death has cast a pall of gloom on all sections of the society. Governor of Odisha Ganeshi Lal condoled Kar’ demise and conveyed his deep sympathy to the bereaved family. “His contributions to the socio-political and cultural life of Odisha will be remembered forever,” he tweeted. Expressing his grief, Naveen said Sarat Kar was a talented politician and an efficient administrator. During his tenure as the speaker of Odisha assembly he managed the house very efficiently and set an excellent parliamentary tradition. “As a people’s representative, his efforts for the development of Odisha will be remembered. His had deep knowledge of Odia culture. On his death the state lost an eminent politician. I extend my condolences to the bereaved family and wish them well,” he said. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan also expressed his condolences. “I am deeply saddened by the death of noted politician and litterateur. His death caused an irreparable loss for politics as well as literature. My condolences are with the bereaved family,” he tweeted. Among others, BJP national vice-president Baijayant Panda said, “Deeply saddened by the passing of Shri Sarat Kar, former Speaker of Odisha Assembly. A contemporary and friend of my parents, he had held many other important public posts. He always encouraged and supported me. Last January he had surprised me by dropping by on my birthday”. Born on September 5, 1939, in Cuttack district Kar joined politics in 1964 after completing his masters in political science from Allahabad University and was elected three times to the Odisha Legislative Assembly from Mahanga constituency in 1971, 1990 and 2000. He was elected to the Lok Sabha as a Janata Party (Lok Dal) member from Cuttack after defeating prominent Congress leader Janaki Ballav Patnaik in 1977. Kar has written several book, including four collections of poems Druta Bilambita, Manthan, Romanthan and Ananya, one long fiction Samayara Jete Dheu, one spiritual book and hundreds of articles in newspapers and magazines on literary, social, spiritual and political topics in Odia. He was popular for live commentary of Rath Yatra on Doordarshan and All India Radio. Odisha assembly speaker Surya Narayan Patro and other politicians in the state expressed their grief on the sad demise of Kar. He is survived by wife and two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/former-speaker-sarat-kar-dies-at-81/articleshow/78627176.cms||Minati Singha
October 13, 2020||Pune||Cop action fails to improve compliance of mask norms||Pune: The action taken against over one lakh people by police for not wearing masks since September 2 has not deterred citizens from roaming around the city without wearing the protective gear. Thousands can be spotted without masks on the roads, at shops and even in vehicles and on public transport, much to the chagrin of the law-abiding citizens and doctors.Joint commissioner of Pune police Ravindra Shisve said his department has taken action against 1,03,335 people till October 11 for not wearing masks. He said over 3,000 people were caught on a daily basis for the violation of the norms. The department has maintained that the idea behind the action is to sensitize people on the importance of the masks and ensure an increase in compliance, rather than penalizing them. Many have said a lot of people have stopped wearing masks altogether, while others can be seen with the protective gear around their chin or neck. “The mask sits as a chin strap for many persons, thus exposing the users’ nose and mouth. One can see such people in their own vehicles or even standing on the road in groups. I asked a few people why their masks were not covering their face. They said it was difficult for them to talk with the masks on,” said Rose Denis, a teacher. “These people, however, fail to realize that by not correctly using the masks, they are putting themselves and others at risk. I agree that the mask does cause inconvenience, but people must wear it for safety. We need to break the Covid-19 chain and masks can help us do it,” Denis said.Working professional Harshad Joshi said, “I see police action at multiple spots, but that has not deterred people from moving around without masks. People riding two-wheelers often pull down their masks, and similar is the situation of car occupants. We are now seeing a slight reduction in the number of cases. But we cannot become careless and cause the numbers to rise again.” Riya Jain, also a working professional, said, “People without masks have become a common sight. It feels like the fear of the virus has disappeared. I was crossing Model Colony on Sunday and was surprised to see some people without masks alighting \a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus. I thought strict procedures and checks were in place. But what I saw was different.” A PMPML official said, “Checks will happen to ensure that people on board PMPML buses are using the masks. The bus drivers and conductors will keep a tab on the passengers. A team has been deputed to randomly check the buses.The PMPML does not have the authority to fine people for flouting norms. However, action can be taken against the drivers or conductors if passengers are seen without masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-action-fails-to-improve-compliance-of-mask-norms/articleshow/78628340.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: RFO in dock again for okaying felling of 350 trees in Kuhi||NAGPUR: The South Umred RFO Vaishnavi Jhare has landed in another controversy by violating all procedures while allowing felling of over 350 trees big trees in Kuhi under the North Umred forest range. The number of trees may be even higher as no record has been maintained for other felled trees. The trees were felled in February between Titur and Shivni for broad gauge railway line project between Nagbhid and Itwari. The grant of permission itself shows that it was given in a tearing hurry when RFO Jhare was holding additional charge for two months. Even as the trees were felled in February, the matter came to light last month when it was found that no mandatory procedure was followed by the RFO. Under Maharashtra Land Revenue (Disposal of Government Trees, Produce of Trees, Grazing & Other Natural Produce) Rules, 1969, while granting felling permission for so many trees belonging to the government, a proposal has to be submitted through assistant conservator (ACF) to conservator of forests (CF). After approval from higher authority, a public notice has to be issued. The felled timber has to be hammered by ACF and this is followed by the issue of transit pass (TP). No such process was followed by Jhare and the timber was quietly disposed of by the contractor without any knowledge to senior officials. Jhare admitted to have given permission to fell 350 trees when she held the additional charge in January-February. “I had sent the file to ACF Narendra Chandewar for further action,” said Jhare. ACF Chandewar told TOI, “I was not consulted nor the file was routed to me. The timber was disposed of without issuing TP.” On the TP issue, Jhare says, “After felling the trees, the party concerned has to apply again. I don’t know what happened to the felled trees as I had relinquished the charge to regular RFO Madavi then.” “It’s possible that as the felled trees were of subabul, it didn’t require TP,” she added. When asked what was the hurry to grant permission to fell trees, Jhare says, “It was a development project of the railways hence the permission was granted. Secondly, it was not known when the RFO would return from medical leave.” As the role of Jhare seems suspicious, ACF Chandewar has ordered an inquiry into the matter. RFO Madavi said, “A show-cause has been issued to round officer and forest guard seeking explanation. There are huge procedural lapses in the case.” In June this year, Jhare had landed in a controversy by exceeding her jurisdiction by granting felling permission for 282 trees in Umred municipal limits. As per Section 3 of Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection & Preservation of Trees Act 1975, powers to allow tree felling wrests with chief officer of the council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rfo-in-dock-again-for-okaying-felling-of-350-trees-in-kuhi/articleshow/78628352.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro ridership plummets 95% from pre-Covid times||Jaipur: The ridership of Jaipur Metro on Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar corridor has fallen abysmally low as not even a thousand commuters are using the service daily. The average ridership, which was around 20,000 before the operation was closed for five months due to the pandemic, has now reached 850 per day. Hoping that the newly constructed underground corridor (Chandpole to Badi Chaupar) will increase the ridership, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) on September 23 opened the entire stretch (Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar) for the first time. An official source said, "To experience the feel of underground corridor in Jaipur, around 12,000 commuters took a ride in Jaipur metro on September 24. However, the corporation is witnessing continuous dip in ridership."In the last 19 days, the total ridership has not even touched 40,000. This is the reason the JMRC has removed the daily ridership chart from its website, which was in public domain earlier, sources revealed, adding that on Sunday only 76 passenger boarded the last train from Badi Chaupar. "When the project was conceived, the JMRC had claimed that ridership will reach one lakh in 2020 and 1.25 lakh after the underground (Chandpole to Badi Chaupar) corridor is opened. But in the present scenario, the ridership has touched rock bottom and it’s not even 5% of the pre-Covid average ridership," said a source. A reliable source claimed, the JMRC can increase 300 passengers in present times if it allows tokens. However, it will not make a big difference in the ridership. "At present, it's mandatory for a commuter to purchase a card to travel in Jaipur Metro after paying Rs 100. A poor person who is travelling with 3 family members will not block Rs 300 for travelling. Nearly, 300 people are returning daily for the same reason," he said. With minimal income, the Jaipur Metro is on the verge of becoming a big loss-making entity.The source further said, "Approximately, Jaipur Metro consumes electricity worth Rs 2.5 lakh in a day, of which, units worth Rs 50,000 are produced on its own. As per pervious assessments, JMRC faces Rs 41 crore annual loss, if it runs on 60 % ridership. The amount will rise up to Rs 71 crore a year if the loss is calculated at 20% ridership. At present, the ridership is negligible and the government must take serious steps."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-metro-ridership-plummets-95-from-pre-covid-times/articleshow/78628364.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Student leaders seeking tickets for civic polls||Jaipur: Student leaders who earlier were involved in university politics are trying their luck in municipal corporation elections this year.Many student leaders working on various posts in ABVP and NSUI, the two major student organisations in the state, are seeking tickets from different wards of the city. As Rajasthan University student union elections will not be held due to pandemic, everyone is now focused on municipal elections.NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati is demanding ticket from ward 113 in Bagru legislative assembly. “This year, the youths focus are on municipal elections. The first step to enter politics are municipal elections. So many of our age group people are aiming to become councillors,” said Bhati. Similarly, Pooja Bharghav, vice-president of Rajasthan State Youth Congress, is seeking ticket from ward 79 of Municipal Corporation, Jaipur Heritage. “I belong to Walled City and have known people here my entire life. After student politics, I thought that this should be my next step. Through municipal elections, new faces will enter politics,” said Pooja.Rajasthan University has given many leaders to the state and city politics. Former mayor and current MLA from Sanganer legislative assembly Ashok Lahoty was one of them. “Elections in university and municipal corporation are totally different because of different approach. In university, it’s all about the leader irrespective of the party. In municipal corporation, its about the civic issues and party banner does matter. People will criticise you on performance of party in last five years. So, in this regard, we have to rethink our strategy,” said Vikas Meena, a student leader from ABVP claiming for ticket from ward 86.NSUI leader Shivraj Pacherwal, who is seeking a ticket from ward 57, said preparations for election campaign has started. In many places across the city, banners and posters of student leaders are being put up. Student leaders have started door-to-door campaigning. A senior BJP leader said this there is a need for new faces sincve there are 250 wards. “Party requires new faces to contest elections. This year, due to small wards, person with good family connection and liaison can be victorious,” said the senior leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/student-leaders-seeking-tickets-for-civic-polls/articleshow/78628359.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Parties gear up for local body polls||Jaipur: Congress and BJP have shifted gears ahead of municipal elections.The BJP on Monday announced to issue a black paper against the wrong policies of the government. For its voters, the party will also release a vision document, which will include a list of proposed development projects. BJP state president Satish Poonia said, “Cleanliness, lights, roads, corruption will be the big issues in these elections. But we will also highlight how the ruling party failed to deal with corona and presented misleading figures of infected persons.” Poonia said many new candidates would be given opportunity as number of wards are increased. The candidates will be fielded after discussing it with MLAs. Sources said the BJP would release it first list by October 14. As Congress had dissolved the party’s district and block committees in Rajasthan, Poonia questioned about winning the elections without a commander. Meanwhile, Rajasthan PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said a committee had been formed for all the six municipal corporations for which a coordinator would be appointed on behalf of the AICC. Apart from this, the minister in-charge, district president, MPs, MLAs who won or lost are been included. For selecting the contestants, opinion would also be sought from former MLAs, former Lok Sabha MPS and seating legislators. Dotasra said, “Names of the candidates will be sent by the district Congress committee. Applications of potential contenders will also be taken through the Google app. Anyone can send application through the app.” PCC chief said the Party will get bumper votes in the municipal elections. “In 70 per cent of gram panchayats, sarpanchs believing in Congress ideology have been elected. The BJP will be swept away in 2020 municipal polls,” added Dotasra. Urban Development and housing (UDH) minister and Jaipur in-charge Shanti Dhariwal while talking to media said that two municipal corporations in major cities were not formed under the winning formula, but to improve the system. Dhariwal said, “The wards have demarcated to make the system efficient. After winning the election, the councilors will go door-to-door to resolve the problems of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parties-gear-up-for-local-body-polls/articleshow/78628355.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid recovery rate 85.8% as more patients win battle with virus||NAGPUR: Covid-19 recoveries continue to be reported from all districts of Vidarbha. Totally 1,862 patients recovered in a day with 894 in Nagpur, 138 in Bhandara, 134 in Chandrapur, 133 in Akola, 108 in Amravati and Buldhana each, 104 in Wardha, 96 in Gondia, 61 in Gadchiroli, 49 in Washim and 37 in Yavatmal. Out of the total 1,68,724 reported cases till date, 1,44,789 have recovered. The recovery rate is now 85.8%. Of the 52 deaths, 30 were reported in Nagpur. This includes 11 patients from other divisions or states. Wardha had 6 deaths, Bhandara 5, Chandrapur 3 and Gondia 1. In Amravati division, Washim had 3, Amravati 2, Akola and Yavatmal 1 each. No deaths were reported from Gadchiroli and Buldhana. Vidarbha’s total death toll is 4,574 for a case fatality rate of 2.71%. WARDHA: Six Covid patients died during treatment on Monday while detection of 36 new infection cases took the district’s caseload to 5,447. Also, 104 persons were discharged taking the total number of recovered patients to 3,490. The deceased include three men (40, 68 and 70) from Wardha, a 73-year-old man from Arvi, a 60-year-old man from Deoli and a 63-year-old from Ashti. The total Covid deaths in the district has now reached 167. As on Monday, 1,790 patients are under treatment. Out of 346 test reports, 36, including that of 18 women, was positive and the cases came from Wardha 18, Hinganghat 5, Deoli and Arvi 4 each, Selu and Karanja 2 each and Samudrapur 1. CHANDRAPUR: Three Covid deaths and 156 new cases were registered in the district on Monday. The toll has risen to 187, while the total Covid-19 caseload has climbed to 12,233. The day also saw discharge of 134 patients taking the recoveries to 8,977. It has left 3,069 patients under treatment. The three deceased include 56-year-old person from Babupeth and 59-year-old person from GMCH premises in Chandrapur and 65-year-old man from Ballarpur. YAVATMAL: On a day when the district saw sharp decline in new Covid cases after detection of 11 patients on Monday, collector MD Singh has been quarantined after he developed symptoms of Covid-19 infection. While 37 patients recovered in the day, one Covid death was reported from the city. The deceased was 82-year-old man from the city. There are now 543 patients under treatment. According to ZP health department sources, 9,100 patients have been reported in the district so far of whom 8,174 have recovered. Singh’s swab samples have been sent to lab for RT-PCR test and the report is awaited. In a press release, the collector informed that he experienced tiredness and other symptoms from Sunday night and hence he would remain at home for some days and would not attend office from Monday. AMRAVATI: Monday marked a remarkable fall in the Covid-19 cases as the district reported just 23 new patients. A report from civil surgeon’s office said the caseload reached 14,968 on Monday even as two deaths, both males aged 64 and 51 from Rajendranagar here and old city, Badnera respectively, took the toll to 332. The report further informed that 108 patients recovered today to take the recoveries to 13,131. The recovery rate swelled to 87.73% on October 12. This left 1,505 patients under treatment, including 694 in Covid Hospital, nine in Nagpur and 802 in home isolation. BHANDARA: The district has reported 51 deaths in 12 days of October. Even on Monday, 5 deaths were reported taking the district total to 170. Against 67 new cases, 138 patients have recovered from Bhandara. The district now has 6,844 cases out of which 5,302 have recovered. Bhandara’s recovery rate is more than 77%. Totally, 1,382 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: For the 13th successive day, the graph of new cases reported a downward trend as against that of recovered cases in Gondia. The district reported 65 new cases as against 96 recoveries. A patient from New Laxmi Nagar area breathed his last during treatment taking total death toll of Gondia to 108. The district now has 7,921 cases, 7201 recoveries and 612 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Totally 70 new cases were reported in Gadchiroli pushing the caseload over 4,000. 61 patients recovered to take the recoveries past the 3,000 mark. Gadchiroli now has 4,138 total cases, including 3,033 recoveries and 32 deaths. Recovery rate here is more than 75%. The district has 973 patients under treatment. AKOLA: The district now has 7,820 total cases, including 7,180 recoveries and 256 deaths. A 59-yr-old man from Umra Pangra village, who was admitted in a Covid hospital on October 9, died during treatment on Monday. Akola now has only 384 patients under treatment. “In Akola, we are conducting both Rapid Antigen tests (RAT) and RT-PCR. On Monday, 150 reports were received with 12 testing positive. A 133 patients recovered from different hospitals. Akola’s recovery rate is above 91%,” said Dr Sanjay Khadse, resident deputy collector. BULDHANA: The district received 327 reports on Monday out of which 33 tested positive. The caseload reached 8,092. 108 patients recovered taking the tally to 7,503. With no death reported, the total remained at 106. The number of patients under treatment is less than 500. WASHIM: The death toll of Washim reached 105 on Monday after three deaths happened in the last 10 days were added into the district’s tally post-reconciliation. With 66 new cases, the total caseload surpassed 5,000 mark and is now 5031. With 49 patients recovered in a day, the total reached 4,260. Washim now has 666 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-recovery-rate-85-8-as-more-patients-win-battle-with-virus/articleshow/78628389.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||1,000 more cases in Telangana, testing dips||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 1,021 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths, raising the total count of cases to 2,13,084. While the toll stands at 1,228, so far, 1,87,342 patients have recovered, and 24,514 are under medication in hospitals and homes. On Monday, testing saw a major dip with 30,210 samples being tested as against 50,469 on Saturday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1k-more-cases-in-t-testing-dips/articleshow/78628358.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: CBI files case against ex-HAL employee, 5 others for funds misuse||BHUBANESWAR: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) here has registered a fresh cheating case against a suspended officer of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL- engine division) in Koraput for allegedly misappropriating the company’s funds to the tune of Rs 17.67 lakh with the help of five other persons. Nihar Ranjan Rath, the deputy general manager (finance-engine division), HAL, had lodged a complaint against Bhaben Maitra, the suspended senior manager (finance), and five others with the CBI in Bhubaneswar on September 29. In the complaint, it was alleged that Maitra, who was the former deputy manager (finance), connived with the five other accused and embezzled the company’s funds between May 2011 and February 2013. The alleged misappropriation of funds came to the surface following HAL’s internal vigilance inquiry against the accused. Besides naming Maitra in the FIR, the CBI registered a case against Maheswar Behera, a retired HAL engineer (shop), Tuhin Patari, private person; Jyoti Padhi, a former job contract labour, Manoranjan Mohapatra, an estate businessman, and Dhanurjaya Kanta, a labour contractor of HAL. Suspected complicity of some unknown HAL officials is also being investigated, the FIR said. Maitra illegally transferred Rs 17.67 lakh from the bank account of HAL to the accounts of the five accused persons without any supporting documents and bills. Maitra abused his official position, committed criminal misconduct and forgery, a CBI officer said quoting the FIR. Significantly, the CBI had earlier registered seven cases against Maitra between 2018 and 2019. The seven cases comprised six offences relating to a series of financial frauds in HAL and a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The first case was registered against him and seven other persons on October 23, 2018 for allegedly embezzling Rs 5 crore in HAL. Again on January 29, 2019, the CBI registered five separate cases against him and some others for allegedly misappropriating nearly Rs 13 crore. The central investigating agency had registered a case against him on March 12, 2020 for allegedly possession of Rs 38.29 lakh disproportionate to his known sources of income. “We have already filed a chargesheet against him in the six cases in the court. He was arrested in one of the previous cases and is currently out on bail. The fresh allegations of fraud against him are being investigated,” the CBI officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cbi-registers-case-against-ex-hal-employee-5-others-for-rs-17l-funds-misuse/articleshow/78627188.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Presence of ‘foreign-returned’ Covid-19 strain found in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: An analysis of nucleotides (NT) of Covid-19 DNA from the virus found in Gujarat by the state government-funded Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) revealed that the dominant NT sequences were closer to virus strains from North America and Africa rather than Asia. Two research projects by scientists at GBRC analysed the dominant genes and NTs across continents to ascertain the viral infection pattern and find correlations with gender and age. One gene can be made up of thousands of NTs, said researchers, adding that analysis of genes can give an insight into the virus’ composition and help develop a vaccine. “NTs C3037T and A23403G were found in 93.45% of the samples in Gujarat and NT C241T was found in 92.7% samples. C3037T was found in 87.7% samples in Africa and 85.1% samples in North America. On the other hand, in Asia the prevalence was 49%. Likewise, A23403G was found in 89% samples in Africa and 85.1% in North America. In Asia, it was 49%,” said a senior researcher from GBRC. In an earlier study, GBRC had pointed that the clades (wider group of genes) for Gujarat were different to the overall composition in India – while GH was found to be most dominant clade in Gujarat, present in nearly 50% samples, in India O, GR and GH had nearly similar shares. “On the other hand, C18877T NT, prevalent in 57% of samples in Gujarat, has a less-than 12% share globally. At least eight NTs in G, C and A clades are also found more in Gujarat compared to other countries,” said another researcher. About possible reasons for the phenomenon, researchers said movement between the continents in the initial phase of the pandemic could have resulted in the dominance of specific NTs and genes in specific regions. “Factors such as climate, viral load, age of the carrier and receiver, also play a part in deciding the dominant type of Covid-19 virus,” said a senior GBRC official. Gender analysis Analysis of the gender distribution revealed that in Gujarat, C14408T was found to be present in 90% of males and 89% females. Four NTs – G25563T, C18877T, C26735T and C28854T – were found to be slightly more prevalent among female Covid-19 patients whereas C4084T was found to be more prevalent among male patients. The pattern is found to be unique compared to other groups under study. Age differences Age distribution of NTs showed that C14408T was almost equally present in all age groups. The four NTs found to be more prevalent in females also showed a tendency of a gradual decrease with age, they were found more among the younger population (21-40 years) compared to older people (60 years and above). The NT C4084T was found be more prevalent in the older population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/presence-of-foreign-returned-covid-19-strain-found-in-gujarat/articleshow/78628395.cms||Parth Shastri
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||HC forms team to explore 320 more beds at AIIMS||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday constituted a task force for exploring the addition of 320 beds at AIIMS hospital that will take its capacity to 500 for treating Covid-19 patients. Headed by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, the court directed its members to visit AIIMS premises at Mihan, work out the possibility and submit a report within a week. AIIMS director Dr Vibha Datta, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra and IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya are the other members. “We expect, in the meantime, that the AIIMS shall go ahead with making 100 beds facility available stated in its affidavit. The commissioner shall assist AIIMS authorities in making medical and paramedical staff available, including beds and other facilities,” the judges said. Quoting the AIIMS affidavit, the judges noted that 80 beds are already available at OPD building’s fifth floor, of which 40 are with oxygen support. “AIIMS stated that an additional 100 beds facility can be created for the patients. We welcome such a move on part of AIIMS. For the remaining 320 beds, the building meant for indoor patients which can lodge 500 beds, is under construction and is likely to be completed by July next year,” the judges said. Taking over Nagpur Nagrik Rugnalaya not feasible: NMCThe Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday expressed inability to run the Nagpur Nagrik Sahakari Rugnalaya (NNSR) which has a capacity of about 150 beds. In an affidavit filed by commissioner Radhakrishnan B through counsel Sudhir Puranik in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the civic body cited six reasons. “Even otherwise, the requisition of any building by NMC commissioner can only be during a pandemic period, which is temporary. We, therefore, don’t find any reason to go into this aspect and keep this question open to the agitated, if so desired by any of parties,” the judges said. Earlier, the HC directed Indian Medical Association (IMA) counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni to submit a proposal if it wants to run the Nagpur Nagrik Sahakari Rugnalaya (NNSR) to NMC. The directives came after Kulkarni informed that IMA wanted to revive a defunct hospital with help of Rotary International that is ready to donate Rs150 crore for the purpose. He however clarified that the amount would be donated only if the hospital could be run on a permanent basis. On September 29, the judges had directed NMC to consider Rotary Club’s proposal to also submit the report on structural stability of NNSR building. “If such a proposal is received, NMC can take a decision thereon. We wanted independently a report from NMC of its stand about NNSR building’s structural stability, in manner it can be achieved and the period within which it can be attained,” the HC had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-forms-team-to-explore-320-more-beds-at-aiims/articleshow/78628403.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||BJP, Cong all set for Kota civic polls||Kota: The ruling Congress and the opposition BJP are all set for strong contest in the city’s 150 wards. While the BJP considers itself to be strong in Kota south, state UDH minister is considered to have much influence in Kota North. While it is presumed that Congress rule is weaning, there is anti-incumbency factor against outgoing Kota BJP municipal corporation board headed by Mahapor Mahesh Vijay. The saffroon party intends to seek votes for its candidates on the development plank and achievements of its tenure to bag Kota North and Kota South municipal corporations.Permanent posting of 2,000 sanitary employees in the civic body, construction of gaushalas, sanction of Rs 18 crore for another gaushala for 1,500 bovines, construction of CC roads, development of Kota Daussera Madan on the pattern of Pragati Madan in Delhi and introducing small trucks for garbage collection from every area of the city are the key achievements of outgoing BJP board.Vijay said, “There is no anti-incumbency sentiment against the BJP as Congress rule has forced people to realise how quickly and effectively BJP carried out projects.”He said the situation under Congress rule has worsened so much that it takes around three days for the local machinery to remove a dead cattle from a public place.“State UDH minister, despite being from Kota, failed to address power issues,” Kota South MLA Sandeep Sharma said. Long spells of lockdown in minority dominated areas of the city is likely to cost heavily for the Congress in Kota North and South as people of the Muslim community are angry on minister Shanti Dhariwal for his non appearance during hardships.“People in Muslim-dominated areas, particularly inside the wall (Parkota), are determined to teach a lesson to Dhariwal and his government and this anger is going to cost the Congress in the municipal elections in Kota,” Anwar Ahmad, a social activist and resident of ward 33 said.However, Congress worker Mohammad Hussain denied that the Muslims were angry against Dhariwal and said some local outfits were creating this rumour to divert people.Ravinder Tyagi, Kota city Congress president ‘We have collected around 7-8 applications from every ward, have formed the panels to scrutinize the eligible nominees and the exercise is accordingly underway, Kota city Congress president Ravinder Tyagi told brushing aside reported anger among the minority against his party saying all these are temperature phrases and the party workers are full of energy, enthusiasm to win form the boards in both the municipal boards, Kota South and Kota North. Tyagi is currently in state capital holding meeting with Shanti Dhariwal on municipal election strategy on finalizing candidates. With the election notification scheduled to be released on October 14, the filing of nomination papers is set to start for 150 wards of Kota North (70) and South (80). The election for Kota North will be held on October 29 while for Kota South on November 1. Counting of votes will be held on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-cong-all-set-for-kota-civic-polls/articleshow/78628377.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt chief whip tests positive||A day before the special assembly session government, chief whip, Warangal West MLA Dasyam Vinaya Bhaskar tested positive for Covid -19. From Friday, he had participated in meetings and saree distribution. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-chief-whip-tests-positive/articleshow/78628367.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||NW Delhi killing: AAP says victim’s friend went to cops, but denied help||NEW DELHI: AAP chief spokesperson and MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Monday claimed that the woman friend of 18-year-old Rahul Rajput, the Delhi University student who was allegedly beaten to death by her brothers, had gone to the nearby police station for help, but cops refused to take action. He has demanded stringent action against the errant policemen. Refuting the allegations, DCP (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya said, “Police were informed about the incident on October 7. Action was taken immediately and a case of murder was registered. The five accused were apprehended the same day. We came to know of the allegations from the media and will conduct an inquiry into it.” Talking to reporters, Bharadwaj said, “The brothers and friends of Rahul’s friend thrashed him, which resulted in his death. A delegation of AAP along with deputy CM Manish Sisodia went to his house and met his family. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta also met them the same day. We expect BJP to provide justice to the family because Delhi Police comes under the Centre.” The MLA added that a few journalists had spoken to Rajput’s woman friend over video call and she claimed that she was present when the incident occurred. She tried to help Rajput by going to the cops, but none of them took any steps to save him. “Cops at the police station near Adarsh Nagar Metro Station told her that they would not interfere in the matter,” said Bharadwaj. “AAP wants to know from BJP why do police stations exist in Delhi. Are these police stations here just to collect money or extort people and be silent when it comes to helping them or stopping crimes?” questioned the AAP spokesperson. Bharadwaj claimed that if police had intervened in time, then Rajput would have been alive. “The girl also said that there were eight people who beat up Rahul and not five. Delhi Police has arrested only five people. After the girl spoke to the media, police took away her SIM card and destroyed it,” he alleged. “Today, I had a word with the area DCP and she denied the claims. Now, this girl will not be able to contact any person. AAP believes that Delhi Police has taken this shameful step to save themselves. If BJP does not take action against the errant police officers, then AAP will take to the streets and hold a massive protest against them,” Bharadwaj further alleged. Arya clarified that police had not tampered with the girl’s phone SIM and cops were with her since the day of the incident. Earlier, Delhi Police in a statement had said, “It is clarified that it was a dispute between two families on a personal issue and there were no communal overtones in the matter. The area is peaceful and a close vigil is being kept in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nw-delhi-killing-aap-says-victims-friend-went-to-cops-but-denied-help/articleshow/78628439.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||8-yr-old crushed under half-demolished home||Hyderabad: An eight-year-old girl died and two other family members were hurt when the wall of their old house, which they had partially demolished to begin reconstruction, fell while they were removing debris in Bagh Lingampally on Monday morning. Cops said that the owner, Sai Krishna, a private security guard, had shifted his family comprising five daughters and his mother to a relative’s home nearby as he was rebuilding his house. On Monday morning Krishna had taken along his two daughters and mother to help him with cleaning work at their old home when tragedy struck. “The walls of the house were broken. The front wall near the door was standing without any support and this part later fell on the girl while they were removing bricks. The incident happened around 10.40am,” said Chikkadpally inspector Shiva Shankar Rao. While eight-year-old Jayashree was crushed under the wall, her elder sister Divyasree (10) and grandmother S Vijaya (50) were pulled out by her father with the help of locals. Divyasree fractured a hip bone while her grandmother suffered a head injury, Chikkadpally SI R Kotesh said. Police shifted the girl’s body to Osmania General Hospital mortuary and registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-yr-old-crushed-under-half-demolished-home/articleshow/78628408.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pushkar fair to be scrapped this year||JAIPUR: The annual Pushkar fair that opens that doors to the rural charm of Rajasthan is going to be cancelled this year. With restrictions in force on number of people attending public events, the state government deciding last month not to hold fairs and festivals and slashing their budget by 50% has virtually left no option open to hold the annual jamboree that attracts tourists far and wide. The nine-day festival, where thousands of camels and horses are traded, was scheduled to start from November 22 but there is no planning as of now. “In any normal year, the organizers which include department of tourism, animal husbandry and the district administration would have firmed up plans. But there is no action as of now,” said an official in the tourism department. However, the authorities are still nurturing a glimmer of hope, even to hold the event at a low scale, by restricting to the trade in camels and horses. “If the unlock guidelines in November allow gathering of more people and lift the restrictions on fairs and festivals, then there is a slimmer of a chance to organize it. But as of now, it is only a hope,” said the official. Pushkar fair used to be a big source of business for the locals and the tourism industry. Tourism department has cancelled all the fairs and festivals since March 20 onwards this year. The finance department has also reduced the budgets by 50% that were used by the tourism department to sponsor these events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pushkar-fair-to-be-scrapped-this-year/articleshow/78628386.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||TSIIC corridor: Owners unable to upload their property details||HYDERABAD: Multiple attempts to enlist their non-agricultural properties online — they’ll eventually be uploaded onto the Dharani portal — failed for residents with assets along the TSIIC. Property owners said that system refused to accept alpha numeric property tax identification number, allotted to this area. Most non- agricultural properties located under TSIIC are located across Gachibowli , Manikonda and Patancheruvu. Though several properties located near Jeedimetla industrial area fall under TSIIC, property tax is generated by GHMC.  “I request authorities to fix the issue immediately and deploy staffers to assist residents. We are unable to enlist our properties unlike housing societies in Gachibowli,” said Hema Pratap on behalf of residents of Serene County. Residents here asked authorities to make changes to the portal on a war-footing. “I have been flooded with complaints from residents pertaining to enrolment of property,” said Srinivas Konala, general secretary of Lanco Hills. “We have written a letter to the government about enlisting of properties in TSIIC. We are expecting a reply this week, after which enrolments will start,” said C Vinod Kumar, zonal manager, TSIIC of Vikarabad, Hyderabad and parts of Rangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsiic-corridor-owners-unable-to-upload-their-property-details/articleshow/78628382.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 13, 2020||Goa||Two wanted by Kerala cops held at Arambol||Panaji: Pernem police on Monday detained two persons wanted by Kerala police in a murder case, and later handed over the accused to Thrissur Rural Police. Police received information from their Kerala counterparts that two accused persons who are involved in a murder case were staying a place located within the jurisdiction of Pernem police station. Accordingly, PI Jivba Dalvi along with his team consisting of police personnel conducted a search at the location as per electronic evidence, and apprehended both the accused persons in Arambol. Police said that accused are involved in numerous heinous crimes such as extortion, attempt to murder and money laundering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-wanted-by-kerala-cops-held-at-arambol/articleshow/78758341.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: New plan floated to rejuvenate City of Lakes project||NEW DELHI: To expedite its ambitious-but-slow-paced City of Lakes project, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has approved a standard set of operating procedures (SOPs) for any plan to rejuvenate waterbodies. Instead of taking up the projects individually, 30-50 waterbodies of similar parameters will be clubbed under a package and projects will be executed after floating bids in parallel, said a DJB official. A standard 10-step guideline has been formulated, which “is in line with the model established in creating school rooms and mohalla clinics” the official said. “Over 20,000 classrooms and hundreds of mohalla clinics were built after following SOPs. We want to standardise and replicate the same for waterbodies.” The SOPs set priority timelines for garbage removal and desilting of lake beds followed by landscaping of surroundings to create a public space. The board has approved a three-phase development for all waterbodies. Garbage removal, fencing and excavation of lake bed will be carried out in phase-I, followed by arrangement of water source for rejuvenation from the nearest sewage treatment plant (STP) or through construction of an on-site decentralised STP (DSTP) for treating waste water. Phase-III will involve landscaping of surroundings at each of the 201 sites. “In all cases where DSTP are required, tenders will be floated on the design-build-operate model with 15-year maintenance and NGT-fixed parameters for pollutants. Each site should have a recharge pit equal to 50% of the STP capacity to increase groundwater recharge,” the norms state. In the first phase of the City of Lakes project, conceived around three years ago, 155 waterbodies were to be revived. While project reports have been prepared by CSIR-NEERI for 71 waterbodies, works orders have been issued in 46 cases. “Work at 50 sites is at different stages like digging lake bed, setting up tanks, and reclamation of land by local SDMs from encroachers,” the official said. The work is 70-80% complete in case of eight waterbodies. “The commissioning can be done after introducing gravel in DSTP.” According to DJB, the progress will be faster now. “The target is to finish the first phase in the next two years. We have seen a slow place in the past three years, with just five-six waterbodies being taken up every year,” the official said. With the broad parameters fixed now, “we will provide land area, status, groundwater levels, quality of water etc and there will be flexibility in terms of choosing any proven technology for water treatment”, he added. Watch Delhi finalises new plan to rejuvenate water bodies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-plan-floated-to-rejuvenate-city-of-lakes-project/articleshow/78628414.cms||Paras Singh
October 13, 2020||Pune||PCMC to shell out Rs 3 crore on Balnagari centre||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) plans to spend Rs3 crore for the 400-bed Balnagari Covid-19 Care Centre. The decision to approve the amount will be taken by the standing committee this week. The civic body had decided to hand over the centres to private firms so as to strengthen the medical and paramedical staff at its civic hospital. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said that the Balnagari facility is at around 20-25% of its current intake capacity due to the drop in the number of patients over the past few weeks. However, the facility would play an important role in case of a spike in the number of cases. “The festive season is coming up. Although we are prepared, citizens must also cooperate and behave responsibly in terms of social distancing and wearing masks. During the Ganesh festival, the number of cases rose suddenly and there was significant increase in the number of distress calls. Learning from the experience, we are prepared for any possibility ahead,” he said. According to Patil, the drop in patients forced the civic body to shut down at least five centres in Pimpri Chinchwad. However, the main centres, with higher bed capacity, are still active. “The centres that we have closed were based on college premises. Considering the requirement for exams and academic purposes, we managed to vacate it as per their request,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-shell-out-rs-3-crore-on-balnagari-centre/articleshow/78628385.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj Singh Chouhan a great actor, will put Bollywood stars to shame: MP Congress chief||Bhopal: Former chief minister and state Congress chief Kamal Nath lashed out at the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for his acting that he said, “would put the Bollywood superstars to shame.” He was addressing a rally in Jaisinagar town of Surkhi Vidhan Sabha seat in Sagar district on Monday. Taking a dig at Chouhan, Nath said, ”He says he is the son of a farmer. Occasionally he also calls himself a Mama. He would also lie down in front of people. He is so good at acting that he would put to shame bollywood superstars like Shahrukh and Salman.” Nath said that Shivraj would always tell lies. “He is in the habit of making false announcements . Wherever he goes , he would make some announcement and several of his announcements made in the past have never been implemented,” he said. Nath also invited Shivraj on a platform for debate on developmental issues. He said that Shivraj must understand that he stands exposed in front of people. During the 15 years rule of BJP, more number of industries were shut down than the number of those which were set up during the tenure. “Chouhan’s tenure is known for rising unemployment, rising number of farmers’ suicide. The stats was no one in the cases of crime against women and farmers’ suicide.” He said that the BJP government was formed with the help of notes (currency) when the people of the state had voted for the Congress and his government was formed with votes. Nath also talked about the gaushalas that were set up during his tenure as the chief minister and the efforts made by him for setting up industries. “We waived off loans of 27 lakh farmers in two phases. And when the third phase of loan waiving started, my government was pulled down,” he told the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-a-great-actor-will-put-bolly-stars-to-shame-nath/articleshow/78627223.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||No printed report for ‘free’ check in Pimpri Chinchwad||Pimpri Chinchwad: People availing free Covid-19 test at PCMC-run dispensaries and hospitals are solely dependent on phone calls from health officials to confirm their health status as no printed test reports are being produced for such tests in the civic limits.A 39-year-old woman in Pimpri Chinchwad got herself tested at a civic hospital after she showed symptoms akin to Covid-19. She was told that she would get a call if she was positive. Next day, she got a call and was told to get herself admitted in a local Covid care centre. Thereafter, her family members were tested too. But, none of them got the call, indicating that their tests were negative.Over 3,500 free RT-PCT tests are being conducted at PCMC-run dispensaries and hospitals in the civic limits every day. “You get a printed report only if you get the test done at a private hospital,” a civic official working in one of the PCMC-run dispensaries said.The private laboratories charge Rs2,000 for the test. Pavan Salve, chief medical officer, PCMC, told TOI, “We will look into it. I will take this up in the next meeting. We are giving it to people if they ask for it. We did not have the manpower to conduct the tests itself. So, printing was not a priority.” According to a private doctor, a clear and unambiguous result is non-negotiable, especially for asymptomatic patients. “A result stating the diagnosis clearly is the only way that people can know about their Covid status. The phone system is riddled with risks of misinformation and mistreatment,” the doctor said.Over 3,60,000 samples have been tested in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas, which have resulted in nearly 84,000 positive patients. Of these, more than 78,000 have recovered. Over 2,00,000 of these tests have been conducted for free at civic-run facilities and there have been no paper trail on these, medical experts said.PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar, did not respond to calls and texts seeking reasons why the printed reports were not shared with the patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-printed-report-for-free-check-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/78628397.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Active cases on rise in state, ebb in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Active cases in the state touched new high of 21,671 on Monday with 2,132 fresh infections which took the overall tally to 1,61,184. While active cases are on the rise in the state, they have been reducing in Jaipur over the last three days. For the fifth consecutive day, active cases in Jaipur have registered a decline while the state has reported an increase over the last three days. “We are spreading awareness in Jaipur asking people to follow social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygine. The people should continue taking precautions for the upcoming festive season,” said Dr KK Sharma, director (health), health department. Bikaner remained one of the worst Covid-hit districts in October as it has added 2,994 cases in the last 12 days. Till September 30, Bikaner had reported 6,556 cumulative cases, which rose to 9,550 on Monday. Bikaner has reported 31.3% of its overall cases in October. Jodhpur and Jaipur collectively reported more than 50,000 cases. Out of 1,61,184 cases in the state, Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively contributed 50,807, accounting for 31.5% of overall cases. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (396), Bikaner (353), Jodhpur (331), Alwar (159), Ajmer (88), Udaipur (75), Nagaur (67), Bhilwara (65), Bharatpur (59), Sriganganagar (57), Kota (56), Pali (54), Tonk (46), Churu (39), Karauli (29), Rajsamand (26), Chittorgarh (26), Dholpur (24), Sikar (22), Barmer (21), Dungarpur (19), Banswara (18), Hanumangarh (16), Sirohi (15), Jaisalmer (14), Pratapgarh (11), Sawai Madhopur (11), Dausa (10), Bundi (9), Jalore (8), Jhunjhunu (4), Jhalawar (3) and Baran (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its Covid fatalities to 338, Jodhpur reported its 157th Covid death, Bikaner 124th, Ajmer 120th, Kota 108th, Udaipur 55th, Sikar 43rd, Bhilwara 28th, Rajsamand 26th, Tonk 23rd, Chittorgarh 21th, Sriganganagar 20th, Jhalawar 13th and Bundi reported its 9th Covid-19 casuality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-on-rise-in-state-ebb-in-jaipur/articleshow/78628405.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Pune||Day’s cases in Pune Metropolitan Region drop to three-month low over reduced testing||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 988 new cases, lowest since July 1, and thrice as many recoveries (3,126) on Monday. The decline in positives was mainly because of less testing over the weekend. The region has been reporting more discharges than new cases for 12 consecutive days now. Among the new recoveries, the rural and Cantonment areas recorded 1,567, which were the highest in the region followed by 950 from the PMC limits and 609 from the PCMC limits. With this, the region’s total recoveries have increased above 2.71 lakh. The total caseload in PMR increased above 3.07 lakh on Monday. The region had last reported less than 1,000 cases in 24 hours on June 30 (739). Health officials said more discharges have led to drop in active cases in the region. There has been steady drop in active cases since last two weeks, the officials said. On Monday, the region’s case load of active cases was 29,144. These included 16,348 patients admitted in various hospitals and 12,796 patients in home isolation. The region’s daily death count also dropped to 37 on Monday, with the PMC limits reporting 14 deaths, the PCMC limits recording nine and the rural areas reporting 14. The region so far has reported 7,204 deaths due to Covid-19. As per a PMC report, 856 patients were in critical stage till Monday night, including 456 on ventilator support. As many as 2,618 patients were put on ventilator support in the municipal limits. The PMC has reported less than 1,000 new cases for the five consecutive days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-cases-drop-to-3-month-low-over-reduced-testing/articleshow/78628420.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI to probe posts in social media on judges, says AP HC||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday ordered a CBI inquiry into objectionable comments made about the court and its judges on social media by some individuals including those in prominent positions. On Saturday, AP chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s principal advisor Ajeya Kallam had held a press conference where he released the CM’s letter to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde complaining about a senior Supreme Court judge and some high court judges. In the annexure to the letter, Jagan had alleged that the “august institution of the high court is being used to destabilise and topple the democratically elected government”. He had submitted an annexure pointing out instances of how matters important to an opposition party had been allocated to select judges in the high court. In its order, the bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that persons occupying high posts were waging war against the judicial system in Andhra Pradesh. The judges directed CBI to examine if attacks were part of a larger conspiracy and to act against the culprits, irrespective of their post and position, if the conspiracy is established. The order marks an escalation in a months-long war between Jagan and the higher judiciary. In a late evening order on September 15, the HC had gagged the media from disclosing details of an FIR filed by the anti-corruption bureau in Amravati land deals. The HC on Monday said, “In a democratic state if such war initiated against the judicial system by persons holding high positions, certainly it will create unnecessary doubt in the mind of citizen against the judicial system, which may cripple entire system.” In an earlier hearing, the standing counsel for the HC told the bench that even the AP assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram had made objectionable comments against the high court. The bench had observed that the speaker would be covered under contempt proceedings if the remarks were made outside the house. The court was dealing with a petition filed by the HC registrar-general on defamatory and objectionable posts by some persons on social media following its order staying the state government’s decision to introduce English medium in all government schools at the primary level. The judges had observed that social media platforms were flooded with comments against the HC whenever an order was given against the state government’s decisions. Besides moving the court, the registrar-general had also lodged a complaint with the state crime investigation department (CID). Later, he filed an interlocutory petition objecting to CID not registering cases against ruling party members, who made objectionable comments. The judges also said that CBI could register more FIRs in the case if the material available on record disclosed cognizable offences. Besides, it has been asked to remove all defamatory posts on social media and also take steps to block such users. The investigators have been directed to submit the report in a sealed cover within eight weeks from the day the order is received. The court directed the AP government through its chief secretary and DGP to provide all assistance to CBI and posted the case for December 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-to-probe-posts-in-social-media-on-judges-says-ap-hc/articleshow/78630035.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||City’s air quality, which was good in August, turns moderate||Jaipur: After two months of reporting one of the cleanest days, city’s air quality has taken a slight dip as its air quality index (AQI) hit 104 mark on Monday. The dip in air quality from good to moderate might affect the health of people who have recovered from Covid-19 and are still complaining of difficulty in breathing and other patients having pre-existing lung diseases. In Delhi, the air quality has turned hazardous due to stubble burning. In Jaipur, too, the air quality has turned moderate. Vehicular movement has started more or less like the pre-Covid times. The AQI on August 12 was just 38, since then it has been increasing and indicating rising levels of particulate matter impacting the air quality adversely. With the beginning of October, the air quality has turned moderate. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), when the air quality turned moderate, it causes breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma, and heart diseases. "Many of the recovering Covid patients, who are having post-Covid lung fibrosis or whose lungs have not achieved normal functional capacity yet, can have a lot of problems with smoke or pollution in the air," said Dr Adil Aziz, senior consultant (medicine), at a private hospital. Doctors claimed that dip in air quality might severely affect Covid patients. "It has been shown in multiple studies that increase in exposure to particulate matter increases the severity and mortality associated with Covid. Also, the SARS CoV-2 DNA has been demonstrated on the particulate matter (PM), which is a result of air pollution," said Dr Sheetu Singh, associate professor (medicine), SMS Hospital. She said that bursting firecrackers would lead to increase in particulate matter and subsequent increase in transmission of the disease. SMS hospital’s associate professor (medicine) Dr Sunil Mahawar said, "Any sort of pollution, be it vehicular, bursting of crackers or any other source, is not good for Covid patients and those who have recovered and finding it difficult to maintain oxygen saturation level of 95%."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-air-quality-which-was-good-in-august-turns-moderate/articleshow/78628392.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Assembly meet to okay tweaks to GHMC Act||HYDERABAD: For approving amendments to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, the Registration Act of 1908 and also the new Revenue Act, the Telangana legislative assembly and council will meet on October 13 and 14. While the assembly session will be held on October 13, the legislative council will meet on October 14. The special session is being convened mainly to make certain amendments, especially to the GHMC Act, for incorporating 50% reservations for women (which is now in vogue through a GO) in all the 150 words, continuing BC reservations for 10 years and for holding GHMC elections without BC voters’ enumeration except mayor posts as it was done last year and other amendments. Sources said the government wanted to remove the two-children norm for candidates to contest in the GHMC elections but is reportedly having second thoughts now. The government is removing discretionary powers to the registration department officers under section 47(A) of the Registration Act and bringing a new integrated township policy and amendments to the Revenue Act. The state cabinet, which met on Saturday last, approved the amendments. The monsoon session was held for 10 days from September 7, but had to be adjourned after some of the legislators, assembly staffers and police personnel tested positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and legislative council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy visited the assembly and council hall on Monday and reviewed the arrangements.  They said medical desks have been set up on the premises of the assembly to conduct tests for MLAs, MLCs, media and police personnel attending the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assembly-meet-to-ok-tweaks-to-ghmc-act/articleshow/78628415.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: YSRC not to contest GHMC polls, Jana Sena to enter fray||HYDERABAD: The YSRCP has decided against contesting the GHMC elections even as Jana Sena is planning to enter the fray in at least 100 seats. Though there have been demands and pressures from party leaders and workers in the city, the party leadership is not inclined in contesting the elections. YSRCP last contested in 2014 assembly elections in the united AP and secured three seats in Khammam district. Later all the three elected MLAs switched loyalties to the TRS. “As of now the party has no plans to contest the GHMC elections. In 2016 GHMC elections also, the party stayed away from the civic body polls,” Gattu Srikanth Reddy, YSRCP’s Telangana state president said. However, he admitted leaders have been requesting the party to reconsider its decision and allow them to put up candidates. The leaders believe that there are many voters, especially in the city, like YS Rajasekhar Reddy and had benefited from various schemes like Aarogya Sree introduced by YSR when he was CM of united AP. “If YSRCP contests the GHMC elections, it will bag at least 20 to 30 seats of the 150 divisions and will play an important role in deciding the mayoral candidate. Many leaders, who switched to other parties after 2014 polls, will come back to YSRCP fold now,” a senior leader from Secunderabad, who is now in the Congress party, said. Jana Sena is keen on contesting the elections. Party chief Pawan Kalyan is likely to hold a meeting with state and city leaders soon. The party has completed constituting division committees for 50 divisions and another 40 to 50 will be completed soon. “The party will contest the GHMC elections. We could not put up candidates due to various reasons and focus on AP politics. The party had contested Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and put up 720 candidates even in ZPTC and MPTC (rural local bodie) elections also. In some places our party candidates secured two to four positions,” Jana Sena Telangana president N Shankar Goud told TOI on Monday. Interestingly, Goud contested in the 2016 GHMC elections from Vengalrao Nagar division and Parliament elections from Secunderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysrc-not-to-contest-ghmc-polls-jana-sena-to-enter-fray/articleshow/78628402.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Big win for Kavitha in Nizamabad MLC poll||HYDERABAD: Former TRS Lok Sabha MP Kavitha Kalvakuntla on Monday won the Telangana legislative council by-election by a big margin. She was contesting from the Nizamabad local bodies constituency. The seat fell vacant after TRS MLC R Bhupathi Reddy was disqualified. Her term will end in January 2022. Kavitha got 728 votes out of 823 votes that were polled. BJP got 56 votes while the Congress polled 29 votes. Ten votes were declared invalid. “I thank chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for giving me an opportunity to serve the people of Kamareddy and Nizamabad,” Kavitha said in a tweet after the win. She also thanked MLAs, MPs and all public representatives who worked for her victory. She is expected to take oath as MLC on October 14 and will play a more active role in state politics. Kavitha had represented the Nizamabad Lok Sabha seat from 2014-19 but could not get another term as she lost to BJP’s Arvind Dharmapuri in 2019. Kavitha’s victory was clear in the first round of counting itself when she got 532 out of the 600 votes. BJP candidate P Laxminarayana and Congress candidate B Subhash Reddy were left far behind. The former Nizamabad MP’s victory, however, was a foregone conclusion as the party had enough votes among the elected representatives electorate. The electorate comprised ward members, municipal councillors, MPTC and ZPTC members and MLAs and MLCs. TRS party leaders and cadres organised celebrations bursting crackers in Kamareddy and Nizamabad. With the victory in the MLC elections, Kavitha has entered into the state legislative body for the first time after her political career began almost 10 years ago. There was speculation during the 2018 assembly polls that she would contest from one of the assembly constituencies from her Nizamabad LS and the TRS chief would chose to represent the party in Lok Sabha. When there was a by-poll for Huzurnagar assembly last year, there were rumours that she would be fielded from Huzurnagar. During that time, Jagityal MLA Sanjay openly announced that he was ready to quit the MLA post for Kavitha if she wished to enter the state assembly. During the election campaign, Bodhan MLA Shakeel Aamir Mohammed said he would like to see ‘Kavitakka’ as minister after her election as MLC. Since KCR’s son (KTR), nephew (T Harish Rao) have already been in the state cabinet, the chances of inducting Kavita in the cabinet are unlikely, sources said. Sources said it was likely Kavitha would be made a government whip in the legislative council as two party whips, Karne Prabhakar and Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, retired a couple of months ago. Bodakunti Venkateshwarlu has been acting as party chief whip since September 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/big-win-for-kavitha-in-nizamabad-mlc-poll/articleshow/78630061.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 13, 2020||Bengaluru||20% of Covid-19 patients who died in B’luru had no comorbidities||Bengaluru: A review of 2,900 Covid-19 deaths reported in Bengaluru till last week has thrown up one startling fact: 620 of those who died were fairly healthy individuals with no comorbidities. Medical professionals insist that a majority of these deaths occurred because of late hospitalization and a drastic drop in oxygen-levels, while those tracking Covid-19 patterns warn people against lowering their guard. They say it is imperative for people to wear masks when out in public, follow social distancing norms and ensure hand hygiene. According to the civic agency’s review of infections in the city, 2,316 of the 2,936 patients who died suffered comorbidities. More than 1,800 were in the 51-75 years age group and 600 in the 26-50 years age group. “The primary reason for increasing fatalities among those without comorbidities is the lack of seriousness in people’s attitudes towards the virus,” a senior BBMP health official said. “People visit hospitals when their oxygen saturation level is extremely low and providing medical treatment at that stage becomes very challenging.” Data accessed by TOI revealed 315 people succumbed in the first 24 hours of admission to hospital, while 414 died in the next 48 hours. In all, 2,043 people spent four or more days in hospital before losing the battle with the virus. “Most people who die in the first 24 hours are those above 60 years and suffer comorbidities,” a senior BBMP health official in charge of Covid-19 said. “The 2,043 people who died four or more days after admission are mostly in the 26-50 years age group and 75% of them had no comorbidities.” Another senior medical official working with BBMP said, “Most of these people either suffer influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). They need constant oxygen support. Since they come in when their saturation level is below 65, medical support does not help much and they die within three or four days of admission.” Among the dead, 1,843 had SARI, while 1,093 suffered from ILI. “Though BBMP health teams have conducted door-to-door surveys to track people with SARI and ILI, many people who were travelling or returned after the survey was conducted were not on the radar. The people who died contracted the virus within a short span of time. The sooner people visit hospitals and receive treatment the easier it is to cure them,” the official added. A health professional from a Covid-19 hospital said the sharp increase in the number of people in the 26-50 years age group dying is a trend that began only after lockdown restrictions were eased. “With the ease in lockdown restrictions, many youngsters are stepping out and contracting the virus,” said the health official. “Since they are asymptomatic in the initial stages of mutation, they perhaps are unware that they are infected and do not get tested. When their saturation levels drops, they rush to hospitals where doctors cannot do much. These people are healthy individuals, but carelessness leads to death.” Of the deaths in the city, data accessed by TOI shows 955 were women and 1,981 were men. “Men normally have weaker immunity with hypertension and blood pressure among other morbidities, while women normally suffer from chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease among others,” the health professional said. Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner, health, said that in order to reduce deaths, people need to get tested and avail care early. “Awareness among people should rise to curb the disease,” Cholan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/20-of-covid-19-patients-who-died-in-bluru-had-no-comorbidities/articleshow/78627261.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 13, 2020||Pune||Pune Cantonment Board plans post-Covid care centre, to rope in doctors & psychiatrists||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) will move a proposal before its health committee for setting up a post-Covid care centre to cater to requirements of patients who have recovered from nCoV, but are feeling the after effects of the same on their health. Amit Kumar, PCB’s CEO, said, “We have decided in principle to set up a post-Covid care centre in view of at least 15 queries from recovered patients regarding such facility.” Resident medical officer V D Gaikwad, Kumar and three elected members are part of the panel. At 92%, PCB has the highest recovery rate in Pune district with 1,506 of the 1,635 infected persons discharged so far. The number of active cases under treatment is now 72, while 57 others have succumbed to the contagion. “As of now, we do not have a post-Covid care facility and many recovered patients are going to private clinics for treatment of anxiety, body ache, loss of taste, lack of concentration, lung problem etc. The upcoming facility will seek to address these issues,” he said. The PCB proposes to convert one of its existing Covid centres into post-Covid facility. Dr Gaikwad, RMO, Sardar Vallabhbai Patel Cantonment General Hospital, said, “We will rope in doctors and psychiatrists to address queries of recovered Covid-19 patients. We have observed that many patients get disturbed mentally due to various reasons. Hence, expert intervention is needed to prevent further complications in their daily routine post recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-plans-post-covid-care-centre-to-rope-in-doctors-psychiatrists/articleshow/78628451.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad ties up with C-DAC to set up high performance computing centre||HYDERABAD: Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad will collaborate with Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) to set up a state-of-the-art facility under the National Supercomputing Mission for research and development activities. An MoU has been signed by the institute, to enable scientists and researchers to carry out cutting-edge research in their respective domains and make India one of the world leaders in Supercomputing, in the virtual presence of Sanjay Dhotre, minister of state for education, communications, electronics & IT. “It is a great step in the direction of digital India, ‘Make in India’ and making Atmanibhar Bharat,” said Dhotre.  BS Murty, director, IIT-H, said that the purpose of this High-Performance Computing Centre (HPC) is to solve grand challenges and problems of national importance to build Atmanirbhar Bharat. “IIT Hyderabad is a pioneer in the field of Artificial Intelligence. We are the first institute in the country to launch a B Tech programme in AI. With a strong base of close to 25 faculty in the department of AI, the institute is looking forward to such opportunities to come up with many more innovations and research achievements in the field,” said Murty. He aded that the institute had also signed an MoU with the Telangana government, which declared 2020 as the year of AI. An MoU has been signed to enable scientists carry out cutting-edge research. The institute will provide infrastructural support for the in-time set-up of the supercomputing facility at IIT-H||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-ties-up-with-c-dac-to-set-up-hpc/articleshow/78628436.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Man who went to US on a forged passport 18 yrs ago held on return||NEW DELHI: A man who returned from the US to India after 18 years was booked for allegedly travelling abroad on a forged passport. Though he moved a Delhi court seeking protection from arrest, the court denied his plea stating “such incidents tarnish the image of India in general and of Indian citizens in particular, travelling abroad”. Kirti Kumar Patel, 61, allegedly travelled to the US from Ahmedabad on someone else’s passport in 2002 and on his return to India recently, scrutiny of his documents didn’t show any previous travel history as his previous passport details were not available. “Sustained interrogation of the applicant/accused is required to unearth the modus operandi of the crime,” remarked additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana in an order passed on October 9. The man’s counsels, Jaitegan Singh Khurana and Uday Bedi, argued that he had been “falsely arraigned” as an accused in the present FIR. On September 29, the IGI police station had registered an FIR under sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and the relevant provision of The Passports Act, 1967 against the man. “Kirti Kumar Patel arrived from Chicago, USA by Air India and approached for arrival immigration clearance. During scrutiny of this travel document, it was observed that his last departure record was not found as his previous passport details were not available...It suggested that he might have departed from India using someone else’s passport. By doing so, he might have cheated Indian immigration,” stated the FIR. Patel’s lawyers stated that there was nothing incriminating on record to suggest that he had committed an offence and he travelled on someone else’s passport or visa. They sought anticipatory bail on the ground that Patel was apprehending his arrest in the present case and suffered from diabetes and liver problems. Additional public prosecutor Irfan Ahmed opposed the anticipatory bail plea arguing Patel had travelled abroad on forged documents and had been hiding the identity of travel agent for unearthing the conspiracy. Judge Rana held, “Considering the nature and seriousness of allegations, I am not inclined to release the applicant/accused on anticipatory bail. Hence, his bail application stands rejected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-went-to-us-on-a-forged-passport-18-yrs-ago-held-on-return/articleshow/78628510.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||AI research centre opened in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In a bid to solve some of the key challenges in sectors such as healthcare and smart mobility, chipmaker Intel, IIIT-Hyderabad (IIIT-H), Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and Telangana government on Monday announced the launch of INAI, an applied Artificial Intelligence research centre at the IIIT Hyderabad campus. The centre, that was virtually launched during the opening of the all.ai 2020 Virtual Summit on Monday, will leverage AI technology to drive high impact applied research, create population scale datasets and foster entrepreneurship in collaboration with industry, academia and government. Apart from training students on AI readiness skills, centre will advance research in the area of road safety with the aim of using AI to reduce road accidents and fatalities in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ai-research-centre-opened-in-hyderabad/articleshow/78628477.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress seeks BC voter enumeration||HYDERABAD: Congress has demanded that GHMC elections be held only after a fresh enumeration of BC voters and finalisation of BC reservation of wards based on their population. In a letter to the Telangana State Election Commission and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Congress national spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said the TRS government had unscientifically fixed BC reservations to its political advantage in 2016 GHMC elections. “Telangana was formed thanks to sacrifices of SCs, STs, OBCs and minorities who comprise 90% of the population. Just because the TRS government has a majority, it is all set to suppress aspirations of the downtrodden by making amenments to the GHMC Act. Opinions of all the stakeholders should be taken before making amendments to the Act. A scientific survey of OBC voters has to be done before conducting elections to Greater Hyderabad, Warangal and Khammam municipal corporations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-seeks-bc-voter-enumeration/articleshow/78628491.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||After house collapse, family from Old City seeks Telangana government's help||HYDERABAD: After the collapse of a dilapidated house in Hussaini Alam on Sunday, the affected family has sought government’s help for relocation. The family said that even as the collapse left them homeless, they are finding it difficult to even move in a rented house in the present circumstances. “I lost everything in the tragedy and have next to nothing to lead life,” said Haji Mohammed Khan, who sustained serious head injuries after his house collapsed on Sunday afternoon. Two women of his family died in the mishap. Haji Mohammed told TOI that no notice was served to them from GHMC’s side and any inspection was also not conducted. “I was not issued any notice,” he said. The GHMC zonal commissioner had said after the collapse that refusal to move from the old building despite being served notice led to the incident. —Omer bin Taher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-house-collapse-family-from-old-city-seeks-govt-help/articleshow/78628539.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||Seven-year-old mauled to death by leopard||Dehradun: A seven-year-old girl was killed by a leopard late on Friday night in Narendra Nagar forest division. Her body was later found in a nearby forest about 700 metres away from her house after forest officials and villagers conducted a search operation. The girl had gone out to relieve herself when the attack took place. The death triggered rage among the locals who asked the forest department to declare the leopard a man-eater. In view of the threat to the villagers, the forest officials acceded to the demand. “The leopard had also attacked other villagers after killing the girl. This suggests that it has probably turned into a man-eater and poses threat to the lives of locals,” said MS Bisht, SDO, Narendra Nagar forest division. A team of forest officials along with rescue teams have been deployed at the spot to trap the tiger. If the plan doesn't work out, then a shooter will be called after a couple of days, according to the SDO. This is the third such attack in the Narendra Nagar forest division within three months. Earlier, a 35-year-old woman was killed by a leopard in Maletha on August 8 and a mentally-challenged person was mauled to death on September 1 in Devprayag. A leopard, believed to be man-eater, was caught from the Devprayag area and sent to Chidiyapur rescue centre earlier. However, it was released into the wild after veterinary doctors found out that it wasn't a man-eater. It is worth mentioning that Uttarakhand has already eliminated four leopards after labelling them man-eater this year. According to the forest department data, exclusively accessed by TOI, as many as 21 people, including the seven-year-old girl, have lost their lives to leopard attacks in Uttarakhand so far this year. The data further reveals that the Narendra Nagar division has lost the maximum of four people to leopard attacks this year, followed by Almora and Pithoragarh where three deaths each have been registered so far. Also, 44 people have sustained critical injuries in leopard attacks this year. The data adds that leopard attacks have claimed the highest number of lives among other human-animal conflict incidents. Leopard attacks had killed/injured the highest number of people in the hills last year as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seven-year-old-mauled-to-death-by-leopard/articleshow/78626063.cms||Shivani Azad
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana BJP changes tactics, goes hyperlocal for civic polls||HYDERABAD: While calling for a ‘Chalo Assembly’ on Tuesday to oppose the amendments to the GHMC Act, the state BJP unit has decided to go hyperlocal during the GHMC elections campaign. The state-level committee met here in the presence of state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar and Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy and decided to take up a door-to-door campaign by focusing on local issues instead of talking about developmental issues. “We have already done a survey on various local issues. Our activists have done four walkathons in each division already. We are going to highlight ssues like the Dharani web portal insistence and bad condition of roads,” N Ramchander Rao, former city wing president and party MLC, said. “TRS government is going for the amendments to the GHMC Act only to benefit the AIMIM. We oppose this move,” Sanjay said.  Sources said those who had contested last time and are still active will have a better chance for standing in the election again. The party leadership has also decided to go hyperlocal in Dubbak bypoll. While Ramchander Rao is almost finalised as the candidate for Hyderabad-Rangareddy- Mahbubnagar graduates constituency, two leaders who joined from TDP — E Peddireddy and R Prakash Reddy — are frontrunners for the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena state president Murari joined the BJP on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-changes-tactics-goes-hyperlocal-for-civic-polls/articleshow/78628523.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||GMC suspends doctor for 3 years||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Medical Council (GMC) on Monday suspended the membership of Dr Vipul Shantilal Patel, an Ahmedabad-based doctor, for three years on grounds of professional misconduct. Dr Patel was accused of identifying himself as a critical care specialist and MD (medicine) despite him being registered as an MBBS practitioner with the GMC. He was also accused of getting a Covid-19 positive couple to a hospital, assuring them that he would cover their charges, and later allegedly charging them a ‘huge amount with fake bills’. The apex professional body for medical practitioners in Gujarat also requested the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to a file criminal complaint, asked Pushya Hospital and Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) to follow-up with city police about the case and the Food and Drugs Commissioner to inquire into the role of ‘Mission Enterprise’, Patel’s firm which received the payments, and submit its report to the council. GMC in its resolution said that Dr Patel did now show any cause or reply to notices sent by the council. ‘Dr Vipul Patel has made a written request two days before the meeting to allow him time for perusal of the matter and produce his explanation, but he has not remained present before the executive committee (EC) today and has not made such request or any submission in connection with the said application. Hence, the EC decides to proceed with the inquiry in his absence’, the resolution states. Dr Nitin Vora, president of GMC, told TOI that after hearing both sides, and weighing the evidence, it was a unanimous decision of the committee to suspend the registration of Dr Patel for three years. Dr Mehul Shah, GMC secretary, said they wish to send a message loud and clear to all that profiteering of any sort is not an acceptable practice especially in times of Covid-19. “We also appeal to citizens to bring any discrepancies to our notice and ask hospitals to check the credentials of doctors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gmc-suspends-doctor-for-3-years/articleshow/78628533.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolkata||Refund part of Covid treatment cost: Health panel tells 2 Kolkata hospitals||KOLKATA: Two city hospitals came under the scanner of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Monday with the latter asking them to refund a part of the treatment amount charged from two Covid patients. One of the hospitals was also asked to pay a penalty. “We have asked Desun Hospital to refund Rs 80,000 to the family of a patient and the hospital has been slapped with a penalty of Rs 20,000 to be deposited with the commission. This has been done after we found the hospital guilty of overcharging and inhuman behaviour with the family of the patient who died at the hospital,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairperson WBCERC. The case pertains to Karun Kumar Ranjan Chatterjee (70). The Kalighat resident was admitted to Desun Hospital on July 18 for Covid treatment and died 18 days later. Son of the deceased, Samik Chatterjee, had alleged that despite cashless facilities under the insurance scheme the family was asked to deposit Rs 2 lakh during admission which the family finally could bargain for Rs 1 lakh. Hospital handed down a total bill of Rs 7.8 lakh out of which the hospital had already offered a discount of Rs 1.3 lakh. The commission said it found overcharging in various lab tests, asking the hospital to refund Rs 80,000 more. The son also alleged that the hospital did not facilitate any communication with his father when he was under treatment. When he died the family was also not informed when the body was being taken away for cremation. Hospital official said they would wait for the written order before commenting on the judgment. Fleming Hospital has been told to refund Rs 1 lakh to the family of Tanusree Bose. The Shyambazar resident was admitted to the Topsia hospital on June 4 for 33 days. The patient’s son Sudip Bose had approached the commission complaining that the hospital refused to discharge his mother even as the family wanted to take her home and instead put her on ventilation. During discharge the hospital had offered a discount of Rs 1.3 lakh and the family paid the remaining Rs 8.9 lakh of the total bill amount of Rs 10.2 lakh. “We have asked the hospital to return Rs 1 lakh to the patient’s family,” said Banerjee. TOI found the hospital’s landline number on busy mode continuously and could not get a reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/refund-part-of-cov-treatment-cost-health-panel-tells-2-hosps/articleshow/78628532.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco cancels Koradi FGD tender citing link to chinese supplier||NAGPUR: Mahagenco has cancelled the tender for installation of flue gas desulphurisers (FGDs) on 660MW units of Koradi thermal power plant. The reason, according to the company, is a directive from Union power and finance ministries asking government organizations not to buy Chinese products. The bid for the FGDs was awarded to a joint venture of an Indian public sector undertaking (PSU) and a Chinese firm. In July, the central government issued circulars against Chinese firms and Mahagenco board decided to cancel the tender a few days ago. However, according to sources in Mahagenco, this situation would not have arisen had top officials shown some speed in processing the tender. The FGD tender was floated in December 2019, and for months there was no progress on it. Sunil Dahiya, analyst in Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), charged Mahagenco with apathy towards installation of FGDs. The deadline given by ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) for Mahagenco to install FGD on 660MW Unit 10 was December 2020, and for remaining four units it was March 2021. “The officials very well know that it takes two years to install an FGD after work order is issued. If the officials were serious, they would have started the tender process months ago. According to data submitted to Central Electricity Authority (CEA) they were conducting feasibility study till November 2019,” said Dahiya. The environmentalist further flayed Mahagenco for not informing CEA about cancellation of tenders. “The CEA website shows that the bids for Units 8, 9 and 10 have been opened. According to an MoEFCC report, the level of sulphur dioxide (SO2) in Koradi area is between 7 and 14 times the permissible levels. FGDs absorb SO2 and thus reduce sulphur pollution. According to experts, FGDs are must for Koradi and Khaparkheda plants as they are close to Nagpur, whose population is over 3 million. Mahagenco and the state energy ministry have repeatedly tried to avoid installation of FGDs. When Devendra Fadnavis was chief minister, he had written to the Union environment minister to waive off the condition for Koradi as it would entail huge financial burden on Mahagenco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-cancels-koradi-fgd-tender-citing-chinese-link-of-supplier/articleshow/78628567.cms||Ashish Roy
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Defamation case: Delhi high court seeks reply on plea by CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday asked BJP functionary Rajeev Babbar to respond to a plea by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other AAP members challenging summons issued to them in a defamation case filed by him. The case was filed for their alleged remarks over deletion of voter names from electoral rolls in Delhi. Justice Anu Malhotra said the reply be filed before the next hearing and listed the matter on November 23. The court had earlier this year stayed the defamation proceedings in the trial court and issued a notice to Delhi government and Babbar, who moved the defamation complaint on behalf of the party’s Delhi unit, seeking their responses by April 23. However, the matter could not be heard due to restricted court proceedings to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. On Monday, the high court said the matter had to be heard expeditiously after the directions of the Supreme Court, which had last month passed an order asking the chief justices of all high courts to forthwith list before an appropriate bench all the pending criminal cases involving sitting and former lawmakers where stay was granted.  In the high court, Kejriwal and three others —AAP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Gupta and party members Manoj Kumar and Atishi Marlena — had challenged a sessions court order, which upheld a magisterial court’s decision to summon them as accused in the complaint. Babbar, in his complaint, has sought proceedings against them for “harming” the reputation of BJP by blaming it for deletion of the names of voters from the electoral rolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/defamation-case-court-seeks-reply-on-plea-by-cm/articleshow/78628575.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A launches Covid dashboard||Ahmedabad: The IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) community recently launched a Covid-19 dashboard for providing regular updates about the viral infection. According to the dashboard, the campus has recorded 39 positive cases as on October 8. The number was four on September 9 — recording a 10-fold rise in cases in one month. Out of the total, 15 persons have recovered whereas 24 are under quarantine. Of these 39, two are faculty members, three are students, eight are staff members — four living on campus, 13 contractual staff and 13 other community members. Of the three students, two have recovered and of the two faculty members, one has recovered. A total of 1,138 tests were conducted to find the positive cases. ‘As per contact tracing routine, all those who had worked closely with these personnel were immediately tested either on the same day or during the next testing dates to eliminate the risk. They were also advised to quarantine themselves for a week and monitor their health,’ reads the dashboard. While PGPX students are already on the campus, sources close to the development said that the institute plans to bring the students of other courses on campus soon with precautions. Some other educational campuses in Ahmedabad have also started reporting Covid-19 cases even when it’s open only for faculty members and administrative staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-launches-covid-dashboard/articleshow/78623590.cms||Parth Shastri
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: No cutting even one tree for pipeline, Thakre tells NMC||NAGPUR: Nagpur West MLA Vikas Thakre has stepped in to save the city's green heritage that is facing the axe from a proposed pipeline project. TOI was the first to report about proposed felling of around 50 fully-grown trees for laying a water pipeline between Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) office, Seminary Hills and Baji Prabhu Deshpande Square. When greens united to oppose the project, Congress MLA Vikas Thakre had assured to come in support of the activists. He has now raised the issue with municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, appealing that not a single tree should be cut for the project. Citing TOI's report and stating the proposed site is one of the last green patches left in the city, Thakre wrote, "Unfortunately, our civic body has been ignorant of the fact that Nagpur is losing its green cover very rapidly due to unplanned construction." The leader urged the civic chief to reconsider the necessity of the project. "It goes without mentioning that digging trenches will also damage tertiary and primary roots of the trees that will eventually collapse at the slightest wind or rainfall," he stated. Supporting the demand of greens, Thakre also demanded exploring possibility of alternative route for pipeline. "It is surprising that such projects are not planned well in coordination with different departments. Such pipelines could have been easily laid below roads while construction," he stated. In the fiscal 2014-15, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation's Water Works Department had chopped over 300 trees in Seminary Hills and Gorewada. As per environmentalists, the civic body failed to carry out the mandatory compensatory plantation for the same. In his letter, Thakre asked the commissioner to provide details regarding the same. Following demand of greens, officials of NMC garden department, public works department and other agencies had recently conducted a spot inspection of the site. Activists suggested alternative routes that would result in minimum environmental damage. However, a decision is yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-cutting-even-one-tree-for-pipeline-thakre-tells-nmc/articleshow/78628619.cms||Manka Behl
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Applications under LRS 2015 to be disposed||HYDERABAD: The government has asked officials to dispose all pending applications received under LRS scheme 2015 by December 31. A number of applications are pending for various reasons, including want of NOCs from revenue or irrigation authorities with regard to title aspects, payment of balance LRS charges etc. In view of this, the government has asked the GHMC, metropolitan commissioner, HMDA, vice-chairman Kakatiya Urban Development Authority, director of town planning and commissioners of all ULBs to dispose all applications as per LRS 2020 rules. The orders were issued by principal secretary Arvind Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/applications-under-lrs-2015-to-be-disposed/articleshow/78628583.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Winter, low humidity could see cases surge||BENGALURU: With the country on the threshold of winter, experts in the state fear cold weather and low levels of humidity will fuel a further spike in Covid-19 infections. The Union ministry of health has already sounded an alert on the virus thriving in cold, dry weather. At present, Karnataka is reporting 9,000 to 10,000 fresh cases on a daily basis, with a positivity rate of 9.9% in the last seven days. The state has seen 10,000 Covid fatalities too. Studies on SARS-CoV2 are in nascent stages and there is no evidence to prove the virus spreads more quickly during winter. However, it is well documented that low humidity promotes evaporation and aerosol formation, which can result in the spread of viral infections. Dr V Ravi, professor and head, department of neurovirology, Nimhans, said there is no understanding of SARS-Cov2 and climatic change as yet. “But generally speaking, winter is when more respiratory infections manifest,” he said. “As the air is heavier in winter, its aids transmission and people catch cold or flu quickly. We are close to winter and it is a concern. Everyone should be careful.” At Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), one warning given to patients with asthma, bronchitis and chronic upper respiratory infections is to be very cautious during the winter season. “Upper respiratory tract infections usually surge two to three times during winter,” Dr C Nagaraja, director, RGICD, said. “We advise asthma and bronchitis patients to stay indoors, wear warm clothes and be cautious. It is possible that transmission of SARSCoV-2 would increase just like other viruses.” He said children are more susceptible to cold and flu infections, especially if they have a history of asthma and bronchitis. Besides winter, possible crowding during Dasara and Diwali celebrations is also a concern. Union health minister Dr Harshvardhan recently said the virus is known to thrive better in cold weather and conditions of low humidity. “In view of these, it would not be wrong to assume the winter season may see increased rates of transmission of the novel coronavirus in India too,” he had said. However, Dr Girdhara R Babu, epidemiologist and head, Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, who is also a member of the technical advisory committee, said a second peak of the pandemic is possible only in those areas where pockets of susceptible people reside. “I do not think it is going to be uniform across the nation. However, winter is likely to be a contributing factor,” said Dr Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cold-weather-low-humidity-could-push-up-infections-say-doctors/articleshow/78627323.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||‘Staycation’ and ‘Workcation’ new holiday concepts in Covid era, especially in the hills||Dehradun: After witnessing a break in tourist activities for almost six months, many tourist spots, especially in the hills, are aggressively wooing tourists with concepts like ‘Staycation’— where you holiday in your own town — and ‘Workcation’ — having a vacation while continuing to work remotely.The Uttarakhand tourism department for instance has devised taglines like “Imagine having a work station with the view of the great Himalayas” and “Wish to have your work desk surrounded by lush green forests?” The idea, says tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar, is to tap metro dwellers tired of staying indoors and working from home – who can have a holiday in the hills while continuing to work remotely. The concept seems to have worked for tourists and hotel owners alike. Those who were desperate for a vacation got one while hotels that were nearly empty most of the peak season had a late peak of sorts. Ajay Bhatt, owner of ‘Himalyan Abode’ homestay in Joshimath said he has got many people booking a stay with him who also continued to work while they were vacationing. “My guests went trekking in nearby areas like the Valley of Flowers, Kumaoni Pass etc and after coming back, are working their shifts. They went sightseeing on the weekends too. Business is back on track quite unexpectedly,” Bhatt said, adding he had received six bookings for long stays in the last two months, when families stayed longer than 10 days. In a similar vein, Rishi Sanwal, owner of “Faraway Renz” resort in the Ranikhet area, said, “We had 45% average occupancy in August in our eight-room homestay. That’s way higher than what we had in May – the peak tourist season every other year. In fact, a big group from Delhi has booked the entire property after Dussehra.” The idea of ‘staycation’ — taking a vacation within your own town — has been picked up by many as well. Kimberley Roga, who runs Cibo Café in Dehradun, could not take her 5-year-old daughter to the annual summer holiday they have every year. So the family booked a B&B in Kimadi village in the outskirts of Dehradun. “We just wanted a getaway where we could distance ourselves from our routine life. So we decided to vacation in our hometown, which was relaxing as well as safe,” Roga said. Vicky Manral, who runs the “Eco Harryman’s Homestay” in Nainital’s Pawalgarh village, says that he has in fact received enquiries from over twenty professionals looking to shift to the hills for some time since they were working remotely. Vineet Agarwal, CEO of ITC Savoy Mussoorie told TOI that “workation” had become such a trend that a family from Delhi stayed in the hotel for 22 days and paid a whopping Rs 6.30 lakh. “We started getting bookings in July but business shot up to 90% to 100% occupancy in September. The trend has caught on remarkably and we are now actually declining people who want to stay for a fortnight or more,” Agarwal said. Speaking on the trend, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association Sanjay Aggarwal said, “We are even getting bookings from places as nearby as Dehradun, from people who just want to spend a few nights away from home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/staycation-and-workcation-new-holiday-concepts-in-covid-era-especially-in-the-hills/articleshow/78626087.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur HC suggests govt to explore free cure at pvt hospitals||Nagpur: Censuring the Maharashtra government over the way it had acquired 80% beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients without following proper procedure, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday, asked it to explore whether it can provide free treatment to them. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala directed the government to file an affidavit clarifying two aspects. “We prima facie expressed that if notifications are issued under Section 2 of Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 or Section 65 of Disaster Management Act, 2005, requisitioning the resources, services, premises and vehicles of private hospitals in state declared as Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), then the consequences or obligations contained regarding payment of compensation may follow.” The judges went through notifications of April 30 and May 21 for taking over private hospitals to find out specific provision under which those were issued. The government cited Epidemic Diseases Act (EDA), 1897, Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, the Maharashtra Essential Service Maintenance (Amendment) Act, 2011, Maharashtra Nursing Home (Amendment) Act, 2006, and Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950, for issuing them. “Except EDA’s Section 2 and DMA’s Section 65, we don’t find any provision. We, therefore, put a specific question to divisional and municipal commissioners to point out specific provisions under any of these enactments empowering authorities to issue these notifications. Both of them have sought time to file an affidavit,” the judges said. “Whether these DCHs are requisitioned under DMA’s Section 65 or under any other provisions of law? If yes, then whether the government and divisional or NMC commissioners, intend to proceed with matter as per prima facie view expressed by this court,” they asked. Before adjourning the hearing till Friday, the judges clarified that effective management of private hospitals to extent of 80% beds, including services rendered by medical and paramedical personnel along with facilities and material resources also temporarily vests with NMC chief or other authority made competent under the Act. “Those running private hospitals would have no voice during a pandemic situation for a temporary period. Consequently, the state can discharge its obligation of providing free treatment to Covid patients by utilizing resources, services, premises and vehicles of these, as contemplated under DMA’s Section 65,” the court said. The justices said if order as contemplated under DMA’s Section 65 and EDA’s Section 2 hasn’t been passed till this date, then it’s not understood as to how and under what authority there can be an interference in Covid-19 patients’ management in private hospitals, either by the government or by empowered officer, as per April 30 and May 21 notifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explore-free-cure-at-pvt-hospitals-hc-to-govt/articleshow/78628625.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang cheated scores on pretext of giving travel tickets, 5 held||NEW DELHI: A phone call about a 15-year-old missing boy has led police to unearth a racket that used to cheat and rob people on pretext of providing them bus or train tickets. Five men have been arrested in this connection. They have been identified as 40-year-old Sanjay Yadav from Balia, UP; Lal Babu Sahani (27) from Muzaffarpur, Bihar; and Santosh Kumar (27), Rakesh Mandal (26) and Rajeev Mandal (22) from Sitamarhi, Bihar. With their arrest, police claimed to have solved 27 cases of theft and robbery. Forty-two mobile phones, 20 luggage bags, eight wallets, 13 ATM cards and other valuables have been recovered from them. The forgery came to light when a Haryana resident, Sanjay Kumar, complained that on October 5, he and his 15-year-old son had come to the Singhu border from Sonepat to go to Barabanki in UP. “They boarded an e-rickshaw to reach ISBT, Kashmere Gate. Three other men also boarded the e-rickshaw pretending that they were travelling to Lucknow and befriended them,” said Vijayanta Arya, DCP northwest. When the complainant told them he didn’t have a train or bus ticket to travel, they asked him to come along to a bus ticket counter in Jahangirpuri assuring to get him a ticket up to Barabanki from there. The unsuspecting father-son duo went with them to Jahangirpuri. There, a “ticket agent” asked the complainant to give his ATM card for buying bus tickets. The man gave the card to his son and sent him with the accused to buy the tickets. Suddenly, the complainant got nine messages on his mobile phone, regarding withdrawal of total Rs 68,500 from his account. When he could not find his son for an hour, he made a PCR call. However, the child was found in a nearby area later. The boy told his father that the accused asked him for the ATM PIN, withdrew money from a kiosk and ran away. A case was subsequently registered. Police obtained CCTV footage of the area and spotted five suspects. On Saturday, they got information that the accused were spotted near the Haiderpur Metro station. A trap was laid and all five were caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-cheated-scores-on-pretext-of-giving-travel-tickets-5-held/articleshow/78628632.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Kolhapur||IMD issues heavy rain alert for south Maharashtra||KOLHAPUR: Authorities in Solapur district, which has been ravaged by heavy rain for the last two days, have to ‘be prepared’ as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) in Mumbai has issued an ‘orange alert’ meaning that the region is set to receive very heavy showers coupled with thunderstorm and lightning on Tuesday. K S Hosalikar, deputy director of IMD Mumbai, tweeted that there would be heavy to very heavy rainfall in Konkan, south Maharashtra and some places in Marathwada mainly because of a deep depression created over the Bay of Bengal. On Sunday, a youth from Chopda village in Solapur district died due to lightning. The crops in the district have been severely damaged and the forecast of more rain has worried farmers. The met department has issed a ‘yellow alert’ for Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts indicating that the districts will receive heavy rainfall. Sangli district has been most affected by these unexpected showers as the vegetable crops have been completely damaged. Heavy rain last month had damaged crops cultivated in over 242 hectare and the crop damage is yet to ascertained. Satara district received over 300mm rain on Sunday. Heavy rain lashed the ghat sections especially in Mahabaleshwar. Though the heavy showers swelled the rivers, the water level in the rivers was still much below the alert levels. Kolhapur district received 201mm rain on Sunday. On Monday, most of parts of the district remained dry barring a few isolated areas. The yellow alert has been issued for Kolhapur till Wednesday. With 85mm rain in Panhala in Kolhapur district and 81mm in Satara’s Khandala, the intensity of the rainfall in these two regions was quite heavy during late Sunday afternoon. The heavy rain in Panhala brought back the recent ‘mini-cloud burst’ that occured last month when the hill station reported around 150mm rain in a couple of hours that damaged several structures including the Old fort. Considering the alert issued by the IMD, 1,050 cusec water discharge was initiated around 9pm on Monday to bring the water level at Koyna dam. The discharge will be increased to 10,000 cusec by Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/imd-issues-heavy-rain-alert-for-s-maha/articleshow/78628615.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Chittor police arrest six vehicle thieves, impound 20 scooters||Udaipur: The Chittorgarh police busted an intra-state racket where vehicles from different cities and towns were stolen and sold at other places. Six people were arrested while 20 vehicles were seized. Those arrested are Mahipal Singh, Ganesh Dhobi, Laxman Chaudhary, Shravan Singh, Ayub Makani and Sawai Singh. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said a special team from Kotwali Police Station was constituted and led by ASP Sarita Singh and DSP Amit Singh. The team investigated vehicle theft cases that were reported from several places and nabbed a gang from Pali. The gang confessed that it had stolen 20 two-wheelers from different cities. The gang members had stolen motorcycles and scooters from Rajsamand, Falna, Sumerpur, Jodhpur, Barmer, Udaipur and other cities. “The mastermind behind the thefts is Mahipal Singh who earlier lived in Chittorgarh. His family moved to Sumerpur in 2005 after he was accused in a vehicle theft case. Mahipal Singh continued his criminal activities. He visited Chittorgarh and Udaipur frequently and stole vehicles which were then sold in towns of Marwar area,” SP Deepak Bhargava said. The officer also said that the gang had thrown chilli powder at a bank employee a month ago before decamping with his bag containing Rs 49,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chittor-police-arrest-six-vehicle-thieves-impound-20-scooters/articleshow/78628631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Meerut||Youth shot at by cousin over property dispute||Bijnor: A youth, Harshit, was allegedly shot at by his cousin over a property dispute in Balakram village under Najibabad police area late on Sunday night. Critically injured Harshit was initially rushed to a local hospital in the district, but later referred to a Meerut hospital after his condition deteriorated. Police began an investigation. Superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “During a clash over a land dispute, accused Shubham fired three rounds that hit Harshit on his chest and abdomen and he collapsed. He was taken to a private hospital from where he was referred to a Meerut hospital. His condition is stated to be out of danger.” “A case was registered against Shubham under relevant sections of the IPC. The accused is at large. Both accused and the injured are jewellers,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-shot-at-by-cousin-over-property-dispute/articleshow/78622067.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials on alert as IMD extends heavy rain warning for next 48 hours in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Dampening the hopes of any respite, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted that the city will receive rainfall on October 13 and 14 due to a depression formed over west-central Bay of Bengal. The depression is likely to further intensify. Following the alert sounded by IMD, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has started preparing for relief measures, in case any emergency arises. The corporation is identifying rehabilitation centres, such as schools and community halls, where residents of low-lying areas may be shifted. “The city is expected to receive between 90 mm and 160 mm rainfall. This can turn into a deluge-like situation. There is possibility of low-lying areas getting inundated. Hence, apart from the existing relief measures, new points are being identified,” said a GHMC official. Monsoon emergency teams have been pressed into service at strategic locations. GHMC’s directorate of enforcement vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) is gearing to tackle urban flooding by providing its staffers with machinery required in rescue operations. EVDM has also advised people to stay indoors. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar instructed officials to check for dilapidated buildings that may pose danger to people’s lives and advise the residents to vacate. “The people residing in places adjoining old walls and retaining walls are being advised to vacate to safeguard their lives,” read a statement issued by GHMC. Officials said that a criminal case will be booked against builders if rules are violated while cellar digging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-on-alert-as-imd-extends-heavy-rain-warning-for-next-48-hrs/articleshow/78628630.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mysuru||Follow govt directive on reserving beds for Covid patients, Sudhakar tells pvt hospitals||Mysuru: Newly appointed health and family welfare minister R Sudhakar on Monday called on private healthcare institutions to supplement the state government’s efforts in the fight against Covid-19 of their own accord. “If they fail to heed our appeal, we will be compelled to take action according to the law,” he said. Sudhakar, who was in Mysuru, said a directive has been issued to private hospitals stipulating reserving 50% of their beds for Covid-19 patients. They're supposed to set aside a certain number of beds for infected patients. Sudhakar pointed out that Mysuru was second only to Bengaluru Urban in the number of Covid-19 fatalities. The minister on Monday chaired two meetings, one regarding the need for upgrading healthcare infrastructure in government hospitals, while the other was with representatives of private medical institutions. He warned private hospitals of invoking the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act if the private healthcare institutions failed to comply with the government’s directive. 4k tests a day in Mysuru Sudhakar said that facilities at laboratories in Mysuru would be enhanced to increase their testing capacity to 4,000 per day pointing to the new RTPCR laboratory set up at the University of Mysore (UoM) and district hospital. “We are hoping to get the nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research to start tests at the lab in a week,” he added. He said that the government would soon issue a directive to see that the number of RTPCR tests conducted were higher than the RAT number. He called on the people to get a test if they were displaying symptoms of the infection. Naada Habba: Sudhakar seeks people’s cooperation R Sudhakar, the new health and family welfare minister, stressed the need to adhere to the guidelines issued by the expert committee as far as the number of participants in the Mysuru Dasara celebrations is concerned. “We know that there is a deep emotional connect that the people have with the Naada Habba fete. But given that we are battling Covid-19, the Dasara celebrations have been kept simple this year. People must cooperate with us. All programmes will be telecast live,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/follow-govt-directive-on-reserving-beds-for-covid-patients-sudhakar-tells-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/78626241.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mangaluru||SSLC evaluators to be paid digitally in DK, Dharwad districts||Mangaluru: Keen on ushering in transparency in the payment of teachers undertaking evaluation of SSLC answer scripts, the department of public instruction has decided to digitise the transfer of funds to the evaluators on an experimental basis in Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad districts. Coordinator for SSLC examination in Dakshina Kannada Shamanth told TOI, “The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has chosen these two districts for the pilot project. The pilot project was launched for the evaluation of the supplementary exams for SSLC. As many as 800 teachers in Dakshina Kannada will receive their payment online. Depending on the success of the pilot project, we will see if it can be implemented across the state for the next examination.” Shamanth opined that the new system would save both the officials and evaluators considerable time. “When the payment was done manually, the evaluators had to provide details of their bank accounts, which then had to be verified through a visit to the teachers’ districts by officials. Consequently, it took several weeks for the money to be credited to the respective teachers’ account. Under the new system, the evaluator’s details are fed into the machine, and all that a teacher needs to do is to feed in the number of papers he or she has corrected and other information pertaining to their work. The bill of payment is then auto-generated, and payment credited to their accounts within three to four days.” Since this is being tried on an experimental basis, evaluators have been asked to furnish details of their bank account both manually and digitally. The new system will apply to teachers from government, aided and unaided schools. Meanwhile, sources in KSEEB said that results of the supplementary examination were likely to be announced in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sslc-evaluators-to-be-paid-digitally-in-dk-dharwad-districts/articleshow/78628101.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 13, 2020||Meerut||UP govt schools, anganwadi centres to get tap water by Jan 10||Meerut: In the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to connect all schools and anganwadi centres with tap water supply within 100 days under Jal Jeevan Mission, the UP government has announced that piped water will be made available in all state-run schools and anganwadis by January 10, 2021. “It should be noted that under Jal Jeevan Mission, a 100-day initiative to connect all schools and anganwadis with water has been launched. The initiative aims at preventing typhoid, jaundice and other water-borne diseases,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP. The initiative includes water supply to all handpumps in schools and running water facility in all the toilets and at multiple hand washing units. “All the schools have to ensure that the said facilities are provided by January 10, 2021 or the authorities concerned will be held responsible,” said Anand in his order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-schools-anganwadi-centres-to-get-tap-water-by-jan-10/articleshow/78624209.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 13, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP distorting Mithun Rai’s remarks to foment communal discord: Cong||Mangaluru: None too pleased with an FIR being registered against president of the youth wing of the Dakshina Kannada Congress unit Mithun Rai, members of the party’s law and human rights cell on Monday accused the BJP government of trying to misguide the people. Members of the BJP and activists of various other organisations have lodged complaints against Rai for his remarks that BJP alleged disrespected the community that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath belongs to. President of the Congress’ Law and Human Rights Cell AC Vinayaraj pointed out that Rai’s remarks were directed against Adityanath and not his community. “The Constitution allows every citizen to express his or her opinion. Rai questioned the Uttar Pradesh CM on lapses in the investigation into the Hathras incident. But the BJP is twisting Rai’s statements, and making it appear as if he were insulting the CM’s community, which is not the case. The BJP is trying to foment communal discord by twisting Rai’s statements to garner political mileage,” Vinayaraj said. He also sought to know how the Uttar Pradesh police had conducted the last rites of the Hathras gangrape victim without giving her parents a chance to see her mortal remains. “Is questioning the CM for such lapses in procedure a crime? Why is the BJP tight-lipped about the incident? This is a democracy, and any and every citizen can question the CM if it is found that he or she is not abiding by the system,” Vinayaraj added. He reminded the BJP of having promised to maintain law and order in Uttar Pradesh during its campaign during the assembly polls. “But data from the National Crime Records Bureau indicates that the crime rate is highest in Uttar Pradesh and Dalit women are at the receiving end in many cases,” said Vinayaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-distorting-mithun-rais-remarks-to-foment-communal-discord-cong/articleshow/78628400.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Body of CRPF jawan reaches native village||Alwar: The body of a 26-year-old CRPF jawan who had allegedly committed suicide in Chhattisgarh reached his native village in Bharatpur on Monday. His family alleged that prior to the incident, he had sent a letter through Whatsapp in which he had alleged that some of his officers were harassing him. The family has demanded a fair investigation into the matter. According to police, Chandrabhan Singh committed suicide on Thursday. “He had sent a letter prior to his death in which he had alleged that one of his officers was harassing him since he had denied to work at latter’s bungalow. In the letter, my brother had also written that his officers are vindictive and are not approving his leaves,” said the brother of the deceased. Chandra Bhan was a native of Basua village under Sewar police station area of Bharatpur and had joined the paramilitary force in 2015. “In the letter, my brother also stated that his officers were after him after he had said no to their private work at their homes,” the brother added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-crpf-jawan-reaches-native-village/articleshow/78628662.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||More non-engrs, girls enter IIM-N this year||Nagpur: The increased intake for its flagship postgraduate programme (PGP) in Management 2020-22 batch has improved the representation of women and non-engineering background candidates at the Indian Institute of Management Nagpur (IIM-N). The intake was doubled to 225 this year. The premier B-school has admitted around 45 girls — highest since its launch in 2015 — and around 22 candidates from courses like hotel management, humanities and allied sciences. Yet, engineering candidates continue to dominate the admissions. “Of the 222 students who were admitted, 20.27% are female and 10.36% of the batch belongs to non-engineering backgrounds,” the institute stated in response to TOI query. “The number of differently-abled candidates has also increased as compared to the previous year,” the spokesperson said. The gender ratio had dropped to 8% for the PGP 2019-21 batch. Percentage-wise, the 2018-20 batch had the highest number of women as well as non-engineers at 22% and 13%, respectively. The intake was hiked for the first time in 2018-19. Before this, the gender ratio was around 5% with the initial batches not having more than a couple of girls. The current PGP batch also had four transgender applicants in the first stage of CAT applications. “None of these were eligible as per the CAT cut-off, and hence did not proceed to subsequent stages,” IIM-N stated, adding that no overseas student applied this time too. The IIM-N had planned to move to its permanent state-of-the-art campus at Mihan by November this year and gradually increase its intake up to 600. As Covid-19 pandemic delayed the construction, additional space has been requisitioned from VNIT where IIM-N is running since the start. As on September 30, 2020, the work was 58% complete. MHRD has allocated a budget of Rs379.68 crore and as on September 30, 2020, Rs157.00 crore has been spent. “Now, consequent to “Mission Begin Again”, the focus is on remobilization of labour and restoration of the supply chain,” the institute said and added, that for the incoming batch, a 120-room hostel with allied facilities has been added to our existing infrastructure, with the assistance of VNIT. “We are grateful to Anup Kumar and Sanjeev Kumar (former and current divisional commissioners), as well as VNIT chairman Vishram Jamdar and director Pramod Padole for meeting our infrastructural requirements and ensuring smooth functioning,” the institute said. Currently, the classes are being held online without any disruption in academic schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-non-engrs-girls-enter-iim-n-this-year/articleshow/78628717.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Liquor siphoned off from Hyderabad golf club||HYDERABAD: Excise sleuths have registered a case and started investigation into the issue of unauthorized take-away of liquor bottles from the Hyderabad Golf Association (HGA) during the lockdown. The enforcement team of the excise department conducted a check at the HGA club in Golconda on Sunday and found out that between March and May, 74 liquor bottles, 384 beer bottles and 51 cigarette packets were taken out by some persons without authorization. Excise team found out that the missing stock (74 bottles) was replaced with new bottles of same brands to cover up the unauthorized activity during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-siphoned-off-from-hyd-golf-club/articleshow/78628655.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Meerut||Meerut cement trader succumbs 2 days after being shot at, traders protest||Meerut: Two days after a prominent cement trader was shot at by two unidentified assailants on a bike in Baghpat, Pradeep Atre (55) succumbed to injuries in a Meerut hospital late night on Sunday, where he had been admitted in serious condition. Several teams including STF have been deployed to crack the case, after the trader community joined the Brahmin community in launching an agitation against the government. According to police sources, Atre was in his office when two men entered and shot him in the head. His family claims they also stole Rs 80,000. According to Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh, “We are close to cracking the case, and the killers will soon be in police net.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-cement-trader-succumbs-2-days-after-being-shot-at-traders-protest/articleshow/78625112.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Three videos which are now part of CBI probe||Agra: “Zabardasti” is the word that recurs in three videos of the 19-year-old Hathras victim TOI is in possession of. These videos are now part of the CBI probe. In the first, a 48-second video shot on September 14, she is lying on the floor outside the Chandpa police station, flies hovering and ants crawling about her. “They strangled me,” she says. A man asks why. She hesitates. Asked again, she answers, “I didn’t let them force themselves on me.” The man asks again, “Why did they strangle you?” She repeats, “Because I resisted.” When asked if she has any other injuries, she sticks out her tongue, full of gashes. The second video, 46-second-long, was shot at the district hospital in Hathras the same day. She was first taken there. Lying on a bed, she is asked by a journalist — who hurt her? “Sandeep,” she answers. “Tongue. Strangled me,” she manages to say, explaining where she was injured. She is asked again, why? “Koi baat nahin (Nothing). I had gone to gather fodder. He dragged me inside, tried to force himself on me. When I resisted, he strangled me,” she says. The man asks her, “Kya koi ranjish chal rahi hai (is there a feud)?” Yes, she answers. The third, part of the statement she had given to the police on September 22, was at Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. In the 5-minute 17-second video, the girl goes over what had happened again. “I was raped. Ravi and Sandeep were in together … They had tried to rape me a month ago, but I had run away,” she says through an oxygen mask. “But that day, I was raped. The two raped me, the rest ran away when they saw my mother approach. I was partially conscious by then.” When she is asked if she has been pressured into saying she has been raped, she says, “Koi dabav nahin hai (there is no pressure). Woh log aise hi hain (that is how they are) … He should not be spared, he can do this again. He threatens me, goli se uda doonga.” A senior police officer said the videos, which surfaced later, are now part of the CBI investigation. “All angles are being looked into. The first FIR was registered on the basis of a written complaint … After the girl’s detailed statement on September 22, rape charges were added and the other three accused arrested,” the officer added. According to the police, on September 14, she was brought to the Chandpa police station at 10.30am, from where she was taken to the district hospital at Hathras and finally admitted to the Aligarh hospital at 2pm. There’s a fourth video of the crime spot, where the girl was allegedly raped and left in a near-dead state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-videos-which-are-now-part-of-cbi-probe/articleshow/78629692.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||BJP members, including Doon mayor, putting up their posters on direction sign boards, says Cong||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Congress has raised a strong objection over political posters put up by senior BJP members on the direction sign boards in the state capital. A number of Congress leaders, including their Lok Sabha candidate from Pauri, Manish Khanduri, and party spokesperson Garima Dasauni, have taken to social media to voice their concern over the issue. "Uttarakhand is a tourist state. A high number of travellers, who are unaware of directions, come here and they are heavily dependent on sign boards. Now with BJP leaders putting up their posters on direction boards, these travellers are left with no other option but to park vehicles at wrong spots, causing traffic holdovers. This is a gross violation of norms by the members of the ruling party," Manish Khanduri said. The Congress leader has also posted the photographs of such signboards on his Facebook wall. “I would like to appeal to mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama to remove the posters, which have been set up by his supporters and party members, at the earliest. Tourists coming from different parts of the country are facing several problems and such acts dent the image of a city,” said Dasauni. Meanwhile, Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama could not be contacted for his comment on the issue despite repeated attempts by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-members-including-doon-mayor-putting-up-their-posters-on-direction-sign-boards-says-cong/articleshow/78626168.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Student writes to PM to save Kannada-medium school||Mangaluru: A PU student has written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) to save a Kannada-medium school. In response to her letter, the PMO has directed the chief secretary to take appropriate action. Varshitha R, I PU student, had reached out to the PMO seeking help to save Panchabettu Vidhyavardhaka High School (Udupi), from where she completed her schooling recently. She told TOI: “When I got to know about plans to close down the school, I reached out to the PMO hoping for some action. I’m happy to receive a positive response. We will try and save the school.” A Narasimha, president of the school, said there have been attempts to close down this Kannada school. “Last year, the school strength was 45. “We are trying to save the school from being shut. Its alumni, especially those working in big cities and abroad, are also supporting the cause. We have also reached out to the education minister,’’ he said. Udupi BEO Manjula said that a decision to shut the school was taken because of violation in terms of its strength. Last year, the school management received special permission from the government to continue for a year. In the high school section, each class is supposed to have 25 students. Three staff members have been relieved from duty. “However, there is confusion in some matters and an appropriate decision will be taken after consulting the DDPI,” Manjula said, adding that she has not received any official communication regarding the letter sent to the PMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/student-writes-to-pm-to-save-kannada-medium-school/articleshow/78628343.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R inks MoU with C-DAC for supercomputing||Roorkee: Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Centre for Development in Advanced Computing(C-DAC) in the field of supercomputing on Monday. According to the arrangement, C-DAC will set up a state-of-the-art 1.3 Petaflop High Performance Computing (1.3PF-HPC) facility to facilitate research and development activities at IIT-R. The objective of the MoU is to ensure the Supply, Installation, Commissioning and Operations of state-of-the-art HPC facility and Data Center ecosystem at IIT Roorkee which will be valid for five years. The initiative will be funded under the National Supercomputing Mission — a joint initiative of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY). “The National Supercomputing Mission underscores our commitment to fulfill the goal of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. It is a key enabler to prepare a skilled workforce, generate job opportunities and contribute to India’s economy,” said Sanjay Dhotre, Union minister of state for education, communication and electronics, online on the occasion of MOU linking ceremony. The MoU was signed by Professor AK Chaturvedi, on behalf of IIT-R and Dr Hemant Darbari, director general of C-DAC and an alumnus of IIT-R.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-inks-mou-with-c-dac-for-supercomputing/articleshow/78626154.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 13, 2020||Meerut||High security registration plates must for UP vehicles in NCR dists from Jan||Meerut: Uttar Pradesh government has set a three-month deadline for all vehicles registered in the districts that come under NCR to get high security registration plates. Those found without the said number plates will be penalised from January onwards.An order to the effect has been issued by Rajesh Kumar Singh, UP principal secretary.Vijay Kumar, Meerut regional transport officer, said, “Instructions have been given to make the high security registration plates mandatory before issuing any other document from the Regional Transport Office Authority.”The high security registration plates cannot be tampered with or removed as they have a special lock system in place. While the plates have already been made mandatory in Delhi, they were yet to be made mandatory in UP. In this context, Singh said, “Vehicles registered outside NCR area have been given a relief such that those registered before April 1, 2005 will get four months, vehicles registered between April 1, 2005 and March 31, 2010 will get six months, those registered between April 1, 2010 and March 31, 2015 will get eight months and those registered between April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2019 will get 10 months,” said Singh in his order.Earlier, dealers were instructed to ensure that all new vehicles being purchased have high security registration plates, which were to be provided by the manufacturer. In February 2020, these number plates were made available in UP for older vehicles, too, from the dealers concerned.The registration plate is made of aluminium and will have unique features with a nine-digit code. This code will help trace any history of challans on the vehicle number. It will also have a built-in GPS system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/high-security-registration-plates-must-for-up-vehicles-in-ncr-dists-from-jan/articleshow/78624242.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||AAP to revamp party structure in U’khand||Dehradun: With just over a year left for the state assembly polls, the Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided to revamp its organisational structure, party leaders announced on Monday. Recently, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the party would contest on all 70 seats of Uttarakhand on the basis of a survey conducted by the party in the Himalayan state. Ravindra Anand, spokesperson of Uttarakhand AAP, said, “The party is soon going to announce a new executive committee for Uttarakhand. The new unit will be selected keeping in mind the next assembly polls in Uttarakhand.” Anand added that merit and commitment towards public cause would be the only criteria for entry into the party's state core committee. He also said that people, either from Congress, BJP, or any other political outfit, who believe in AAP’s ideology, can join the party with the only condition that they have to respect the system of AAP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-to-revamp-party-structure-in-ukhand/articleshow/78626174.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 13, 2020||Agra||Agra: Minor who escaped traffickers reunited with family||AGRA: The 17-year-old girl from Madhya Pradesh, rescued in Hathras on Saturday when she was escaping alleged human traffickers in Delhi, was reunited with her father on Monday. The girl had said she had been confined with at least 12 others her age in a cramped room in Delhi. “Her father, who works as a driver with MP Roadways, and a police team from Mandla (the district where she is from) took the girl with them this evening,” circle officer (city) Ruchi Gupta said. Mandla Police said no missing complaint had been filed earlier, but when they got information about the circumstances in which she was found by Hathras Police, they got in touch with her family. A case of kidnapping was registered then. “An FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by the girl’s mother. She told us her daughter wanted to go to Delhi,” Mandla SP Deepak Shukla told TOI. He added that her statement will be recorded in keeping with the procedure laid down in Section 164 of the CrPC. What action follows will be based on her statement. Police in Hathras said there have been cases of poor families in Madhya Pradesh sending off their girls to bigger cities to work as domestic help. “But this girl was a minor. Legal action will be taken.” After being rescued by Hathras Police on Saturday, she had said, “I have been walking for the past three days after escaping from the house. Someone said the man who had brought me to the Delhi house will sell me. All the girls ran away, I did too and started walking home.” When cops had asked her why she was sent to Delhi, she had started crying and said, “My family is very poor and needs money. Some villagers advised them to send me away, along with some other girls for money. I don’t know how much.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-who-walked-200km-to-escape-traffickers-reunited-with-family/articleshow/78626191.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Stretch and pedal for healthy bones||Lucknow: To make people aware of arthritis, the Arthritis Foundation of Lucknow organized ‘Cyclathon, walkathon and yoga’ on World Arthritis Day on Monday. All events were organized with social distancing. Cyclathon and walkathon started from Health City trauma centre and super specialty hospital, Gomtinagar. Organizing secretaries and founders of the Arthritis Foundation of Lucknow, Dr. Sandeep Kapoor and Dr Sandeep Garg, said that after cycling, the participants reached Janeshwar Mishra Park where a yoga session was organised under supervision of experts. Chief guest at the programme was Anil Singh. Dr KB Jain, Dr Darshana Kapoor, Dr Rajesh Arora, Dr Sudhir Kapoor were also present. Dr Kapoor and Dr Garg said that arthritis mainly affects joints of the body. It is a lifestyle related disease, they said, highlighting the importance of exercise, its symptoms and prevention. Dr Kapoor said about 5 lakh people suffer from arthritis in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stretch-and-pedal-for-healthy-bones/articleshow/78629701.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Plant city-conducive species: Activists to Udaipur admn||Udaipur: Nature lovers and activists have raised concerns over the mass plantation of exotic varieties by the district administration. A large number of conocarpus are lining up on the road dividers , though they look beautiful, but would prove a major threat to the biodiversity of the area in future, they warned. Experts have pointed out the disadvantages of such plantations. “Local and native species of trees, shrubs and herbs that are conducive to the local climate, weather, soil, and migratory birds and animals, should be planted in greening the urban and peri-urban areas mentioned in the master plan of cities and towns,” Anil Mehta, a water scientist said. He said many local trees and shrub species have contributed effectively to absorption of toxic and harmful material from the lakes and rivers of Udaipur, thereby reducing their pollution levels. Sunil Dubey, a member of many IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) commissions, said there are some 80 alien species in Rajasthan. Crofton weed, vilayati tulsi, lantana, water hyacinth, mesquite, parthenium etc., are the potential invaders. Conocarpus is the latest exotic threat and long-term persistence of such alien species degrades the biodiversity and integrity of the affected natural areas, disrupts natural water and nutrient cycles and patterns causing climate change. Additional principal chief conservator of forests Venkatesh Sharma expressed concern over the fact that due to over use of concrete and cement , there is little space left for natural regeneration of trees and vegetation in urban areas. He said the trees and vegetation planted and found along the road side and on the median and public parks and left over empty spaces contribute very much to make the cities and towns livable. These trees and vegetation not only contribute to the health of the community, but also serve as shelter and habitat for birds, animals and insects, making the area vibrant and lively. Native and local species well adapted and suited to the local environment also absorb the toxic elements in air and water thereby making it less polluted. Local species like amaltas (cassia fistula), bad (ficus bengalensis), peepal (ficus religiousa), neem (adazirachta indica), aonla (emblica officianalis), ber (zizyphus spp), semal (bombax ceiba), aam (mangifera Indica), belpatra (aegle marmelos) etc., are not only useful for the environment and the birds and animals, but they also provide useful medicinal produce for the society. O P Sharma, retired IFS officer, suggested planting of sehjan (moreinga oliefera), meetha neem (carraya spp), and fruit trees on the vacant spaces and along the roadsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plant-city-conducive-species-activists-to-udaipur-admn/articleshow/78628705.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||IIM-N new director aims to take it among India’s top 10 B-schools||NAGPUR: Bhimaraya Metri took charge as the new director of the IIM-Nagpur recently. He served as the director of IIM-Trichy previously. A PhD holder from IIT-Powai, he is also an alumnus of the Government College of Engineering, Karad, and Shivaji University, Kolhapur. In his first interaction with TOI after taking over the top post, he speaks about his plans for taking IIM-N among top ten B-schools. Q) What is your vision of IIM-Nagpur? A) My aim is to take IIM-N among top 10 IIMs of the country in next five years. Keeping this in mind, we have certain plans. One is we shall intermittently keep increasing the strength of our flagship Post-Graduate Programme (PGP) in management. Next year, we plan to start doctoral programmes that shall serve as factory of research. An institution, whether an university or an IIM, has the important task of knowledge creation, its dissemination and application. Research shall lead to creation, students educating students in different ways will disseminate knowledge while application will be through consultancy and training. Q. When will you be moving to new campus in Mihan? A) We plan to move there by next academic year, but shifting would start from next month probably. It was delayed due to pandemic. Once we move to the permanent campus, we shall have executive education programme to tap the industry talent in entire Vidarbha region as well as Pune, Mumbai and Nashik. In a year or two, we shall also have part-time weekend programme for working executive in and around Nagpur. I will be looking at accommodating Indian faculty members working in foreign universities to teach, research and publish for three months. We also plan to introduce courses in logistics, as Mihan is fast becoming its hub. Q) What is IIM-Nagpur’s strength as compared to others? A) We are the only IIM located at the centre of India. This is one place that has multi-product special economic zone where all kinds of companies are located. We are the only IIM in the heart of an industrial hub where our students can learn from horse’s mouth. This is biggest advantage we have. Other IIMs are isolated from the industry. Q) How is NEP going to impact learning at IIMs? A) As per NEP, every institution is going to go multidisciplinary. IIMs, IIITs, IISERs are specialized kind of institutions. IITs, to some extent, are multidisciplinary. This is going to mark a new era for IIMs. Once its implementation starts, you may see management studies with liberal arts. Q) Technology has changed the job market. Your views? A) In NEP, learning to learn is an important feature. Many jobs are going to disappear and some taken over by robots. Because of digital disruption and new technology, new companies and roles have been created. This is where NEP will make a mark in learning, unlearning, and relearning. At IIMs, companies are looking at data scientists and also offering platform-based jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aim-to-take-iim-n-among-indias-top-10-b-schools/articleshow/78628712.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||‘If you can’t protect us, give us gun licenses’||RAJKOT: Exasperated over rising crimes against the fairer sex, a group of girls have sought official permission to use fire arms in their self defence. On Monday, around 30 girls led by a Class IX girl Mittal Parmar, submitted a memorandum to the district collector in this regard. “Crimes against women are now being committed in broad daylight. This proves that there is no law and order in this country and we (the women) now have been left to protect ourselves,” the memorandum addressed to Gujarat governor stated. Parmar said, “If the government can’t protect us, they should allow us to protect ourselves. Therefore, we are asking government to issue us gun licences.” The young girls claimed that the anti-romeo squad and 181 helpline were not yielding the desired results and helping women feel safer. District collector Remya Mohan said, "The women have submitted a memorandum and some of them even applied for the gun licence but in the old format. Anyway, most of them were below 18 years, so there is no question of giving licence."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/if-you-cant-protect-us-give-us-gun-licenses/articleshow/78626210.cms||---
October 13, 2020||World||US auction theory pioneers win Nobel economics prize||Two American economists won the Nobel Prize for improving how auctions work, research that underlies much of today’s economy — from the way Google sells advertising to the way telecom companies acquire airwaves from the government. The discoveries of Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson, both of Stanford University, “have benefitted sellers, buyers and taxpayers around the world”, the Nobel Committee said. Wilson was once Milgrom’s PhD adviser, and the two also happen to be neighbours. Reached by phone at his home in California, Milgrom said he received news of their win “in a strange way”. “I got a knock at my door from Bob Wilson,” he said. The two men tackled the tricky problem of making auctions work efficiently. Among the insights of the two Stanford University economists is an explanation of how bidders seek to avoid the so-called “winner’s curse” of over-paying, and what happens when bidders gain a better understanding of their rivals’ sense of value. Milgrom and Wilson notably came up with formats for selling interrelated items simultaneously. Wilson showed that rational bidders tend to place bids below their own best estimate of what he called the “common value” — that is, when the value of an item is deemed to be the same for everyone — for fear of paying too much. Milgrom complemented that with theories on “private values”, when the perceived value of something differs from bidder to bidder. He demonstrated that an auction format will give the seller higher expected revenue when bidders learn more about each other’s estimated values during the bidding process. In 1994, US authorities used one of their auction designs to sell radio frequencies to telecom operators. Milgrom and Wilson (with help from Preston McAfee, now at Google) designed an auction format in which all the licenses were sold in one go. That format discourages speculators from buying up frequencies in a specific geographic area and then reselling them to big telecommunications firms seeking to patch together national or regional networks. The auction raised $617 million — selling frequencies that previously were handed out for virtually nothing — and became a model for countries from Canada to India. The format has also been used to auction off electricity and natural gas. The effects of their work can be seen all around. “Online advertising is sold at auction,” said David Warsh, who tracks economic research at his blog Economic Principals. “That Google was able to adopt the method so quickly and seamlessly depended entirely on theory developed by Milgrom and his competitors and their students.” Last year the honour went to India-born Abhijit Banerjee, French-American Esther Duflo, and American Michael Kremer for their work on alleviating poverty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/us-auction-theory-pioneers-win-nobel-economics-prize/articleshow/78630508.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ESI hospital staff furious as they get 4 masks for 20 days||BENGALURU: Health workers at government-run ESI hospital in Rajajinagar, Bengaluru, where more than 90 staffers including 20 nurses have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past few weeks, have alleged that they are being made scapegoats to the virus as they are not being provided adequate protective gear, especially masks. Nurses and doctors at the hospital said they are being given four masks which they have to use for 20 days. “Due to glitches in procurement of N95 masks through an agency from Telangana, no masks were distributed in July and August. After repeated requests, we received masks over the past two days. However, these are to be used repeatedly in a span of 20 days,” said doctors, who wonder how the infection can be controlled if there is a compromise on hygiene. “Ideally, once used, these masks should not be reused and instead should be scientifically incinerated. But, owing to an acute shortage of supply, we have no choice but to reuse them. The hospital says that a mask used on one day must be used again after five days. The question, though, is whether it is hygienic,” doctors told TOI. The hospital has divided its campus into Covid and non-Covid zones. While those working in the Covid-19 zone were provided supplies after repeated requests, the ones working in the non-Covid zone have been badly hit by the lack of supplies. “In the Covid-zone, we at least know that a particular patient is infected with the SARS CoV-2 virus. In the non-Covid zone, there is a need to take universal precaution. After we opposed the four masks for 20 days mandate, we were given a mask each on Friday,” a nurse said. There are two doctors, one PG medico and four nurses under treatment for Covid-19 in the hospital and the number of staffers contracting the infection is increasing by the day. It may be recalled that a 42-year-old doctor from the hospital recently died after testing positive for Covid. The doctors have also urged hospital authorities to conduct a sero survey of all staffers to find out how many of them have developed antibodies. “Only a sero survey will help. It’s a tough scenario. We are taking all the precautionary measures that we can and are working fearlessly,” said doctors. Imtihan Hussain, medical chief, ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar and Dr Jitender Kumar, dean, ESIC Medical College were both unavailable for comment. At Nimhans too, in non-Covid or green areas, masks supplied are to be used on rotation. Staffers get four masks for 20 days. “The masks given in the green zone are to be used in rotation on every 5th day. Staffers in the green zone are given four N-95 masks which have to be used for 20 days,” said Nimhans authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/esi-hospital-healthcare-staff-furious-as-they-get-4-masks-for-20-days/articleshow/78627186.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||Major anti-encroachment drive to start in Doon from today||Dehradun: After a notice from the Uttarakhand high court on rampant encroachment in Dehradun, the municipal corporation along with the district administration will carry out what it is terming a massive drive to remove any illegal use of public space from Tuesday. Officials have said that their immediate focus will be on the past offenders who were removed during earlier drives and have now taken stay from the court. The drive will take place under four zones, including Rajpur Road, Chakrata Road, Saharanpur Road, and Haridwar Road. The matter was taken up on priority by the court after a resident filed a PIL in the court against encroachment at various locations of the city, including highways. The first zone will include areas between Rajpur Road and Chakrata Road. The stretch will be monitored by SDM Mussoorie. The first zone will cover areas between Clock Tower and Chakrata Road where the drive will be carried out under the supervision of the city magistrate. The stretch between Prince Chowk and Saharanpur Road has been put under zone 2A, which will be supervised by an additional city magistrate rank officer. Zone 3 and 4 will cover the stretch between Gandhi Road and Prince Chowk, and the road from Haridwar Road to Rajpur Road. This will be supervised by SDM Sadar and SDM Kalsi. Vinay Shankar, municipal commissioner, told TOI, “The drive will begin on Tuesday and continue till October 19. Over 1,700 temporary and permanent establishments, which are flouting the norms, have also been identified. Their owners will be given a window period to remove their establishment causing encroachment. Subsequently, the encroachment will be removed and a penalty will also be imposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/major-anti-encroachment-drive-to-start-in-doon-from-today/articleshow/78626196.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Private company officials held for cheating||HYDERABAD: Detective department of CCS Hyderabad on Monday nabbed two offenders from a firm under cheating charges for misappropriating stock holding of victims without authorization. The offenders were identified as G Mounika, 25, branch manager and Shivani Gari Shetty Vasundhara, 41, assistant branch manager of Karvy Sub-Broking office, Tarnaka. The complainant, Ramarao Nagaraj, OCI card holder of USA, approached CCS in September. Nagaraj said that he and his wife had a stock valuation of Rs 1 crore in their Demat account at Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. Mounika and Vasundhara allegedly took their signatures on blank papers when they visited the branch to activate their accounts in February. “The duo traded the account of the complainant during May 2018 to February 2019, without their consent and caused a loss of their stock worth Rs 1 crore,” said cops. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-co-officials-held-for-cheating/articleshow/78628747.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Covid fight: Women prove ‘survival of the fittest’ true||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 has been less severe among women in comparison to men apparently because of their lifestyle and adherence to safety protocols. Not only is the number of female patients who died due to the disease one third of the total fatalities, micro analysis reveals that their death rate is also less than that of males, according to data available at the chief medical officer’s office. Of the total 775 Covid-19 deaths till Sunday, 31% were female patients and 69% male. This means that of every three Covid-19 casualties, one was a woman and two men. Further, of the total 21,863 females in all age groups infected by the virus so far, 241 (1.1%) died during treatment, which means that in every 1,000 women contracting the infection, 11 have died. In comparison, 534 male patients out of 35,669 who got infected have died so far. The death rate comes out to be 1.5, which indicates that 15 men among every 1,000 who acquired the disease have died due to complications caused by the virus. Deputy district surveillance officer Dr Milind Vardhan said, “Less exposure to the outside world seems to be the main reason why a lesser number of women have been infected. Further, comorbidities in women are lesser in comparison to men.” Medical superintendent of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences Dr Vikram Singh said, “Another major factor for less mortality is that smoking and drinking is less prevalent among women. As a result, their lungs, liver and kidneys are in better condition as compared to men’s. It is also seen that they take mouth and hand hygiene more seriously.” Most deaths of patients above 60: In absolute numbers, most deaths of female patients have taken place in age group above 60 years followed by middle-aged (41-60), younger lot (21-40), teengers (11-20) and kids (0-10). The order is in reverse if percentage point with respect to male patients is taken. Experts said that the deaths in 0-20 group are very low, hence no analysis can be done. However, among other age-groups, though women have lesser comorbities than men, still diabetes, obesity, heart and kidney issues, post-pregnancy complication, weak immunity due to malnutrition and low heamoglobic levels among other things are playing a major role in their casualty, they added. Late reporting of cases is also one of the major factors, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-fight-women-prove-survival-of-the-fittest-true/articleshow/78629708.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||NU exams Day 4: Many engg students unable to submit papers online||NAGPUR: Nagpur University seems back to square one on the Day 4 of its final year examinations as hundreds of students, particularly those belonging to engineering faculty, failed to submit their papers in time due to technical snag in the app. On Monday, too, chaos and confusion ruled, just like the first two days of online MCQ tests. On Thursday and Friday, over 3,000 failed to give their papers, while on Monday, thousands complained their papers were not accepted by ‘Pariksha App’. Only on Saturday, the university could conduct exams with only minor glitches. Though NU assured re-exam for those who missed it on the first two days due to snags, on Monday none of its officials were available to provide any assurance. Vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari did not take TOI’s calls and even Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable had his phones switched off. Students frantically called NU helplines and officials but got no response from either. This debacle has raised a big question mark on NU claim of having developed the first ever app in the state for conducting online exams. Former and current NU statutory members attacked software firm Promarc, that claims to have developed the app for NU for free. They demanded company’s ouster from all NU projects. Even mayor Sandip Joshi, who’s NU Senate member, flayed administration for playing with students’ future and advised its top brass to study pattern adopted by YCMOU that had successfully conducted online exams of over one lakh students so far. A senior Promarc official admitted examinees were facing problems with question papers not being submitted into the server due to big load of files. Till evening, they had not received papers of about 900 students out of 11,091 who appeared. “Today we started the exam 15 minutes earlier than normal time. However, the students knew it through media reports and they logged in at the same time. We faced problems only during engineering faculty papers where over 11,000 students appeared. Still, our server didn’t crash. It was due to poor connectivity of service providers and also quality of handsets that paper submission was delayed,” he said. Even as paper was completed by 4.30pm, NU server continued to receive papers till 8.30pm. “Today, there was a big quantum of over 11,000 examinees. Over 55,000 photographs were to be uploaded due to proctoring software that keeps track of all movements. Obviously, it takes time, as it depends on connectivity speed and configuration of handsets. We assure the students that their papers have been submitted, even if they received an error message. They shouldn’t panic,” he added. NU claims to be the only university in Maharashtra using proctoring software, which slows down the mobile, as it records all sounds and photographs on a real time basis and detects suspicious activities. # Students registered & appeared in exams on Monday: Faculty ----------------- Registered ------------- Appeared Commerce ---------- 2,505--------------------- 2,459 Humanities ---------- 186--------------------- 180 Science-- ---------- 1,744 --------------------- 1,702 Engineering ---------- 11,289--------------------- 11,091||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-exams-day-4-many-engg-students-unable-to-submit-papers-online/articleshow/78629720.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's Tunga gram panchayat recounting controversy : FIR against 15||JAIPUR: An FIR has been lodged against 15 persons in the Tunga gram panchayat recounting controversy issue for indulging in stone pelting, damaging public property and vehicles and for obstructing officials from carrying out government work on Saturday. Supporters of the losing candidate (Kavita Saini), who lost by 5 votes, had protested outside the polling station on Saturday night demanding recounting of votes. District collector and  officer Antar Singh Nehra said recounting will be done only if the court orders, as per the rule. Police personnel were called to escort the polling officials to a safe place. The supporters continued their protest till Sunday morning. Tunga police station SHO Ramesh Kumar said an FIR had been lodged against 15 persons. Around 50 persons were involved in stone pelting and damaging public property, he said. Meanwhile, in Thali gram panchayat (Chaksu), re-polling was held on Monday in three wards (1, 2 and 4) because of some technical problems. The election for the post of up-sarpanch in this gram panchayat will be held on Tuesday, Nehra said. Nehra will conduct lottery to reserve seats for women and SC/ST/OBC categories at the collectorate on Tuesday for the municipal elections to be held on October 29 and November 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recounting-row-in-tunga-fir-against-15/articleshow/78628748.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC notices to govt, police over Dungarpur violence||JODHPUR: Rajasthan high court on Monday issued notices to the state government and police officers of Udaipur and Dungarpur seeking a reply on why they filed cases against leaders, representatives and workers of Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) for Dungarpur violence which had ravaged the town for three days causing massive damage to public and private property. Justice Vineet Kumar Mathur directed the AAG to submit the reply before October 16 while listing the matter for hearing on the same date. BTP, in its petition, has prayed for quashing of the FIRs against its members terming it to be a move by the state government to settle political scores and eliminate the party. It further added that all its members were innocent as neither they nor the party had any agenda or plan to be part of the violence but were being targeted out of political vendetta. Counsel for the petitioner Moti Singh Rajpurohit said police had already filed FIRs against the accused. “Subsequently, FIRs against the members of BTP were also registered by police including MP/MLA candidates, district president, working committee members, workers from tahsil, block and mandals, sarpanch and ex-sarpanch, ward members and members of Vidhyarthi Morcha as well as the followers,” Singh said. According to him, 36 FIRs have been registered of which 4 were by name framing 800 persons while 32 others have been registered against 4000 unidentified persons. “Police prepared a tahsil-wise list of party leaders and members from Dungarpur, Banswara and Udaipur before filing the case and arrests have already been started,” he said terming it to be a political targeting. Arguing the petition in the court, Rajpurohit contended that the state government has been implicating the innocent persons falsely and misusing the public machinery to ruin the party and prayed for proper scanning of the video footage to ensure if any of them were involved in the rampage. “We have prayed for quashing of the FIRs and stop arresting the innocent persons as well as releasing those, who have been arrested”, said Rajpurohit. Allowing the petition, justice Mathur issued notices to the state government, department of home, IGP (Udaipur Range), SPs of Udaipur and Dungarpur and SHOs of Bichhiwara, Sadar, Dowara in Dungarpur and Kherwara in Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notices-to-govt-police-over-dungarpur-violence/articleshow/78628790.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||Singoli-Bhatwari project: HC issues notices to Centre, state & construction firm L&T||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday issued notices to the Centre, state government as well as engineering and construction firm L&T Uttaranchal Hydropower Limited, while hearing a PIL that alleged construction of the Singoli-Bhatwari hydroelectric power project is on despite the environmental clearance issued by the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) having expired in August. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani has given the respondents four weeks’ time to file their counter-affidavits after which the case will be heard next. According to the Public Interest Litigation (PIL), MoEF had issued an environmental clearance (EC) to the project in 2007. The EC was valid for 10 years but since the flash floods of 2013 damaged the project, it was extended for three more years. The petitioner alleged that the EC lapsed on August 24 but the construction continued. “The court heard our arguments and issued notices to the government of India as well as the state of Uttarakhand and L&T. It said that the notice is returnable within four weeks and if the respondents want to file their counter-affidavits, they can do it by the next date of hearing,” said Ajay Veer Pundir, the counsel appearing for the petitioner, Bharat Jhunjhunwala. The petition also alleged that changes in design were made to the project, which is against the conditions agreed to in the clearance. Also, it has not been able to adhere to the extended commercial operation date, which was March 31, 2020, the petition alleged. However, Ankush Sehgal, the counsel appearing for L&T dismissed the petitioner’s claims. “The construction work is complete. Only the testing of machinery is going on,” Sehgal told the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/singoli-bhatwari-project-hc-issues-notices-to-centre-state-construction-firm-lt/articleshow/78626206.cms||Prashant Jha
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Striking ayurveda doctors meet Gadkari||NAGPUR: Resident doctors of ayurveda faculty, who are on strike from October 7, on Monday met Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who they said supported their prime demand of salaries and incentives at par with their counterparts of modern medicine faculty. The doctors have decided to continue with their strike until they get written orders from the district collector about their demands. “We have got only verbal assurance from various authorities but nothing is on paper. In fact, none of our demands is completely accepted. So, we have decided to continue our agitation,” said Dr Sumit Marathe, president of Maharashtra Association of Ayurveda Resident Doctors (MAARD). On Monday morning, the doctors took out Akrosh Morcha, a foot march on the premises of Government Ayurvedic College and shouted slogans against the administration. Ayurveda resident doctors from colleagues across the state are also on strike. They are now getting notices under Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA) from the respective district administrations. TOI has learnt that residents from Osmanabad and Nanded have been served notices and ordered to join duties within 24 hours. No such notice has been given in Nagpur so far. College administration informed TOI that the proposal of doctors’ prime demand of Rs10,000 incentive has already been sent to the government and set to get approval in a day or two. But the college administration won’t serve any notice to the students as its in purview of district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/striking-ayurveda-doctors-meet-gadkari/articleshow/78628795.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||Rajnath Singh inaugurates 44 bridges, including 8 in U’khand||Dehradun: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday inaugurated 44 bridges made by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in seven states and Union territories. Among these, 10 bridges are in Jammu and Kashmir, eight each in Uttarakhand, Ladakh, and Arunachal Pradesh, four each in Punjab and Sikkim, and two in Himachal Pradesh. The total length of these eight bridges in Uttarakhand is 390 metres. The Union minister termed the completion of bridges as a major achievement for the BRO. “The bridges will usher in a new era of connectivity and development in the border areas,” he said. Singh added that the bridges also have a strategic significance as the situation remains tense in areas where the country shares its border with Pakistan and China. “Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the country has emerged successful in facing all these problems and also in bringing development to the border areas,” said the minister. He pointed out that the construction of these bridges will fulfill local aspirations and help in transporting necessary materials to the Army. “These bridges have great utility in meeting strategic requirements. They will also help in connecting the remote areas to cities, thereby, bringing development.” Lauding the efforts of the BRO, Singh said that the budget of the organisation has almost tripled in the last 4-5 years and the “results are clearly visible”. In the video conference session which was also attended by the chief ministers of the respective states and top officials, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the efforts of the defence minister, engineers, and all personnel of BRO have paid off. “All these bridges are at strategically important locations and will also be of great help to the locals.” He further said that, “Bridges built in Uttarakhand will also facilitate devotees of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. At the same time, the construction of these eight bridges will have a huge impact on the economy of the region.” He did not fail to mention that these bridges in Pithoragarh were a long-pending demand. “The inauguration of these bridges is like a dream come true. The completion of high-quality bridges in such inaccessible areas in a short span of time is a reflection of the commitment of the government and the efficiency of the BRO,” said the CM. In view of the strategic location occupied by Uttarakhand, perhaps second only to Kashmir in the northern Himalayas, there has been an increased focus on the state’s border areas in the past few years. Uttarakhand shares a 350-km-long border with China and an almost 275-km-long border with Nepal. Both these border areas are currently on high alert and steps are being taken by the state to ensure they are safeguarded. Later, Rawat said that in the past three years, the state government has made several efforts to strengthen the border areas. “On one end, we are trying to boost reverse migration in villages close to border areas and at the same time, the roads leading to border areas are being improved. Besides, we now have over 50 helipads in the state and the expansion of Dehradun and Pantnagar airports is also underway. In addition to three airstrips, the fourth one has also been approved in Almora district. We are focused on our border areas and keeping in mind the strategic importance of Uttarakhand, we are taking the required steps,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajnath-singh-inaugurates-44-bridges-including-8-in-ukhand/articleshow/78626238.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Man held in Mirzapur over Maharashtra TRP scam||LUCKNOW: A 35-year-old man was arrested from Mirzapur in connection with the television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam by Mumbai Police on Monday. Vinay Tripathi was arrested in connection with the TRP scam busted last week. Mumbai Police had claimed that a TRP racket was being run by some TV channels to manipulate Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) TRP on October 8. ASP Mirzapur, city, Sanjai Kumar said that Tripathi was arrested from Kachhwa police station. “Tripathi’s family resides in Tulapur village where his father Rajendra Prasad is a farmer,” said Kumar. Kumar also said that Tripathi rarely visited his village in Mirzapur and was settled in Mumbai. “So far, we have not got any criminal record of Tripathi in the district or the state,” he said. A four-member team of Mumbai Police crime branch had visited Mirzapur with the warrant for Tripathi on Monday around 7.30pm. “Tripathi will be produced in the local court on Tuesday by Mumbai Police for a remand and then taken to Mumbai,” said SHO Kachhwa Subhash Chandra Rai. TOI tried talking to the father of the accused but he did not respond to calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-held-in-mirzapur-over-maha-trp-scam/articleshow/78629723.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Vadodara||Deferred polls to usher in administrator’s rule in VMC||VADODARA: With civic polls being deferred till at least January 12, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is set to be ruled by an administrator for at least one month. It will be after 15 years that such a situation will arise in the civic body. On Monday, the state election commission brought out a notification stating that the local self-government polls would be postponed for the next three months. The tenure of the present elected wing of the VMC gets over on December 13 and an administrator will handle the affairs after this till the polls are held. The last occasion when the civic body had remained under the rule of an administrator between October 17 and December 25 in 2005. The then Vadodara collector Bhagyesh Jha was appointed as an administrator to the civic body. Sources said that the polls for Vadodara were deferred in 2005 to ensure that the elections of most civic bodies were held parallelly. Sources in the civic body said that this was only fourth time in its history that the VMC was being put under the rule of an administrator. “Since 1992, there was disturbance in the city due to riots in the aftermath of the Babari demolition. This had led to deferment of polls. Our terms were extended for about a year and after that an administrator was appointed,” said veteran corporator Chirag Zaveri. Administrator’s rule in the VMC had begun on November 11, 1993 and lasted till June 30, 1995. Before this, the corporation was under the rule of an administrator from March 4, 1974 to December 9, 1975. Sources said that he Navnirman Andolan and its aftermath had led to tense situation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/deferred-polls-to-usher-in-administrators-rule-in-vmc/articleshow/78626250.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Supreme Court seeks govt’s response on 3 PILs challenging farm laws||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s response to three PILs challenging the validity of recent farm laws and describing them as prejudicial to the interest of 10 crore people engaged in agriculture. A bench of CJI SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and VRamasubramanian entertained three petitions — by Chhattisgarh Kisan Congress member Rakesh Vaishnav, DMK MP Tiruchi Shiva and RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha — all assailing the constitutionality of Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and consequential amendments to the Essential Commodities Act. The common theme of the PILs was that the new farm laws would jeopardise the interests of farmers and those engaged in the agriculture sector by exposing them to market forces, thus making them prone to exploitation.“The impugned laws would render redundant the existing state legislations which protect the weak, vulnerable, unorganised, marginal and small farmers with bare minimum bargaining power from exploitation and force them to sell their produce at throwaway prices,” they said. The bench has sought the Centre’s response within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-seeks-govts-response-on-3-pils-challenging-farm-laws/articleshow/78630513.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Cops remove bust, tension in villages||Kolhapur: Tension prevailed in Wambwade village in Shahuwadi tehsil of Kolhapur district after the police and local administration removed an illegally installed bust of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the police said. After a day-long series of events, the bust was removed on Monday evening but the action evoked a sharp reaction in some neighbouring villages. A few villages such as Malkapur and Wambwade have called for a bandh to condemn the removal of the bust. Heavy police force has been deployed at Wambwade village. Police said that villagers noticed the bust of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj installed on a raised platform in the middle of the road. When the police objected to the installation of the bust, they were opposed by the local residents. However, the bust was removed after performing `abhishek’ and a promise from the authorities that it would be installed after getting permission from the government. Assitant police inspector Bhalchandra Deshmukh told TOI that an offence against unidentified persons has been registered for installing the bust of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. He said the offence has been registered for violating government rules related to installation of statues. “We will look into other legal aspects of the incident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cops-remove-bust-tension-in-villages/articleshow/78628792.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Chottuppal: 1 killed, 2 hurt as car rams vehicles||HYDERABAD: A man was killed while two others were injured when an over-speeding car rammed into multiple vehicles at a traffic signal in Chottuppal on the Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway on Monday. According to police, Nagaraju, 30, and Srilatha were travelling on a bike and waiting for the traffic signal to turn green around 11 am. Meanwhile, Narayana, a businessman, lost control of his SUV and tried to turn left to avoid hitting other cars. But the SUV rammed into a police barricade and hit three bikes and a car. The riders of all the bikes fell and Nagaraju’s bike caught fire. CCTV footage shows that while Srilatha escaped with injuries, Nagaraju suffered grievous blow on the head. He was rushed to a hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment. Police said Narayana was heading from Nizamabad to Vijayawada whereas Nagaraju was going to a temple in Nalgonda. Narayana has been taken into custody and a case registered under IPC section 304 a (negligence causing death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-killed-2-hurt-as-car-rams-vehicles/articleshow/78628810.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Surat||Surat: Customs department officer, his mamlatdar wife slug it out||SURAT: A joint commissioner of customs and central excise posted in Bhavnagar was booked by the Khatodara police for allegedly torturing his wife, who works as mamlatdar in the disaster management department of Surat collector office. Polic booked Mihir Rayka (41) and his mother Surekha (63) after his wife Dipali lodged a complaint, alleging that her husband and in-laws were pressurizing her to give her seven-year-old daughter for adoption to a childless relative. She also alleged that they were demanding dowry. The couple got married in 2010 and have a nine-year-old son too. Surekha also lodged a counter complaint against Dipal, her parents Amrabhai, mother Harshida and brother Vismay, alleging that she had physically assaulted her on Saturday. Police booked the accused under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 498A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband, 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult and provocation), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) and others. Dipal alleged that after she cleared GSPC exam in 2017 and got the job of mamlatdar, Mihir was forcing her to quit. She also alleged that she was also being pressurized to undergo IVF treatment, and on Saturday night, the couple had a quarrel over the issue. Dipal told police that she had to seek 181 Abhayam’s help after Mihir thrashed her. She was brought to Khatodara police station by the helpline team after which she lodged the complaint. Dipal also stated that due to frequent fights and harassment over the last few years, she had gone away to stay with her parents several times, but returned after truce was struck each time. Meanwhile, Surekha said in her complaint that as she had been keeping in poor health, Mihir had asked Dipal to cook food and do household chores. Dipal had gone enraged over this and attacked her on Saturday, it’s alleged. “We have registered complaints of both families. Further action will be taken after statements are recorded,” said a police officer in Khatodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/customs-dept-officer-his-mamlatdar-wife-slug-it-out/articleshow/78626272.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: MLA says trap or kill Rajura tiger in 7 days||CHANDRAPUR: Rajura Congress MLA Subhash Dhote on Monday gave a seven-day ultimatum to the forest department to capture or eliminate dreaded tiger RT-1. Farmers and farm labourers from trouble-torn areas of Rajura and Virur ranges — supported by local organizations and parties — staged a sit-in agitation at Rajura forest range officer’s (RFO) office to press the demand of shooting down the problem tiger. Dhote is the fourth major people’s representative to voice the demand of killing the problem tiger responsible for eight human kills in neighbouring Rajura and Virur ranges during the last 22 months. Earlier, sitting Congress MP Balu Dhanorkar, three-time former MLA and farmer leader Wamanrao Chatap, and former MLA Sudharshan Nimkar have voiced the demand of killing RT-1. Dhote addressed the joint sit-in agitation, staged by Shekari-Shetmajur Samanvay Samiti, Gondwana Gantantra Party and Akhil Bhartiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad, and blamed the forest department for rising attacks on humans. He said forest officials were responsible to safeguard farmers and common people from predators’ attacks, and warned of an agitation at the district collectorate if they failed to capture or shoot down the tiger in the next seven days. Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF) Amol Garkal met the protesters and said 200 forest personnel, along with three veterinary doctors and two sharp shooters were deployed to tranquillize and capture the tiger. “160 camera traps have been laid in the area to track the movement and location of the tiger,” he added. Protesters also voiced the demand of paying Rs25 lakh compensation to the kin of people killed in tiger attacks, Rs15 lakh to injured persons and immediate compensation against cattle and crop loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trap-or-kill-rajura-tiger-in-7-days-mla/articleshow/78629727.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Give Rs 1cr relief, jobs to kin of tribal youths killed in unrest: Adivasi body||Jaipur: Gujjar leader Himmat Singh on Monday, under the banner Adivasi Ekta Manch, demanded a compensation of Rs 1 crore and government jobs for the families of two tribal youths who died in police firing in Dungarpur last month. He also demanded that the government should withdraw all criminal charges lodged against the tribal youths. Two protesters were killed in police firing while another one died after falling off a bridge as cops chased a mob the day before. Hundreds of tribal youths had been camping in jungles, demanding that 1,167 vacant seats under Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) be filled with ST candidates only. Singh threatened to launch a statewide agitation if the demands, including that of the adivasis, are not fulfilled by the state government. “We are giving the government an ultimatum of seven days to provide jobs and compensation to the families. The tribal youths had staged a peaceful protest for 18 days. Why would they indulge in violence? The government, instead of hearing them out, resorted to police firing. We also want that the government should fulfil the demands of the adivasis. We will visit Dungarpur-Banswara tribal areas after seven days,” said Singh. “BJP are calling them Naxalites and Congress registers criminal charges against them and uses police force against them. This is very unfortunate,” he added. Representatives of Bhim Army, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party and left parties were present in the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/give-rs-1cr-relief-jobs-to-kin-of-tribal-youths-killed-in-unrest-adivasi-body/articleshow/78628807.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Amt varsity defers final years exams||Nagpur: Citing technical snag, the Amravati University (AU) has postponed all the final year online examination that was supposed to commence on Monday. A new timetable is to be released in a couple of days. According to AU officials, the failure of Nagpur (NU) and Gondwana (GU) universities in holding online MCQ tests on mobiles had made AU delay the exams. While NU had to cancel Friday’s examinations after a big fiasco, GU had restarted their exams with modifications where it was providing students an eight-hour slot for the exams. Over 1.2 lakh students have registered for AU exams for online mode while 5,500 opted for offline mode. The university has a jurisdiction over colleges from Akola, Washim, Yavatmal and Buldhana besides Amravati. The AU’s ‘SGBU App’ is developed by city’s Promarc Software Limited is also facing several problems. The AU has summoned Promarc officials to Amravati to make modification in the App after learning about NU’s ‘Pariksha App’ that is causing a lot of troubles. NU had dropped a one-tine password (OTP) condition from its app after many students failed to receive it in time that led to panic. In AU, students are still supposed to enter OTP for gaining access to question papers, its officials said. * Students for online exams | 1.2 lakh * Students for offline exams | 5,500 * Exam centres | 99||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-varsity-defers-final-years-exams/articleshow/78629722.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Chemical content high in groundwater in 2 districts of Telangana: NGRI||HYDERABAD: Groundwater quality in neighbouring districts of Wanaparthy and Mahbubnagar is very poor. On top of this, chemical content in the water is above acceptable limits of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) for consumption. In a study done by the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), 32% of samples had poor to very poor water quality index and fluoride, chloride, nitrate, sulphate, sodium and calcium were in excess quantity for drinking purpose. Researchers carried out a comprehensive study of 58 groundwater samples in Wanaparthy watershed are and the water quality index showed that 67% of the area has excellent to good water. NGRI director VM Tiwari told TOI that they have been conducting groundwater quality studies across the country. “The study conducted at Wanaparthy watershed covered parts of Wanaparthy and Mahbubnagar districts for water quality assessment based on hydrogeochemical characterisation, WQI and GIS techniques,” he said. With flouride at 19%, chloride (3.4%), nitrate (8.6%), sulphate (5.1%), sodium (34.4%) and calcium (1.7%) in the water, the chemicals were way above acceptable norms of BIS. The concentration of the parameters as measured by NGRI was exceeding towards the downstream region and this has been attributed to the chemical reaction of rockwater interaction. Researchers said groundwater is a major source of drinking water in the watershed area and suggested that a proper management plan has to be put in place before its quality deteriorates further. The pH values of the samples were 7.28 and 8.43, which met the desirable limits of BIS. “Physicochemical parameters of water are beyond permissible limits,” said the researchers. Wanaparthy collector Shaik Yasmeen said: “Mission Bhagiratha water is being supplied to a majority of the habitations. Only a handful of habitations are left to be covered. We are working on providing potable water to them soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chemical-content-high-in-groundwater-in-2-dists-ngri/articleshow/78628817.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 13, 2020||Meerut||Census brings hope, Gangetic dolphin count up||Meerut: In a good news to the Ganga conservation, recently concluded census of Gangetic dolphins has shown an increase of four calves and two adults, taking the population of the endangered species to 41, from 35 last year. The census – only one conducted in the entire state – covered the stretch from the Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary (Bijnor Barrage to Garh Mukteshwar) and Ramsar site (Garh to Narora in Bulandshahr) covering 180 km of the Ganga. “A narrow water channel coupled with good depth in the sanctuary could be an important contributing factor to the marked habitat shift of dolphins here. The just concluded census witnessed 10 dolphins in the Ramsar site and 31 in Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary,” revealed WWF senior coordinator Sanjeev Yadav who was part of 23-member team comprising members from Forest division, WWF field force, Ganga Mitras (specially trained villagers and contributors to conservation efforts) and Wildlife Institute of India (WII) researchers that conducted the census. The team also interacted with residents of 18 villages located on the banks of the river on the route. Around 600 villagers participated in the conservation awareness campaigns. Last week, on the occasion of National Ganga River Dolphin Day (October 5), a dolphin safari was launched at six locations across the country from here to attract tourists. Dolphin conservation has taken a national stage ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced 'Project Gangetic Dolphin' this Independence Day for the conservation of Gangetic dolphins. This comes 11 years after the river mammal was declared the national aquatic animal in 2009. State chief wildlife warden Sunil Pandey emphasized the need for a dedicated Dolphin Protection Force to minimize their mortality rate. “Thriving of dolphins is a reflection of a healthy ecosystem in the river. Illegal fishing is a menace in the region, particularly in Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar areas. I have directed the DFOs to develop such a protection force in each forest division. Meanwhile, efforts are on for a statewide census on a regular basis.” Ravi Singh, secretary general and CEO WWF-India, said, “UP is the only state where this kind of initiative has ever been taken and it can lead the way in showing other states the methodology of dolphin conservation through village community participation. What started as Ganga Mitras is now transforming into Dolphin Mitras that gives a sense of ownership to the communities involved in conservation.” Last year, renowned cetologist Gill Braulik had also participated in the census and used the tandem boat survey method that comprises two boats, a few observers and two data recorders. These two boats are at a constant distance of at least 600 metres from each other. The same method was employed this year as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/census-brings-hope-gangetic-dolphin-count-up/articleshow/78625190.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops bust inter-state IPL betting racket, seven bookies held in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Special Operation Team (SOT) of Madhapur police arrested seven bookies who were involved in placing bets on the ongoing IPL matches from a rented flat at Gachibowli on Sunday. Sitting in Hyderabad, the gang members have been accepting bets from punters in Rajasthan to evade police dragnet. Acting on specific information provided by Rajasthan Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), the SOT on Sunday night raided a flat in Blossom Chamber of Gachibowli and arrested Ashok Kumar Chalani, 43, Ganesh Mal Chalani, 47, Pankaj Seth, 34, Surender Chalani, Shanti Lal Baid, 40, Beraram Purohit, 32, and Manoj Pasman, 35, of Rajasthan The police also seized Rs 65,330 cash, 1 betting board, 4 laptops, 2 tablets, 46 mobile phone, 6 landline phone and 1 Samsung TV from their possession.  According to police, the accused had rented the flat around 18 months ago. They had gone to Rajasthan during the lockdown and returned on September 19, the day IPL mathes began. “Ashok Kumar is the key accused in the online IPL betting racket. On the instructions of his bosses operating from Rajasthan, Ashok, along with other gang members, reached Hyderabad and set up betting system with direct access Rajasthan. Similar sub-lines of the gang members are functioning from Bangalore, Mumbai and Delhi. The profit and loss of the punters can be seen online through an app. The payments are mostly being done through online transactions,” SOT additional DCP G Sandeep said. On Sunday night, Rajasthan ATS conducted simultaneous searches at Jaipur and Nagaur in Rajasthan, and Delhi. The ATS team arrested seven members at Jaipur while the gang members managed to escape from Nagaur and Delhi. Police said that the gang members, who are mainly from Bikaner, have been running cores of rupees worth betting on IPL matches and have been operating from various states to hoodwink the cops trying to trace the location. In Jaipur, ATS team seized a cell phone signal range diverter installed by the gang to show their cell phone location at some other place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-bust-inter-state-ipl-betting-racket-seven-bookies-held-in-city/articleshow/78628870.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||RMC councillor shot dead in Rudrapur||Rudrapur: A 40-year-old councillor of Rudrapur Municipal Corporation (RMC), Prakash Dhami, was shot dead by unidentified car-borne assailants on Monday morning at his house in Agrasen Nagar, located at Kichha road in the city. The police officials suspect that Dhami was murdered due to old enmity. Dhami was the councillor of Ward Number 13 Bhadaipura and was elected unopposed in 2018. He was rendered support from the Bharatiya Janata Party after he secured a seat in the RMC. According to the police, he was attacked by unidentified people on Monday morning when he was standing outside his house. The assailants, four in number, came in a car and opened fire at him. He sustained critical injuries on his head and chest. Later, he succumbed to his wounds at the hospital. Superintendent of police (city), Devendra Peencha, told TOI, “We have scrutinised the available CCTV footage. The car-borne assailants approached Dhami at his house at around 8 am and asked him to sign a document, which he would do for the public daily. As soon as he reached out to them, the assailants opened fire at him and Dhami sustained five bullet injuries on his chest, head, and shoulders and he fell on the ground. As the assailants fled from the spot, Dhami was taken to the district hospital by his kin where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. We have launched a manhunt to identify and nab the killers.” Meanwhile, the news spread like a wildfire in the city and people started gathering at Dhami’s house. SP Peencha and CO city along with the police force also reached the house as a security measure. BJP legislator Rajkumar Thukral, RMC Mayor Rampal Singh, BJP district president Shiv Arora, Congress city chief Jagdish Taneja, and several others reached the mortuary and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. According to SP Peencha, the reason behind the killing could be an old enmity. “Dhami was a history-sheeter. Last year, he was booked for an ‘attempt to murder’ case. We are now investigating this matter and collecting the details from family members to find out the exact reason behind the killing. The assailants have been captured by the CCTV. However, they used a false car registration plate to dodge us. Nonetheless, the assailants would be nabbed soon,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rmc-councillor-shot-dead-in-rudrapur/articleshow/78626267.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 13, 2020||Kolhapur||2 arrested for moneylending and robbery||Kolhapur: The Sangli rural police have arrested two people after a man lodged a complaint against them for private moneylending and robbery. Vijay Ramkrishna Patil (43) and Dhanaji Nivrutti Patil (35) have been booked for robbery and relevant sections of the Maharashtra Private Money Lending (Regulation) Act have also been slapped on them. Both of them have been remanded in police suatody. As per the complaint lodged by Sarjerao Shankar Patil (35), a resident of Rasulwadi in Sangli, he had taken Rs 1 lakh from Vijay and returned the money with interest. Despite returning the money, Vijay used to come to his house and threaten to kill him for want of more money. Dhanaji, who was aware of the transaction between the two, approached Sarjarao and offered to settle the matter in lieu of some money. On Friday night, Dhanaji called Sarjerao at Kawlaput and demanded more money. Both Vijay and Dhanaji allegedly beat up Sarjerao and snatched Rs 12,500 from him. Later, Sarjarao approached police and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-arrested-for-moneylending-and-robbery/articleshow/78628831.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Himayathsagar gates may be opened today||HYDERABAD: Floodgates of Himayathsagar are likely to be lifted on Tuesday morning. A fresh alert has been issued by Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) to low-lying areas along River Musi and in Ranga Reddy district regarding chances of inundation. According to an official release on Monday here, the recorded water level at Himayathsagar was 1,762 feet. There is just one-foot gap remaining to touch full tank level (FTL). The current capacity of the reservoir is 2.6tmc. As per IMD forecast, heavy rainfall is expected in Telangana in the coming few days, and hence officials may open the gates. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/himayathsagar-gates-may-be-opened-today/articleshow/78628840.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Safari resumes at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, only 25 tourists per trip||MYSURU: Nearly seven months after being closed for tourists due to the pandemic, the wildlife safari at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve is now open for public. However, foresters have restricted the number of tourists allowed per trip to 25 to ensure adherence to health guidelines. The safari was closed after a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. However in July, the authorities opened the safari at Kakanakote Safari Centre in Dammanakatte under Antharasanthe forest range. Kakanakote is famous for the black leopard sighting near Kabini backwaters. The safari services at Veeranahosahalli near Hunsur and at Nanachi Gate near Kutta bordering Kerala had remained closed. Safari resumed at both the safari points from October 11. According to foresters, there will be four safari trips. The first trip will be from 6am to 7.30am and second will be from 7.30am to 9am. The third and fourth trips will be from 2.30pm to 4pm and 4pm to 5.30pm respectively. Only 25 tourists are allowed per trip in the safari buses to maintain social distancing. Tourists must compulsorily wear face masks and sanitize their hands. The safari tickets for Veeranahosahalli and Nanachi Gate can be booked online and can also be bought at the counters. However, tickets for the Kakanakote Safari must be booked online only. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar told TOI that there were complaints from tourists that they faced problems while booking safari tickets on the present website. “We are working to set right the problems. We are developing a new website where tourists can have all the details regarding the tiger reserve and easily book the safari and rooms,” he said. He added the safari at Antharasanthe has already started, and the safari at Veeranahosahalli and Nagarahole (Nanachi Gate) started on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/safari-resumes-at-nagarahole-only-25-tourists-per-trip/articleshow/78626473.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||LMC releases 1st part of funds to corporators||Lucknow: Development work stalled in all 110 wards of the city for the past eight months is expected to resume as Lucknow Municipal Corporation on Monday decided to release the first instalment of development funds by October 20. The decision was taken in the LMC House meeting. Each corporator gets about Rs 1.25 crore in a financial year for development work in her/his ward. The money is given in four instalments. The approval will allow the civic body to release the first instalment of Rs 31 lakh for each ward. Though the meeting also witnessed uproar with corporators protesting the civic body’s decision to depute newly purchased mini-trucks for garbage collection without consulting them, the decision to release funds for development came as a major relief. Minor work like repair of potholed roads and footpaths, installation of streetlights and fixing water supply lines is done by corporators in their areas through this fund. Normally, corporators get the first instalment by May, but this year the decision got delayed due to the pandemic. Other decisions by the House included increasing rent of the community centre in Ganeshganj ward and reassessment of properties which have come up in the past few years in Hindnagar Ward. Rs 2 crore for 50 cemeteries: The LMC House meeting also approved Rs 2 crore for maintenance of 50 cemeteries in the city. This will include repair, painting, installation of gates and drinking water facility on the premises. Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said, “Directions to conduct maintenance work in cemeteries within the city have been made after receiving complaints from families going to perform last rites.” Crossings renamed : Among other decisions, statues of revolutionary freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azaad and Subhash Chandra Bose will be installed at DK Park located in Hindnagar ward. Nizamuddin crossing in Indira Priyadarshini ward has been renamed as Laxmi Yadav crossing. The road from Munshipulia intersection to Sushma Hospital will now be known after corporator Virendra Jaswani, who died of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-releases-1st-part-of-funds-to-corporators/articleshow/78629728.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Surat||Surat: Polished gems prices shine amid Covid gloom||SURAT: Good news for the beleaguered Surat diamond industry. For the first time in the last five years, despite pandemic restrictions, polished diamond prices have shown a rise between 2% and 20% in various sizes ranging from 30 cents to 1 carat in the last one year. If the industry leaders are to be believed then the diamantaires have successfully brought down polished diamond inventory levels of pre-Covid times by exercising voluntary embargo on the import of rough diamonds for two months starting from June 2020. The latest figures provided by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) suggest that the polished diamond export in September 2020 decreased 17% to Rs 11,495 crore. As per industry estimates, the diamond industry was sitting on inventory levels of Rs 25,000 crore during the lockdown. When the units reopened in the post-lockdown period from June, the industry had exported Rs 20,000 crore worth of polished diamonds between April and June 2020. Aniruddha Lidbide, a diamond industry analyst told TOI, “Surat diamantaires voluntarily banned the import of rough diamonds for two months to clear their inventories. About 70% of units have reopened post-lockdown while manufacturing capacity is below 60%. Against increasing demand, traders are unable to supply due to shortage of goods in the market. Prices of polished diamond have increased in the last one month due to festive season in India and the US.” President of Surat Diamond Association (SDA), Nanu Vekariya told TOI, “Polished diamond prices have increased after a long gap of more than five years. It is a win-win situation for traders and the diamond unit owners in the international market. However, the supply of rough diamonds has been greatly affected by the ban on international flights in the country.” Vekariya added that rough diamond prices in the local market too have increased by about 15% owing to short supply by mining companies abroad. Surat’s jewellery industry is afraid that high diamond prices will push away potential customers this Diwali season. Director of all-India Gems and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJF), Nainesh Pachchigar told TOI, “Gold prices are very high, and rise in diamond prices will only make things worst for the end consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/polished-gems-prices-shine-amid-ncov-gloom/articleshow/78626286.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid fatality rate for 51+ age group 3 times of overall||NAGPUR: The case fatality rate (CFR) of Covid-19 in the age group 51 and above is almost three times the overall CFR in the district. CFR in age group 16-30 is eight times less than the overall CFR. Overall CFR is 2.8%. District civil surgeon VD Paturkar has for the first time released age-wise data for 86,080 positive cases and 2,446 deaths registered in the district as on October 8. Outstation patients were not considered. The highest 34,382 positive cases were reported from the age group 31-50 years, which is 39.9% of total cases. The age-group reported 506 deaths for CFR 1.5%. Second highest 24,403 cases were in the age group 51 and above, which is 28.35% of deaths. But the group reported highest 1,862 deaths for CFR of 7.6%. Of the total 2,446 fatalities in the district, 76.1% are from this age group. Death analysis earlier done by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for city and Zilla Parishad (ZP) for rural areas had revealed that deaths in the 51 and above age group were more due to comorbidities, and late testing and reporting to Covid hospitals. Majority of the victims were patients of diabetes, hyper tension along with obesity. In the age group 16-30 years, there were 21,603 (25.10%) positive cases, of which 71 died for CFR of 0.3%. CFR in age group 0-15 years is even less (0.1%). Positive cases in this group were 5,692, of which seven died. The deaths are less in these two groups probably due to good immunity level and non-comorbid conditions. The number of positive cases (28.4%) in the 51 and above age group from the district were less as compared to the state (33.3%). The state and district reported almost same number of cases in the age group 31-50 years (40% and 39.2%). At 31.7%, positive cases in the age group 0-30 years are higher in the district than the state (27.5%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-fatality-rate-for-51-age-group-3-times-of-overall-in-nagpur-district/articleshow/78628899.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 13, 2020||Rajkot||Despite Covid recovery, lung scars may remain for long||RAJKOT/ SURAT/ VADODARA: The path of recovery for Covid-19 patients seems to be getting longer. Doctors across Gujarat have detected a worrying trend of cured Covid-19 patients returning with lung fibrosis. Rajkot-based pulmonologist Dr Niraj Mehta currently has four patients under treatment. Of these, three had already tested negative of Covid-19 after treatment but were admitted again for treatment of lung fibrosis. The fourth one started suffering from lung infection just a day before he was supposed to be discharged after recovery from Covid. “Patients who were on ventilator for prolonged period are prone to lung related ailments,” said Mehta. “Covid is causing severe lung injuries to those patients who recover and come out of hospital after surviving on oxygen for a long time. In many cases, the patients who get discharged start breathing normally. But their lungs are not functioning the same way. With air pollution, such patients may suffer from lung related diseases. Even the young patients are witnessing such problems which was not the case when it came to other viruses,” said Dr Milan Bhanderi, another pulmonologist. Doctors say Covid recovered patients who are advised to be on oxygen at their home are also prone to develop fibrosis. “Chances of Covid patients who have required ventilator or oxygen support for more than 10 days suffering from lung fibrosis is high,” said Dr Jay Dhirvawani, president of Rajkot Medical Association. “We have reported some cases of lung fibrosis in Covid-19 recovered patients,” said Dr Deepak Shukla, additional profession (medicine), SMIMER hospital. “Till now, I have examined three patients with moderate pulmonary fibrosis post-Covid. Those having extensive inflammation of lung in Covid are prone to pulmonary fibrosis. About 20% of the patients above age of 50 years, having severe inflammation in lungs are prone to fibrosis,” said Dr Parul Vadgama, associate professor, Department of TB and Chest, Government Medical College, Surat. (With inputs from Surat by Melvyn Reggie Thomas & Vijaysinh Parmar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/despite-ncov-recovery-lung-scars-may-remain-for-long/articleshow/78626305.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||DCPs told to pay spot visit for all offences in Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: Commissioner of Aurangabad police Nikhil Gupta has come out with a new directive making it mandatory for the deputy commissioners of police (DCP) to not only pay a spot visit in any body or property offence but also personally remain present for the agitations and protest marches held in the jurisdiction of their respective police stations.With the presence of DCP rank officer, it becomes essential for other subordinates including assistant commissioner of police (ACPs), inspectors, other junior officers and the constabulary to remain present at a given spot.Confirming about the directives, Gupta told TOI, “It is nothing but basic policing. Paying a spot visit gives a fair idea about the incident, improves public contact, makes police presence felt, helps in gathering more leads and also helps our men with area familiarisation.” Gupta added that the visit by senior officers ensures proper direction to the probe and at the same time, brings a check on any attempts to frame a person through means of false complaint.Prior to the directives issued by Gupta, inspectors, ACPs and DCPs used to visit a spot only if a situation was that serious that it merits the visit of senior police officers. Even for police bandobast, visits by officers above the rank of inspectors have remained rare in the city. Authorities said that the presence of senior police officers further improved vigil during bandobast, agitations or protests and also improved police’s response time to any untoward incident.Even in the case of non-cognizable offences, it has been made mandatory for the constabulary to pay a spot visit so that it is easier for the police to judge and analyse the gravity of the case and its potential to spiral out of control and disrupt law and order..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dcps-told-to-pay-spot-visit-for-all-offences-in-aurangabad-city/articleshow/78628872.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 13, 2020||Surat||Firefighters have been at forefront in battling Covid-19 in Surat||SURAT: Personnel of the Fire and Emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) are at forefront in the fight against the Covid-19. According to SMC officials, there are 1,080 fire personnel in the city who are doing their job and engaged in disinfection activities since March. “About 34 personnel from the fire and emergency department have been infected with Covid-19 and 3,431 personnel have recovered from the infections,” said an official from the fire department, SMC. “Since the beginning of Covid-19 in March, 1,080 fire brigade jawans from 16 fire stations are engaged in disinfectant activities across the city. We have disinfected 2.11 lakh places in the last six months in the city which include Covid-19 hospitals, health centres, railway station, government and private banks, roads, houses and containment zones among other places,” said Basant Pareek, chief fire officer, SMC. “Fire department team also disposed of the dead bodies of those who succumbed to Covid-19 with protocols,” he added. “This is a pandemic and the entire world is gripped with the virus. Fire department has always been in the forefront in any calamity and we are doing our duty,” said Pravin Patel, a fire officer, who got infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/firefighters-have-been-at-forefront-in-battling-covid-19/articleshow/78626308.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 296 new Covid-19 cases, 15 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 296 fresh infections of Covid-19 on Monday. With this, the total cases of the virus rose to 55,347 in the Himalyan state. Also, deaths of 15 more Covid-19 patients pushed the toll of the virus to 762 in the state. Among these deaths, 11 were reported from Dehradun. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that it was after almost 50 days that the number of Covid-19 positive cases was less than 300 in the state. The last time the cases were below 300 was on August 16 when the state had recorded 235 Covid-19 infections. He added that Dehradun once again reported the maximum of 108 Covid-19 cases on Monday. “Nainital and Champawat reported 31 cases each, followed by 26 from Haridwar, 23 from Uttarkashi, 19 from Almora, 16 from Udham Singh Nagar, 12 from Pauri, 10 from Pithoragarh, nine from Chamoli, six from Rudraprayag, four from Bageshwar, and one from Tehri Garhwal,” he said. Meanwhile, 664 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Monday, taking the total number of cured cases to 47,306 in the state. With this, the recovery rate reached 85% in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-296-new-covid-19-cases-15-deaths/articleshow/78626283.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Trouble for TJS founder-president M Kodandaram||HYDERABAD: In a setback to TJS founder-president M Kodandaram’s electoral prospects, as many as six Left parties, including CPI and CPM, on Monday announced their candidate for Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduates constituency. They announced that they will support independent candidate professor K Nageshwar from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. The TJS had sought the support of Left for Kodandaram. The CPM, CPI-ML Liberation, SUCI (Communist), RSP and Forward Block decided to support the candidature of Jayasarathi Reddy of CPI from Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. Kodandaram told TOI that the political affairs committee of the TJS would look into the issue of alliances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trouble-for-kodandaram/articleshow/78628902.cms||Roushan Ali
October 13, 2020||Dehradun||With barely over a year to go for the state polls, CM may fill up vacant cabinet berths during Navratra||Dehradun: With state polls scheduled to be held in the early part of 2022, speculations are rife that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat may fill up the three vacant cabinet posts during Navratra, which starts from October 17. Analysts say that this will help the ruling party in more than one way. As 3.5 years have already gone and not many are interested, the cabinet expansion will be able to douse the “internal bickering” in party ranks, observers said. Two cabinet berths had been vacant since Rawat took over as chief minister in March, 2017. When state finance minister Prakash Pant passed away in June 2019, another berth fell vacant. It has been a long period since then but the three ministerial berths had remained unoccupied. On repeated occasions, CM Rawat has said, “Whenever a decision is taken, it will be conveyed.” A number of BJP MLAs including Bishan Singh Chuphal, Pushkar Dhami, Swami Yatishwaranand, Munna Singh Chauhan, and Mahendra Bhatt are being regarded as the frontrunners for the vacant ministerial berths. Chandra Pant, the wife Prakash Pant, who won the by-poll, is also being regarded as a probable candidate for a berth. However, the last few months have witnessed a turbulent phase in the state BJP unit with a number of party lawmakers questioning the role of bureaucrats and accusing them for slow paced development. While a senior lawmaker met party chief JP Nadda, two others have also written to him. Earlier, BJP chief spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhah had said, “The decision solely rests in the hand of CM and on the right opportunity he will take a call.” Political expert Jay Singh Rawat said, “The main or the large part of the five-year term is over. The last six months goes in campaigning, which means that a time span of less than a year is left for the new ministers to perform. It is a win-win situation for the CM. Thus, the possibilities are high that the cabinet expansion may take place either in Navratra or in the next few weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-barely-over-a-year-to-go-for-the-state-polls-cm-may-fill-up-vacant-cabinet-berths-during-navratra/articleshow/78626293.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 13, 2020||Meerut||Puputaka of the Ganges: How dolphins swam through history||In modern times, the Gangetic dolphin was first scientifically documented and christened Platanista gangetica by William Roxburgh, then superintendent of Calcutta Botanical Garden, in 1801. But in ancient India and our mythology, the susu, as the dolphin is referred to in northern India, always had a sacred place.Called the ‘Ganga puputaka’ in Sanskrit, the dolphin is associated with the deity Ganga, who is depicted with her divine vehicle, the Makara – an animal with the head of a crocodile and tail of a dolphin in Brahmavaivarta Purana. Even in the Rig Veda, (verses 1.116.18–19), Jahnavi and river dolphin occur in two adjacent verses.In the 3rd century BC, Maurya emperor Ashok the Great accorded the Gangetic dolphin a special status in his fifth pillar edict and barred the killing or hunting of the ‘Ganga puputaka’. “King Devanampriya Priyadansin speaks thus. (When I had been) anointed twenty-six years, the following animals were declared by me inviolable, viz. parrots, mainas, the aruna, ruddy geese, wild geese, the nandimukha, the gelata, bats, queen-ants, terrapins, boneless fish, the vedaveyaka, the Ganga-puputaka, skate-fish, tortoises and porcupines, squirrels, the srimara, bulls set at liberty, the rhinoceros, white doves, domestic doves, (and) all the quadrupeds which are neither useful nor edible,” reads his major pillar edict five.In Baburnama, which was published in 1598, the Gangetic dolphin has been referred to as Khokk Aabi (Persian for water hog). Babur, an avid swimmer, liked the Ganga and swam across it twice like he did to every river he faced during his expeditions. Not just ancient India, dolphins acquired a sacred place in mythologies across the globe. Roman author Pliny the Elder described how a dolphin at the settlement of Hippo Diarrhytos (modern day Bizerte in Tunisia) on the North African shore ate from people’s hands.Roman teacher of rhetoric Claudius Aelianus (175–235) described the dolphin as the king of sea animals.In ancient Greece, dolphins were considered as protectors of Poseidon and prominently featured on coins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/puputaka-of-the-ganges-how-dolphins-swam-through-history/articleshow/78624341.cms||Akashdeep Ashok
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||LU reopens for PhD, gets 90% attendance||Lucknow: Lucknow University research scholars came up with the ‘to do list’ on the first day of the reopening of the varsity only for PhD students on Monday. A few carried out experiments that have been pending for seven months while others were busy cleaning the apparatus and took care of live animals, preserved animals and slides in the laboratory. Happy with attendance, Prof KC Pandey said, “On the first day of reopening, research scholars submitted thesis and the attendance was 90%.” “Covid-19 period has taught me that science never stops. Yes, I had problems in performing practicals as I work on live birds, but I utilized the time in writing the paper. On the first day, my priority was re-organizing the research and lab work,” research fellow Pragya Verma of the zoology department said. Scholars in chemistry and physics departments were found busy in performing experiments halted for almost half a year. “I was working on a project regarding the study of amino acids in space which was left incomplete due to the closure since we don't have hitech computers and software at home,” said PhD scholar Keshav Kumar Singh of physics.  Humanities and commerce students got their progress reports and attendance signed. “We have to submit our research progress report from time to time, but it was pending for long due to Covid. The first thing we did was the submission of the report to our guides,” said PhD student Zia Jafri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-reopens-for-phd-gets-90-attendance/articleshow/78629731.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Deregulated APMCs rule in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Four years after Maharashtra removed fruits and vegetables from the purview of of its Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), private markets still play a small role in the trade of agricultural produce. For 2019-20, the turnover of APMCs was 479% higher than the turnover of private markets and those holding private licenses to buy directly from farmers. In 2019-20, the turnover of the state’s 305 APMCs was Rs 48,429 crores. The turnover of its 60 private markets and 1165 direct marketing licenses was Rs 8,360 crores. This means the business of APMCs was almost six times higher and the gap between the two was as high as Rs 40,069 crore. This reveals that in Maharashtra, at least, the deregulation of APMCs did not lead to farmers switching over en-masse to private markets. Indeed, the Maharashtra experience does not support the logic behind the Centre’s new farm legislation on APMCs: that monopolistic mandis are blocking private markets and depriving farmers of choices. The bulk of crops don’t even reach markets but are sold at the village level to traders or dealers, according to NSSO data. However, when it comes to markets, the APMCs are still the preferred destination for farmers in Maharashtra. Maharashtra was among the first states to adopt the Model APMC Act of 2003, laying the ground for agricultural marketing reforms. By 2016, when the BJP-Sena government was in power, it delisted fruits and vegetables from the purview of APMCs. In 2018, during the same regime, the state assembly passed a bill to remove all agricultural produce from the purview of APMCs but the bill was defeated in the upper house. The deregulation of APMCs during the BJP-Sena’s tenure had political undertones since bulk of them are controlled by the NCP and Congress. Data shows that the turnover of the state’s APMCs actually grew the year after they were deregulated. In 2016-17, the turnover was Rs 48,659 crore. In 2017, it rose to Rs 51,003 crore. By 2019-20, the turnover was Rs 48,429 crore. This means that four years after fruits and vegetables were delisted from APMCs in the state, their turnover declined by only 4%. However, APMC arrivals declined during this period from 2,158 lakh quintals to 1,638 lakh quintals during the same period.    Private and direct marketing licenses APMC               Number  Turnover (Crores) Turnover(Crores)   2015-16  274 4,674 46,644   2019-20 1,225 8,360 48,429.5   Gap between private and direct licenses versus APMC turnover: Rs 40,069 crore (479%)Onion and soyabean farmer Khandu Baba Wakchaure from Akole prefers to sell his crop at an APMC. “Private markets sometimes don’t pay on time or we get cheated on price. Also, at an APMC, you can sell a range of goods at the same place,” he says. The APMCs provide a benchmark for pricing and provide crucial infrastructure like weigh bridges and labour for lifting produce. “APMCs were formed to protect farmers from being cheated by traders. They should be reformed, not weakened,” says Ajit Navale from the Kisan Sabha. “APMCs are also not supposed to price produce below the MSP so that helps support the MSP rate,” says Navale. APMC arrivals and turnover in Maharashtra   Year (Oct-Sept) Arrivals (Lakh quintals) Turnover (Crores)   2016-17  2,158.8 48,659.9   2017-18 1,999.4 51,003   2018-19 1,808.8 45,066   2019-20 (till sept 25) 1,638.5 48,429.5   Some, like economist R Ramakumar question whether the deregulation of APMCs necessarily results in the growth of private markets. “The experience of Bihar, Kerala and Maharashtra do not inspire confidence in this respect. Bihar annulled the APMC Act in 2006. Kerala never had an APMC Act. Where are the private investments in these States? Most big corporate retail firms purchase their food items directly from APMC markets, and not directly from farmers,” he says the TISS professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deregulated-apmcs-rule-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78630519.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Kondapur: Locals livid as linemen cut lake fence days before inauguration||HYDERABAD: Residents near Ranganna Kunta in Kondapur said the fencing of the lake was cut by linemen hoping to gain access to an electric pole. The fence had been placed at a cost of Rs 16 lakh to stop encroachers. V Pavan Chandra, who has been working to restore the lake, said: “There has been absolutely no government participation in the restoration of the lake. The residents and NGOs put up the fence, which was removed in a jiffy.” Residents are upset at this development. Pavan said the excuse given by the linemen was that they thought the fence was set up by the GHMC. “They used a welding machine to cut the fence. Their argument is absurd. It clearly shows they have scant regard for public property,” he said. Residents said the linemen wanted to shorten their walk to the entry gate and cut the fence. Volunteers at the lake were planning an inauguration of the restored water body on October 17. Taking to twitter, Wasim Akhtar (@haranakhtar) complained of the “the irresponsible behaviour of TSPDCL (linemen)” in cutting the fence. When called, a lineman supervising the work refused to speak on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-livid-as-linemen-cut-lake-fence-days-before-inauguration/articleshow/78628905.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Surat||SGCCI demands more trains between Surat, Odisha||Surat: Representatives of South Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on Monday met chief minister Vijay Rupani and demanded more trains between Surat and Odisha to bring back workers of the textile industry. “The CM was receptive to our demands. We are going to organise a webinar next week where the CM will address industry leaders from across the South Gujarat. He will also listen to various issues faced by the industries,” said Dinesh Navdia, SGCCI president. Navadia added that the delegation also met energy minister Saurabh Patel and represented issues related to power before him. “In the month of November, a webinar has been organised in which energy minister will listen to various issues faced by industries in South Gujarat. Minister said that the state government will support an energy exhibition that is being organised by the industry body,” said Navadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-demands-more-trains-between-surat-odisha/articleshow/78626325.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Universities draw up SOPs for resuming classes||LUCKNOW: The government is yet to announce any guidelines for opening of universities, but the institutions are busy planning and preparing their own standard operating procedures for resuming studies. Some institutions plan to ask students whether they want online or offline classes, while others are thinking of holding classes on alternate days besides chalking out rules to ensure social distancing. Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) will seek the opinion of students on the preferred mode and will thereafter decide whether to conduct classes on the campus or in online mode. “We will take students’ opinion and will decide accordingly. All the rules followed in final year and state entrance examinations will be strictly enforced on resumption of physical classes, be it thermal scanning or wearing masks. The seating arrangement will be similar to the one followed in examination and classes would be held in batches,” said AKTU spokesperson Asheesh Mishra. A medical room equipped with pulse oximeter, masks, sanitizer and basic treatment facilities will be mandatory in all colleges, said Mishra. Khwaja Moinuddin Urdu, Arabi-Farsi University has decided to offer both online and offline classes. “The lectures will be recorded daily and uploaded on YouTube so that students who don’t want to come or are unwell can study in the comforts of their home,” said vice-chancellor Mahruf Mirza. Thermal scanning will be done at entry and exit points and hand sanitization will be compulsory at entrances, he added. Lucknow University is also planning to offer both online and offline options so that social distancing is maintained in classrooms. “We are prepared for reopening and are waiting for the government's directions. We will follow all directions to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/universities-draw-up-sops-for-resuming-classes/articleshow/78629737.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Youth beaten to death in Bhiwadi, two arrested in Bhiwandi||JAIPUR: A 30-year-old man was beaten to death in Bhiwadi’s Kotkasim police station area on Monday morning. Two persons were arrested for the brutal murder. The deceased was identified as Rudmal who hailed from Sherpur village. Bhiwadi SP Ram Moorty Joshi said, “In the preliminary investigation it was found that two days back there had been an altercation between the deceased and few others due to alleged eve-teasing. On Monday morning the victim left his house and two hours later his body was found. We acted promptly on receiving the information and arrested two accused.” The cops faced opposition initially as the victim’s family refused to get the post-mortem done till the accused were not arrested. The autopsy was done once two out of the four accused were arrested. The body was handed over to the family. The family claimed that they had received a phone call from a person who informed them that Rudmal had died and gave the location where the body was lying. Cops are trying to trace the other accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-beaten-to-death-in-bhiwadi-two-arrested/articleshow/78628917.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Bhiwadi cops bust liquor racket; 5 held, 10,000 cartons seized||Alwar: Bhiwadi police raided a liquor factory and arrested five persons including the supervisor for making foreign liquor, while having the license to produce only country liquor. Over 10,000 cartons of the illegally produced liquor were seized along with the computer which was used for making the fake license. Bhiwadi SP Ram Moorty Joshi told TOI, “We received information that the factory was making foreign liquor without a valid license. When our team raided the factory, they found the workers producing the liquor which was then poured into label-less bottles. The labels of various foreign liquor would be then pasted on them.” Those arrested also included two smugglers who hailed from Haryana. Cops recovered Rs 4.5 lakh from them which they had brought to purchase the liquor. “The team checked the factory premises and found a truck in which the liquor cartons were hidden beneath piles of haystack. When asked about the license, the supervisor showed the one for producing country liquor and claimed that the factory owner has applied for manufacture of foreign liquor but on entering the factory, we found enough evidence to arrest the five persons,” said the official. Officials claimed that the liquor was smuggled to neighbouring states including Gujarat and Haryana. A total of 10,077 liquor cartons were seized during the raid along with a truck full of the same product, two empty trucks and one car. Sources claimed that pressure is being applied on the cops to do away with the case as senior government officials might be part of the racket including excise department officials as the factory was operational for over a year though no action was taken till now. The accused will be questioned in detail to find others who are embroiled in the racket and more arrests are likely in future, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhiwadi-cops-bust-liquor-racket-5-held-10k-cartons-seized/articleshow/78628938.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Youth ends life 3 days after bagging first job||NAGPUR: Pravin Wanjari, 23, who had got a job with Rs7 lakh package per annum three days ago, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his residence at New Narsala on Sunday. In his six-page suicide note, Wanjari is learnt to have sought forgiveness from his parents stating he did not ‘deserved it’. Police said Wanjari’s suicide note reflected depression but the reason was not clearly stated. The family members are yet to be questioned. It’s also learnt that Wanjari had mentioned ‘not receiving equal affection which he gave to family members’. Only son of his parents, Wanjari had studied in Pune, and returned to the city in March after lockdown was declared nationwide. He was staying with his eldest sister at Bharatwada. Both his sisters are married. Police said Wanjari’s apartment at New Narsala was lying vacant as his parents too stayed elsewhere. He had to shift to his New Narsala apartment to attend online training sessions as part of his pre-induction process in the company where he had got a job. Police said Wanjari’s parents sent his friends to check at the apartment as he was not responding to calls. His friends found him hanging from the ceiling fan at his apartment. Hudkeshwar police were informed by the control room after the family dialled the emergency number. A case of accidental death has been registered at Hudkeshwar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-days-after-bagging-first-job-youth-ends-life/articleshow/78628944.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: BJP’s illegal protests invite 5 offences from city police||NAGPUR: The BJP Mahila Morcha held protests across six assembly constituencies in Nagpur on Monday without police permission. “City police have filed five offences against BJP leaders under relevant sections of Pandemic Act and at one place we are reviewing whether an agitation took place or not,” police commissioner Amitesh Kumar told TOI. The Mahila Aghadi had organized protests over deteriorating law and order situation across the state and crime against women at different places. Earlier in the day, deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Shweta Khedkar told TOI the city police could not give permission for a protest as per the guidelines under the Epidemic Diseases Act. She said even individual police stations could not give permission to any protest having more than five members. The Supreme Court had recently ruled that public protests should not hinder smooth movement of people and vehicles, and instead should be held at designated spots, but the city police seemed to have turned a blind eye towards it. In Nagpur, the designated place for organizing any protest is near Vidhan Bhavan Square. But the BJP held protests at the busy junctions at Pratap Nagar Chowk, Kamal Chowk, Gittikhadan Chowk, Gandhi Putla Square (Central Avenue), Satranjipura Chowk and Sakkardara Chowk. Regarding this, CP said, “We are going to review the situation and take necessary legal action accordingly.” The protesters alleged that ever since the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance Maha Vikas Aghadi government came to power in Maharashtra, there has been an increase in crime against women including rape and murder. “The government took no steps to curb the crime rate. So, to wake it up from its slumber, BJP’s women party workers staged agitations all over Maharashtra under the leadership of state BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Monday,” said city women wing president Dr Kirtida Ajmera. Apart from Dr Ajmera, the protest rallies were led by women wing’s state secretary and former mayor Archana Dehankar and general secretary Ashwini Jichkar. Former minister and state general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule, mayor Sandip Joshi, MLC Anil Sole, former mayors Nanda Jichkar, MLC Pravin Datke, former MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, corporators Varsha Thakre, Sangita Girhe, and Pragati Patil, among others participated in the morcha. Bawankule said their protest was peaceful and all participants followed Covid-19 guidelines. “No vehicular traffic was disrupted either,” he said. TOI visited most protest spots and found BJP women wings protest witnessed huge crowds but the city police did nothing to prevent the gathering. Though protesters wore masks, no one followed physical distancing norms. Even on Gittikhadan police station premises, senior PI Sunil Chavan allowed over 16 BJP workers while accepting a memorandum from them. This is not the first time such a huge morcha was taken out during Covid-19 lockdown. In the past, both BJP and Youth Congress activists had taken out protest marches in large numbers throwing Covid-19 guidelines to the winds. City police had booked office bearers of both political parties, but did not break up the rallies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjps-illegal-protests-invite-5-offences-from-city-police/articleshow/78629752.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Raj govt willing to help other states in bustard breeding||Jaisalmer: After tasting success in captive breeding of Great Indian Bustard (GIB) in Rajasthan, the state government is willing to provide female GIB to any other state that wants to breed the endangered bird. At present, out of seven eggs found in Desert National Park, six chicks have hatched. There was information that the Centre has plans to rehabilitate GIB in Gwalior sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh in collaboration with Wildlife Institute of India. Rajasthan wildlife and environment minister Sukhram Vishnoi said that GIB breeding programme has got good success at Desert National Park. Last year, 9 eggs were found and the chicks that came out have grown up. In this breeding season, out of 7 eggs, six chicks have hatched. There are chances of getting 4-5 more eggs in coming days. The chicks that are growing will be left in jungles. The minister added that to stop incidents of GIBs hitting electricity wire, he has written to the electricity board. The matter is being taken up again and by holding talks at the level of chief minister, the wires will be laid underground or bird diverters will be installed, he said. Moreover, the state government is determined to provide security to the migratory birds coming to Rajasthan. After thousands of birds died at Sambhar Lake last year, the government has adopted measures to ensure safety of the birds. Desert National Park deputy conservator of forest Kapil Chandrawal said that in this breeding season seven eggs were found and six chicks have hatched. Apart from this, five new chicks were seen, four in DNP and one at Ramdeora. The search for eggs is going on at DNP and Ramdeora closure as breeding season is on. This time the grass is quite tall due to good rain and there are chances of getting eggs. There is possibility of getting 4-5 eggs. The GIB conservation breeding programme is being implemented under a tripartite agreement between Rajasthan government and Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-willing-to-help-other-states-in-bustard-breeding/articleshow/78628992.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Single-use plastic back in Secunderabad Cantonment||SECUNDERABAD: Efforts to make Secunderabad Cantonment free of single-use plastic have failed as shopkeepers have completely ignored the ban orders issued by the ministry of defence (MoD). After the Covid-19-induced lockdown was lifted, shopkeepers and commercial establishments have gone back to using the banned plastic. It has been observed that most of the commercial units, such as grocery malls, hotels and restaurants, vegetable shops and others, in Karkhana, Vikrampuri, Trimulgherry, Lalbazar, Bolarum, Picket, Bowenpally and Rasoolpura are using the banned single-use plastic. Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials, however, said that the use of single-use plastic in the area had reduced to a great extent, but as officials were busy in tackling Covid-19 cases, they could not raid commercial units which are still using single-use plastic. “Soon, we will again start raids on commercial units and seal them. Penalties will also be imposed on violators,” said SCB senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender, who had undertaken a massive campaign on banning the use of plastic. He also accepted TOI’s observation that single-use plastic was back in business. The official said that several measures were implemented to curb the use of single-use plastic in Cantonment. “In fact, we were able to curtail over 70% use of banned plastic material by imposing heavy penalties on shopkeepers and commercial godowns,” he claimed. “We are keen on not using single-use plastic, which is banned by the Central government, but shopkeepers are using it to package essential commodities. The time has come for the Cantonment board officials to punish them,” K Balraju, a resident of Vikrampuri Colony, said.“Scared of SCB’s raids and penalties, we had stopped using single-use plastic,” S Ramesh, a shopkeeper in Karkhana, claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/single-use-plastic-back-in-cantonment/articleshow/78628971.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM likely to visit Delhi this week||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to visit the national capital this week. Sources said Jagan has sought time with President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi but the appointment is yet to be confirmed. He had met Modi and home minister Amit Shah in DSelhi in September and last week. Sources also said that the chief minister is intending to give a detailed complaint to the President and the Prime Minister against some of the judges. The AP chief minister has already written a letter to the Chief Justice of India against some of the judges alleging conspiracy against his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-to-visit-delhi-this-week/articleshow/78628935.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Surat||Global blitz chess event to raise funds for schools||SURAT: City will host global virtual blitz chess tournament ‘Make Your Move’ starting from October 26 to 31. The event is being jointly organised by L P Savani School, Round Table India (RTI) and Ladies Circle in partnership with Surat District Chess Association to raise funds. The tournament to have three categories of under 14, under 19 and above 19. Any participant from across the world can register online before October 21. “The event is being organized by RTI and LP Savani School is providing support. RTI will be using the funds generated through the event in developing schools,” said Dharmendra Savani, vice-chairman of LP Savani School. The organizers are expecting around 10,000 entries. The winners of each category will get a chance to play a chess game with grandmaster Viswanathan Anand. Anand is also scheduled to address participants during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/global-blitz-chess-event-to-raise-funds-for-schools/articleshow/78626346.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 derails UP’s campaign on TB control||LUCKNOW: The state’s tuberculosis (TB) control programme has suffered heavily on account of the Covid-19 pandemic according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare. While targets set for 2020-21 are lagging by about 50%, new initiatives planned have failed to take off. TB notification—a key indicator of the status of the revised national programme for control and prevention of TB—has fallen significantly in the months of the pandemic, derailing targets set by the government for 2020. Against a target of 6 lakh notifications, UP had recorded 2.6 lakh notifications till the end of September. A month-wise assessment of data from central government’s Nikshay Portal revealed that maximum damage was done in April when only 26% of the targeted notifications could be achieved. The bigger cause of concern is that work picked up very slowly after unlock-1 in June. The average shortfall from June to August has been 35%. Poor performance of the private sector in notifications is an equally big concern. Of the 6 lakh notifications, 2.2 lakh were to be made through private sector. However, 1.87 lakh were completed, which is only 45%. Officials attribute poor performance to various factors like closure of private clinics and fear and stigma among patients. In the public sector, 80% of the TB programme workforce was engaged in tasks to contain Covid-19 such as sample collection, transportation, contact tracing and spreading awareness. The TB infrastructure comprising CB NAAT and TrueNat machines was also used for Covid-19 testing, leading to cascading effect on the TB control programme. Besides, the state government could not launch a campaign to engage the private sector in 20 high-burden districts. For this, funds to the tune of Rs 24 crore have been sanctioned under National Health Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-derails-states-campaign-on-tb-control/articleshow/78629745.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Baby girl’s body found near nala in Kapra||HYDERABAD: A newborn baby girl’s body was found dumped near a nala in Kapra under the Kushaiguda limits on Monday. Police said the baby’s umbilical cord was still attached to her body. The baby girl, suspected to be between two days and five days old, was found in Sri Vasavi Siva Nagar Colony of Kapra. The infant is suspected to have died a couple of days ago. “A local found the body of the girl on the side of the nala and alerted the police at around 9.30 am, said Kushaiguda SI, Ananth. “It seems like she was abandoned soon after her birth. Her umbilical cord was still attached to her.” Police are checking CCTV cameras of the nearby locality. “There are no CCTV cameras near the nala,” added the officer. The body of the baby girl was shifted to a hospital mortuary and a case was registered under Section 318 (secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the death body of a child whether such child die before or after or during its birth, intentionally conceals or endeavours to conceal the birth of such child) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baby-girls-body-found-near-nala/articleshow/78628934.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Surat||Embroidery unit owner gets back part of lost money||SURAT: Quick thinking by city-based embroidery unit owner who was defrauded of Rs 4.23 lakh by online fraudsters, helped him recover Rs 3.58 lakh on Monday.On Sunday, a tele-caller informed textile embroidery unit owner Jiten Mewada that his KYC was incomplete in his newly opened account with Kotak Mahindra Bank. The caller asked Mewada to provide his bank account details in a form that was sent in form of a link on his mobile phone. Soon after the details were shared, Mewada received an OTP on his mobile phone. The caller called again to collect the OTP and using that password multiple transactions amounting to Rs 4.23 lakh were made. Mewada immediately contacted police which informed the cybercrime police station in city. “We could help the victim get back a portion of the money from two platforms. Transaction from one platform is yet to get reversed but we are trying for it,” said a police officer of cybercrime police station. “Since the victim approached police immediately, the money could be recovered. With every passing hour the chances of recovery of money decreases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/embroidery-unit-owner-gets-back-part-of-lost-money/articleshow/78626340.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Active cases below 40k after 10 weeks||Lucknow: After a gap of almost 10 weeks, the number of active Covid cases in the state went below 40,000. As on Wednesday, the number of active infections in the state reached 38,815. With this, the state returned to the situation on August 2, said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad. Also, the new cases reported in the past 24 hours were below 2,500 though the total crossed 4.39 lakh. “The decline in active cases suggests that we are ahead of the pandemic at the moment. But this is not the time to relax… the edge needs to be maintained over the next few weeks to ensure that the virus is not able to raise its head again,” Prasad stated. With 3342 discharges from hospitals across the state in the past 24 hours, the number of recoveries crossed 3.89 lakh, while the rate of recovery touched 89.7% Prasad also said that the number of deaths due to Covid-19 has also gone down. “From an average of about 80-90 deaths in the end of September, the number of deaths has gone below 50 now,” he said, adding that 44 deaths were reported on Monday. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in the state stands at 6,438.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-cases-below-40k-after-10-weeks/articleshow/78629753.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Ground situation will decide future of Vidyagama: Karnataka minister||BENGALURU: Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said his department is collecting relevant data on the ground pertaining to the Vidyagama programme and will decide on bettering the programme depending on the situation. The continuous learning programme for government schools was stopped following concerns of the virus spreading among students. The minister, who is recovering from Covid-19 in a hospital, insisted that the government won’t stand on ego if it is found children were infected because of classes. Excerpts from an interview: Vidyagama was your dream project and a good solution for present times. What went wrong?Vidyagama did not happen overnight. A lot of research was conducted before it was launched. When we conceptualised it, we had to tweak it to suit government schoolchildren. The whole purpose of public education is to listen to the subdued voice of the poor first, and then the privileged. That such a successful programme was not held anywhere else in the country is a matter of pride for us. We had to halt it with deep regret. A day before the programme was suspended, the government insisted that no student was infected because of these classes. Why did it change its stand?It’s true that 48 lakh children continuously engaged in academic activity for over twoand-a-half months with no positive cases is a significant achievement. TOI has rightly reported that infection fears are unfounded as government schools have fewer students. However, we decided to corroborate this with statistics on the ground. If it is proven that children were infected because of classes, it will not be a game of ego for us. Some private school managements say they played a major role in halting the programme. They say Vidyagama was a conspiracy to poach students from their schools…Vidyagama is not the sole property of the government. I kept insisting that private schools, or more importantly budget schools, must take a cue from it. Conspiracy is a far-fetched word, and I am the last to see it that way. The unique experiment must have benefited everyone. What is government’s Plan B?How will you ensure learning activity continues considering TV programmes still do not cater to lower classes or all mediums?We will definitely unveil a revival plan. Learning must happen. We will review shortcomings of Vidyagama and think of ways to improve it. Socio-economic issues are bound to crop up in any other mode of learning. The child’s right to learn cannot be denied for long. TV and You-Tube learning programmes will continue as a supplement. Will SSLC and PUC exams be postponed?It’s too early to talk about postponing SSLC and PUC exams. We are seriously considering doing away with summative assessments. Let’s see how things shape up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ground-situation-to-decide-future-of-vidyagama-says-education-minister/articleshow/78627122.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Jolt to Congress as ex-candidate from Dubbak switches to TRS||HYDERABAD: None of the candidates of the major political parties filed their nominations for the Dubbak bypoll on the second day of nominations. Three independents and Gouti Mallesh of the Jai Swaraj Party filed their nominations on Monday. The others, who filed their nominations are Srikanth Siliveru, Shaik Sarwar Hussain and Peddalingannagari Prasad. Earlier, on the first day of nominations on October 9, six people filed their nominations. In a political development which has boosted the TRS, a former contestant from Dubbak, belonging to the Congress party, joined the TRS in the presence of finance minister T Harish Rao at the party headquarters at Telangana Bhavan in the city. Muddula Nageshwar Reddy, who was the Congress candidate from Dubbak in the 2018 assembly elections, joined the TRS with his supporters. Nageshwar Reddy polled the most number of votes after the TRS candidate Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, who won the . Harish Rao took a jibe at the Congress party’s campaign in Dubbak saying hardly anyone came to the meeting of Manickam Tagore, MP and AICC in-charge for Telangana. In Yellareddyeta village, Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, while addressing a late evening meeting on October 11, charged finance minister Harish Rao with neglecting the interests of Mallannasagar oustees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jolt-to-cong-as-ex-candidate-from-dubbak-switches-to-trs/articleshow/78628980.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘I am going to appeal against the order’||When TOI contacted Dr Vipul Patel on Monday evening, he said that the decision of Gujarat Medical Council (GMC) is ‘one-sided.’ “I am not given hearing before such a harsh order. Any professional body gives three months’ time before such a decision. The complaint has taken place within that period. Is it fair that I am given just three days’ time?” he asked, claiming that he was not given time even on Monday before the order. About the allegations of financial misdoings and his professional credentials, Dr Patel said he has proof of his innocence. “I am going to appeal against the order with evidence. The action against me is motivated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-am-going-to-appeal-against-the-order/articleshow/78628972.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Protest by shepherd community in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Several members of the shepherd community staged a protest by blocking road with large number of sheep on Hyderabad-Warangal highway on Monday, demanding the government to keep its promise of distributing sheep to all the eligible persons. Traffic was hit for nearly 45 minutes. The protesters said that the government in the past promised to distribute sheep to 7.29 lakh eligible persons in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-by-shepherd-community-in-city/articleshow/78628990.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Two Aurangabad cops get suspension bill for dining with illegal sand traders||AURANGABAD: Two constables serving with the Aurangabad rural police have been suspended after photos of them dining with a man having a history of running illegal businesses, mainly sand trading, at a roadside dhaba in the limits of Phulambri police station reached superintendent of police Mokshada Patil. The suspended policemen have been identified as Sanjay Chavan attached to Phulambri police station and Santosh Chavan of Vadodbazar police station. Patil told TOI, “We have suspended two constables. Misconduct as per service rules has never been tolerated.” Patil said that an ultimatum was issued to the policemen asking them to keep away from any person having a track record of being on the wrong side of the law. An officer privy to the probe said that after Patil received the pictures, sub-divisional police officer Vishal Nehul Patil was tasked with carrying out a preliminary probe. The constables were suspended following the submission of the report by the officer. Inspector of Karmad police Santosh Khetmalas has been ordered to conduct departmental inquiry against the duo. The fact that the policemen were in uniform at the time of dining with the suspected man has not gone down well with senior police officers. “The photos were clicked by a zero police who has served as a homeguard at Phulambri police station,” said an officer. The zero police who clicked the pictures has been at loggerheads with Sanjay Chavan, who has faced action in the past for his alleged misconduct. Santosh, who was transferred from Phulambri police station three months ago, was on his way home when he received the invitation for dinner the dhaba. Sources said that the duo have been summoned by the departmental inquiry officer for recording their statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-cops-get-suspension-bill-for-dining-with-illegal-sand-traders/articleshow/78628977.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 13, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Missing girl's family cremate body after 'fair probe' promise||BAREILLY: A day after an 18-year-old girl's body was recovered from a cane field in Kheri district of UP, the family sensing foul play questioned an "inconclusive" autopsy report and refused to cremate her body. They relented only after assurances of "proper probe" following a meeting held between sub-divisional magistrate Swati Shukla and circle officer Abhay Pratap Singh. The cremation finally took place after nearly three hours of protest. The girl went missing on Friday. She was mentally ill, her parents said. A frantic search led the family and police to the girl's decomposed body in a waterlogged cane field of the district's Pasgava area. The autopsy report, however, couldn’t establish the exact cause of death. The report didn’t state any injury on the body or signs of sexual assault. Doctors have preserved the viscera for further examination. Citing the "inconclusive" autopsy report, the girl's relatives initially refused to cremate her body and demanded a fresh autopsy. They were later placated by senior officials. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said a few people tried to politicise the issue, but the family was convinced with the investigation and decided to cremate the body. Local politicians did, in fact, rush to the village to meet the girl's family. Not taking any chances, additional force was deployed. On Monday, the SSP told TOI, “We started an investigation into the case immediately after the family approached us on October 9. The girl's body was recovered by a police team. The family didn’t have enmity with anyone and the girl was not sexually assaulted. A postmortem was conducted by a panel of doctors. The panel has now decided to send the viscera for further examination." The SSP further said that the girl's body started decomposing. She may have died on the day she went missing, he said. "We will continue with our investigation," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/kheri-missing-girl-angry-family-holds-protest-and-cremates-her-only-after-promise-of-proper-probe/articleshow/78625248.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara to get 1st Miyawaki forest||VADODARA: A mini forest will come up in a residential society in Tandalja area of the city. The Society for Clean Environment (SOCLEEN) has taken up the project of developing Vadodara’s first Miyawaki forest and medicinal plant garden in Tandalja. It is being developed using the Miyawaki technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki that helps build dense, native forests popularised as mini forests. “Currently, there are two places in Vadodara where you can see indigenous trees which otherwise grow only in forest. The two places are botanical garden at M S University and Kamatibaug. This will be the third place in the city where you will be able to see indigenous trees that you see in a forest,” said professor Arun Arya, SOCLEEN’s joint secretary and former head of MSU’s botany department. “This is also Vadodara’s first Miyawaki style forest that will come up in a private premise,” said Arya, adding that the mini forest-cum-medicinal plant garden is being developed in residential plot owned by SOCLEEN’s secretary Tinoo Chavla. “This will be developed into a biodiversity park. While one-fourth of the plot will be utilised to develop Miyawaki style forest, another portion will be utilised to develop medicinal plant garden. The rest will be used as open air school for kids,” he said. The project that was inaugurated by SOCLEEN’s president Shubhangini Raje Gaekwad is aimed at providing greenery and fresh air to the society inhabitants and educate school children and citizens about indigenous trees. Using the Japanese technique, the indigenous trees will be planted together in close vicinity converting the area into a biodiversity zone that can attract butterflies, birds, squirrels, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-to-get-1st-miyawaki-forest/articleshow/78626369.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Techie suicide: Lover arrested in Hafeezpet||HYDERABAD: Weeks after a software engineer went missing from Medipally on September 18, her lover was arrested in Hafeezpet on Monday in connection with her death. Police said B Swetha (24) had ended her life on railway tracks in Ghatkesar on the same day. The incident came to light after Swetha’s body was identified by her family. It came to light that the techie had ended her life due to alleged harassment by her lover Ajay of Lalapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-suicide-lover-arrested/articleshow/78629004.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad students’ union seeks offline admission process||HYDERABAD: As the University of Hyderabad has decided to conduct online interviews and admissions for the academic year 2020-21, the students’ union of the university has demanded that candidates be given an option to appear for physical interview as well as many from the marginalized sector don’t have resources and are not accustomed to effectively handling gadgets or applications to appear for online interviews/admissions. The union said that it acknowledges the fact that it is practically impossible to conduct physical interviews in the current situation, but it also highlighted that there are aspirants, especially from socio-economically backward communities and rural areas, who do not have proper connectivity to access the results and interview schedule as soon as the results are declared. “The varsity has only given a day before the scheduled date of interview for almost every course. This will hamper many students from preparing for the interview and even from attending it,” reads the representation from Student Union 2019-20. It adds that the time and date window should be made flexible and at least three chances should be given so that material adversities will not be an obstacle in availing admission. They said that as most of the candidates and their guardians, especially for integrated courses, are not familiar with e-payments and other online procedures, a mere crashing of the payment window can create panic. Keeping this in mind, they said that offline mode options should also be given. “We assure you that the varsity will not have to deal with a crowd as only a fraction of candidates, who genuinely do not have access to technological facilities will opt for online mode,” the representation further reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-union-seeks-offline-admission-process/articleshow/78628993.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Tellapur nursery workers go on strike over unpaid wages||HYDERABAD: About a hundred workers at Tellapur HMDA nursery have gone on a strike over non-payment of wages for the last three months. The workers are paid Rs 9,000 a month. Mallesham, who has two small children, said he is struggling to make ends meet. “We have decided to go on strike since this is the third month we are going without a pay. The authorities promise us to pay the wages, but it’s a hollow promise,” he said. HMDA’s urban forest nursery is spread over 30 acres in Tellapur-Nallagandla. Most affected among the workers are mothers with toddlers who are struggling to feed them. Some of the workers coming from outside are unable to pay their house rents, bills and debts. “They promise our salaries will be paid on time, but they skip paying us every few months and then pay us for a month to compensate,” said Rangamma, another worker. The workers also complain that officials ask them to keep the premises clean and if they fail to do so, their salaries are not released. Last month, the manpower was reduced to 50%, adding to more workload on the existing workers. Prakash of HMDA’s urban forestry wing said the delay in paying wages was due to various reasons. “In July and August, we found that the quality of work had deteriorated. Once the nursery was restored, we had decided to restore payment.” The officer said he had tested Covid-19 positive and this had led to a delay in release of wage payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tellapur-nursery-workers-go-on-strike-over-unpaid-wages/articleshow/78629001.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bareilly||Body of 22-year-old missing woman found in sugarcane field in Kheri||Bareilly: The body of a 22-year-old missing woman was found in a waterlogged sugarcane field in Pasgava area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday evening.The woman had gone missing on Friday, following which her family lodged a complaint at Pasgava police station. The family suspects that she was raped and then strangled. Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull and additional SP Arun Kumar Singh also inspected the spot. Police have, meanwhile, deployed extra forces in the village and sent the body for autopsy.The ASP told TOI, “The woman had gone out for some personal work, but did not return. After police recovered her belongings from a field, a combing operation to trace her was launched in the area, and one of the police teams found her body in the waterlogged field. The body has started decomposing. Since there are no injuriesvisible, we are unable to comment on the reason for her death or the possibility of her being assaulted sexually. We have sought her call details to know about the people who had contacted her over the phone before she went missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-22-year-old-missing-woman-found-in-sugarcane-field-in-kheri/articleshow/78618832.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Farmer held for cultivating cannabis||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have arrested a farmer for cultivating 230 plants of cannabis weighing around 9kg—having a market value of around Rs 46,500—in his farm at Kanmandale village in Chandwad taluka. Farmer Dattu Yadav Chaudhary (45) has been arrested. Inspector of the local crime branch (LCB) K K Patil said that after Sachin Patil took charge as the superintendent of Nashik rural police, he had instructed the in-charge officers of all police station and heads of other police departments to ensure no illegal activity or business was being undertaken in their respective jurisdictions. On the instructions of Sachin Patil, officials of the LCB started patrolling the rural areas and taking details of the illegal activities when they got a tip off at Shirvade Phata that a farmer was cultivating cannabis in his farm. The LCB officers sent some constables at the Kanmandale village to verify the information. After confirmation, the LCB officers raided the farm and found that Chaudhary had cultivated cannabis plants in the area where he was cultivating tur daal. Vadner Bhairav police have arrested Chaudhary (45) and seized the cannabis. Recently, a police inspector attached to the Yeola taluka police station and six others were transferred to the police control room and two constables were suspended after they were found guilty of dereliction of duty for failing to take action against a spurious liquor den operating in the Yeola taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmer-held-for-cultivating-cannabis/articleshow/78628994.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mosquito threat buzzes in time of novel coronavirus||AHMEDABAD: In the past five financial years from April 2015 to April 2020, the AMC has spent Rs 90 crore to tackle the menace of dengue, chikungunya, malaria, and falciparum malaria. On average, the city has reported 18 cases of malaria and seven cases of dengue every day between January 2016 and March 2020. The city also reported five cases of falciparum malaria every two days and three cases of chikungunya every four days in the same period. This information was revealed in response to an RTI query filed by Yash Makwana, an activist. Makwana said that the query’s aim was to find out if the AMC was giving equal importance to other diseases in the time of corona. Makwana said it seeems that the AMC has spent a huge amount to tackle malaria, dengue, and chikungunya but some of these diseases have caused 42 deaths from January 2016 to March 2020. Three deaths have been reported due to malaria, eight due to falciparum malaria, and 31 due to dengue. Makwana said that the AMC carries out raids on sites and colonies where mosquito breeding has been observed. In the period in question, 89,000 sites were checked and fines to the tune of Rs 3.98 crore were collected. Fines collected are increasing year on year, Makwana said. He said the trend indicates that the awareness drives taken up by the corporation have stalled or people are not taking the disease threat seriously. A senior officer said that apart from private construction sites, government projects’ sites also violate norms and contractors have been fined. Indeed, even AMC-owned sites have been found to have mosquito-breeding zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mosquito-threat-buzzes-in-time-of-novel-coronavirus/articleshow/78628999.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Over 1,100 prisoners in region enrolled in edu courses||NAGPUR: World body Unesco celebrates October 13 as the International Day for Education in Prisons and experts say this is one of the best reformative measures for inmates. Right from terror convict Yakub Memon to gangster-turned-politician Arun Gawli, many inmates in prisons of the region had enrolled themselves in various educational courses. In Nagpur and Amravati Central Prisons, many convicts are availing of the free education programme being undertaken by Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou). P Sivaswaroop, regional director of Ignou Nagpur, said, “Starting with just 12 students in the first batch of 2011, today our cumulative student prisoners enrolment is 1,125. They pursue various courses right from BA, MA, MBA to certificate courses.” He added many took their education seriously. “Around 25 prisoners received their undergraduate and postgraduate degrees,” said Sivaswaroop. Former Nagpur police commissioner PKB Chakraborty said educating prisoners was indeed the right thing to do. “I have been a firm believer of theory ‘education always works’. There is no denying the fact that education changes the thinking process of a person. The results may not always be visible immediately, but in the long run it works,” said Chakraborty. Unseco’s official site explains why education in prisons is a crucial aspect of reforms. It says Unesco recognizes education as a human right to which all people are entitled. “Not only does prison education reduce recidivism and the financial and social costs of re-offending, it gives prisoners an opportunity to overcome disadvantage, to build new and different lives and to contribute fully to society,” the portal says. It further goes on to mention the background of the initiative. “International Day of Education in Prison was created to mark the 25th anniversary of the Council of Europe’s adoption of a set of recommendations outlining the needs and responsibilities concerning the education of imprisoned persons in Europe on October 13, 1989. The day is an important opportunity to highlight the benefits of prison education, consider the barriers and reflect on how it can best be promoted,” it adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1100-prisoners-in-region-enrolled-in-edu-courses/articleshow/78629822.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 13, 2020||Kolhapur||KMT service to nearby towns resumes||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) has resumed transport service to major nearby towns, including Kagal, Vadgaon and Mangaon. The service to these towns was halted since March owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, ever since the unlock process began across the state, the transport service in several places, including Kolhapur city, resumed along major routes. The KMT administration has assured passengers that the entire service will be resumed before Diwali. Public relations officer of KMT Sanjay Inamdar said, “The transport service to these towns resumed from Monday. The buses along these routes will ply once every hour. These routes are profitable routes as many passengers travel along these routes. More buses will run to and from these towns during peak hours in the morning as well as evening. The buses will start journey from other side of the city so that the passengers from the fringe areas, too, can benefit from it.” Inamdar said that Covid-related protocol is being followed by the KMT administration keeping in mind the safety of passengers as well as staff. All buses plying on roads are sanitised regularly and the passengers are allowed to board the buses only if they are wearing face masks. “These buses will run at a fixed schedule unlike those operating inside of the city which leave only if enough passengers are boarded in,” added Inamdar. Talks with KMT workers regarding salary dues Chairman of Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) Pratidnya Utture said that discussions will be held with the representatives of workers’ union requesting them to refrain from going on a strike. The transport workers have threatened to protest if the administration fails to pay their salary dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmt-service-to-nearby-towns-resumes/articleshow/78629005.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ghaziabad||Kalyan Singh tests negative for Covid, out of hospital after 26 days||GHAZIABAD: Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh was discharged from Kaushambi’s Yashoda Hospital on Monday after 26 days of treatment for Covid-19. He had been shifted from Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences to Ghaziabad on September 16 after his condition did not improve. Officials said a team of specialists attended to the 89-year-old BJP leader, who also suffers from several comorbid conditions, like diabetes, hypertension, Parkinson’s disease and kidney ailments. He had also undergone a heart bypass surgery. A statement issued by the hospital said Singh’s Covid report came negative on Saturday. During his release, his son Rajveer Singh, who is currently an MP from Etah, was present. Dr Anuj Aggarwal, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “Singh’s treatment was going on in the Covid ward of the hospital. He underwent anti-viral drug therapy and chest physiotherapy. His oxygen saturation level is fine now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/kalyan-singh-tests-negative-for-covid-out-of-hospital-after-26-days/articleshow/78630749.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Noida||Kalyan Singh tests negative for Covid, out of hospital after 26 days||GHAZIABAD: Former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh was discharged from Kaushambi’s Yashoda Hospital on Monday after 26 days of treatment for Covid-19. He had been shifted from Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences to Ghaziabad on September 16 after his condition did not improve. Officials said a team of specialists attended to the 89-year-old BJP leader, who also suffers from several comorbid conditions, like diabetes, hypertension, Parkinson’s disease and kidney ailments. He had also undergone a heart bypass surgery. A statement issued by the hospital said Singh’s Covid report came negative on Saturday. During his release, his son Rajveer Singh, who is currently an MP from Etah, was present. Dr Anuj Aggarwal, medical superintendent of the hospital, said, “Singh’s treatment was going on in the Covid ward of the hospital. He underwent anti-viral drug therapy and chest physiotherapy. His oxygen saturation level is fine now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/kalyan-singh-tests-negative-for-covid-out-of-hospital-after-26-days/articleshow/78629009.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Scolded for eating chalk, woman ends life in Jeedimetla||HYDERABAD: A wife committed suicide on Sunday night after her husband reprimanded her for frequently eating chalk pieces in Ayodhya Nagar in Jeedimetla. Sanju Yadav was addicted to eating chalk and on Sunday afternoon her husband Tufani Yadav snatched the chalk pieces from her and went out of the house to throw it away. An hour later, Tufani Yadav returned home and found his wife hanging from the ceiling. Yadav informed his colleague who later alerted the police. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scolded-for-eating-chalk-woman-ends-life/articleshow/78629007.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman found murdered, live-in partner missing||JAIPUR: A woman’s body was found at a rented accommodation in Sanganer Sadar police station area here on Monday morning. Cops suspect the woman’s live-in partner murdered her and was now absconding. The woman was last seen alive on Sunday evening and there were visible injury marks on her body. The victim was identified as 28-year-old Sangeeta Meena who hailed from Sawai Madhopur. “The woman’s body was found in the house by the landlord around 7 am. Her partner is missing and it appears that he was behind the murder otherwise there was no reason for him to run away instead of reporting the death,” said an officer of Sanganer Sadar police station. According to officials, the woman was staying with her partner against her parents’ wishes for the past two years. “At present, we do not know if they were married or not but we have registered a case of murder and her partner is our main suspect,” the officer said. Cops claimed that they would question the landlord and others in the neighbourhood to gather more details about the victim’s life and if the couple had any problems due to which she was killed. Apart from this, police are also trying to ascertain if it was a planned murder or spur of the moment crime as the woman had injury marks. “We do not know the cause of death as present as it does seem that the victim was beaten but without the post-mortem report we cannot confirm the reason for death”, said the officer. The victim’s family was informed and they reached Jaipur on Monday though the post-mortem could not be done as the Covid-19 report of Meena was awaited. A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) has been registered and investigation was underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-found-murdered-live-in-partner-missing/articleshow/78629017.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Police convoy escorts family to state capital||Lucknow: The five family members of the Hathras victim reached Lucknow under a heavy security blanket on Monday morning. The family started from their village in a police convoy at 5.30am and reached Lucknow around 11:30am. They were accompanied by a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and a woman deputy superintendent of police (DySP) apart from a posse of armed policemen. After deposing before the high court, the family left for Hathras at 4.30pm. The family was brought to Lucknow in a motorcade comprising six police vehicles and pilot cars. Initially, the administration had planned to ferry them in the night but the latter agreed to leave Hathras only after daybreak. Seventy police personnel were deployed outside the HC premises while another 50 cops remained deployed at the Uttarakhand Bhawan, which is situated near the high court. Police had made arrangements for the family to take rest at Uttarakhand Bhawan before deposing in the court. The family members along with the security staff were taken inside the Bhawan and not allowed to meet the media waiting outside. Senior officials, including Lucknow Police commissioner Sujeet Pandey, DM Abhishek Prakash and DCP east Charu Nigam inspected the security arrangements outside the Uttarakhand Bhawan. Seema Kushwaha, a Delhi-based lawyer who fought the Nirbhaya case, is representing the family of Hathras victim. She reached Uttarakhand Bhawan at 1pm and interacted briefly with the mediapersons. “The family has three demands which we will put before the HC bench — security for them, trial to be done in Delhi or Mumbai, and details of investigation must not be made public by authorities,” Kushwaha said. Slamming the special investigation team (SIT) for revealing the call details between the accused and the victim’s brother, Kushwaha said a perception is being made to take focus away from the case. Around 12.30pm, police escorted the family members to the high court. Till the time the family was inside the Bhawan, police had barricaded the main entrance. Speaking to reporters after the hearing, Kushwaha said the bench has asked the state government’s reply on why the victim’s body was cremated without the consent of the family which is the basic fundamental right and also why her last rites done at night when it is not deemed a right time in the Hindu religion. Next gearing in the case is on November 2. Additional advocate general, Vinod Shahi, said the family will not be required to appear on next hearing. ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar and an officer of special secretary rank will appear before the court on the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/police-convoy-escorts-family-to-state-capital/articleshow/78629779.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMA patches up with the artists after row||Ahmedabad: Two days after the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) and Indian Medical Association (IMA) raised the issue of alleged online hate posts against medical practitioners and targeting five doctors in specific, the medical fraternity and artists came on the same stage at AMA office and called it a truce. Dr Mona Desai, immediate past president of AMA who was among the five doctors named in social media posts, said that they had already given an application of complaint to the city police’s cyber cell. “The groups had threatened to hold their events outside residences and hospitals of the five individuals as they were held responsible for the government policy of not holding Navratri festival this year. It was not our intention to hurt any person’s business, but Covid-19 scenario demanded it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ama-patches-up-with-the-artists-after-row/articleshow/78629003.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress sets 1 lakh votes target in Dubbak bypoll||HYDERABAD: The Congress leadership has set a target of securing over one lakh votes in the Dubbak assembly constituency going to bypoll on November 3. Each of the 100-plus leaders campaigning in Dubbak constituency have been given a target of getting at least 400 votes per polling booth. There are over 250 polling booths in the constituency. All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore who went to Dubbak on Monday and reviewed the campaigning done by the party leaders so far, told them that they would be held accountable for the number of votes secured in polling booths of which they are in charge. He took a serious view of senior leaders and some of the veterans who have not gone to Dubbak for campaigning despite being told to do so. “Ultimately, the result will show the hard work done by each of you,” he said. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and all senior leaders attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-sets-1l-votes-target-in-dubbak-bypoll/articleshow/78629008.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chandigarh||No pre-arrest bail for YouTuber who posted objectionable content on Army unit: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court refused to grant anticipatory bail to a YouTuber who had uploaded objectionable content pertaining to an Army unit based in Ambala Cantonment on social media, observed that a citizen’s right to express does not mean that one can go to the extent of making wild and malicious allegations. In this case, the complainant was a former woman Army officer of the rank of Major and wife of the commanding officer of one of the Army’s units. The allegations were against one Kapil Dev, admin of a YouTube channel, Saabka Sainik Sangharsh Committee. The accused had uploaded some videos claiming that a few jawans of a particular unit were subjected to punishment for not saluting the wife of a commanding officer of the unit. "The allegations against the petitioner are quite grave and serious, touching the honour, reputation and social status of the complainant, who served the nation in the capacity of Major in the Indian Army having retired as such, and is wife of the commanding officer of an Army unit. Such type of accused encroaching upon the reputation, prestige, honour and status of even a common man cannot be taken lightly," observed Justice H S Madaan of the HC while dismissing the plea of the accused for anticipatory bail. Justice Madaan was of the view that custodial interrogation of the petitioner can reveal how the entire act of uploading the video on YouTube was planned and executed as well as the persons involved in such acts and actual motive behind it. The court also didn’t agree with the contention of the accused that he had joined the investigation and his mobile phone had been recovered, and observed that it does not mean that he becomes entitled to the concession of pre-arrest bail. "Though every citizen of India has got the right to express his views in the matter but freedom of speech does not mean that one can go to the extent of making wild and malicious allegations…There are grave and serious allegations against the petitioner with regard to gaining access to the secret documents concerning national security. The matter needs to be investigated from that angle also," the HC held while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea. As per the FIR registered this April, the accused, through his doctored hate speeches against the Indian Army units, attempted to create discontent and rift. He has also been accessing official documents and restricted videos of activities of Army establishments, which is an act of serious breach of security affecting national interest. Due to his involvement in such activities, his Twitter account was suspended. Earlier in May, the Ambala district court had refused to grant him interim relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-pre-arrest-bail-for-youtuber-who-posted-objectionable-content-on-army-unit-hc/articleshow/78629010.cms||Ajay Sura
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Solar power feeders to benefit over 12,000 farmers in Nashik zone||Nashik: More than 12,000 farmers in the Nashik zone of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) are likely to benefit from the chief minister solar agriculture feeders. The Nashik zone, comprising Nashik and Ahmednagar districts, has activated 28 solar agriculture feeders as a result of which the farmers will get assured power supply during the day, making the need for getting up in the middle of the night to water the crops redundant. According to a senior MSEDCL official, a set of farmers received power in the morning, while the other set received it in the evening and the third set received it around midnight. “This was done on the rotational basis every week forcing the farmers to get up in the middle of night, walk down few kilometers to their farms only for starting the motor to provide water for the crops,” the official said. “The solar power generators that have been installed at five locations in Nashik district and one location in Ahmednagar district will provide power to the grid from 6 am to 6pm and power supply to the grid will be provided through channel to the farmers. As a result of this, a set of farmers now stands to get power from 6am to 2pm while the second set will receive electricity from 9am to 5pm. The third set of farmers will receive power from 10am to 6pm,” he added. These farmers will be relieved from the regular practice of switching on their motors for watering their crops in the night. The five solar feeders installed across Nashik district has a capacity of producing 50 megawatt (MW) power, while the only feeder in Ahmednagar produces 10 megawatt of power. Five feeders each in Malegaon and Deola taluka, while four feeders each in Baglan, Nandgaon and Yeola of Nashik district will be charged by solar power feeders. In Ahmednagar, four feeders in Jamkhed taluka will be provided power supply by the solar feeder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/solar-power-feeders-to-benefit-over-12000-farmers-in-nashik-zone/articleshow/78629808.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 13, 2020||Nashik||Action against traders for failing to abide by ‘No mask, no goods’||Nashik: The district administration has issued a warning to shopkeepers informing them of strict action if they sell goods to customers failing to wear face masks. Police personnel have been asked to take action against those failing to adhere to the norms. District collector Suraj Mandhare has appealed to the traders in the district to implement ‘No mask, no goods’ campaign to ensure that every person stepping out their house to buy goods wears a mask. Pointing out that the number of active patients in the district are declining by the day because of valiant efforts of health department in identifying affected people and providing timely treatment to them, thus containing the spread of the disease, it was important that the citizens themselves contributed to contain spread of Covid-19 infection by taking appropriate measures. “ As part of the responsibility to be borne by citizens, they must ensure that they do not move out of their house without wearing face masks. And as far as shopkeepers responsibility is concerned, they must ensure that they refuse to sell goods to people who enter their shops without a mask. Moreover, shopkeepers must also encourage physical distancing. In our joint meeting with Nashik Municipal Corporation commissioner, commissioner of police, superintendent of police (Nashik rural), we have decided to implement it thoroughly with police penalising the offenders,” collector said. Anuj Pawar, a businessman from the city, said that he has set up some rules for his customers. He does not allow anyone without a mask to enter his outlet. “Even if a person puts on the mask just outside the shop, we do not sell goods to them. So, many citizens feel safe when they come to my shop. The social distancing norms also have to be abided by everyone– even if that means costing extra time,” Pawar said. 224 booked for violating Covid-related norms The city police has booked 224 people between Saturday 5pm and Sunday 5pm for flouting Covid-19 norms. They have been booked under the Maharashtra Police Act. A release by the city police said that four people were booked for not maintaining discipline in public and defying social distancing rule. While six were booked for making rush in front of a shop despite knowing that it could spread the contagion, 185 people were booked for not wearing mask in public places. In addition, 29 others were booked for spitting in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/action-against-traders-for-failing-to-abide-by-no-mask-no-goods/articleshow/78629801.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana plans to set up fuel stations at interchanges on ORR||HYDERABAD: The government is planning to set up fuel stations at interchange points on Outer Ring Road (ORR) among other amenities. Eight of the 19 interchange points on the 158 km expressway will have multi-fuel stations (petrol, diesel, CNG, battery charging etc) at the proposed interchanges at Pedda Amberpet, Bonguluru, Medchal, Patancheru, Ghatkesar, Shameerpet, Narsingi and Telangana State Police Academy (TSPA) Junction. The government also intends to develop truck and passenger vehicles’ parking lots, vehicle service centers, office spaces, restaurants, intercity bus terminals among other wayside amenities at certain interchange points in a phased manner. “Setting up fuel stations and vehicle service centers will help the public as well as the truck drivers who use the ORR on a daily basis to transport cargo to other districts and states on a daily basis. We have faced situations where we were stranded on the ORR for hours waiting for help whenever a vehicle broke down. These new amenities will help us as well as the people who are travelling long distances,” said Manchireddy Rajender Reddy, working president, Telangana Lorry Owners’ Association. Hyderabad Growth Corridor Limited (HGCL) is entrusted with the responsibility of developing Hyderabad Growth Corridor, which is a road-cum-area development project. “A site analysis will be undertaken at all the eight interchange points to set up these multi-fuel stations and other amenities,” HGCL officials told TOI. HGCL also put out a notice requesting for proposals to develop multi-fuel stations-cum-wayside amenities on ORR in Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode. After HGCL put out the request for proposal, municipal administration and urban development principal secretary Arvind Kumar tweeted, “@HMDA_Gov & @md_hgcl looks for a transaction advisory firm to develop wayside amenities (restaurants, hotels, eateries, POL points, commercial, medical emergencies & office spaces etc) on 6 important intersection points on #ORR (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-plans-to-set-up-fuel-stations-at-interchanges-on-orr/articleshow/78629024.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One more arrested in Sawai Madhopur sex racket case||JAIPUR: Cops arrested one more woman in the alleged sex racket in Sawai Madhopur in which a minor girl was forced to have physical relations with men in exchange for money. Cops have arrested eight people in the matter so far, including former BJP office-bearer Sunita Verma. The woman arrested on Monday morning, Poonam Choudhary, is one of the main accused and is part of the local Congress unit. The case was registered on September 22 following which the investigation was initiated. A seven-member team of CID-CB officials has also been constituted to look into the case. The complainant, along with her parents, had lodged a complaint following which an investigation was initiated. It was found that the alleged assault happened between October 2019 and May 2020. Sawai Madhopur SP Sudheer Choudhary told TOI, "We have Poonam in our custody and she was the one who introduced the minor girl to Sunita." Cops had previously arrested the hotel owner of the establishment where the girl was sexually assaulted. While Sunita was removed from her post in the BJP after the case was registered and suspended from the party for six years, Congress refused to admit that Poonam was associated with the party. Poonam was the one who befriended the girl and apparently told her that she would help her succeed in life as she had previously helped others, claimed officials. On August 4, Sunita had attempted to send the girl to Jaipur. The girl alleged that after the first sexual assault, the accused made a video and continued to blackmail her. Of the eight arrested, at least four people had raped the child. According to the complainant, Sunita had taken money from her out of which some amount was recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-more-arrested-in-sawai-madhopur-sex-racket-case/articleshow/78629032.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Chennai||15 more arrested for TNPSC scam||Chennai: The CB-CID police have arrested 15 more people in the past one month in connection with the TNPSC scam that was busted early this year. Due to the still raging Covid-19 pandemic, they were produced before the court concerned and released. The CB-CID refused to divulge anything more about the arrested people, who include a home department and revenue officials who have already been placed under suspension by the state government. Police sources said two of the arrested suspects had assisted the prime accused in the scam, while most of the others got government postings after the TNPSC Group-IV examination in 2019 and Group-II (A) examination in 2017. A CB-CID officer said while the arrested suspects were let off, police had sent formal letters to heads of the state government departments concerned, demanding legal action against the accused. Since the Covid-triggered lockdown began in late March, courts haven’t been functioning at full strength, and only remanding those accused of serious crimes, while enforcement officials are exercising their functions in a limited manner. The investigating police team had arrested five people in April and May for their involvement in the scam. The CB-CID has so far arrested 67 people in connection with the scam, including the latest arrests. About 60 pens with disappearing ink, a laptop and a pen drive apart from a few documents were among the material seized from the Mogappair residence of Jayakumar, the brain behind the TNPSC Group IV examination scam, a police officer said. Inquiries showed that many candidates paid lakhs of rupees to Jayakumar to write answers using the disappearing ink. The subsequent arrests of many TNPSC staff helped the CB-CID reconstruct the scam. Some of the arrested suspects including Jayakumar told police they their earlier attempts as part of the scam were successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/15-more-arrested-for-tnpsc-scam/articleshow/78629036.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara to get 1st Miyawaki forest||Vadodara: A mini forest will come up in a residential society in Tandalja area of the city. The Society for Clean Environment (SOCLEEN) has taken up the project of developing Vadodara’s first Miyawaki forest and medicinal plant garden in Tandalja.It is being developed using the Miyawaki technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki that helps build dense, native forests popularised as mini forests.“Currently, there are two places in Vadodara where you can see indigenous trees which otherwise grow only in forest. The two places are botanical garden at M S University and Kamatibaug. This will be the third place in the city where you will be able to see indigenous trees that you see in a forest,” said professor Arun Arya, SOCLEEN’s joint secretary and former head of MSU’s botany department.“This is also Vadodara’s first Miyawaki style forest that will come up in a private premise,” said Arya, adding that the mini forest-cum-medicinal plant garden is being developed in residential plot owned by SOCLEEN’s secretary Tinoo Chavla.“This will be developed into a biodiversity park. While one-fourth of the plot will be utilised to develop Miyawaki style forest, another portion will be utilised to develop medicinal plant garden. The rest will be used as open air school for kids,” he said.The project that was inaugurated by SOCLEEN’s president Shubhangini Raje Gaekwad is aimed at providing greenery and fresh air to the society inhabitants and educate school children and citizens about indigenous trees.Using the Japanese technique, the indigenous trees will be planted together in close vicinity converting the area into a biodiversity zone that can attract butterflies, birds, squirrels, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-to-get-1st-miyawaki-forest/articleshow/78626434.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Bareilly||Can’t book farmers in criminal cases for stubble burning, says SP's ex-minister||Pilibhit: Farmers are being harassed by the Pilibhit district administration over the issue of stubble burning, claimed Hemraj Verma, Samajwadi Party leader and former minister here on Monday. Addressing a press conference, Verma said the district administration is only empowered to impose a financial penalty upon farmers for stubble burning at the rates duly assigned by the National Green Tribunal. However, farmers are being booked under criminal cases, their farm machinery is being seized and their valid certificates are being cancelled. The unlawful action by the district administration is being allowed by the BJP-led Yogi Adityanath state government. The SP leader also slammed the Yogi government for failing to clear farmers' cane dues and ensuring they get minimum support price (MSP) for paddy. Verma warned that if the farmers’ issues were addressed within 10 days, the SP would stage dharnas and protests across Pilibhit district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cant-book-farmers-in-criminal-cases-for-stubble-burning-says-sps-ex-minister/articleshow/78625305.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||BSP focus on law and order, social engg for 2022 polls||Lucknow: With the 2022 Assembly polls looming large, BSP is back at its social engineering programme, wooing the brahmin community. At the various ‘Brahmin Samwads’ that have been addressed by senior party members over the past weeks, the point of difference between the ruling dispensation and others is driven home by referring to chief minister Yogi Adityanath as “Thakur Ajay Singh Bisht, Uttarakhand wale”. The meetings are being addressed by a core committee of members, nominated by party chief Mayawati. Led by party general secretary SC Mishra, the committee consists of Paresh Misra, Ranganath Mishra, Ritesh Pandey, Nakul Dubey and Anant Mishra ‘Antu’. “Who is Yogi Adityanath? We call him by his original name during our meetings, thakur Ajay Singh Bisht, Uttarakhand wale,” said Paresh Mishra, a member of the committee and former chairperson of the UP Bar Council. Mishra said that the party would be starting an aggressive campaign aimed at 2022 after Navratri. The party would be seen “playing on the front foot”, he added. Party sources said that the core committee is in the process of preparing a blueprint for this campaign, having met members across all 75 constituencies and taking their suggestions into account. In each meeting, workers have been asked to ensure that at least 1,000 more people from the community in each district are given membership of the party. “A major poll plank for the party is to compare law and order during Mayawati’s regime with the current state of affairs under BJP. Not only is the party highlighting how, because of its bias towards Thakurs, the government is targeting Brahmins and even minorities, similar dialogues will be carried out with minorities and OBCs in the coming days,” said a party member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-focus-on-law-and-order-social-engg-for-2022-polls/articleshow/78629809.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases dip for sixth consecutive day||Ahmedabad: Gujarat recorded another low daily tally at 1,169 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, taking the total to 1.52 lakh Covid cases. It was the second consecutive day on which the state registered daily cases below 1,200 and the sixth consecutive day of dips in daily cases. The positive cases included 254 from Surat, 184 from Ahmedabad, 128 from Vadodara, 122 from Rajkot, and 89 from Jamnagar. The shares of these five districts in the daily tally was 66.5%. With the update, the total cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot reached 39,195, 32,348, 13,605, and 10,904. The state recorded eight deaths, taking the total to 3,577. The deaths included three each from Ahmedabad and Surat, and one each from Rajkot and Gandhinagar. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 1,852, 804, 196, and 151 respectively. In all, 1,442 patients were discharged in the 24 hours, taking the total to 1.33 lakh. The discharges included 279 from Surat, 192 from Ahmedabad, 151 from Vadodara, and 139 from Rajkot. The active cases in Gujarat have now gone down to 15,436. The shares of active, discharged, and deceased patients of the total positive cases in Gujarat are now 10.1%, 87.6%, and 2.3% respectively. The state carried out 50,979 tests in the 24-hour period — registering yet another daily low — taking the total to 50.63 lakh. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 5.88 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-dip-for-sixth-consecutive-day/articleshow/78629021.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Shimla||In home quarantine, Himachal Pradesh CM tests positive||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who was under home quarantine after attending the inaugural ceremony of Atal Tunnel Rohtang by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3, on Monday tested positive for Covid-19. The CM had thrice earlier remained under home quarantine, but had tested negative. Thakur had extended the quarantine period as his principal private secretary had also tested positive on October 6. Both had travelled together to Manali in a helicopter and returned to Shimla on September 30 to review arrangements for the tunnel inauguration. They had then met BJP’s Banjar MLA Surender Shourie who had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 2. Thakur had again gone to Manali on October 3 to receive Union defence minister Rajnath Singh. After his principal private secretary tested positive, chief minister’s office was sealed for sanitisation and it was to be opened on Monday after sanitisation. The CM informed about his being virus positive through a tweet. Before the CM, the urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj along with his wife had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 7 after his younger son was infected. Prior to that Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur and power minister Sukh Ram Chaudfhary had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-home-quarantine-hp-cm-tests-positive/articleshow/78629025.cms||---
October 13, 2020||India||Khushbu Sundar quits Congress and joins BJP, says nation needs Modi||NEW DELHI: Ending days of speculation, Congress spokesperson and party’s known face from Tamil Nadu Khushbu Sundar joined BJP on Monday, saying India needs Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is taking the country forward in the right direction. BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit president L Murugan welcomed her to the party in the presence of party general secretary C T Rav. Sundar called on party President J P Nadda soon after joining the party. “It is an immense pleasure to take a step forward and become a part of BJP. Over a period of time, I have come to an understanding that the nation should move forward. For that, we need somebody like Narendra Modi ji to take the country in the right direction," the actor-turned politician said. Khushbu said she would do her best to discharge the responsibility given to her and ensure the party’s victory in the assembly elections, due in Tamil Nadu next year. “I am here as the millions of people of this country, who have great hopes in BJP under the esteemed leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and I will work like any other worker to the best of my abilities," she said. Earlier in the day, she sent her resignation as primary member of Congress to party president Sonia Gandhi. As many as 12 film and television stars from West Bengal had joined BJP in July last year. The development was significant as the party has left no stone unturned to dethrone the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC in the state which goes to polls next year. The saffron party had won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal in the general elections last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/khushbu-sundar-quits-congress-and-joins-bjp-says-nation-needs-modi/articleshow/78630522.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Shimla||41 die of Covid, 1,817 new cases in Pb, Hry & HP||Chandigarh/Shimla: Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Monday threw up a total of 1,817 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 41 deaths, with Punjab reporting maximum of 27 deaths, while the highest of 1,066 cases surfaced in Haryana. The trend of more people recovering than those testing positive continued in Punjab, as 1,552 people were discharged, while 581 new cases were detected on Monday. With 112,417 people getting cured so far, the state’s recovery rate further improved to 90.26% and the active rate dropped to 6.63% against the national average of 12%. The latest fatalities pushed the death toll to 3,860. Punjab’s death rate at 3.09% is highest in the country. Maximum five fatalities took place in Gurdaspur district, while Ludhiana reported the highest 82 new cases. The state now has 8,258 active cases. Haryana’s 1,066 fresh cases took the state’s case tally to 143,221—out of which 10,401 are active—and 13 patients dying during the day pushed the count of persons succumbing to the disease so far to 1,592. With 131,228 patients discharged till now, the state’s recovery rate has gone up to 91.63% and the doubling rate of cases further improved to 38 days. As many as 206 critical patients in the state are on oxygen support and 34 on ventilators. Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 170 fresh cases, one death and 219 recoveries. With the latest figures, the state’s overall count of positive cases has reached 17,578, of which 2,637 are active, while 14,670 patients have recovered, 246 died and 20 moved out of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/41-die-of-covid-1817-new-cases-in-pb-hry-hp/articleshow/78629035.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Nashik||BSNL ropes in 70 TIPs for increasing customer base||Nashik: The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) has roped in 70 telecom infrastructure providers (TIPs) in the city in a bid to increase its broadband customer base. These TIPs will provide broadband internet within the limits of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and have been appointed on a 50:50 revenue sharing between BSNL and the TIPs. According to sources, this move will help BSNL increase the customer base. There have been around 15 players in the broadband internet sector, out of which BSNL’s market share is 30% while the remaining 70% belongs to the private players. “Our objective is to increase our market share in the city from 30% to 40%. Hence, we are taking several measures to increase the number of broadband internet connections in the city,” Nitian Mahajn, BSNL general manager, said. “We have appointed the TIPs in order to compete with major private players in the broadband internet segment. The demand for broadband connections have increased at large after the lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. The work from home and study from home options have led to huge rise in demand for broadband internet connections in the city,” he added. The BSNL has added around 9,000 broadband connections in the city in the past five months after the lockdown. “Now, we have a demand for over 50-60 connections per day, but we are providing around 25-30 connections per day. There are around 1.70 lakh broadband connections in the city, out of which, BSNL has over 45,000 broadband connections,” Mahajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bsnl-ropes-in-70-tips-for-increasing-customer-base/articleshow/78629824.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 13, 2020||Lucknow||Pradhans to stop stubble burning: CS||Lucknow: With winter approaching and air pollution levels expected to rise, chief secretary RK Tiwari has given directions to divisional commissioners and district magistrates to ensure that there are no incidents of stubble burning this year. In a meeting via video conferencing on Monday, the CS directed DMs and commissioners to ensure that arrangements are made to compost the stubble immediately after harvesting. Arrangements should also be made to transport stubble to cow protection centres where it can be used as fodder. No laxity would be tolerated in this regard, he added. Tiwari said that awareness about harms related to stubble burning should be created in villages through posters, banners and loudspeakers. He directed officials to make gram pradhans responsible for stubble burning in their respective areas and take action against violators. Asking officials to provide equipment for disposal of crop waste, he added that action should also be taken against burning of waste and plastic to prevent pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pradhans-to-stop-stubble-burning-cs/articleshow/78629823.cms||---
October 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Shortage of rheumatologists in India: Experts||HYDERABAD: While a delay of up to two years in diagnosis of arthritis has been reported in the general scenario, in the current scenario, it has gone up further by six to 10 months. The delay is largely on account of lack of specialists and lack of awareness about the disease. Experts stress on the need to have more rheumatologists to improve diagnosis. “Arthritis diagnosis is often delayed by two years. Delay in diagnosis is primarily due to lack of awareness and non-availability of specialists,” said Dr V Sarath Chandra Mouli, consultant rheumatologist, KIMS Hospitals. He said that with only a few rheumatology teaching centres available, the country needs more than 20,000 rheumatologists but there are just around 800 rheumatologists available in the country. According to experts, approximately 30% of diseases of the joints have the potential of becoming serious life threatening systemic problems. “This is especially so if the patient is a young woman with symptoms persisting for more than six weeks. This may be the beginning of a crippling and occasionally life threatening systemic rheumatic disease,” said Dr Shashikanth, consultant orthopaedic surgeon, Care OPD Center, Banjara Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shortage-of-rheumatologists-in-india-experts/articleshow/78629034.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 13, 2020||Jaipur||Palace on Wheels’ profits decline as commission of agents doubles||Jaipur: Profits of Palace On Wheels have been consistently declining from 2016-17 even as commission of General Sales Agents (GSAs) have been rising steadily over the past three years. In fact, the commission of GSAs has doubled from 17.63% in 2016-17 to 32.21% in 2019-20, causing a cumulative loss of Rs 13.49 crore to RTDC over the past three years, according to a letter sent by RTDC to the Railways. The luxury train, which takes tourists on a 7-night, 8-day trip starting from Delhi to Jaipur, Sawai Madhopur (Ranthambore), Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bharatpur and Agra, is jointly operated by the Indian Railways and Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC). Indian Railways gets 56% of the profits as its share. In fact, the profits of POW has also declined from 17.27% in 2016-17 to 16.6% in 2017-18, 12.44% in 2018-19 and 8.48% in 2019-20. A senior RTDC official said that the decision on increasing agents’ commission was taken by the RTDC board but the logic is baffling. “I don’t know what prompted RTDC to increase the commissions, but certainly the decision was not in the best interest of the corporation, which is unable to pay salary to its staff every month,” said the official preferring anonymity. While agents earned Rs 9.57 crore in 2017-18, Rs 11.36 crore in 2018-19, and 13.34 crore in 2019-20, the same for RTDC was Rs 6.05 crore, Rs 5.24 crore and Rs 3.53 crore in the respective years. “It looks obvious that the agents gained the most from the POW operations than RTDC. The strategy was completely wrong,” said the official. However, in the recent policy the GSA commission has been revised to 18% and for travel agents it is 15%. Now even individual customers can book online and get incentives. The luxury train had to cancel its trips in March and April this year due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The tourist season has started and but not the POW operations because of the Covid guidelines. But the official said that the train is ready to start any time after the government withdraws the Covid restrictions. He said they are planning to open the train to various segments of domestic groups like school children, doctors or corporate incentive tours. “We can even the change the route of the train if a group asks for it. The duration will be made flexible by reducing the number of nights if the customers demand,” he added. There is no clarity as of now when foreign tourists will arrive for vacation in the country. RTDC is now looking to open the POW to domestic tourists by bringing in suitable changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/palace-on-wheels-profits-decline-as-commission-of-agents-doubles/articleshow/78629048.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
