October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Together we can make a difference if Puja organisers do their bit and visitors, theirs: Anuj Sharma||After battling COVID-19, city police commissioner Anuj Sharma is back at work, leading from the front. He has no time to lose as the Kolkata Police gears up to face its biggest challenge since the lockdown and Cyclone Amphan -- the festival of Durga Puja. “Our team has been working with full zeal and high spirits for more than six months by facing the situation head on. Our collective effort will win,” said a proud commissioner. In an exclusive chat with Calcutta Times, the top cop talked about the effort that his team has undertaken during the pandemic and the means he wants the revellers to follow this Puja. Excerpts How are you? Did you get enough time to recuperate?I’ve recovered from the infection. The weakness is still there but that is normal and I am taking the necessary precautions as per my doctor’s advice. I followed the protocol of remaining in isolation while working from home for two weeks and stayed at home for another week. The festive season is just round the corner. This is perhaps the busiest time of the year for the police force. How are you planning to face the challenges posed by the pandemic?The government has issued a set of guidelines for the season. We are constantly in touch with the Puja organisers and emphasising that they comply with the directives. Special efforts are being made to chalk out a plan on how the Puja organisers can maintain social distancing norms and provide masks and sanitisers to the pandal hoppers. We are also stressing on open pandals. Lockdown, Amphan, Unlock and now the festive season – it’s been a hectic year for the Kolkata Police. How are you boosting your team’s morale through these difficult times?For more than six months now, our team has been facing the situation head on. They have been working with great zeal while keeping their spirits high. Some of our personnel were infected in the process and sadly, we even lost a few of our dear colleagues. But despite all odds, I’m proud to say that I lead one of the best police forces in the country. Alongside their normal duties, our force has provided immense relief to the citizens. From taking care of the elderly to shifting the sick, ailing and Covid patients to hospitals, from providing food to the destitute to feeding stray animals – they have been working selflessly to comfort the common people. I’ve been in constant touch with my team, encouraging them to keep working in this direction. Our collective efforts have yielded positive results. After the success of #MaskUpKolkata, you recently launched the teaser campaign of its second edition, #ebarpujoimaskmust...Yes. We have intensified our Mask Up Kolkata campaign to make people aware that they should cover their faces or wear masks if they plan to come out. In fact, in future, we will be taking a series of initiatives in this direction to make people aware that wearing masks is a necessity. Puja organisers have also been asked to ensure that only people wearing masks are allowed inside the pandals. Together we can make a difference if Puja organisers do their bit and visitors, theirs. What is your message/suggestion to the common people and Puja organisers this festive season? The mantra is simple. Try not to step out unnecessarily. Always wear a mask or cover your face adequately. Wash your hands regularly with soap or use a sanitiser. Always maintain physical distance. For the organisers, I would again reiterate that please follow the instructions given by the government with regard to the celebrations. CP’s festive mantraFor the common people:Try not to step out unnecessarily Always wear a mask or cover your face adequately Wash your hands regularly with soap or use a sanitiser Always maintain physical distance For the Puja organisers:Go for open, well-ventilated pandals Don’t allow entry of those without masks Provide masks and sanitisers to the pandal hoppers Please do follow all the other safety guidelines issued by the government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/together-we-can-make-a-difference-if-puja-organisers-do-their-bit-and-visitors-theirs-anuj-sharma/articleshow/78647427.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
October 14, 2020||World||US government signs deal to make more Covid-19 vaccine components||WASHINGTON: The US government has entered an agreement with Danaher Corp-owned Cytiva to expand the manufacturing of products that are essential for producing Covid-19 vaccines, the US Department of Health and Human Services said on Tuesday. Under the deal, Cytiva will receive about $31 million to scale up manufacturing of vaccine-related products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-government-signs-deal-to-make-more-covid-19-vaccine-components/articleshow/78647922.cms||---
October 14, 2020||World||US govt awards Cue Health $481 million to scale up production of Covid-19 test kits||WASHINGTON: The US government has awarded diagnostic testing company Cue Health Inc $481 million to scale up production of rapid Covid-19 molecular test, the Department of Health and Human Services said on Tuesday. Under the partnership with the US health agency and the Department of Defense, the company will raise domestic production of Covid-19 test kits to 100,000 per day by March 2021 and deliver 6 million tests and 30,000 instruments to the government to support its response to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-govt-awards-cue-health-481-million-to-scale-up-production-of-covid-19-test-kits/articleshow/78648659.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||Airing private WhatsApp messages of accused is dangerous: Government in Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Days after Chief Justice S A Bobde flagged the misuse of freedom of speech, attorney general K K Venugopal on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that there was an urgent need to strike a balance between freedom of speech and contempt of court as the media was foraying into "forbidden territory". Addressing the court on larger issues arising from the decade-old contempt proceedings against advocate Prashant Bhushan for his statement alleging that half of the past 16 CJIs were corrupt, Venugopal told a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari that abuse of the right to freedom of speech "had taken serious proportions today". In what appeared to be an obvious reference to reporting of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide and ancillary issues by TV channels, the AG said, "A bail petition is filed in a court of law and TV channels go to town with private WhatsApp conversation messages of the accused. This is prejudicial to the rights of the accused and is very dangerous for the administration of justice." Venugopal also referred to publication of articles in the nature of advisories to the SC before it was scheduled to deliver important verdicts. "Whenever a big case is scheduled for hearing before the Supreme Court, big articles are published in newspapers discussing the pros and cons of possible decisions and the course of action that should be taken by the court. The (authors of the) articles also advise the Supreme Court what decisions would meet the public expectations. All these are forbidden. These issues need to be discussed," the AG said. The remark seemed to be aimed at the trend of activists, senior lawyers and former judges publicising their views on what the court should do in important cases, though the AG refrained from making a specific reference. Last week, while hearing a petition seeking preventive and punitive measures to curb broadcast and circulation of hate speech against Muslims, a CJI-led bench had reacted sharply to a suggestion that these were issues relating to free speech. "Freedom of speech is the most abused freedom these days," the CJI had said on October 8. The focus, representing a confluence of views of the court and the AG, is the fallout of the contempt case brought against Bhushan, who has defended himself by invoking the right to free speech. Appearing for Bhushan, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan said possible questions arising in the case, including the limits of the SC's discretionary suo motu contempt powers under Article 129 of the Constitution, needed to be addressed threadbare in juxtaposition with the ambit of the Contempt of Court Act. Dhavan said the media and contours of reporting, especially in criminal case trials, has already been laid down by a five-judge bench of the SC in the Sahara case. However, the other part relating to the right to free speech was wide and bona fide comments on judges and the judiciary should be permitted. "Can we today say that the press cannot cover the criminal trial in the case relating to Shylock?" he asked. The bench asked the AG, Dhavan and Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the other contemnor, Tarun Tejpal, to discuss and finalise the questions of law to be debated in the SC before adjudication in the contempt case against Bhushan, who has already been held guilty of committing contempt by tweeting "false and malicious" statements against present and four former CJIs. He paid up the fine of Re 1 to avoid the alternative punishment of three months' imprisonment and three years' debarment. However, Bhushan has already filed two petitions seeking review of his conviction and sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airing-private-whatsapp-messages-of-accused-is-dangerous-government-in-supreme-court/articleshow/78649678.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 14, 2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti freed, just ahead of Supreme Court hearing||SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: The Jammu & Kashmir administration late on Tuesday revoked the detention of former CM and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti after 14 months and eight days. However, it didn’t mention any reason for her release before the end of the three extra months for which it had been last extended on July 31 this year. Mehbooba had been detained under the J&K Public Safety Act of 1978 on August 5 last year after the Centre nullified Articles 370 and 35-A of the Constitution and bifurcated J&K into two Union Territories — J&K and Ladakh. Her case was to come up in the Supreme Court on Oct 15. A reply had also been prepared, but it was decided that it was better to release her before the next hearing, sources in Delhi told TOI. The UT home department order, effective immediately, said the “government hereby revokes the detention order of 5.2.2020 issued by the Srinagar district magistrate, which was last extended by the government for three months on July 31”. The order was signed by Shaleen Kabra, principal secretary to the J&K government. “Ms Mehbooba Mufti being released,” government spokesman Rohit Kansal said in a tweet. The process to release Mehbooba Mufti appears to have its origins in J&K LG Manoj Sinha’s visit to New Delhi in the last week of September. “Obviously the long detention of Mufti came up for review during the LG’s meetings with the central government brass in Delhi, and it seems the overall opinion, particularly within the home ministry, favoured her release,” an officer of the J&K administration said in New Delhi. It was only after the LG returned to Srinagar from Delhi that inputs were sought from various agencies — both Central agencies as well as the J&K administration and police — on whether the current ground situation in the UT was conducive for her release. Sources in the central intelligence agencies said the move to end her detention had been in the offing for at least a couple of months, with IB having favoured it, but a final decision was taken only after home minister Amit Shah had reviewed the matter with the LG after the end of his hospitalisation. Mehbooba Mufti was being detained at her official residence, Fairview Bungalow, which had been declared a subsidiary jail. Mufti and Omar Abdullah were initially lodged at Hari Niwas Palace but Mufti was later shifted to a government hut at Chashme Shahi, and then to a VIP government house at Maulana Azad Road at the onset of winter last year before being moved to Fairview. In August last year more than 40 mainstream leaders, including former CMs Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, and top politicians like Sajjad Gani Lone, were detained by the government under the J&K PSA to avoid any “incitement of violence” after the nullification of Article 370. National Conference president and Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah was the first to be released, in February this year, followed by his son Omar Abdullah after the government revoked the Public Safety Act applied against them. However, Mehbooba Mufti was not released and was instead shifted from VIP government accommodation at Maulana Azad Road to Gupkar Road. Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah were initially lodged in Hari Niwas Palace but Mufti was later shifted to a government hut at Chashme Shahi, and then to a VIP government house at Maulana Azad Road at the onset of winter last year. Iltija Mufti, Mehbooba’s daughter tweeted: As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, I’d like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough times. I owe a debt of gratitude to you all. This is Iltija signing off. May Allah protect you.” As Ms Mufti’s illegal detention finally comes to an end, Id like to thank everybody who supported me in these tough… https://t.co/knPYwzWg60— Mehbooba Mufti (@MehboobaMufti) 1602604532000NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said in his tweet that he was “pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued detention was a travesty & was against the basic tenets of democracy. Welcome out Mehbooba.” Sajjad Lone, too, tweeted to say it was “great news” and that she had “been through a very tough time”. I’m pleased to hear that @MehboobaMufti Sahiba has been released after more than a year in detention. Her continued… https://t.co/hA0OnBsEPq— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1602605382000Sources in Delhi said all agencies favoured Mehbooba’s release as they felt the conditions were right as law and order had improved vastly and “no adverse impact or trouble was expected following the ex-CM’s release from detention”. The absence of any law and order disturbance after Dr Abdullah and Omar Abdullah were released is also said to have added to the agencies’ confidence. The end of Mehbooba’s detention is expected to help revive political activity in J&K, something that “political appointee” Sinha had aimed for when he took over as the new LG from ex-bureaucrat G C Murmu. Watch 'Cruel' decision to abrogate Article 370, says Mehbooba Mufti; vows to 'fight back'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehbooba-mufti-freed-just-ahead-of-supreme-court-hearing/articleshow/78649876.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 14, 2020||India||Covid-19: Case fatality rate 1.2% without co-morbidities, 18% with them, says Government data||NEW DELHI: The overall case fatality rate of people with co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension, renal and heart diseases and cancer is 17.9%, while it is 1.2% for those without co-morbidities, according to health ministry data. Overall deaths due to the infection in India remain at 1.5% of total confirmed cases. Till Monday, India recorded 1,09,856 deaths due to Covid-19, whereas the total confirmed cases of the infection stood at 71,75,880. Over 62.27 lakh patients have recovered from the disease so far. The latest age-wise analysis of Covid-19 mortality by the health ministry showed that those in the younger age band were more vulnerable to the disease, though the fatality rate continues to be higher at 53% among people over 60 years of age. About 47% of Covid-19 deaths have been recorded among those aged below 60 years and patients aged 45-60 accounted for a substantial 35% of total deaths. About 70% Covid-19 deaths have been of male patients while 30% was reported in females. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Secretary in the health ministry Rajesh Bhushan said in the age group of 60 years and above, 24.6% of the victims had co-morbidities while 4.8% had no co-morbidity. In the age group of 45-60 years, 13.9% of the victims had co-morbidities while 1.5% had no co-morbidity. Among the patients aged below 45 years, those with co-morbidities accounted for 8.8% of fatalities while 0.2% did not have any co-morbidity. The government said while the elderly and people with co-morbidities were more vulnerable and needed to take extra precautions, the young must not become complacent as even they are at risk of infection and are also potential carriers of the virus. Watch Case fatality rate in Covid-19 1.2% without co-morbidities, 18% with them, says Government data||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-case-fatality-rate-1-2-without-co-morbidities-18-with-them-says-government-data/articleshow/78650117.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 14, 2020||India||Cremation without victim kin's consent infringement of their rights: HC||LUCKNOW: The Hathras district administration's decision to cremate the alleged gang-rape victim's body without the consent of the family and without following religious rituals was prima facie an infringement of their human rights, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court said here on Tuesday. Responsibility should be fixed for this, it added. Issuing the order, the division bench of Justices Pankaj Mithal and Rajan Roy also directed the UP government to lay down modalities for cremation of dead bodies in Hathras-like situations. The bench also directed the state government to act against the Hathras district magistrate to maintain fairness of the entire legal and judicial process which is under way, as he has himself admitted that cremation of the victim’s body at night was the collective responsibility of the DM, Aligarh commissioner, Agra ADG, IG Aligarh and SP Hathras. The court questioned the state taking action against SP alone and not the DM. The HC also directed the state to provide adequate security to the victim’s family and ensure that no harm comes to them. Besides, considering the sensitiveness of the issue, the bench directed the state officials, political parties and others to avoid making any statement in public on the issue. The court also expected electronic and print media to observe restraint while reporting and debating the matter. "The inquiry/investigation which is being carried on in the matter either by the SIT or by CBI be kept in full confidentiality and no report or post thereof is leaked out in the public," the bench ordered. Pulling up ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar and Hathras DM Praveen Kumar Laxkar for issuing statements on the basis of the victim’s medical report that no rape was committed, the court asked the ADG whether he was aware of the new definition of rape after 2013, which says that mere absence of semen during forensic examination, though a factor for consideration, does not by itself be conclusive as to whether rape had been committed or not, if there is other admissible evidence. The court cautioned him not to make such statements, more so when he was not an investigation officer. Keeping in mind the widespread statements being made by officers affecting and influencing the investigation, the bench said, "No officer who is not directly connected with the investigation should make any statement in public regarding commission of the offence alleged or otherwise based on evidence collected as it can lead to unnecessary speculation and confusion amongst the masses, who may not be aware of niceties of law thereby fueling emotions on both sides." "The investigating agency and the courts are seized of the matter and irresponsible statements on the issue should be avoided by all," the bench said. About media coverage, the bench said, "Without intending to interfere with the right of freedom of expression, we request the media as also the political parties to air their views in a manner which does not disturb social harmony and/or infringe upon rights of the victim's family and that of the accused." "No one should indulge in character assassination of the victim just as the accused should not be pronounced guilty before a fair trial. The investigating agency and the courts should be allowed to determine these issues", the bench added. The court directed the state to hand over compensation as offered earlier to the victim’s family and in case they refuse it, the same be deposited with the DM to be deposited in a nationalised bank. Fixing November 2 as the next date, the bench directed the ADG (law and order) and a secretary-rank officer as well as then Hathras SP Vikrant Vir to appear before it. The bench had heard the depositions of the family members of the victim and government officials on Monday after it had summoned them to respond on the issue of cremation of the victim at night. On the explanation and statement of the DM that he took the decision without any influence or direction from Lucknow, the court said that, as of now, the DM has not been able to provide a satisfactory explanation. "We do not find any good reason on behalf of the administration as to why they could not hand over the body to the family members for some time, say for even half an hour, to enable them to perform their rituals at home and thereafter to cremate it either in the night or next day," the bench said. "Admittedly, though the administration may not have categorically refused the family members to see the face of the deceased but the fact remains that it was not shown to any of them in spite of their repeated requests," it said, adding that "the anxiety of the court as of now is on two counts; firstly, whether there was any violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased victim and her family; and secondly, the larger issues involved in the context of such rights which are generally available to all residents of the state and even beyond it so that valuable constitutional rights are not compromised casually and whimsically." On governance, the court said: "The guiding principle of governance and administration, after Independence, should be to 'serve' and 'protect' people and not to 'rule' and 'control' as was the case prior to Independence. The government should come out with appropriate procedures as guidance for district officials to deal with such situations."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cremation-without-victim-kins-consent-infringement-of-their-rights-hc/articleshow/78650169.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 14, 2020||India||Law student turns hostile in Chinmayanand ‘rape’ case||LUCKNOW: The 23-year-old LLM student who had accused former BJP MP Chinmayanand of sexual exploitation last year, turned hostile before a special MP-MLA court in Lucknow on Tuesday. The court was hearing the case on the direction of the Allahabad high court. The student appeared before the court on Tuesday and categorically denied that she had made any allegations against the former minister as the prosecution had charged. Stunned over the development, the prosecution team immediately moved an application under Section 340 of CrPC seeking action against her for perjury. Judge PK Rai directed his office to register the application and asked the prosecution to furnish a copy of the application to the woman and the accused. The court fixed October 15 for hearing on the application. The woman was a student of a law college run by Chinmayanand’s ashram in Shahjahanpur and had accused him of sexual exploitation. The case hogged national headlines when the woman vanished and appeared before the Supreme Court. UP government formed an SIT to probe the case. Later, Chinmayanad also alleged that she was trying to extort money from him. The two lodged counter-FIRs and later both were arrested. The two are now out on bail. Chinmayanand was arrested on September 20, 2019. The investigation officer filed charge sheet against him under Section 376 (C), 354(D), 342 and 506 of IPC. The IO cited 33 witnesses and 29 documentary evidence in a 13-page chargesheet. The former minister was released on bail in February. Watch Law student turns hostile in Chinmayanand sexual exploitation case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/law-student-turns-hostile-in-chinmayanand-rape-case/articleshow/78650248.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 14, 2020||India||Leaders, Army not on same page on women permanent commission, says Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said there was a chasm between the thinking of top political leaders and the Army bureaucracy when it came to grant of permanent commission (PC) to women Short Service Commission (SSC) officers while directing the force not to disqualify women officers on medical grounds. Dealing with petitions filed by two women officers claiming they were being disqualified on medical grounds from grant of permanent commission, the women majority bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee said the Army could not be oblivious to women officers having served the country with distinction and that it would be a travesty of justice to seek the fitness levels of a 30-year-old gentleman officer from a 50-year-old woman officer for grant of permanent commission. “There is a difference of thinking in the level of top leaders and the thinking in the Army bureaucracy. We have to bridge the chasm,” the bench said and asked additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain to talk to “Army brass” to come out with a solution to avoid “the court ramming it down the throat”. The Centre had granted PC to women SSC officers in 10 branches of the Army in February last year. The SC in February this year upheld the Delhi HC’s 2010 decision to grant PC to women officers in Army and slammed the stereotyping of their roles. It had also said that women would be eligible for command posts. However, there was no PC for women in combat divisions of the Army. Jain assured the court that those denied permanent commission because of medical reasons would continue to be in service and will get pension. The bench said that women officers’ medical status has to be counted as it existed in 2010 when the high court directed grant of permanent commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/leaders-army-not-on-same-page-on-women-permanent-commission-says-supreme-court/articleshow/78650599.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 14, 2020||Goa||With a stronger side, we will challenge for the title, says Churchill Brothers CEO Valanka||Flavio.Lopes@timesgroup.comPanaji: Churchill Brothers FC have built a strong team to challenge for the I-League title this season and will kickstart their preparations later this month. The two-time champions have roped in new head coach Fernando Santiago Varela. The Spaniard has joined after an impressive season with Gokulam Kerala FC where they won the Durand Cup and finished sixth in the I-League, two spots above Churchill. The I-League qualifiers are under way in Kolkata at the moment and the All India Football Federation (AIFF) has indicated that the I-League will kick off in December. The league will have a bio-secure bubble due to the coronavirus pandemic, but unlike shortened qualifiers, the I-League will go on for more than three months. “It is going to be very difficult in terms of fixtures and hygiene, but it's good what the federation is doing. Having the league at different venues won’t make sense. We must appreciate that we are having the league first of all in this scenario,” said Valanka Alemao, CEO of Churchill Brothers. The AIFF is yet to take a final call on the format, but indications are that the first six teams will fight for the championship and the remaining for relegation after the first-round matches. “There are a lot of things to sort out but we will only know as things get moving. Second Division League is for a few days, but the I-League is much longer and there are many things involved. However, it is really commendable what the federation is doing because they are going to take the responsibility,” said Valanka. Mohun Bagan will not be there to defend their title after merging with ATK for a spot in the Indian Super League. Moreover, their Kolkata rivals, East Bengal, have also joined ISL which gives many teams a clear shot at the title. “Right now, we are the only legacy club in the I-League. Other two have joined ISL. If you look at it, we have a platform for so many Goans and other youngsters as well. I think we have a really good chance because we have a really good team this year,” said Valanka. Former Sporting Clube de Goa head coach Mateus Costa who took charge of the team before the league came to an abrupt end in March will be Varela’s assistant. Although some key players have left, Goa's only team in the I-League are becoming stronger. They have recently signed Honduras striker Clayvin Zuniga from CD Municipal Limeno on a one-year deal. The 29-year-old has experience in the CONCAF Champions League and will hope to fill the void left by Willis Plaza. Then there is abundance of local talent. Defender Keenan Almeida has returned to Churchill after nursing injuries over two seasons in the ISL. Midfielder Kingslee Fernandes who had won the Man-of-the-Match on his Churchill debut against Mohun Bagan in 2017, has also rejoined from FC Goa. Quan Gomes and Clencio Pinto are bright prospects, eager to prove themselves. “As a team one needs to take responsibility because we always play for a win. The entire team from the management and players give their best,” said Valanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-a-stronger-side-we-will-challenge-for-the-title-says-churchill-brothers-ceo-valanka/articleshow/78650664.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 14, 2020||Goa||Babus & netas together hamper working of Lokayukta: Misra||Former chief justice of Patna high court, Justice (retired) P K Misra, during his four-and-a-half-year tenure as Goa’s Lokayukta indicted several politicians and senior bureaucrats.In an email interview to Murari Shetye, Misra speaks about his experiencesWhen you took over as the Goa Lokayukta in April 2016 after heading the State Human Rights Commission, you must have done so with the intention of giving Goans better governance. How successful were you in fulfilling this and where do you think is the room for improvement?When I took oath as Goa Lokayukta, I had the intention of discharging my responsibility without fear or favour and of upholding the law and, of course, the Constitution of India. In fact, I had already taken such an oath four times, first as additional judge of the Orissa high court, then as permanent judge, then on transfer as judge of the Madras high court and subsequently as chief justice of the Patna high court. I can say with my hands on my heart and pride that I have been true to my oaths taken at five different times and in four different states. What has been your personal experience in handling the human rights commission and Lokayukta? Which was more fruitful?The workload and nature of work as chairman of the human rights commission was much lighter as compared to the Lokayukta office. Moreover, there were two other members with me in the human rights commission to share the responsibilities, whereas in the Lokayukta office I was ploughing on alone, as the government didn’t take any step for appointment of Upa Lokayukta in spite of my requests. I would consider my tenure as Lokayukta as more challenging as well as fruitful, notwithstanding the non-acceptance of reports in many matters. The Goa government is of the view that the Lokayukta is a recommendatory authority and it is not bound by its observations to act. Do you agree with the view and if not why?Such a view of the Goa government is based on half-baked ideas without carefully reading the provisions of the Goa Lokayukta Act. One must read carefully the difference in the language used in Section 16(1) a and Section 16A on one hand and Section 16(1)b and Section 17 on the other. The language used in Section 16(1)b is that the report relating redressal of grievance shall be acted upon. Similarly, Section 17 provides that if the Lokayukta orders for prosecution, the appropriate authority shall initiate prosecution.  Do you think it is the politicians or the bureaucracy that has been creating hurdles in the efficient functioning of the Lokayukta?It is a combination of both. When the Lokayukta bill was passed in the assembly, it was a diluted version and despite people, like former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who came up in politics as a crusader against corruption, the bill remained toothless. Do you think the anti-corruption crusaders get compromised when they assume office?It is a natural human tendency. Goa act is largely based on the Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra acts. May be persons concerned must have got unnerved by the way the Karnataka Lokayukta was functioning under the stewardship of Justice Santosh Hegde.  What changes would you suggest to make Goa Lokayukta effective and powerful?In the Karnataka and Kerala acts, jurisdiction is conferred on the Lokayukta to prosecute. Similar provision should be made in the Goa Lokayukta Act. In the Karnataka and Kerala acts, power to punish under Contempt of Courts Act is given. In the Goa act as initially passed, such power was conferred, but the Central government opposed unjustifiable. My suggestion for providing power to punish for contempt was opposed by the then chief secretary. Apart from these two essential amendments, defective drafting of Section 2(i) should be corrected. Section 11 relating to filing of complaint based on allegations should be modified and the embargo should be confined to only serving public functionary. Provisions should be made for placing the special report to the governor made under Section 16(3) before the assembly. What according to you are the options available for the citizens aggrieved by the non-functioning of constitutional bodies like State Police Complaints Authority and Lokayukta?The possible remedy can be to seek for a mandamus in the high court. You have put forth your displeasure against the state government’s attitude and its dismissal of your reports before ex-governor Satya Pal Malik. What was his reaction and has there been any action taken on it?I don’t know what his reaction was when the special report was made to him under Section 16(3). Possibly it might have been thrown into the nearest waste paper basket. But I had made a courtesy call and met him soon after making the original report under Section 16(1)a read with Section 16A and Section 17. At that time he disclosed that he had gone through my report and agreed with most of my observations in the report. However, subsequently, he did not accept my report on untenable grounds. I made the special report thereafter under Section 16(3) and the rest is history. Also, in your report to Malik, you have said only “god can save the state”. Do you still think there is any hope for improvement?If you really feel god is there, you better ask him if there is any hope for improvement. There weren’t any farewells after your nine-year stint in Goa (first as State Human Rights Commission head and then Lokayukta) and the chief minister didn’t even acknowledge your contribution to the state, while he hasn’t shied away from bidding adieu to IAS officers. Instead, on the eve of your retirement, your security and protocol were called back. Your comment.You may ask this question to another personality. I never expected any farewell. The spontaneous affection and respect shown by many unknown persons was the best possible farewell, to be cherished by me forever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/babus-netas-together-hamper-working-of-lokayukta-misra/articleshow/78650717.cms||Murari Shetye
October 14, 2020||India||Lockdown stretches Gaganyaan, may miss August 2022 deadline||BENGALURU: The nationwide lockdown and local restrictions due to Covid-19 that saw industries remain shut for four months before restarting work with limited workforce and Isro’s own centres not being able to work optimally has affected the timeline of Gaganyaan, the first proposed mission under India’s first human spaceflight programme. There is a delay in realisation of key technologies ranging from human rating of the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) to development of the crew and service modules, and from life-support systems to other critical systems needed for a human mission. Isro chairman K Sivan while stating that Gaganyaan will be slightly delayed — Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on August 15, 2018 had set a deadline of August 2022 — told TOI that the agency is assessing a new schedule. “...Industries which are supposed to supply hardware for various systems and sub-systems have not functioned. So there will be a delay in getting hardware for the crew and service modules, systems for human-rated GSLV, among other things. Also, our own people have not been able to work optimally in the past few months. Unlike IT firms, there is only a limited scope for working from home in our sector, we need to be on the floor and that’s not happening,” Sivan said. This has impacted design and assessment work. Key Milestones On whether Isro is looking at a specific revised timeline, Sivan said the agency is still assessing the situation. “It is not that the programme will only be delayed by four months because industries were shut only for four months. There will be a cumulative impact, as there are processes. There is a cascading effect, we are working on making it happen at the earliest,” Sivan said. The space agency, for instance, was to test the human-rated systems of GSLV this year, which has now been pushed to next year. This will further impact integration of other systems. Among other major pre-launch milestones to be missed was the first of the two crew-less missions originally scheduled for 2020. The TOI was the first to report that this launch will be pushed to next year, but at the time Isro had maintained that it would still try and achieve Gaganyaan’s deadline set by Modi. “...Human rating activity involved some tests after implementing human-rating features. Tests on S200 solid rocket boosters, and other systems, the integrated aircraft test, among other crucial tests have now been pushed, which will have a cumulative impact on the timeline,” Sivan said. Covid Within Isro Aside from industries working with Isro unable to deliver systems in time because of Covid, Isro also has not been able to work with full strength. “While we are already working with only a partial workforce, in places like Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru etc, there are containment zones from where people have not been able to come to labs too,” Sivan said. He further said that cases of Isro employees testing positive have also increased. “Slowly, many Covid cases are being reported from various Isro centres. I do not have the accurate number immediately, but there are 60-70 cases from each centre,” Sivan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lockdown-stretches-gaganyaan-may-miss-august-2022-deadline/articleshow/78650755.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 14, 2020||India||CBI recreates Hathras crime scene, quizzes girl’s brother||AGRA: The CBI began its field investigation into the Hathras case on Tuesday by reconstructing the crime scene where the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted by four upper caste men from the village a month ago. After speaking with the girl’s family and local police, the victim’s elder brother was taken away for four hours. “The officials had taken me along to get signatures on documents for sealing the evidence they had collected from the cremation site, the can that had been left there and my sister’s slippers,” the brother said. Read AlsoHathras victim's cremation without family's consent violation of human rights, observes HCNEW DELHI: The Allahabad high court has pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government over the midnight cremation of the Hathras gang-rape victim without her family's consent and said that the action amounts to "infringement of human rights". The high court also asked the Uttar Pradesh government toThe 15-member CBI team has been camping at Hathras for the past two days. On Tuesday morning, they started with a visit to the Chandpa police station, where the first FIR had been registered, and questioned the cops there. Around 11am, they moved to the crime spot, mapped the field where the girl was allegedly gang-raped and strangled, and conducted a search operation for any evidence that may have gone unnoticed so far. The victim’s mother and brother were called there to help recreate the scene, which would be based on their statements. Sources said the CBI team asked the mother, who had been gathering fodder with the girl that morning, how far away she was when her daughter was allegedly gang-raped. She was also asked if someone heard the girl when she called for help, who saw her, in what condition and what was done after that. The elder brother, who was not present in the millet field at the time, according to his statement in the FIR, was asked when he had left, when he came back and who informed him about what had happened. The proceedings were recorded on video. Read AlsoHathras case: Victim's family appears before court; CM Yogi Adityanath says justice will be doneThe family of the 19-year-old girl who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered in UP's Hathras appeared before the high court on Monday even as the state chief minister, in an exclusive interview to The Times of India, assured that "no injustice" will be done to anyone.After more than two and a half hours of investigation and questioning them, the CBI team went to the place where the girl had been cremated by the police on September 30 around 2.40am. The two spots are about a kilometre apart. The victim’s elder brother was called there and questioned again. Remaining ashes were collected from the spot — the brother had gathered ashes earlier — and photographs taken. Then, the team left for the victim’s house, where they recorded statements of the family members. Watch Late-night cremation violation of Hathras victim’s rights, says Allahabad High Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-recreates-hathras-crime-scene-quizzes-girls-brother/articleshow/78650700.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 14, 2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala cases soar 233% in 4 weeks||NEW DELHI: Both Kerala and Bengal crossed the mark of three lakh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday even as fresh infections in the country remained below the 65,000-figure and fatalities below 800 for the second day in a row. After a dip on Monday, fresh infections in Kerala rose again and at 8,764 they were the highest in the country. For the second consecutive day on Tuesday, Maharashtra — which had reported the highest daily cases in the country for most days in the last seven months — ranked second among the states with 8,522 infections. While Kerala reported more cases than Maharashtra on Tuesday, it was Karnataka on Monday.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); With 63,655 fresh infections, India’s caseload rose to 72,32,981 and with 740 deaths the cumulative toll went up to 1,10,568. While 62,93,524 patients have recovered from the virus, active cases in the country dropped by nearly 13,000 to 8,28,889 infections, according to the data collated from various state governments.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); While India’s active cases have been dipping for the last few weeks and continued to slide for the 12th consecutive day on Tuesday, the trend is quite opposite in Kerala. The growth in India’s active cases has been in the negative (-11%) in the last four weeks, but in Kerala, active cases have shot up by 233% in the same period, according to Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative. “India's active cases have degrown by 11% over the last four weeks, on the other hand Kerala's active cases have shot up by 233%. Kerala has more than 10% of India's total active cases now,” Mysore Sanjeev said. Times ViewThe rise of active cases in Kerala, once hailed as a model state in combating the outbreak, shows that the coronavirus is a sly and persistent enemy that can strike even when it appears to have been controlled. Other states, currently experiencing a dip in daily cases, need to take a lesson from this.Kerala and Bengal on Tuesday became the seventh and eighth states respectively to have recorded more than three lakh Covid cases. The other states which crossed that grim milestone earlier are Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news On Tuesday, Maharashtra added 8,522 new cases and 187 fatalities, taking the total caseload to 15,43,837 and total fatalities to 40,701. In Tamil Nadu, fresh cases dropped below 5,000 for the second consecutive day and deaths too were below 60. Watch Covid-19: Active cases in Kerala soar 233% in 4 weeks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-kerala-cases-soar-233-in-4-weeks/articleshow/78650847.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||ICMR: Three re-infection cases in India, 24 globally||NEW DELHI: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday said at least three cases of Covid-19 re-infection have been reported from across the country so far, whereas 24 such cases have been found globally. The three cases of re-infection brought to the notice of the ICMR include two in Mumbai and one in Ahmedabad, ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said. Meanwhile, the ‘Lancet Infectious Diseases’ journal on Tuesday said a patient with confirmed re-infection with novel coronavirus in the US showed more severe symptoms in the second infection than in the first. This assumes significance as re-infection cases indicate that there is no assurance that a person infected with coronavirus once develops immunity for future. Secondly, while many experts have been hoping that the re-infection is mild, the Lancet report shows that this may not always be the case. “The criteria to identify a re-infection case is somewhere between 90 and 100 days. WHO has not yet decided the number of days. However, we’re taking a cut-off of about 100 days,” Bhargava said. Re-infection cases are those where people contract the deadly virus for the second time after being cured. The first instance of coronavirus re-infection was recorded in Hong Kong when a 33-year-old man who was initially infected in March and had recovered got re-infected more than four months later. The re-infections brought to the notice of ICMR include two in Mumbai and one in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/icmr-three-re-infection-cases-in-india-24-globally/articleshow/78650869.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||Demand of legal backing to MSP may prevent headway in farm talks today||NEW DELHI: The meeting of farmer organisations with top agriculture ministry officials on Wednesday is likely to be a mere formality as the groups protesting the newly enacted farm laws are not willing to accept anything less than their key demand of getting legal backing to procurement of farm produce at minimum support price (MSP). Though the government side, led by agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal, is ready with details showing the hike in procurement of paddy, wheat, oilseeds and pulses at MSP consistently over the past few years and the rise in procurement centres, there is very little possibility of conceding the farmers’ key demand, which, officials, believe would defeat the very purpose of the agri market reforms. “The idea is to benefit small and marginal farmers, who account for 86% of the total farmers in the country, through market reforms which may end up providing them more than the MSP in due course,” said an official, underlining the gist of the ministry’s thinking. This view was, in fact, conveyed to groups of farmers who met both agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and defence minister Rajnath Singh over the past few days. “The meeting on Wednesday will just be a formality. Such meetings should have been called before enacting the farm laws so that farmers could have suggested a few key points, flagging the ground realities. Meeting at this stage has just been called to send a message about the process of consultations which actually have no meaning post-enactment of laws,” said Yudhvir Singh, national general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Different factions of the BKU, representatives of Jai Kisan Andolan and members of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) from Punjab are expected to join the meeting on Wednesday. They will present their charter of demands to the ministry, arguing how anything less than the legal guarantee to the MSP would not be acceptable to over 200 farm bodies across India under the AIKSCC. “Such meetings with bureaucrats in the ministry have, however, no meaning as they don’t have any power to alter what has already been done through the legislations. Farmers want repeal of the newly enacted laws and expect legal guarantee to the MSP,” said Avik Saha, coordinator of the AIKSCC whose few outfits from Punjab and Haryana are expected to attend the meeting. Officials in the ministry, remained non-committal, noting that the MSP had never been part of the law and even argued how any legal provision associated with it would ultimately harm those farmers whose produce do not meet the prescribed quality standards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/msp-demand-may-prevent-headway-in-farm-talks-today/articleshow/78650881.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 14, 2020||India||UN report: India third most disaster-prone||NEW DELHI: India has been ranked No. 3, after China and the US, in recording the highest number of natural disasters over the last 20 years (2000-2019), paying a huge economic and human cost. In a report released by the UN office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) on Tuesday global economic losses have been estimated at $3 trillion in the last two decades. The study has avoided giving country-specific data for the losses. Extreme weather events — floods, storms, heatwaves, droughts and wildfires — accounted for almost 91% of all 7,348 natural disasters in the last 20 years as compared to 4,212 recorded between 1980 and 1999. “We are wilfully destructive. That’s the only conclusion one can come to when reviewing disaster events over the last 20 years. Covid-19 is but the latest proof that political and business leaders are yet to tune in to the world around them,” said Mami Mizutori, the head of UNDRR. The study found that disasters have claimed approximately 1.2 million lives, an average of 60,000 per annum, and affected over 4 billion people with $2.9 trillion in economic losses over the last two decades. In comparison, 1.2 million lives were lost and $1.6 trillion in economic losses were incurred between 1980 and 1999. “China (577 events) and the US (467) reported the highest number of disasters, followed by India (321) and Philippines (304),” it said. In its report: ‘Human cost of disasters, an overview of the last 20 years’, the UNDRR has warned how global warming is causing more climate related disasters, the frequency of which has increased by more than 83% in the last two decades compared to the previous two. The last 20 years have witnessed 6,681 climate-related disasters compared to 3,656 during 1980-1999. Though mortality has decreased in the climate related events in the 21st century due to technological advances and better early warning systems, the report warns of a bigger cost paid by citizens on account of increasing economic damage and disruption in livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/un-report-india-third-most-disaster-prone/articleshow/78650913.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 14, 2020||India||15 killed as heavy rains lash Andhra Pradesh, Telangana & Odisha||NEW DELHI: At least 15 people died in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday as heavy rains triggered by a depression in the Bay of Bengal wreaked havoc across the twin Telugu states. Telangana received its highest rainfall in the past 30 years, authorities said. Eight people died and three others suffered severe injuries when boulders rolled over two houses in Bandlaguda area of Hyderabad on Tuesday. “Eight members of two families died, including one infant,” Chandrayangutta DCP Gajarao Bhupal told TOI. In another incident, a man was electrocuted in Mallapur area of Hyderabad, when he accidentally touched a snapped live wire. In AP, the damage was concentrated near Kakinada in East Godavari district where heavy rain and strong winds caused widespread destruction. It left many areas marooned and hundreds of trees uprooted. Flood waters also inundated roads and railway tracks. Many mandals, from Visakhapatnam to Guntur, received heavy to extremely heavy rainfall. Some areas received heavy gale with speeds reaching up to 70kmph. IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in some parts of the state on Wednesday. District administrations in the coastal belt have been put on high alert as many areas received unprecedented rainfall and about 1,000 families have been shifted to relief camps. Meanwhile, incessant rainfall in Odisha since Monday wreaked havoc in the southern districts, causing landslides, washing away several bridges and roads and disrupting connectivity in many places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/15-killed-as-heavy-rains-lash-andhra-pradesh-telangana-odisha/articleshow/78650929.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Patna||EC doubles airtime for political parties||PATNA: The Election Commission has doubled the base time for political parties for election-related programme on Doordarshan and All India Radio (AIR) in order to encourage contactless campaigning in Covid times. A lottery was held at the office of the chief electoral officer of Bihar on Monday night for allotment of airtime to the political parties. The political parties would get altogether 2160 minutes on DD and AIR each for the election campaigning from October 15. BJP has been allotted the maximum 427 minutes, followed by RJD 343 minutes, JD(U) 323 minutes, Congress 182 minutes, LJP 157 minutes, RLSP 125 minutes, BSP 119 minutes, CPI 109, CPI (M) 98, NCP 97, National Peoples Party and Trinamool Congress 90 minutes each. Additional chief electoral officer Sanjay Kumar Singh on Tuesday told TOI that the minutes allotted to each political party were calculated on their performances and several other factors in past elections. “It’s not that the parties can run whatever campaign as per their wish. The contents of the campaign will undergo scrutiny and have to be as per the model code of conduct,” he said. DD (Bihar) programme head Dr Raj Kumar Nahar said after their screening committee approves the scripts, the programme is recorded and then aired at the time slot allocated to the political parties. “Political parties will not have to pay for running the election campaigns on DD or AIR. Party representatives are handed over coupons for airing their programmes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-doubles-airtime-for-political-parties/articleshow/78647147.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Man sentenced to 3-yrs imprisonment for molesting minor||Hyderabad: A 39-year-old man was on Tuesday sentenced to three years imprisonment for molesting a seven-year-old girl in 2015. The accused, who is a puncture shop owner, was staying close to the victim’s house in Nacharam limits. According to police, the accused, who was known to the victim’s family, took the girl behind their house and misbehaved with her in March 2015. When the girl started crying, neighbours gathered at the spot. Seeing them, the accused fled the spot. After a case was registered, the offender was nabbed and booked for outraging the girl’s modesty and relevant sections of the POCSO Act. On Tuesday, a court At LB Nagar convicted the accused and sentenced him to three-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-sentenced-to-3-yrs-imprisonment-for-molesting-minor/articleshow/78649332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Patna||Covid claims 6 more lives, toll now 961 in Bihar||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally rose to 1,98,223 on Tuesday with 1,223 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Officially, six deaths were reported on Tuesday. With this, the state’s Covid toll has increased 961. However, with 1,86,623 recoveries, active cases in the state stand at 10,637. As per the health department, with two fresh deaths in Patna on Tuesday, the district’s Covid toll has touched 232. Darbhanga, Gaya, Khagaria and Madhubani districts recorded one death each. AIIMS-Patna reported one death and the deceased was a 76-year-old man from Saharsa. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 13 patients were discharged from the hospital and 11 admitted on Tuesday. There are 195 Covid patients in the hospital, he added. “The new Covid patients are from different localities of Patna like Shastri Nagar, Patel Nagar, Phulwarisharif and Kannulal Road in Jakkanpur,” he added. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, 18 new Covid patients were admitted on Tuesday. Of 1,223 new Covid cases registered in the state on Tuesday, Patna accounted for 272. The district’s Covid tally has risen to 31,220. However, with 28,551 recoveries and 232 deaths so far, there are 2,473 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Purnia recorded 98 new cases, Katihar 63, Munger 56, Araria 52, East Champaran 40, Saharsa 39, Jehanabad 36 and Bhagalpur 33. According to the state health department, 94,145 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,030 people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 94.15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-claims-6-more-lives-toll-now-961/articleshow/78646602.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 22 CAPF companies deployed in Aurangabad district||AURANGABAD: Authorities in Maoist-hit Aurangabad district have taken several measures to avoid any untoward incident during the assembly polls. Altogether 22 companies of paramilitary forces have been deployed in Maoist-affected areas in the district. At least 351 locations in Aurangabad district with 601 polling booths have been earmarked as Maoist affected. Eight people were killed in a landmine blast during 2010 assembly elections in Aurangabad. In 2015 polls, three CRPF personnel were killed in the district while trying to remove landmines. District magistrate-cum-electoral officer Saurabh Jorwal said number of polling stations has increased from 1,923 in 2015 to 2,573 this time. “Altogether 449 polling stations have been earmarked as highly sensitive. The CRPF personnel will be deployed at all these polling stations,” the DM added. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said 145 companies of paramilitary forces were deployed in the district in 2015 assembly elections. “It is expected that same number of paramilitary forces will be made available to the district this time as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-capf-companiesdeployed-in-abad/articleshow/78646590.cms||---
October 14, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar: No one can guarantee job to all, will provide work opportunities||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday called upon people of the state to give him fourth term in office on the basis of the work done by him in the last 15 years. While addressing through virtual medium the people of the 11 assembly constituencies in Patna, Arwal, Jehanabad, Bhojpur (Ara) and Buxar districts where his party JD(U) has fielded its candidates, Nitish debunked the unemployment issue raised by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “There is no state in the country and no country in the world that can give job to every individual. We can only provide work opportunities for the people,” the JD(U) national president said while comparing the development in various sectors of the state in the last 15 years with the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule when, he said, no work was done between 1990 and 2005. Nitish also said if people voted him to power again, he would improve the quality of education in the ITIs and introduce 14 new courses in tune with market demands, besides establishing mega skill development centres in every district and tool room at every divisional headquarters to facilitate proper training of the skilled hands. “Those who completes the courses can get jobs or start their own business. We will create work opportunities for the youth by improving their skill and capability,” Nitish said, pointing out that he has decided to take the state to the next stage of its all-round growth underlined with the credo ‘Saksham Bihar, Samriddh Bihar’. Referring to Tejashwi, Nitish said, “He merely makes lofty statements, but has neither experience nor information about running the government.” The CM said it would not be “possible” to visit each and every constituency due to the coronavirus pandemic. Nonetheless, he would visit some of the constituencies starting Wednesday. He has to also make joint address to a few rallies with PM Narendra Modi. Although Nitish did not make even oblique reference to the confusion in the BJP and JD(U) circles, JD(U) general secretary (organization) RCP Singh as well as MP Lalan Singh stressed on the “proper coordination among the leaders of the NDA constituents” and asked them to ensure the victory of all NDA candidates at every booth. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary and minister Sanjay Kumar Jha also addressed the virtual rally. The district and block-level leaders of BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party were also present in the respective constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/no-one-can-guarantee-job-to-all-will-provide-work-opportunities-nitish/articleshow/78647360.cms||Abhay Singh
October 14, 2020||---||BJP launches song highlighting development in Bihar||PATNA: A day after RJD released its poll song ‘Tejashwi bhava: Bihar’, BJP on Tuesday launched its own ‘Bihar Me Ee Ba’ to showcase the infrastructure development in Bihar under the NDA regime. The BJP’s video song also mentions the opening of IITs, AIIMS, new bridges as well as improvement in the health and education sector. It also talks about transforming Bihar cities into metros like Mumbai and Delhi. जे पूछत रहलs कि का बा, ओकरा के लउकत बा- बिहार में 'ई' बा #बिहार_में_ई_बा https://t.co/70FgQvlClE— BJP Bihar (@BJP4Bihar) 1602560773000All senior BJP functionaries, including party’s national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, have posted the song on their respective social media handles. This song is seen as a reply to ‘Bihar me ka ba’, a song by Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore. Neha, in her song, has raised questions about migration, Covid-19 pandemic and dilapidated educational infrastructure besides the 15-year rule each of Nitish Kumar and Lalu-Rabri. Earlier, cine star Manoj Bajpai had come up with a rap, ‘Mumbai me ka ba’, which talked about the plight of labourers who migrated to big cities like Mumbai for work while leaving behind their families. The rap talks about the hardships the migrants suffer, the kind of food they eat and adversities in which they live in the metros, leaving behind their village life just to earn livelihood. However, BJP spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh said the party song is a reply to the opposition which questions the development in Bihar in the last 15 years. “Few people suffer from political disease and they are not able to see any development. This song is an eye-opener for them. They should recall that Bihar is the land of Chandragupta. They need to be reminded about the Kosi rail bridge inaugurated recently,” he said. Political parties are making full use of digital platforms to reach the audience in the times of Covid pandemic. They are coming up with several audio-video songs to attack the opposition and try to send their messages across the common people. RJD on Monday launched its campaign song with a punch line, ‘Is baar Tejashwi tai hai’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-launches-song-highlighting-development-in-bihar/articleshow/78647246.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 14, 2020||Patna||BJP launches song highlighting development in Bihar||PATNA: A day after RJD released its poll song ‘Tejashwi bhava: Bihar’, BJP on Tuesday launched its own ‘Bihar Me Ee Ba’ to showcase the infrastructure development in Bihar under the NDA regime. The BJP’s video song also mentions the opening of IITs, AIIMS, new bridges as well as improvement in the health and education sector. It also talks about transforming Bihar cities into metros like Mumbai and Delhi. जे पूछत रहलs कि का बा, ओकरा के लउकत बा- बिहार में 'ई' बा #बिहार_में_ई_बा https://t.co/70FgQvlClE— BJP Bihar (@BJP4Bihar) 1602560773000All senior BJP functionaries, including party’s national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, have posted the song on their respective social media handles. This song is seen as a reply to ‘Bihar me ka ba’, a song by Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore. Neha, in her song, has raised questions about migration, Covid-19 pandemic and dilapidated educational infrastructure besides the 15-year rule each of Nitish Kumar and Lalu-Rabri. Earlier, cine star Manoj Bajpai had come up with a rap, ‘Mumbai me ka ba’, which talked about the plight of labourers who migrated to big cities like Mumbai for work while leaving behind their families. The rap talks about the hardships the migrants suffer, the kind of food they eat and adversities in which they live in the metros, leaving behind their village life just to earn livelihood. However, BJP spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh said the party song is a reply to the opposition which questions the development in Bihar in the last 15 years. “Few people suffer from political disease and they are not able to see any development. This song is an eye-opener for them. They should recall that Bihar is the land of Chandragupta. They need to be reminded about the Kosi rail bridge inaugurated recently,” he said. Political parties are making full use of digital platforms to reach the audience in the times of Covid pandemic. They are coming up with several audio-video songs to attack the opposition and try to send their messages across the common people. RJD on Monday launched its campaign song with a punch line, ‘Is baar Tejashwi tai hai’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-launches-song-highlighting-development-in-bihar/articleshow/78651920.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Bathroom gang’s ‘water bottle trick’ at party||SURAT: How does one get high on drugs, and at the same time, ensure that people around don’t notice? Businessman Aadil Nurani, owner of a prominent Gujarati thaali chain, who was arrested in the massive Mephedrone smuggling racket, found a way out — mix Mephedrone in a bottle of water and sip it gradually! Nurani’s trick became so popular in rave parties that his group began to be called ‘the bathroom gang’ in the closed circle of people attended the high-profile parties. Investigation revealed that they used take turns to go inside washrooms with water bottles during parties , mix the drug and consume it. As a result, other in the parties did not come to know. Mephedrone powder is mostly snorted through the nose by most addicts, but Nurani avoided it due to sinusitis. “But he consumed it by mixing it in water and drank it slowly during the party,” said an officer close to the investigation. Due to the small doses of the drug, there was no visible change in Nurani’s behaviour and only those observing him closely could notice that he was under some drug influence. Due to his wealthy financial background, Nurani had contacts with top businessmen that include, coal traders, indoor game zone owners, textile businessman, property brokers and builders. Wives of rich men were also regulars at these bashes thrown in farm houses. “If snorted through nose, there could be some powder left on the fingers or even burn marks, if a person inhaled smoke. But mixing Mephedrone in water was the easiest way to consume,” said a police officer. Police have questioned many leading businessmen and their wives, who had reportedly purchased the drug from Nurani. Some other group members who left the city soon after the key accused Salman alias Aman Zaveri’s arrest fearing questioning are now being called by police. Salman was nabbed with Rs 1 crore worth Mephedrone, touted to be the biggest drug seizure ever in the city, on Dumas road on September 22. Both Salman and Nurani have told police that they purchased the drug locally and sourced it from Mumbai too. It was then sold to local peddlers or addicts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bathroom-gangs-water-bottle-trick-at-party/articleshow/78646716.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 14, 2020||Patna||2 ministers file papers in East Champaran district||MOTIHARI/KHAGARIA: Two ministers filed their nomination papers in East Champaran on Tuesday. Art, culture and youth affairs minister Pramod Kumar is the BJP candidate from Motihari while cooperative minister Rana Randhir Singh of BJP is trying to defend his Madhuban seat. BJP is contesting 10 seats and JD(U) two in East Champaran district. BJP’s Sunilmani Tripathi filed his papers from Gobindganj and Krishna Nandan Paswan from Harsidhi. BJP national vice-president and Purvi Champaran MP Radha Mohan Singh, while campaigning for the NDA candidates at Town Hall Maidan in Motihari, said NDA was committed to all-round development of Bihar. He appealed to people to vote in favour of NDA candidates under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar. “PM Narendra Modi has taken numerous steps for village artisans, farmers and labourers of Bihar,” Singh said. Poll preparations in Khagari:District magistrate-cum-election officer Alok Ranjan Ghosh said all necessary arrangements have been made to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls in Alouli (SC), Khagaria, Beldaur (formerly Chautham) and Parbatta assembly segments in Khagaria district where polling is scheduled in the second phase on November 3. Ghosh said at least 7,676 polling personnel, including 2,156 women, will be deployed. He said altogether 11,22,668 voters will exercise their franchise at 1,599 booths in the four assembly segments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-ministers-file-papers-in-e-champaran-dist/articleshow/78646506.cms||N P Thakur
October 14, 2020||Patna||Centralized counselling for Patna University admissions begin||PATNA: For the first time, centralized counselling and admission of students to the three-year-degree courses in arts, science and commerce streams in different colleges of Patna University (PU) commenced here on Tuesday with all precautionary measures against Covid-19. “Decision to start centralized admission was taken by PU with a view to avoiding unnecessary harassment to students in securing admission in subjects and colleges of their choice and also for ensuring timely completion of the entire admission work,” said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha. Earlier, students used to apply separately for admission in different colleges and respective colleges used to announce their selection lists separately. As a result, they had to keep running from one college to the other for securing admission, he said. Jha further said that for centralized counselling and admission, students seeking admission in BA (honours) courses were called on Tuesday at Wheeler Senate House where the admission committees of Patna College, B N College and Magadh Mahila College were present. Students were called as per their merit (on the basis of marks obtained in the entrance test organized by PU) and distributed college and subjects after counselling. Bank staff were also present to facilitate deposition of admission fee, etc by students selected for admission. In the first instance, students were admitted on unreserved seats (for general category). Admission on reserved seats would be held later. Similarly, centralized counselling and admission of students to BSc (honours) courses in Patna Science College, B N College and Magadh Mahila College will commence on Wednesday. And, the centralized admission to BCom (honours) courses would be held on Thursday. Meanwhile, the last date for online submission of applications for admission to regular MA, MSc and MCom courses of PU has been extended till November 30 due to the inconvenience faced by the applicants following non-publication of degree Part III examination results. However, there has been no extension of date for students seeking admission to self-financing courses at the post-graduate level, the dean added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centralised-counselling-for-pu-admissions-begin/articleshow/78647791.cms||B K Mishra
October 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: 12-year-old boy gets notice for being ‘possible troublemaker’||PATNA: With the assembly election round the corner, the district authorities are issuing notices to those who are suspected that they may create trouble or hinder the poll process in any way. However, one such incident has raised questions about the role of the police after the mother of 12-year-old Abhijit Kumar alleged that a notice was served on her son, along his father and uncle under Section 107 of CrPC that he may disrupt peace during the assembly election in their area. Abhijit is a Class IV student and a native of Raisahab Pokhar in ward number 47 under the Bahadurpur police station area in Darbhanga district. The boy, along with his mother and other family members, reached the Bahadurpur police station on Sunday to find out as to how his name figured with others of the village in the notice served on them. As per the notice issued by Darbhanga Sadar SDO court on October 5, altogether 28 persons, including Abhijit, his father Dinesh Ram and uncle Amar Ram, from the village were directed to appear before the court and reply as to why bound-down action should not be taken against them as they are suspected to disrupt peace during the election. Darbhanga range IG Ajitabh Kumar on Tuesday said SSP Babu Ram has served a show-cause notice on the Bahadurpur police station SHO for incorporating the name of a 12-year-old boy. “The SHO, however, said it was the village chowkidar’s mistake. We will soon find out as to who made the error while sending the notice,” he explained. Bahadurpur police station SHO Akhilesh Kumar said he has already written a letter to the SDO, requesting him to omit the child’s name. “It was village chowkidar Biltu Paswan, who had submitted the list of names for forwarding it to the administration for required action,” the SHO added. He said the child was not asked to fill up any bond after he appeared at the police station. A senior police officer said as per the procedure, a list of people suspected as possible troublemakers is prepared with the help of village chowkidars and police records during election or any other public event. “These names are forwarded to the authorities concerned for serving notices under Section 107 of CrPC. They are heard and, if their replies are found unsatisfactory, they need fill a bond with a promise of not creating any law and order problem during the said period,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-suspect-a-12-year-old-boy-may-create-trouble-in-election/articleshow/78647177.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 14, 2020||Business||WFH: Control freaks will struggle, trust builders to succeed||By Pramath NathTechnology has been enabling work-from-home (WFH) in the past. And that transition was gradual, planned meticulously and executed over time. What’s happening now is not necessitated by business choice but circumstantial compulsions. A recent Gartner survey indicates that compared to pre-Covid times, where 30% employees worked remotely, post-Covid will see 48% moving to virtual working.A The pandemic has accelerated the transition to remote working and corporates are responding with agility. Six months into WFH and the initial optimism of rationalising office space is being scrutinised with cautious skepticism. HR practitioners need to consider these factors in a remote working scenario and course-correct their service delivery and employee experience strategies in a digital world accordingly. * Employee onboarding: How will new-hire onboarding and assimilation into the culture and intangible DNA of the organisation happen remotely? Can it be as effective as it is when done by being physically present in office? We need to think innovatively and leverage the power of technology for a better connect. Planned visits to factories, suppliers and office locations can be an example. Even team outings will help build the bond. * Learning: The widely followed 70-20-10 learning model is at risk. On-the-job learning takes place through interpersonal interactions, working together in project teams, collaborating on problem-solving assignments and observing leaders in person. Remote working will eliminate many such opportunities and delay leadership development by expanding the behavioural and leadership learning curve. Assigning a mentor or coach might help bridge this gap and shorten the learning curve. * Culture-building: No office space means limited informal channels of communications. Water-cooler conversations, gossip and rumours also act as stressbusters and aid the process of collaboration, breaking silos and fostering bonding at the workplace. Remote working will snatch a great tool in personal relationship building from the workforce of the future. One can take solace from the historical evolution and nuances of human nature, wherein we humans have shown tenacity in adjusting to any situation and finding ways to foster relationships. * Ergonomics: Haphazardly formed home offices on beds, sofas and dining tables are not sustainable. If offices move to the comfort of homes, the need for ergonomically designed furniture and support in footing internet and incidental expenses might come up. Organisations can save cost on office spaces and assist employees in being fully operational from homes. * Stress and unrest at home: Not everyone is enjoying operating from home. Reports indicate that tensions between married couples have burgeoned during the pandemic. Long hours of work are impacting family time and work-life balance. It’s a learning experience companies must leverage upon while designing work-from-anywhere policies as employee wellness needs to be embedded at its epicentre. * People management: Leaders will need to relearn the fast-evolving art of virtual people management. Encouraging virtual collaboration, co-ordinating projects among a disparate team that permanently works from home, meeting deadlines, helping team members cope with personal stress, giving continuous feedback and performance management will need a mature, well-trained bunch of managers. Tech-driven performance management tools, involvement of stakeholders — supervisors, reviewing manager, HR leader, peers, mentors, coach, extended team — and a culture built around trust has almost institutionalised virtual people management among several organisations globally. The need of the hour is to strengthen symbiotic relationship between technology driven tools and human interface. * Operating discipline: Short, casual and sick leaves may be things of the past. The new normal will need companies to deploy fresh control mechanisms around monitoring employees, their log-in, log-out time, productivity, utilisation, data privacy and leave application norms. Control freak managers will struggle and leaders who thrive in building a culture of trust will succeed in the new normal. This aspect will always remain subjective and dependent upon the larger culture of an organisation. Offices are here to stay. Workspaces will be optimised. Hot-desking is the new norm. Work-from-anywhere will see a spike. Organisations which will prepare a tailor-made model suiting their customer needs will see a more engaged workforce, irrespective of the location employees work from. (The writer is HR leader of GE Steam Power in South Asia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wfh-control-freaks-will-struggle-trust-builders-to-succeed/articleshow/78649954.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State film awards: ‘Vasanthi’ best film, Suraj best actor||Thiruvananthapuram: The 50th state film awards declared on Tuesday generously rewarded debut features and experimental films from parallel film stream. ‘Vasanthi’ directed by Rahman brothers (Shinos Rahman and Sajas Rahman), a tale about endurance and survival of a woman against odds, won the best film award. ‘Kenjira’ directed by Manoj Kana won the award for second best feature. The film which delved into serious issues plaguing tribal lives was noted for its social relevance and honest portrayal. Lijo Jose Pellissery won the award for best director for ‘Jallikettu’ that had created ripples in festival circuits. Suraj Venjaramoodu who made everyone take notice with his moving performances in ‘Android Kunjappan’ and ‘Vikruthi’ was chosen as the best actor. Kani Kusruti who did the lead role in Sajin Baabu’s bold and provocative ‘Biriyani’ won the award for best actress. Fahadh Faasil was adjudged the best character actor for his psychotic, self-obsessed role in ‘Kumbalangi Nights’. Swasika Vijaya who featured in low budget parallel film ‘Vasanthi’ won the award for best character actress. The jury noted that she was being awarded for the heart rending expression of intense attempts of a woman to survive. Rahman brothers also bagged the award for best screenplay while Shahul Aliyaar won the award for best story for the film ‘Vari — The Sentence’. Prathap P Nair who did the camera for ‘Idam’ and ‘Kenjira’ was chosen as the best cinematographer. The jury headed by Madhu Ambat said the fact that 50% of entries were debut films inspired hope for Malayalam cinema. The jury said that there were a lot of experimental movies and it takes forward the language and style of Malayalam cinema. The awards were declared by minister for cinema and culture A K Balan through online news conference. He said that awards will be distributed in December and he lauded the jury for efforts taken to accomplish the task despite challenges posed due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-film-awards-vasanthi-best-film-suraj-best-actor/articleshow/78647811.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Business||Pharma mkt rebounds in Sept, 1st time since Covid||MUMBAI: The domestic pharma retail market bounced back for the first time during the pandemic, registering a growth of over 4% in September, helped by increased sales of chronic medication and anti-virals being used to treat the coronavirus. This comes on the back of positive trends in macro-economic indicators, raising hopes of a pick-up in the economy. The market, valued at around Rs 1.5 lakh crore, had been sluggish since March, though the sector itself did not face restrictions during the lockdown since it’s categorised as an essential service. In April and May, the pharma market had dropped into negative territory due to the absence of prescriptions and lower OPD (outpatient department) visits. During September, cardiac medicines registered a growth of 17% compared to 11.5 % in the previous month, while anti-diabetic drugs grew 6.5% (1.6%). The growth in respiratory medicines stood at -10.5% in September, compared to -12.4% in August, according to data culled from pharma research firm AIOCD Awacs. Sales of vitamins have also bounced back with a 16.3% growth during the month, as against 6.2% in August, while pain and analgesics stood at -4.3% (-9.8%). The MAT (moving annual total) growth for the 12-month period ended September is 3.5%, while the market is valued at Rs 13,170 crore in the month. Growth over the last few months has been pulled down due to tepid sales of acute therapies, including anti-infectives with lower incidence of fever and normal flu as most people stayed indoors due to the lockdown. Now with the opening up of the economy, and winter round the corner, experts feel this could change over the next few months. Sales of anti-infectives, which had dipped to -11% in August, showed a slight revival of 1.4% in September, while associated therapy like gastro showed a low growth of 5.5% (-3.1% in August). Though growth is still low in September, there are signs that it could be sustainable in future on the back of higher sales of anti-Covid medicines, fever medication and vitamins, experts added. Sales of anti-infectives and respiratory drugs could also pick up, particularly in the north. Over the last few months, the pharma retail market dipped to negative territory in May (-9%), while in June and July it was lacklustre due to lower sales of acute therapies, and slowing down of panic buying in chronic medication. In August, the growth had declined by 2.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-mkt-rebounds-in-sept-1st-time-since-covid/articleshow/78649026.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Festival organisers to scale down celebrations for Covid||JAIPUR: In the wake of Covid restrictions on public gatherings and functions, organisers of Ramleela, Durga Puja and Dandia have decided to scale down celebrations for the safety of public. However, organisers will allow devotees to join the functions live on social networking platforms. “We will start with Shashti puja but it will be restricted to committee members only. For public, we are giving them a YouTube link to follow and join the celebrations. For bhog, we will prepare it on a smaller scale for our committee members at home,” said Durga Bari Association president Dr Sudipto Sen. Durga Puja organisers of SDM Park, Vaishali Nagar and other parts of the city too have dropped the idea of mass cdelebrations. “There are many restrictions which are difficult to follow if we go ahead with the Puja. Thus, we have dropped the idea,” Manik Da, secretary of Agranati Cultural association, told TOI. Similarly, no Ramleela will be held this time in the city. “We had to intimate the artistes almost two months prior to the Ramleela which starts on the first day of Navratras. This year, we are not organising it as there are many restrictions,” said Anil Khurana, president of Ramleela committee, Adarsh Nagar. Likewise, New Gate Ramleela organisers too will skip the event. Police have asked the organisers to ensure that there are no mass gatherings as Section 144 of CrPC is already in force. As far as burning of Ravana effigies is concerned, it would be done but the venue will not allow mass scale entry of public. “Section 144 of CrPC is in force in Jaipur that disallows gathering of more than five people. To organize big functions, we need permission from police that may not be granted. Thus, we will burn the effigies but public entry will be barred,” said an organizer of Dussera Mela at Masarovar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/festival-organisers-to-scale-down-celebrations-for-covid/articleshow/78649304.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Patna||I never compromise with my principles: Jitan Ram Manjhi||Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is seeking re-election from Imamganj constituency in Gaya, is among the star campaigners of NDA. Manjhi, who is scheduled to address more than 12 election rallies across the state sharing dais with top NDA leaders, talks to Alok Kumar on an array of issues. Excerpts: You started politics with Congress, but frequently changed party. Every party has different ideologies. How do you adjust everywhere?The motive of none of the political parties is wrong towards the society, whether it is Congress, BJP or the RJD. In fact, it is the leadership that matters. The leadership in Congress is not good. As far as adjustment is concerned, I have my own principles with which I never compromise. You were with Nitish Kumar, but left him and joined hands with Lalu Prasad. However, you parted ways with Lalu again and joined Nitish. Why such frequent change of sides?Yes, I was with Laluji. My basic fight is for reservation in judiciary, private sector and promotion in government job, besides introduction of a uniform education policy. It was Laluji who asked me to join hands to contest the byelection together. I joined him on the condition of principles. But I later found that there was dictatorship in RJD. CM Nitish Kumar, on the other hand, is a man who believes in doing work. He not only listens to the suggestions, but also ensures their implementation. There is no other leader in Bihar who works like Nitishji. Is getting few seats to contest election more important than becoming voice of people, especially when other political parties see you as a leader of Dalits?I don’t know whether other parties consider me Dalit leader or not. However, I have been fighting for their rights and will continue to do so. To become voice of people, you need some strength in terms of number. In fact, formation of government is subsidiary. The primary thing is bringing about a positive change in the mechanism. I believe change will happen. After the demise of Ram Vilas Paswan, whom do you see as leader of Dalits in Bihar?No doubt, Paswanji was a great leader of deprived and the downtrodden. Despite having ideological differences with him, I always considered Paswanji as my elder brother. He too gave affection to me as younger brother. Now when he is no more, we remember his good deeds for uplift of the downtrodden. For example, as railway minister he offered permanent job to porters. Will LJP get sympathy of Dalits after Paswan’s demise? You are wrong. The way Chirag Paswan is managing the affairs, it will only hurt his party. He praises PM Narendra Modiji, but criticises Nitishji. Being part of NDA, you should have equal respect for all the leaders. The top NDA leadership should not give much importance to such leaders. You have given ticket to 2-3 relatives. There are allegations of nepotism against you. Yes, I have given tickets to my ‘samdhan’ Jyoti Devi from Barachatti in Gaya and son-in-law Devendra Manjhi from Makhdumpur in Jehanabad. But both are well qualified and deserving candidates. Jyotiji has been acknowledged for her efforts to encourage farmers for paddy farming by adopting ‘shree vidhi’ method. Through this method, farmers get better yield than the traditional method. Devendra Manjhi is a mechanical engineer and quite active in social work. At a time when many non-matriculates are getting tickets, I have given tickets to highly qualified people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-never-compromise-with-my-principles-manjhi/articleshow/78659529.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar: No one can guarantee job to all, will provide work opportunities||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday called upon people of the state to give him fourth term in office on the basis of the work done by him in the last 15 years. While addressing through virtual medium the people of the 11 assembly constituencies in Patna, Arwal, Jehanabad, Bhojpur (Ara) and Buxar districts where his party JD(U) has fielded its candidates, Nitish debunked the unemployment issue raised by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “There is no state in the country and no country in the world that can give job to every individual. We can only provide work opportunities for the people,” the JD(U) national president said while comparing the development in various sectors of the state in the last 15 years with the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule when, he said, no work was done between 1990 and 2005. Nitish also said if people voted him to power again, he would improve the quality of education in the ITIs and introduce 14 new courses in tune with market demands, besides establishing mega skill development centres in every district and tool room at every divisional headquarters to facilitate proper training of the skilled hands. “Those who completes the courses can get jobs or start their own business. We will create work opportunities for the youth by improving their skill and capability,” Nitish said, pointing out that he has decided to take the state to the next stage of its all-round growth underlined with the credo ‘Saksham Bihar, Samriddh Bihar’. Referring to Tejashwi, Nitish said, “He merely makes lofty statements, but has neither experience nor information about running the government.” The CM said it would not be “possible” to visit each and every constituency due to the coronavirus pandemic. Nonetheless, he would visit some of the constituencies starting Wednesday. He has to also make joint address to a few rallies with PM Narendra Modi. Although Nitish did not make even oblique reference to the confusion in the BJP and JD(U) circles, JD(U) general secretary (organization) RCP Singh as well as MP Lalan Singh stressed on the “proper coordination among the leaders of the NDA constituents” and asked them to ensure the victory of all NDA candidates at every booth. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary and minister Sanjay Kumar Jha also addressed the virtual rally. The district and block-level leaders of BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party were also present in the respective constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-one-can-guarantee-job-to-all-will-provide-work-opportunities-nitish/articleshow/78659626.cms||Abhay Singh
October 14, 2020||---||I never compromise with my principles: Jitan Ram Manjhi||Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is seeking re-election from Imamganj constituency in Gaya, is among the star campaigners of NDA. Manjhi, who is scheduled to address more than 12 election rallies across the state sharing dais with top NDA leaders, talks to Alok Kumar on an array of issues. Excerpts: You started politics with Congress, but frequently changed party. Every party has different ideologies. How do you adjust everywhere?The motive of none of the political parties is wrong towards the society, whether it is Congress, BJP or the RJD. In fact, it is the leadership that matters. The leadership in Congress is not good. As far as adjustment is concerned, I have my own principles with which I never compromise. You were with Nitish Kumar, but left him and joined hands with Lalu Prasad. However, you parted ways with Lalu again and joined Nitish. Why such frequent change of sides?Yes, I was with Laluji. My basic fight is for reservation in judiciary, private sector and promotion in government job, besides introduction of a uniform education policy. It was Laluji who asked me to join hands to contest the byelection together. I joined him on the condition of principles. But I later found that there was dictatorship in RJD. CM Nitish Kumar, on the other hand, is a man who believes in doing work. He not only listens to the suggestions, but also ensures their implementation. There is no other leader in Bihar who works like Nitishji. Is getting few seats to contest election more important than becoming voice of people, especially when other political parties see you as a leader of Dalits?I don’t know whether other parties consider me Dalit leader or not. However, I have been fighting for their rights and will continue to do so. To become voice of people, you need some strength in terms of number. In fact, formation of government is subsidiary. The primary thing is bringing about a positive change in the mechanism. I believe change will happen. After the demise of Ram Vilas Paswan, whom do you see as leader of Dalits in Bihar?No doubt, Paswanji was a great leader of deprived and the downtrodden. Despite having ideological differences with him, I always considered Paswanji as my elder brother. He too gave affection to me as younger brother. Now when he is no more, we remember his good deeds for uplift of the downtrodden. For example, as railway minister he offered permanent job to porters. Will LJP get sympathy of Dalits after Paswan’s demise? You are wrong. The way Chirag Paswan is managing the affairs, it will only hurt his party. He praises PM Narendra Modiji, but criticises Nitishji. Being part of NDA, you should have equal respect for all the leaders. The top NDA leadership should not give much importance to such leaders. You have given ticket to 2-3 relatives. There are allegations of nepotism against you. Yes, I have given tickets to my ‘samdhan’ Jyoti Devi from Barachatti in Gaya and son-in-law Devendra Manjhi from Makhdumpur in Jehanabad. But both are well qualified and deserving candidates. Jyotiji has been acknowledged for her efforts to encourage farmers for paddy farming by adopting ‘shree vidhi’ method. Through this method, farmers get better yield than the traditional method. Devendra Manjhi is a mechanical engineer and quite active in social work. At a time when many non-matriculates are getting tickets, I have given tickets to highly qualified people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/i-never-compromise-with-my-principles-manjhi/articleshow/78647286.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Executive magistrate, his deputy caught taking Rs 1 lakh bribe||Vadodara: An executive magistrate of Padra taluka and his deputy were arrested by the sleuths of anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh. Executive magistrate G D Baria and deputy executive magistrate K J Pargi had sought the amount from a contractor working on the Ahmedabad-Mumbai expressway project after the latter sought Baria’s opinion for excavating sand for the project from an area under Baria’s jurisdiction. To give a positive opinion for the work, Baria and Pargi demanded the contractor to grease their palms. ACB officials said that the contractor who did not want to bribe, approached the ACB and sleuths laid a trap to nab the two government officials. The plan was to make the contractor hand over the bribe amount to the duo in their office on Tuesday afternoon. “As soon as the complainant came out of the office, our officials barged in and nabbed them with the bribe amount,” an ACB official said. On Tuesday late evening, ACB officials searched their houses to assess the value of their assets. The duo’s arrest generated a lot of interest in the district administration and was the main topic of discussion during the entire day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/executive-magistrate-his-deputy-caught-taking-rs-1-lakh-bribe/articleshow/78645965.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Patna||JD(U) expels 15 party rebels||The JD(U) on Tuesday expelled 15 of its leaders, including MLA Dadan Singh Yadav, from the party for anti-party activities. Apart from the Dumraon MLA, 14 other former legislators and ministers have been expelled for six years from the party for their anti-party activities. Sinha quits JD(U): Professor Ram Jatan Sinha resigned from JD(U) saying he was feeling neglected in the party. Sinha, who had joined JD(U) in February 2019, said he was denied ticket for the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and also a Rajya Sabha seat. SuMo on LJP: Senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday said LJP is not a part of NDA in Bihar. He said the LJP had contested alone in Jharkhand assembly election as well. Modi said legal action would be taken against LJP candidates if they use PM Narendra Modi’s name or photograph. PK gets anticipatory bail: The court of ADJ-XII Prajesh Kumar in Patna granted anticipatory bail to former JD(U) vice-president Prashant Kishor on Tuesday in connection with a forgery case. The case was lodged against Kishor by Congress’s Shashwat Gautam at Patliputra police station on February 25. He had accused Kishor of using his content and data to launch his ‘Baat Bihar Ki’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-expels-15-party-rebels/articleshow/78647270.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Patna||RJD makes Ritlal Yadav its candidate for key Danapur seat||PATNA: About 17 years ago, don-turned politician Ritlal Yadav had allegedly gunneddown the husband of BJP’s Danapur MLA Asha Devi Sinha in broad daylight. Now, he will take on her in the state assembly polls as RJD has fielded him from Danapur constituency in Patna district. Ritlal is one of the main accused in the murder of Asha’s husband Satyanarayan Sinha, who had unsuccessfully contested bypolls from Danapur in 2002 on a BJP ticket. He was killed near Jamaluddin Chak village on Khagaul-Bihta road in July 2003, the day RJD had organised ‘lathi ghumawan tel pilawan’ rally at Gandhi Maidan here. Asha, the four-term MLA, was quick to react to RJD’s decision to give ticket to Ritlal, who is facing 33 criminal cases, including murder, kidnapping and extortion. “What sort of change RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wants to bring about in Bihar by allotting tickets to people like Ritlal?” she asked. Rital, who was released from jail in a money laundering case on August 18, filed his nomination papers on Tuesday. A former mukhiya of Kothwa panchayat under Danapur sub-division, Ritlal was earlier elected as an MLC as independent from behind the bars in 2015. He was later expelled from the party for defying top leaders’ directives. Ritlal had unsuccessfully contested against Asha in 2010 assembly polls as an independent when he was lodged in jail in connection with Satyanarayan Sinha murder case. The trial in the case is still pending in the court. “We are hopeful of his victory this time,” said Guddu Rai, a die-hard supporter of the RJD nominee. Ritlal had hogged the limelight when he was appointed general secretary of RJD by Lalu Prasad to dissuade him from contesting the 2014 parliamentary polls from Patliputra, where his (Lalu’s) eldest daughter Misa Bharti was in the fray. Lalu had also met Ritlal’s father at the latter’s house at Kothwan and assured all help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-makes-ritlal-its-candidate-for-key-danapur-seat/articleshow/78647014.cms||Ramashankar
October 14, 2020||Patna||Tej Pratap Yadav leaves Mahua, files papers from Hasanpur||PATNA: Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav on Tuesday filed his nomination papers for Yadav-dominated Hasanpur assembly constituency in Samastipur district. He was accompanied by his younger brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Lalu’s close aide Bhola Yadav. Tejashwi, on the other hand, will file his nomination papers for Raghopur assembly constituency on Wednesday. The Yadav scions could be seen flashing victory sign while coming out of the SDO office at Rosera. Talking to reporters, Tej said he had full support of people of Hasanpur. Asked why he has deserted Mahua seat from where he had won in 2015, Tej said, “I did a lot of development work in Mahua. The constituency got a medical college and roads were also constructed there. Now people of Hasanpur want me to represent them in the assembly. This place needs development.” Tejashwi expressed hope that the people of Hasanpur would make his eleder brother victorious. “People of Bihar have made up their mind to teach a lesson to those who could not stop migration, prevent poverty and tackle hunger for 15 years. Farmers, workers and youths are unhappy with the state government,” Tejashwi said. Sources said Tejashwi, who was scheduled to address a public meeting at Rosera, could not do so as he was denied permission. While leaving for Rosera, Tejashwi had taken a jibe at CM Nitish Kumar for his comment that no cabinet meeting used to be held during 15-year rule of RJD in the state. “The CM always talks about RJD rule as he has nothing to tell people about his own works,” he said. Tejashwi also slammed the government over “crime rise” in the state. “Rapes and murders have become a routine affair in the state due to the failure of the government to tackle law and order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tej-leaves-mahua-files-papers-from-hasanpur/articleshow/78646477.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 14, 2020||Patna||NIA seizes papers from pharma firm’s director in Patna||PATNA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday raided the residence of the director of a private pharmaceuticals firm in Patna for his alleged involvement in smuggling of sophisticated firearms and ammunition from Myanmar to India for Maoists and criminals. As per the NIA statement, Chandra Vijay Pratap alias Sushil has transferred huge money to a Naga insurgent group named Ningkhan Sangtam on behalf of Maoist commander Bhikhan Ganjhu of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC), which is a splinter group of CPI (Maoist). The NIA said several incriminating documents related to financial transactions were seized from Pratap’s residence. The raid was related to the NIA’s investigation after the recovery of three AK-47 rifles and under-barrel grenade launcher of Myanmar army and 1800 live cartridges from a vehicle under Bayasi police station area in Purnia soon after it had crossed the Dalkola checkpost on Bihar-West Bengal border on February 7 last year. Police had initially recovered only 600 cartridges but, after state police headquarters instruction, found more ammunition and spare parts of Kalashnikovs and UBGLs hidden in the SUV. Three persons — VR Kahornagam, Clearson Kavo of Ukhrul in Manipur and Suraj Prasad of Gorakhpur — were arrested. Police had later raided the flat of alleged arms smuggler Mukesh Singh at RK Puram in Danapur area of Patna, leading to the recovery of 50 live cartridges of Insas rifle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nia-seizes-papers-from-pharma-firms-director/articleshow/78646550.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AQI stops short of ‘very poor’||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality deteriorated on Tuesday with the AQI reaching the extreme end of “poor” category with a reading of 300 — 24-hour average — the highest this season. However, the AQI had touched the “very poor” category with a reading of 304 at 9.30am on Tuesday. This is just two days before the GRAP (Graded Response Action Plan) comes into effect in the National Capital Region.  Track the pollution level in your cityThis is the first time since February that the AQI had crossed the 300-mark at any time during the day. It was recorded at 320 on February 12 this year. However, there was a slight improvement in the evening and CPCB’s daily bulletin released at 4 pm recorded the AQI at 300 which falls in the “poor” category. An AQI of 301 to 400 is classified as “very poor”.  The reasons for the AQI deteriorating from Monday’s 261 were zero wind speed and change in the wind direction on Tuesday morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said: “The wind speed was nil from 7 pm on Monday to 7 am on Tuesday and it caused trapping of local pollutants. However, due to a depression formed over Bay of Bengal, the wind direction changed from north-westerly to easterly on Tuesday morning which may have led to accumulation of pollutants.” “As the easterly wind is likely to continue for two-three days, pollutants from Punjab and Haryana may not reach Delhi but it would cause local accumulation of pollutants. The wind speed was 6-8 kmph during the day. A speed of over 15-20 kmph is required for dispersion of pollutants,” said Srivastava. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), which functions under the Union ministry of earth sciences, has stated that the AQI is likely to remain in the “very poor” to “poor” category for the next two days. “The development of strong surface-level inversion and sudden local calm surface wind conditions led to a low ventilation coefficient and accumulation of pollutants near the surface. The calm night-time surface wind condition is likely to continue for the next two days,” said SAFAR. SAFAR observed an increase in stubble burning fires on Monday around Punjab, Haryana, and neighbouring border regions with an estimated fire count of 675. The government agency said the transport wind direction was not favourable and hence only a marginal contribution of the stubble fires to PM2.5 in the capital’s air was expected. It put the figure at 3%. An official at Delhi Pollution Control Committee said there was a spike in pollution levels due to weather conditions and transfer of pollutants from neighbouring states. According to Ambee, which is an environmental intelligence startup that measures, processes and analyses hyperlocal air quality data in real-time, Pooth Khurd, Chandpur, Khanjawla, Karala and Sabhapur areas in Delhi recorded highest average AQI of around 200 from October 5 to 13. While Aliganj, Lodhi Road, Kakrola, CGO Complex and Matiala recorded lowest average AQI of around 140 from October 5 to 13. Watch First time since Feb, Delhi’s AQI crosses 300-mark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aqi-stops-short-of-very-poor/articleshow/78649318.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Traders’ body seeks free power to illuminate city for Diwali||Jaipur: Despite Covid-19 affecting business, Jaipur Vyaapar Mahasangh has decided to decorate and light up the markets ahead of Diwali. They have written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting him to waive electricity charges for around a week when the markets would be lit up. Market associations say that though every celebration is subdued this year, they will go ahead with the decorations. TOI on Tuesday spoke to the market associations to know about their plans for Diwali lighting. “Business and trade is down so if we wish to invite customers to the markets, we must deck it up properly. Jaipur is also famous for Diwali lighting and we will continue the trend this year too,” said Subash Goel, president of Jaipur Vyaapar Mahasangh. At a meeting with various market associations it was decided that every market should have proper lighting and decorations. Traders also believe that the decision will attract more customers. “Every year, the government provides us electricity at domestic prices during Diwali week for lighting. This year, since the business is down, we have requested the government to provide free electricity for a week during Diwali,” Goel added.“We will also try to meet the power minister in this regard and also the chief minister,” he added.According to the market associations, at least 65 connections are taken during Diwali to light up the Walled City. The longest decoration is usually from Ajmeri Gate to Government Hostel on M I Road. The markets which are known for their Diwali lighting include Chandpole, Indira Bazaar, Nehru Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar, Kishanpol Bazaar, Tripolia Bazaar, Johari Bazaar, Hawa Mahal Bazaar, Chandi ki Taksal, Ramganj Bazaar, Ghee Wala Road, Haldiyon ka Rasta Road and M I Road, the bazaars of Rajpark, Mansarovar, Tonk Road, Vaishali Nagar, Khatipura, Jhotwara and New Sanganer Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/traders-body-seeks-free-power-to-illuminate-city-for-diwali/articleshow/78649333.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt ignoring people’s issues, says Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Tuesday charged the government with not showing any interest in discussing the problems being faced by people. Party floor leader Bhatti Vikramarka along with D Anasuya and T Jayaprakash Reddy told reporters that the ruling TRS convened the assembly session only to approve certain amendments and Acts that suits it politically.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-ignoring-peoples-issues-says-cong/articleshow/78650278.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi already getting choked as states failed to curb farm fires: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: The smoke from stubble burning has already started reaching Delhi as the neighbouring states and the Centre have failed to provide a solution to the problem that plagues north India during the winter months every year. This was stated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal while kicking off the drive to spray the bio-decomposer solution developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) in the farmlands of Narela’s Hiranki village on Tuesday. The drive was also attended by state environment minister Gopal Rai. “I am worried because pollution was in control in Delhi for the past 10 months. I’m not only concerned about the people of Delhi, but those living in Punjab and Haryana too. In villages where farmers are forced to burn stubble, we cannot imagine the pollution being caused in those areas,” said Kejriwal, while asking the state and central governments to take action as soon as possible. TimesViewStubble burning has already raised pollution levels in the city. We will know about the efficacy of this experiment only after 25-30 days. Even so, better late than never; this is a positive step in the right direction.The chief minister highlighted that despite the entire north India getting covered in smoke in October, November and December, no suitable steps had been taken till date. “We do not have to blame each other. All governments have to work together with sincerity to resolve this issue. If Delhi can do it, so can other states. While the process was in its initial phase, I made attempts to contact the central government. If they had wanted, they could have worked with us to address the issue. We got to know about this technology developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute at Pusa in September, and so did they,” said Kejriwal. While inspecting the fields in the Narela village, Rai said Delhi government was not blaming other states, but was, instead, looking at solutions. “Not just the Centre, but all state governments need to come together to seriously address the problem. We want the support of every government in preventing stubble burning, which causes pollution for months,” he added. The entire cost of spraying the solution in the capital’s farmlands is being borne by Delhi government. Farmers have been asked to register by simply filling a form and specifying on which dates they want the drive to be carried out. Over 1,500 acres have been identified for this purpose. “The production of this solution was started around 10 days ago. Stubble occurs in 700-800 hectares of paddy (non-basmati) fields in Delhi, which is burnt by farmers. To curb this, Delhi government will spray the liquid in the fields, which will convert stubble into manure. Farmers will not have to bear the cost of tractors and other equipment,” said Kejriwal. Pusa Institute had been conducting research and trials on the bio-decomposer for the past 4-5 years. “The stubble will decompose into mulch and the land will be ready for sowing in the next 20-25 days. Stubble burning also destroys useful bacteria present in the farmlands. The current setup will not only reduce dependence of fertilisers, but also provide a natural solution to the stubble problem,” the chief minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-delhi-already-getting-choked-as-states-failed-to-curb-farm-fires/articleshow/78649340.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Can K Chandrasekhar Rao win polls without clout: N Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday threw a challenge at chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to contest and win just one election in a fair manner without misusing police and official machinery. “KCR, ministers KT Rama Rao and T Harish Rao depend on defections from other parties to win elections,” he said. If Harish Rao is confident of TRS party’s victory in the by-election, why is he luring Congress leaders into TRS fold, he sought to know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-kcr-win-polls-without-clout-uttam/articleshow/78650219.cms||Roushan Ali
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two friends found dead on state highway in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: Two friends—both aged 27 and married—were found dead on Monday midnight. Police recovered their dead bodies on Shahjahanpur-Farukkhabad state highway in Allahaganj area of Shahjahanpur district. According to police, both the bodies were clinging to each other while the severed head of one body was recovered nearly 50 metres from the spot. Police have sent the bodies for post-mortem examination and started an investigation. SHO Allahaganj Ajab Singh said, “The victims were identified as Ajeet Singh and Prabhu Yadav. Prima facie, they were killed in an accident. Prabhu’s family members have given a complaint against an unidentified vehicle owner, but the family members of Ajeet suspect that he was murdered as his body was beheaded. We are waiting for the post-mortem report to confirm the reason of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-friends-found-dead-on-state-highway-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78644537.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers stir due to fear of revenue loss from mandi taxes and fee: Study||CHANDIGARH: A research study conducted by the State Bank of India (SBI) research team has found that the ongoing farmers’ agitation is not due to the minimum support price (MSP) but vested political interests, as some states are concerned about the loss of revenue from mandi taxes and fees. It currently ranges from 8.5% (6% mandi tax and 2.5% fee for handling central procurement) in Punjab to less than 1% in some other states. Punjab earns an annual revenue of about Rs 3,500 crore from mandi taxes and fee. The study, conducted by a team under SBI’s group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh, has also found that apart from Haryana, in no other state do farmers, whose annual income is more than the national average, sell their crops in electronic national agriculture market (e-NAM) mandis. In the case of Punjab, where annual income of agricultural households is almost Rs 2.8 lakh, only 1% farmers are associated with e-NAM. “With the government linking mandis under electronic national agriculture market, state taxes should become redundant,” says the study. Only 19% households aware of MSPAccording to the National Sample Survey’s 70th round survey on key indicators of situation of agricultural households in India, on an average only 19% of households are aware of MSP and 15% are aware of procurement agency. Only 7% households sell crops to procurement agency and only 10% of total crops are sold at MSP. This indicates that almost 93% of households sell goods in open market and face market imperfections, says the study. None of the new agri-laws directly impinge upon the MSP regime, it adds. According to the study, key challenges such as lack of advanced processing technologies, market disconnects and absence of supply chain infrastructure have led to sub-optimal agri-exports from India. “The freedom of choice that these new agri Acts give is a step in the right direction. But, this has to be supported with building infrastructure and educating the farmers about potential income they can generate by moving to other agri-produce,” reads the study. Lopsided procurement“India follows a legacy and lopsided system of procurement of primarily cereals that was implemented in the 1960s to benefit from the cereal granary states in north India, primarily Punjab and Haryana, and a large part of edifice of food grain procurement infrastructure is built around such states,” says the study. While Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are at first and second number in rice production, food grain procurement is only 18% by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) from such states, but in Punjab and Haryana (number 10) which are lower in rice production, the average procurement is still a staggering 90% by FCI. Uttar Pradesh is the largest producer of wheat also, but again a laggard in wheat procurement. Therefore, the study says, such lopsided procurement has resulted in significantly skewed income of agricultural households with average income in Punjab at Rs 2.8 lakh being 3-3.5 times higher than states like UP and WB. It has also resulted in disproportionately higher number of farmers on e-NAM from states like UP and minimal from Punjab thus distorting market pricing. Also, uneven procurement across select states resulting in significant burden on exchequer with FCI total outstanding loans from the National Small Saving Fund (NSSF) estimated at Rs 3.22 lakh crore by March 2021. Inefficiencies of FCIThe research team has concluded, “FCI is an organisation of grave inefficiencies. It is neither able to manage stock of food grains nor its finances. As of July 1, 2020, the grain stock in the central pool was 822 lakh tonne against the buffer norm of 411 lakh tonne, almost double than the required. This is an example of economic inefficiency.” It has also come to the fore that the godown capacity utilisation in some states is unsatisfactory. This is unfortunate that states like UP and WB, which are top producers of rice and wheat, are using only 61% of the godown capacity. This may be due to the fact that these states are unable to procure wheat and rice in appropriate quantities. “The trend of mandi prices of wheat and rice indicate that in these states prices are so much less than the annual average and even less than the MSP,” reads the study. Cereal production The study also says that the value of cereals per hectare is 12 times less than fruits and vegetables, but we keep eulogising cereal production. Fruits and vegetables have the highest value of output per hectare followed by condiments and spices. So the country should quickly move up the agri value chain to ensure farm income gets broad-based.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-stir-due-to-fear-of-revenue-loss-from-mandi-taxes-fee-study/articleshow/78649362.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Swami Chinmayanand accuser turns hostile in Allahabad HC||LUCKNOW: In a major twist, the 23-year-old LLM student who had accused former BJP MP Chinmayanand of sexual exploitation last year, turned hostile before a special MP-MLA court here on Tuesday. The Lucknow court was hearing the case on the direction of the Allahabad high court. The student appeared before the court on Tuesday and categorically denied that she had made any allegations against the former minister as the prosecution had charged. Stunned over the development, the prosecution team immediately moved an application under Section 340 of CrPC seeking action against her for perjury. Judge PK Rai directed his office to register the application and asked the prosecution to furnish a copy of the application to the victim and the accused. The court fixed October 15 for hearing on the application. The girl was a student of a law college run by Chinmayanand's ashram in Shahjahanpur and had accused him of sexual exploitation. The case hogged national headline when the girl vanished and appeared before the Supreme Court. UP government formed an SIT to probe the case. Later Chinmayanad also alleged that she was trying to extort money from him. The two lodged cross-FIRs and later both were arrested. The two are now out on bail. Swami was arrested on September 20, 2019. The investigation officer filed charge sheet against him under Section 376 (C), 354(D), 342 and 506 of IPC. The IO cited 33 witnesses and 29 documentary evidence in 13 page chargesheet. He was released on bail from Allahabad high court on February 3, 2020. The court also transferred the trial from Shahjahanpur to Lucknow's MP-MLA court. Watch Student who accused Chinmayanand of rape turns hostile in court, ex-BJP minister to walk free?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chinmayanand-accuser-turns-hostile-in-court/articleshow/78650264.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||15,000 citizens to oversee development of Greater Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Six hundred ward committees and 15,000 members will be actively involved in developmental activities in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The civic body will constitute four committees —youth, women, senior citizens and emiment persons — with 25 members each in all the municipal division. In other words, 150 municipal divisions will have 600 committees. The state government also incorporated 50% reservations to women in 150 divisions in the GHMC Act. As of now, 50% reservations are being implemented through an executive order (GO). In 2016 GHMC elections, 75 divisions of 150 were reserved for women. An amendment was also made to continue reservations for SC, STs, BCs and women for two terms i.e., 10 years. This means, BC reservations made in 2016 would be continued for this election too. The assembly on Tuesday approved five amendments to the GHMC Act, making provisions for ward committees, 50% reservation for women, revision of BC quota in GHMC wards for every 10 years, earmarking 10% budget for green cover improvement and state government’s role while deciding schedule for elections by the State Election Commission (SEC). While introducing the amendments in the assembly, municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao said the ward committees were being proposed as the government believes in ‘participatory democracy’. “The ward committee members are not affiliated to any party and majority of them will be from residential and colony welfare associations. They would be involved in improving sanitation and green cover, discourage plastic usage, solid waste management and removal of encroachment in their respective divisions,” KTR said. He also clarified that the members would not intrude into powers of corporators or officials. Like other municipal bodies and panchayats, government also made it mandatory earmarking 10% of the civic body’s budget for improving green cover in Greater Hyderabad. “As of now, only 2.5% of the budget is being spent on greenery, which will now go up to 10%. With the efforts of the government, green cover in the state has increased by 5-6% in the past few years,” the minister claimed. The ward members and special or nodal officers have to ensure survival of the saplings. If the survival rate is less than 85%, respective ward member would disqualified and special officers would be removed. The state also incorporated a rule in the Act that the State Election Commission (SEC) should consult the state government while finalising election schedule for holding elections. “There are many issues for holding elections such as availability of staff, law and order issues, natural calamities, which need to be arranged by the government machinery,” the minister said. On reservations to women and BCs in GHMC council, he said TRS had given 79 tickets to women in previous elections and more than 33% divisions to BCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15k-citizens-to-oversee-development-of-greater-hyd/articleshow/78649380.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 14, 2020||Business||Cyient partners SPRINT to tap space sector tie-ups with UK’s ind, academia||Hyderabad: Global digital engineering and technology player Cyient on Tuesday said it has entered into a strategic partnership with SPRINT (Space Research and Innovation Network for Technology), to accelerate innovation in UK’s space sector and focus on industry collaboration. SPRINT is a UK based business innovation support programme that provides businesses there with funded access to universities with space expertise and facilities, enabling enterprises to accelerate their innovative product development lifecycles. Cyient said the partnership will help it identify new business opportunities, lower its product development costs and offer cutting edge geospatial solutions with higher precision. The tie-up will help access industry experts from various academic institutions and SMEs across the UK for collaborative space data and technology projects, Cyient said. Pointing out that Cyient is focused on innovation and developing skill sets and expertise in areas such as geospatial data creation and analysis, earth observation data, and machine learning algorithms, Matt Wood, director of sales for geospatial at Cyient, said: “The new partnership will allow us to strike up a dialogue with academic institutions and SMEs in SPRINT’s network, and gain access to their cutting-edge technology, skill sets, and expertise for potential collaborations.” The tie-up will also help SPRINT succeed with its vision of growing a vibrant and sustainable UK space ecosystem through collaborations and partnerships, said Ross Burgon, head of the UK’s National SPRINT programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyient-partners-sprint-to-tap-space-sector-tie-ups-with-uks-ind-academia/articleshow/78649439.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit admin to award farmers for crop residue supply to cow shelters||PILIBHIT: To encourage farmers to give up the practice of stubble burning and adopt green alternatives, Pilibhit district administration has launched a scheme to award those farmers who supply the residue of paddy or cane crop to cow shelters. The residue will either be mixed with other ingredients to make cattle feed or used to strengthen the sheds to protect the bovines from the harsh winter. Pulkit Khare, DM, said the farmers will be identified for best performance in each block and tehsil area on a weekly basis and awarded Gau Mitra certificates. Deputy collector of Pilibhit sadar circle Ramdas has been designated as nodal officer for this scheme, Khare said. Farmers will be paid at prescribed rate through MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi national rural employment guarantee Act) or the state finance commission on collection of the crop residue. The transportation of the residue from field to cow shelter will be managed by the animal husbandry department, the DM added. Government officials like SDMs, tehsildars and block development officers will also be awarded for outstanding performance in promoting supply of crop residue to cow shelters, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-admin-to-award-farmers-for-crop-residue-supply-to-cow-shelters/articleshow/78644563.cms||Keshav Agrawal
October 14, 2020||Delhi||‘Centre sat idle, while we took measures all year’||NEW DELHI: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Tuesday lashed out at the Centre saying that it was sitting idle and engaging in tokenism, while Delhi government was taking measures throughout the year to tackle air pollution.  Track the pollution level in your city“This year, pollution from stubble burning will be very deadly because of Covid-19. The Centre has completely failed to save north India from pollution. It should take immediate concrete steps to curb this menace. The smoke of farm fires in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana has already started showing its effect in the entire region,” said Sisodia. Enumerating measures taken by Delhi government, Sisodia said the city’s green zone had seen a record increase, a new tree transplantation policy had been introduced, an electric vehicle policy was implemented, public transport buses were increased and smog towers had been installed. Mentioning that stubble burning was not just a problem limited to Delhi and didn’t originate in the city, Sisodia said, “The entire northern part of India is suffering from the adverse consequences of the central government’s inaction. We should not just talk about pollution in Delhi, but the entire north India.” “If pollution from stubble burning can reach Delhi, then it is also a matter of great concern for people living in the villages of Punjab. Why hasn’t the central government taken any concrete steps to save the lives of citizens in north India?” the deputy CM asked. He also questioned the role of Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) and urged the body to take concrete steps. He claimed that EPCA had been unsuccessful in getting the neighbouring states to control pollution. However, EPCA chairman Bhure Lal told TOI that they had been holding meetings regularly on the issue and carrying out field visits across the NCR to not only look at pollution through stubble burning, but other sources such as dust, C&D waste, vehicles, industries and garbage burning. “These are unwarranted allegations. We began holding review meetings for stubble burning four months ago. A review is held every fortnight and we had issued directions to control pollution in each sector,” added Lal. A spokesperson from Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change said the Centre had taken several initiatives to fight pollution in the region over the past six years and a number of projects were still on. “The construction of eastern and western peripheral expressways reduced pollution levels considerably by preventing 60,000 heavy vehicles from passing through Delhi daily. We shut down Badarpur thermal power plant, introduced BS-VI at a cost of Rs 65,000 crore and shifted 2,600 industries in NCR to PNG. In addition, 2,800 brick kilns were made to shift to cleaner technology. Machines worth Rs 1,400 crore for cutting stubble were provided to farmers. This resulted in 15% reduction in pollution in Punjab and 20% in Haryana,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-sat-idle-while-we-took-measures-all-year/articleshow/78649397.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Amritsar||Bathinda: 5 years on, wait for justice still not over for kin of 2 firing victims||BATHINDA: “It has been five years since we lost our son in police firing, but we are still awaiting justice. We do not know how much more time it will take. But the saying of ‘justice delayed is justice’ denied is applicable here,” said Sadhu Singh and his wife Amarjit Kaur of Sarawan Bodla village in Faridkot. Their son Gurjit Singh was killed in police firing along with another protester Krishan Bhagwan Singh at the Behbal Kalan village bus stand on October 14, 2015, where residents of nearby villages had assembled to protest against the sacrilege at Bargari two days ago. However, Krishan’s son Sukhraj Singh of Niamia village is hopeful of getting justice and feels the special investigation team (SIT) is moving in the right direction as it had nominated, though belated, former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal. “A S Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh has shown us ray of hope of justice. We want the politicians, if any behind the crime, to be unmasked,” he said. Both the bereaved families, approached by TOI, were commenting about their 5-year journey after losing the dear ones and how the justice had been eluding them in all this while. Krishan’s family, along with score of Sikh organisations, will observe the fifth barsi at Gurdwara Tibbisar Sahib at Behbal Kalan on Wednesday, but the family of Gurjit will stay home and may go to the gurdwara for a little. “I was in Kenya, working there, when my son was killed in police firing. I returned two days later and could not even see the face of my son one last time. After losing Gurjit, I was hoping for justice, but as police officers were involved in the case we didn’t get any,” said Sadhu Singh. “I think the governments feel the justice has been done by providing money to the bereaved families. But it isn’t.” “We have suffered a lot in these 5 years and justice musty not be delayed any more. With the special investigation team working in the right direction, our hopes (of getting justice) are raised. We dont want any pressure on SIT and it should be allowed to complete the investigations at the earliest,” said Sukhraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/5-years-on-wait-for-justice-still-not-over-for-kin-of-2-firing-victims/articleshow/78649378.cms||Neel Kamal
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Book all sacrilege accused under UAPA, says SGPC president||PATIALA: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Gobind Singh Longowal on Tuesday visited two villages — Jallah and Tarkhan Majra — where the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib took place on Monday. In a brief interaction with the media, Longowal said that those arrested in the sacrilege cases of these villages should be given capital punishment so that an example could be set. He said that the police had registered a case against the accused only after the protesters insisted on it. He said all the accused who have committed sacrilege should be booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act just like the accused, Sehajvir Singh was booked by the Fatehgarh Sahib police. He claimed, if required, the SGPC would put in all efforts to provide help in the legal battle to ensure the accused is awarded capital punishment. He also applauded Manjot Singh for his efforts to nab the accused on the spot otherwise he could have escaped and assured Manjot of a job in the SGPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/book-all-sacrilege-accused-under-uapa-says-sgpc-president/articleshow/78649389.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Business man cum film actor Sachin Joshi apprehended at Mumbai airport in Gutkha case||Hyderabad: Hyderabad police apprehended businessman cum film actor, Sachin Joshi, at Mumbai airport in a cases related to sale of banned tobacco products. However, after serving him notice, police let him off in Hyderabad. According to police, Sachin Joshi is accused number 4 in a case related to seizure of Gutkha and other banned tobacco products at Danamma Huts in Bahadurpura on March 3, 2020. Police arrested Md Jahangir, owner of DCM van mechanic shed, Sk Mehamood, a transport worker after the seizure of 80 plastic bags of Goa-1000 gutkha and other banned tobacco products from their possession. In the complaint, Bahadurpura SI T Madhu who conducted the raid said that the two accused confessed that the seized gutkha was supplied by Harishankar Ranjeet Singh of Attapur and owner cum maker of the Gutkha was Sachin Joshi of Maharashtra. Police registered a case against Jahangir, Mehamood, Ranjeet and Sachin Joshi under sections 336,273 r/w 34 of the IPC citing Sachin and Ranjeet as absconding. Bahadurpura police issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) against Sachin Joshi and immigration officials have intercepted Sachin at Mumbai airport on Monday and alerted city police. “Our team brought him here and after serving a notice to him under relevant section of CrPC to appear before the investigation officer, he was let off,” South Zone DCP Gajarao Bhupal said.  Sachin Joshi, a Maharashtra based businessman, has acted in Telugu, Hindi movies and he also produced some movies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/business-man-cum-film-actor-sachin-joshi-apprehended-at-mumbai-airport-in-gutkha-case/articleshow/78649382.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nashik||NMC set to start phase-II of health survey from Oct 15||Nashik: More than 17.78 lakh people in the city were covered in the health survey over the past 15 days. Now, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is set to start active surveillance to detect Covid patients in the second phase of the mission to be held between October 15 and 25.NMC officials said the health teams detected 578 Covid patients during the first phase of the health survey under the state government mission – My Family, My Responsibility. The health teams also identified more than 75,000 people with comorbid conditions.“We are starting the second phase of the health survey from Thursday. Our focus will be on detecting Covid patients during the survey with the objective to break the chain of coronavirus in the city,” said the NMC officials.“Apart from the health survey, we will also create awareness among people about the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and washing cleaning hands frequently with soap or sanitizer,” said officials.“We will also provide guidance to the comorbid patients on the treatment and the precautions they should take,” they added.The civic body has deployed over 750 health teams across six divisions to conduct the survey. The NMC officials said there had been complaints about some health teams not conducting the survey properly. “We have looked into this issue. We will take action against those showing negligence during the survey,” said the officials.NMC intensifies drive against erring citizensThe divisional squads of the NMC on Monday took out a drive against the erring citizens not wearing masks in public places. The civic body slapped Rs 200 fines on each of the 120 erring citizens caught on Monday and recovered Rs 24,000 from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-set-to-start-phase-ii-of-health-survey-from-oct-15/articleshow/78646637.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops call posters by Maoists mischief||Hyderabad: Unknown persons put up wall posters in the name of Maoists at Shapally village in Mulugu district, warning local politicians of TRS and BJP along with forest department staff to stop harassing people. However, later during the day, police clarified that the posters were put up by unknown miscreants. On Tuesday, residents of Shapally village saw two wall posters put up in the village claiming to be from Comrade Unga of Maoist party’s Eturunagaram, Bhupalapally area committee. In the Telugu posters, state government was asked to stop combing operations in forest area or else TRS and BJP leaders will face threat from the party. A reference was made to recent killing of fertiliser shop owner Bheemeswara Rao by Maoists. However, police said that the posters were not put up by Maoists. “We have made inquiries and some miscreants have put up the posters. It was not from Maoists. Recently forest department has initiated action against forest area encroachment and we suspect that some of those affected are doing this activity,” Mulugu SP Sangram Singh Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-call-posters-by-maoists-mischief/articleshow/78650282.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Behbal Kalan firing changed Punjab politics, pushed SAD to brink||JALANDHAR: The impact of Behbal Kalan police firing, in which two protesters were killed five years ago on October 14, 2015 during a protest against the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village in Faridkot district, changed the politics of Punjab. It was a watershed moment for the ruling Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal). Its impact is still felt and the second oldest party of the country has not been able to come out of its shadow as yet. The incident weakened the Akali Dal in its core vote base of Sikhs and a significant section of these voters turned against the party. It is due to the lasting impact of the incident that now even BJP leaders are taking digs at the Badals using this incident. Recently, after former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal said he would have gone to the protesting farmers barefoot, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh remarked that Badal Senior should have gone to the protesters at Behbal Kalan with his shoes on and there would have been no need to go barefoot. Even as the cases of Bargari sacrilege, Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing have yet to reach a logical conclusion, every fresh development in the cases leads to renewal of negativity against the top Akali brass. After the sacrilege at Bargari on October 12, 2015, protests remained localized in Faridkot district till October 14. After the Behbal Kalan firing, the protests spread across the state on October 15 and even among the diaspora. For almost a week, the Punjab government had lost its control. Despite widespread protests, restraint among people, who aimed their anger at the state government and Akali leaders, ensured peace for a week when most of the main roads remained blocked. Even now, as a way appears for the SGPC elections with the appointment of the chief commissioner of gurdwara elections, the issue would figure prominently. At every Sikh protest on any issue, the Behbal Kalan firing invariably figures in the speeches. Of the many contradictions that Akali Dal leaders may have to explain, the baggage of Behbal Kalan remains the heaviest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/behbal-kalan-firing-changed-pb-politics-pushed-sad-to-brink/articleshow/78649377.cms||IP Singh
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong seeks aid for rain hit farmers||Hyderabad: Congress on Tuesday said standing crops in lakhs of acres in Telangana suffered heavy damage in heavy rains and floods and demanded that the government pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 per acre for paddy and Rs 30,000 per acre for cotton. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy along with All India Kisan Congress vice-chairman M Kodanda Reddy said paddy, maize and cotton crops were badly hit in the rains. Uttam condemned the government for refusing to buy maize from the farmers and demanded that the government purchase maize at MSP to help the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-seeks-aid-for-rain-hit-farmers/articleshow/78650286.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Covid may affect multiple organs in adults too: Study||NEW DELHI: Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS) is a known complication of Covid-19 in children. However, a case series published by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in the US has confirmed that MIS can also happen in adults who suffer from Covid-19. Such persons may or may not have classical symptoms of Covid-19, for example, high fever, breathing difficulty or low levels of oxygen in the blood.  CDC has described 27 cases wherein patients had cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, dermatologic and neurologic symptoms without severe respiratory illness. They tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or antibody assays indicating recent infection. Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine at Apollo hospital, said they have also come across many patients who did not have the classical symptoms of Covid-19 but they tested positive for the infection. “In MIS, the infection causes inflammation of organs, for example the heart or kidney. It also increases the risk of clotting, which can lead to stroke,” Dr Chatterjee added. He said Covid-19 patients who develop MIS are difficult to manage. CDC says MIS in adults highlights the role for antibody testing. “These patients may not have positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR or antigen test results, and antibody testing may be needed to confirm previous SARS-CoV-2 infection,” the report adds. The treatment of Covid-19 patients with MIS involves administration of steroids, intravenous immunoglobulin and interleukin-6 inhibitor, tocilizumab, among others. MIS in children suffering from Covid-19 has been confirmed in a few cases involving children at AIIMS, Dr Jhuma Sankar, associate professor, department of paediatrics, said in a webinar held by the institute recently. Doctors say children are able to recover faster from the disease possibly because they have strong innate immune response. “Absence of known risk factors, such as diabetes and hypertension in children, also plays a role,” experts say. However, they add, MIS in adults with pre-existing chronic illnesses can increase the risk of morbidity and mortality. Doctors at GB Pant hospital say they have seen patients aged between 45 and 80 years who developed sudden slowing of heart rate and concurrently tested positive for Covid-19. “The inflammatory markers of these patients were very high, which is not the case with non-Covid patients coming with slow heart rate,” one of the doctors said. Watch Study shows Covid-19 may affect multiple organs in adults too||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-may-affect-multiple-organs-in-adults-too-study/articleshow/78649433.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 14, 2020||Amritsar||Pakistan halves Sikh pilgrims’ visit on Guru Nanak anniversary||AMRITSAR: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Pakistan government has decided to halve the duration of the Indian Sikh jatha’s visit to Gurdwara Nankana Sahib on the occasion of the 551st birth anniversary of the Sikhs’ first master Guru Nanak Dev on November 30, as well as restrict the devotees’ movement within the gurdwara. While talking to TOI on Tuesday, Aamer Ahmad, chairman of Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) -- the parent body of Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) -- said due to the Covid-19 protocols, the Pakistan government had decided to give a 5-day visas to Indian Sikhs to fulfil their religious aspirations by celebrating the Guru’s birth anniversary . Normally, Pakistan issues 10-day visas to Indian Sikh jathas on various religious occasions. ETPB spokesperson Aamir Hashmi said the ETPB and PSGPC would receive the jatha at Wagah (Pakistan) border on November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pak-halves-sikh-pilgrims-visit-on-guru-nanak-anniv/articleshow/78649412.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Torrential rains leave city inundated; boats used to rescue residents||Hyderabad: Torrential rains that pounded Hyderabad all through Tuesday, threw life out of gear for residents across the city. Complaints of water inundation, damage to property and uprooted trees were reported from various areas under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Till 9pm, the city recorded 98.9mm rainfall with ‘extreme rain’ in localities like Hayathnagar (224.8mm), Saroornagar (214mm) and Uppal (206.3mm) receiving the maximum rainfall. In some areas, like Nadeem Colony, Tolichowki, the civic body had to press into service disaster response teams to evacuate residents. The rescue team had to use boats to bring residents, from these inundated pockets, to safety. Residents in low-lying areas were worst affected. “We have three-feet water in our basements and need pumps to drain out the water. We most probably will not have power through the night,” said Malcolm Wolfe, a resident of Yapral, who reached out to the disaster management team for assistance. In several other areas such as Koti crossroads and Kalapather, people were seen wading through knee-deep water. In fact, a video of customers at a Malepally eatery sipping on chai as water gushed from under them went viral. #Hyderabadrains was trending on twitter with over 2,000 posts. Monsoon emergency teams were also seen deployed to clear water-logged stretches along the Raj Bhavan Road, Miralam Mandi, Osmagunj and LB Nagar. According to the GHMC bulletin, 83 complaints of water-logging poured in from across the city. While commuters stuck on the roads took shelter under flyovers, it failed to bring any respite. There were also 76 complaints of tree faling reported from across the city. A huge tree that fell in Amberpet left two vehicles damaged. To tackle with the rising count of complaints the GHMC set up a monsoon control room at its head office to address rain-related issues. Additional commissioners and heads of departments had been drafted into the team comprising 19 officers which would also coordinate with monsoon emergency teams at vulnerable locations. Though lighting and grid voltage fluctuations caused some electrical problems, train movement was not stopped, said HMRL managing director NVS Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/torrential-rains-leave-city-inundated-boats-used-to-rescue-residents/articleshow/78649418.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||No police job if no honourable discharge in criminal case: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that if a person has been acquitted in a criminal case on account of material witnesses having turned hostile or won-over, then such a candidate cannot be considered for appointment to the police force. The high court also clarified that even in cases where there is a truthful disclosure about a concluded case, “the employer would still have the right to consider the antecedents of the candidate and could not be compelled to appoint any such candidate, who is ineligible as per the rules". Justice Jaishree Thakur passed the orders while dismissing a plea filed by Ramji, a resident of Haryana’s Panipat district who was denied appointment to the post of constable in the Haryana police. He was booked for molestation and under POSCO Act but acquitted by a Panipat court in June 2012 after the survivor and her father turned hostile. An advertisement was issued by the Haryana police in April 2018 for appointment to 5,000 posts of constable in the state police. The petitioner was selected after qualifying all the process. During character verification, he disclosed details about the FIR and his acquittal in the case. His candidature, however, was rejected during the process of character verification on the ground that he had been involved in an FIR involving moral turpitude and vide Rule 12.18 (3) (e) of the Punjab Police (Haryana Amendment) Rules, 2015, he could not be considered for appointment. Aggrieved from this, the petitioner approached the high court, seeking directions to the Haryana police to consider him for appointment. The counsel for the petitioner argued that the petitioner could not have been removed because there was no concealment on his behalf. It was also submitted that he stood acquitted by the trial court much prior to the issuance of the advertisement. Strongly opposing the plea, the counsel for the Haryana government contended that the petitioner is ineligible for appointment, as he had not been honourably acquitted. After hearing all the parties, the HC observed that the petitioner was acquitted “while extending benefit of doubt to him” in which the acquittal cannot be equated with a clean acquittal after a full-fledged trial has taken place. HC also observed that Rule 12.18 (3) (e) of the Rules of 2015 is explicit and clearly specifies that if a candidate has been acquitted in a murder case or in cases involving rape, dacoity, robbery, kidnapping for ransom, acid attacks, human trafficking, Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 or Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 etc., on account of the material witnesses having turned hostile or won-over then such candidate cannot be considered for appointment. Therefore, in view of the aforesaid rule, the petitioner cannot be deemed eligible for appointment, the high court held while dismissing the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-police-job-if-no-honourable-discharge-in-criminal-case-hc/articleshow/78649417.cms||Ajay Sura
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana urges Centre to hike aid to set up biogas plants||CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan has urged the Union government to provide additional financial assistance besides loans from private financial institutions for setting up biogas plants under Gobar Dhan Scheme. Attending a virtual meeting held under the chairmanship of U P Singh, secretary, drinking water and sanitation department of Union ministry of jal shakti, Vardhan said a biogas plant is being operated in Naya Gaon village in Hisar district, from which gas is being supplied to more than 150 households through pipeline. He said with the setting up of a biogas plant in Hisar district, it was found that the supply of gas through pipeline is better than that of compressed gas as in terms of cost, supply of gas through pipeline is almost one third as compared to LPG gas cylinder. He said work is also being done for setting up at least one biogas plant in each district of the state as per Union government directives. Community biogas plant models are more successful than individual plants. Therefore, the Centre is requested to provide financial assistance besides providing loans from private financial institutions for community biogas plant infrastructure, said the CS. It was also informed that under this scheme, dung and waste products are converted into compost, biogas and bio-CNG. The purpose of Gobar-Dhan scheme is to make villages clean and generate energy by converting cattle dung and solid waste materials of farms into compost and biogas. Senior officers from various states also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-urges-centre-to-hike-aid-to-set-up-biogas-plants/articleshow/78649427.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: 17-year-old girl gangraped by two youths in Moradabad; both booked||BAREILLY: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped by two youths in a village under Kundarki police station limits in Moradabad district late on Sunday night. The accused were booked for rape and house-trespass, said police. According to police, the girl’s family caught the accused in their daughter’s room. The girl, however, told her family that the accused had barged into their house and one of them raped her, said police. The accused fled the scene when the family informed police about the matter. Kundarki police station SHO Sandeep Singh said, “The girl was sent for a medical examination after her statement was recorded. We are also verifying her age. Both the accused are known to the girl. They are on the run, but we will nab them soon.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/17-year-old-girl-gangraped-by-two-youths-in-moradabad-both-booked/articleshow/78644600.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Frequent power cuts add to WFH interruptions in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Several parts of the city plunged into complete darkness for multiple hours — up to six -seven hours in some cases -- on Tuesday, leaving those working from home facing an uphill task. Power disruptions were reported from Kukatpally, Begumpet, Ameenpur, Domalguda, Somajiguda, Vidyanagar, Sainikpuri, Gachibowli, MLA Colony and Moosapet among other places. Srinivas Bellam, a resident of Kukatpally, said, “We faced power cuts about seven to eight times today.” Shyam Manohar, who lives in Vidyanagar, said there was no power for five hours in the morning. “No electricity supply for such a long time is extremely stressful for people working from home as well as the elderly,” he said. In Begumpet, some residents did not have power for hours. “I have been struggling to work with electricity board being whimsical since morning. In the evening, it has been two hours since the power was cut. I was forced to inform my office of the disruption and told them I would take up pending work tomorrow,” said Suresh Reddy, an IT employee. In the outskirts too residents faced power outages. Amjad Razal, a resident of Bandlaguda, said, “I lost power for two hours in the evening. Besides, the power went multiple times for shorter durations through the day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/frequent-power-cuts-add-to-wfh-interruptions/articleshow/78649444.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Sleeping man dies of burns as ex-neighbour sets bikes afire in Madurai||MADURAI: A man died and his son suffered injuries when his former neighbour set 10 motorcycles and bicycles on fire which spread to the house in which they were sleeping in the early hours of Tuesday, in Tuticorin. N Annamalai, 42, who was motionless, and his son Nithin, 8, were rushed to Thoothukudi medical college and hospital, where the former was declared as dead on arrival. Police identified the accused as Mariya Antony Dinesh Mendis, 46, who was an alcoholic. He and Annamalai owned houses near Cleopatra Theatre on South Cotton Road. Annamalai had rented out a few houses in the same compound and was running a two-wheeler workshop at the entrance. Tuticorin South inspector J Anandarajan said Antony Dinesh picked up a quarrel with tenants, especially women living in the compound of Annamalai. At one point, he had to vacate the house two months ago due to pressure from the neighbours and live in a rented house at Anthoniyarpuram. Antony Dinesh nursed a grudge towards Annamalai for this. Around 9.30pm on Monday, he went to Annamalai’s house in an inebriated condition, had an argument with some people and left the spot. However, he returned to the place after midnight, cut the petrol tubes of bikes parked on the compound and set them on fire. Ten bikes and bicycles were gutted and the fire spread to the first floor of the house where Annamalai lived with his family. On being alerted, fire and rescue services personnel from Tuticorin town station rushed to the spot around 1.30am and brought the fire under control around 3.15am. Station fire officer M Sankaran said the flames were all over the ground floor and first floor. “Thick smoke and flames made it difficult for us to enter the first floor. Since the boy was responsive, we kept talking to him, poured water on him and cooled the room till we managed to break into it and rescue him after a long struggle,” he said. Annamalai suffered only 45% burns but his throat and windpipe were burnt and his lungs were filled with carbon monoxide. Inspector Anandraj said Nithin suffered 25% burns and is on ventilator support. Annamalai’s wife Ganga Devi and younger son Nikil, 6, escaped unhurt as they were in another room. Antony Dinesh who was arrested would be treated for minor burn injuries he suffered. He was booked under IPC sections 302 (punishment for murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc.).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sleeping-man-dies-of-burns-as-ex-neighbour-sets-bikes-afire/articleshow/78650314.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Nehru zoo on alert after Mir Alam Tank starts overflowing||HYDERABAD: Intense spells of rain over the last two days led to authorities of the Nehru Zoological Park sound a panic alarm late on Monday evening. Parts of the zoo, especially the 99-acre animal safari park, were inundated immediately after the adjoining Mir Alam Tank started overflowing. According to the park officials, all efforts are being made to drain out the excess flow by maintaining the water channel, drainage channels and pumping out of the water from the moats. “There has been water-logging in the safari area due to the rains. However, there is nothing to worry as we have closed it for maintainence and our staff is continuously monitoring the enclosures as well as the safari to clear the excess water. But the water for nalas has entered the grounds and is a bit of a trouble. Apart from that, everything is fine,” said N Kshitija, zoo curator. “The heavy rainfall in the city from the past two days has also affected the number of people visiting the zoo,” she added. Sources from the zoo also informed that the Mir Alam Tank is filled with rainwater and the excess water is entering into the ponds from the safari side. Nehru Zoological Park was reopened to visitors on October 6, after close to seven months of shutdown owing to the COVID-19 lockdown and welcomed 1,137 visitors on day one. While the Zoo is open for the visitors, closed areas within its premises including reptile house, aquarium and the Natural History Museum have not been opened yet due to safety reasons. The Zoo authorities are also making sure that they have volunteers watching over the crowd to not form a group and keep moving. The zoo officials were sent into a tizzy earlier last month as well after torrential rains left the safari park inundated. After feeding the animals, birds, and reptiles, the entire staff of over 100 people were pressed into emergency services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nehru-zoo-on-alert-after-mir-alam-tank-starts-overflowing/articleshow/78649476.cms||Moulika.KV
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Body of woman raped, killed found||VADODARA/ANAND: A rape and murder case has been registered at the Anand rural police station after the body of a woman was found near Lambhvel canal. The body was found near the canal located in a secluded area near a railway track on Monday. Anand rural police registered the offence against unidentified person after post-mortem of the body revealed that the woman has received injuries to her private parts. “The female is yet to be identified. She was aged between 30 and 40 years old. Based on the post-mortem, we have registered an offence under Sections 376 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code,” said N M Rami, police sub-inspector at the Anand rural police station. The post-mortem has confirmed that the victim had suffered injuries in the internal parts. “The offence seems to have happened on Sunday night,” he said. Sources said that both her hands had traditional tattoos which rural folk usually get it done during ‘melas’. While the right hand had tattoos of words like ‘darbar’, ‘goyal’, ‘ramanbabu’ and ‘jai mohan’ in Gujarati, the left hand also had a tattoo ‘Dasrath’ in English. Cops also noticed other tattoos of names like ‘RD’ on the hand of the victim but such tattoos have been rubbed or faded. “We are using local human intelligence to investigate the matter. At the same time, we are trying to know why so many names have been mentioned on the victim’s hands,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/body-of-woman-raped-killed-found/articleshow/78645986.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Salary dues: Now, Kasturba Hospital doctors go on strike||NEW DELHI: Following in the footsteps of Hindu Rao Hospital, doctors of Kasturba Hospital on Tuesday announced a strike from October 14 to 20 to protest against non-payment of salaries by North Delhi Municipal Corporation. They have threatened to offer mass resignations if their dues are not cleared by then. The Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) said they had communicated their plan to the medical superintendent. “We have not been paid since July and this is causing hardship to doctors who are working with full dedication during this time of crisis. We informed the hospital administration that all resident doctors, including those engaged in emergency services, will abstain from work from Wednesday,” the association added. TimesViewIt is a matter of collective shame that while doctors are feted in tweets and speeches as frontline warriors against the virus outbreak, they have to go on strike for something as basic as their salary. The corporation should resolve the matter immediately. Higher authorities too must keep a watchful eye on the development.Sunil Kumar, RDA president, said, “We are forced to take this step because it has become a regular affair. Despite the Supreme Court’s direction for regular disbursement of salaries to medical staff, nobody is taking the matter seriously.” A prolonged protest is likely to inconvenience hundreds of patients, especially those availing of maternity services. Many patients were shifted to Kasturba from Hindu Rao after the latter was declared a Covid-designated hospital. Though normal services resumed there on Tuesday after Delhi government declared it a non-Covid hospital, the process of shifting patients from the maternity ward and other places would be a time-consuming process. “After we wrote to the administration, we were asked to withdraw the decision as salaries for one month might be released soon. But we refused because we want salaries for three months. There won’t be any rollback this time unless the entire amount is released. We have come to know that regular doctors at Kasturba Hospital have been given a week for salary disbursement,” said Kumar. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that efforts were being made to resolve the issue. “I had asked the agitating workers’ associations to wait two months for positive news. We are trying to convince them to withdraw their decision.” Association members said that if the civic agency was facing hardship in running the hospitals, they should transfer them to Delhi government or the Centre. “This will relieve them of extra financial burden and even we will be paid on time,” said a member of Kasturba Hospital RDA. Watch Now, Kasturba Hospital doctors go on strike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/salary-dues-now-kasturba-hospital-docs-go-on-strike/articleshow/78649448.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Neglected, nurses switch to other jobs amid pandemic||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 pandemic might have taken the sheen out of the much sought-after nursing profession and many from the profession have left it for good to join spas, gyms, supermarkets and other odd jobs. Take for example the case of Dimple (name changed on request), who left a corporate hospital without a notice in early April when the pandemic began wreaking havoc across the country. “The pressure in the hospital was too much and I saw a few of my colleagues get infected and struggling to avail treatment. At that point of time hospitals were not providing free treatment to their own staff if they fell ill and on top of it nursing staff does not have an insurance coverage. Since I already have diabetes and fall under the vulnerable category and was staying away from home, I decided to quit the job,” she said. For the next few months, the 24-year-old from Manipur stayed with her other colleagues who had quit the profession too, without any earnings. It’s only after unlock that she secured a job in a spa. Like Dimple, another 28-year-old trained and experienced nurse with a work experience of 8 years is now working at a supermarket. “I now have to travel a long distance to my workplace but after not having any income since I quit, it’s the only option available. In due time I will switch to something else,” she says. In most cases it is Covid-19 and the poor treatment of colleagues infected with Covid-19 by hospitals which made them switch to other jobs, even as better salaries are on offer now. Further, the negligent attitude towards the problems of the frontline workers by hospital administration has been an issue that is frequently pointed out. “The professional has seen such a jolt in the last 8 to 10 months that first there was mass exodus of nurses and then nurses started migrating to other countries where they are getting lucrative offers. This will create a shortage of nursing staff which is essential for running any healthcare facility,” said Laxman Rudavath, general secretary, Telangana Nursing Officers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neglected-nurses-switch-to-other-jobs-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78649442.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 14, 2020||Business||NephroPlus snaps up dialysis chain in Philippines||Hyderabad: Healthcare startup NephroPlus, which runs a network of dialysis centres, network has clinched its first overseas acquisition by picking up majority stake in Philippines-based Royal Care Dialysis Centres Inc for an undisclosed sum. The Hyderabad-based company has acquired 51% stake in Royal Care, which currently treats 400 patients per day through its six centres in Metro Manila, and plans to pick up another 25% stake over the next three to four years depending on the growth it sees in Philippines, NephroPlus founder & CEO Vikram Vuppala said on Tuesday while announcing the deal that is learnt to be in lower double digit figures. Vuppala said that the company is also in talks with other dialysis centre operators in Philippines for acquisitions. He also said the company plans to invest $15-20 million over the next five years in Philippines to create a network of 50-60 dialysis centres and emerge as the largest dialysis solutions provider there. While this deal marks NephroPlus’ international foray, Vuppala said the company is also scouting for buys in other international markets in South East Asia, South Asia, Middle East as well as CIS nations. “The plan is to launch in another 4-5 countries and Philippines is the first. Every six months to a year we will launch in a new country,” Vuppala said. Talking about the Covid-19 impact on business, he said while the company has not been hit as badly as other sectors or as positively impacted as edtech companies, he said the company did lose about 3-4 months of growth opportunity in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nephroplus-snaps-up-dialysis-chain-in-philippines/articleshow/78649478.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP activists’ bid to protest foiled||Hyderabad: Mild tension prevailed near the assembly premises on Tuesday morning when activists of BJP and CPI tried to stage a protest before the session began. They wanted to protest against the amendments being brought to the GHMC Act and other bills. The GHMC amendment bill has been brought to help the MIM in the upcoming GHMC elections, he alleged. The police took several activists into custody. Condemning the arrest of the party activists, state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay said the TRS government had failed on many fronts, including constructing 2-BHK houses for the poor. “It is unfortunate that government used police to arrest the activists who are trying to stage a protest in a peaceful manner.” Sanjay was also detained at the party office for some time before he proceeded to the assembly building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-activists-bid-to-protest-foiled/articleshow/78650733.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar: 154 bottles of liquor seized, 2 arrested||YAMUNANAGAR: A police raid near the Hathni Kund barrage yielded 154 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and country booze on Monday night. The Haryana chief minister’s flying squad and the Pratap Nagar police arrested the busted outlet’s two salesmen, Faili Ram of Una district in Himachal Pradesh and Sukhbir Singh of Rampur Kalan in Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh. Pratap Nagar station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Subhash Chand said: “On Tuesday, a Bilaspur court remanded the two salesmen in judicial custody. We have started investigating the shop contractors.” On the complaint of sub-inspector Dinesh Kumar of the CM’s flying squad based in Panchkula, Faili Ram and Sukhbir Singh were booked along with shop contractors Gurdeep Singh Narang of Ponta Sahib (HP) and Bhim Singh of Yamunanagar district’s Tajewala village. SI Dinesh stated in his complaint: “A secret input led us to this Tajewala road shop near the barrage. Informed about the raid, Yamunanagar deputy excise and taxation officer sent over ETO Rajiv Kumar Duggal, and the salesmen couldn’t show him a shop licence.” “In the ETO’s presence, the raiding party counted 119 bottles of IMFL and 35 of country liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/154-bottles-of-liquor-seized-2-arrested/articleshow/78649449.cms||Jaskaran Singh
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Dadri boy thrashed to death, teacher accused||ROHTAK: A teacher from Mandoli village in Dadri district is accused of thrashing his 12-year-old neighbour, Himanshu, to death over a street brawl between children. The Charkhi Dadri police on Tuesday booked teacher Vipin Kumar for murder. While playing in the village street on Monday, Himanshu had a tiff with the other children over some minor issue. Vipin got there and started hitting the boy, lifting and dropping him hard several times. The injuries were so grave that boy’s parents had to put him in hospital on Monday evening. The boy was discharged after treatment but on Tuesday morning, he fell unconscious and was moved to the civil hospital, where doctors declared him dead. His father, Virender Singh, filed a written complaint at the Jhojhu Kalan police station against Vipin. Station’s officer in charge, Dalbir Singh, has confirmed it. 70-year-old murdered in village Hisar: A 70-year-old woman was murdered late on Monday night at Nangal village in Ratia area of Fatehabad district. The deceased was identified as Dayawanti. Police said the murder was being linked to a property dispute. A case was registered on the complaint of the victim’s elder son Gulshan Kumar against unknown persons under Sections 302 (murder) and 450 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment for life) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dadri-boy-thrashed-to-death-teacher-accused/articleshow/78649443.cms||Sat Singh
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||At meet, Dushyant Chautala demands Haryana’s share of GST compensation||CHANDIGARH: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala in the GST Council meeting of the central government on Monday said that the outstanding amount of Haryana’s share of the Compensation Fund should be released without delay. An amount of Rs 761 crore was released to the state on October 5. The deputy chief minister, who also has holds the portfolio of excise and taxation department, participated in the 42nd meeting of the GST Council late on Monday evening through video conferencing. Apart from Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who is the chairperson of the council, other senior officers of the council were also present in the meeting in New Delhi. Various issues related to the Compensation Fund to be given to the states were discussed during the meeting. This meeting was in continuation of the meeting held on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-meet-dushyant-demands-hrys-share-of-gst-compensation/articleshow/78649440.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Cremation sans victim kin’s consent infringement on human rights: Allahabad HC||LUCKNOW: A Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court said here on Tuesday that the Hathras administration’s decision to cremate the alleged gang rape victim’s body without their consent and following religious rituals was prima facie an infringment upon their human rights for which responsibilities should be fixed. Issuing the order on Tuesday which was reserved on Monday after completing the hearing, the division bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajan Roy also directed the state government to lay the modalities for cremation of dead bodies in Hathras-like situations. The bench also directed the state government to do the needful as regard action against Hathras district magistrate for fairness of entire legal and judicial process which is underway, as he himself admitted that cremation of the dead body in night was collective responsibility of DM, commissioner Aligarh, ADG Agra, IG Aligarh and SP Hathras. The court questioned the state’s action only against SP and not the DM. The HC also directed the state to provide adequate security to the victim’s family and ensure that no harm is done to them. Besides, considering the sensitiveness of the issue, the bench directed the state officials, political parties and all to avoid making any statement in public on the issue. The court also expected electronic and print media to observe restraint while reporting and debating the matter. “The inquiry/investigation which is being carried-on in the matter either by the SIT or by CBI be kept in full confidentially and no report or post thereof is leaked out in the public,” the bench ordered. Pulling up ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar and Hathras DM Praveen Kumar Laxkar for making statement on basis of medical report of the victim that no rape committed, the court asked the ADG whether he was aware of the new definition of rape after 2013 that mere absence of semen during forensic examination, though a factor for consideration, would not by itself be conclusive as to whether rape had been committed or not, if there are other admissible evidence. The court cautioned him not to make such statements, more so when he was not an investigation officer. Keeping in mind, the widespread statements being made by every officers affecting and influencing the investigation, the bench said, “No officer who is not directly connected with the investigation should make any statement in public regarding commission of the offence alleged or otherwise based on evidence collected as it can lead to unnecessary speculation and confusion amongst the masses, who may not be aware of niceties of law thereby fuelling emotions on both sides.” “The investigating agency and the courts are seized of the matter and irresponsible statements on the issue should be avoided by all.” About media coverage, the bench said, “Without intending to interfere with the right of freedom of expression, we request the media as also the political parties to air their views in a manner which does not disturb social harmony and/or infringe upon rights of the victim’s family and that of the accused.” “No one should indulge in character assassination of the victim just as the accused should not be pronounced guilty before a fair trial. The investigating agency and the Courts should be allowed to determine these issues”, the bench added. The court directed the state to hand over compensation as offered earlier to the victim’s family and in case it denies, the same be deposited with the DM to be deposited in a nationalized bank. Fixing November 2 as the next date, the bench directed the ADG (LO) and a secretary-rank officer as well as the then Hathras SP Vikrant Vir, who is now suspended to appear before it. The bench had heard the depositions of family members of the victim and government officials on Monday as it had summoned them to respond on the issue of cremation of the victim in the night without performance of last rites by the family members and relatives. On hearing the explanation and statement of the DM that he took the decision without any influence or direction from Lucknow , the court said that, as of now, the DM could not satisfy it about observance of last rites while cremating the victim’s body without observing traditions and customs of the family. “We do not find any good reason on behalf of the administration as to why they could not hand over the body to the family members for some time, say for even half an hour, to enable them to perform their rituals at home and thereafter to cremate it either in the night or next day,” the bench said. “Admittedly, though the administration may not have categorically refused the family members to see the face of the deceased but the fact remains that it was not shown to any of them in spite of their repeated requests,” it said, adding “tus the anxiety of the court as of now is on two counts; firstly, whether there was any violation of fundamental rights of the deceased-victim and her family; and secondly, the larger issues involved in the context of such rights which are generally available to all residents of the state and even beyond it so that valuable constitutional rights are not compromised casually and whimsically.” On governance, the court said: “The guiding principle of governance and administration, after independence, should be to ‘serve’ and ‘protect’ people and not to ‘rule’ and ‘control’ as was the case prior to independence. Government should come out with appropriate procedures as guidance for district officials to deal with such situations. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cremation-sans-victim-kins-consentinfringement-on-human-rights-hc/articleshow/78650334.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab catches up on contact tracing||CHANDIGARH: Punjab, which has been grappling with the challenge of contact tracing for long in its fight against Covid-19, has shown improvement on this front, with the state’s overall tracing ratio touching 10 contacts per positive case. As Covid-19 spreads from person-to-person through droplet and contact transmission, contact tracing is the key to reducing the transmission and controlling the epidemic. Contact tracing refers to the process of identifying the source of infection and tracking people the patients had met before testing positive. According to health experts, the contact tracing ratio per positive case should ideally be at least 10. The analysis of the health department data reveals that the state’s contact tracing ratio during October 5-11 was recorded at 10, while it was 7.5 during the period of September 20-26. In seven out of 22 districts, more than 10 contacts were traced per positive case while in seven districts the tracing ratio per case was recorded a nine and above. In Barnala, the tracing ratio was recorded at 28.1 followed by Gurdaspur at 14.6 contacts traced per case, 12.2 in Mohali and 11.7 in Patiala. Even as most of the districts have shown improvement, there are few districts which are still lagging behind. With a figure of 6.5, Mansa has the poorest contact tracing ratio followed by Fatehgarh Sahib where 7 contacts were positive cases were located during last week. The improvement shown in contact tracing assumed significance as it had gone below 5 in the month of August largely due to rumours and negative propaganda spread regarding the epidemic and treatment. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal maintained that the government had to toil hard to convince and spread awareness among people to counter rumours and stigma attached to pandemic. "Extensive awareness activities involving the elected representatives were carried to provide accurate information about the disease and ways to prevent it," said Hussan Lal. Adding, he said that people were earlier reluctant to share details of their contact. However, now the situation has improved which is evident from the rise in ratio of contact tracing. As strict contact tracing of positive cases and isolation of infected people holds the key to reduction of the transmission, the state health department is pushing all districts to achieve the desirable ratio of tracing 10 contacts per case. Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, said that barring few districts, the contact tracing ratio is good in most of the districts. "Tracing of contacts continues to be low in Mansa. The district administration has been issued necessary instructions to ensure that all the cases are traced," said Dr Bhaskar. Experts in the state have been laying emphasis on timely testing and pressing people to help the health teams identify their contacts. The issue of infected people not sharing details of contacts with the health teams was taken up by Dr KK Talwar, Punjab government’s adviser on health issues, in his weekly Monday interaction with the general public. "People who came in contact with infected people should come forward and get themselves tested in time. First few days are very crucial as timely detection of the virus prevents the condition of patients getting severe," said Dr Talwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-catches-up-on-contact-tracing/articleshow/78649474.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana mulls flexi exam system in universities||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana State Higher Education Council has started a discussion on flexi examination system or examination on demand on a pilot basis to introduce reforms in the education sector in the future. To begin with, the universities may adopt the system for PG courses. An official spokesperson said the Covid-19 pandemic has created situation that has necessitated implementation of innovations to be put on fast track. Taking cognizance of the matter, the council discussed the use of flexi examination system or examination on demand with six state-aided universities. Under this system, a student may appear in any subject at any point of time and for that, examination may be conducted by offering questions or setting up question paper from question bank, he added. The six universities with which consultations were held were Chaudhary Bansi Lal University, Bhiwani; Chaudhary Ranbir Singh University, Jind; Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar; Dr B R Ambedkar National Law University, Sonipat; Sri Vishwakarma Kaushal University, Palwal; and J D C Bose University of Science and Technology, Faridabad. All these universities have come forward to try this system initially as a pilot project in selected departments, subjects or courses. It was informed that since this system is student-centric, it has many advantages. Eventually, the institutions conducting examinations will adopt this concept over the next 4-5 years, which will allow the students to overcome their backlog.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-mulls-flexi-exam-system-in-universities/articleshow/78649477.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Runaway boy living in a shelter at Haridwar reunited with kin||NEW DELHI: A 12-year-old boy, who had left home in anger after getting thrashed by his parents and had been living in a shelter home at Haridwar for the past eight months, was reunited with his relative after being identified by a fellow student from his previous school when his picture was shown in an online class. The child was scared to return home, so he had given a false name to the officials at Haridwar. In the first week of September, a policeman on a visit to a children’s home in Jahangirpuri was informed that a 12-year-old boy was living at the shelter home in Haridwar for the past eight months. The coordinator of the home had even requested the authorities in Delhi to trace his parents. When cops from the anti-human trafficking unit of Northeast district interacted with the child over a video call, he gave his name as Vikas. He mentioned that he had studied in a school at Vijay Vihar. When the nearby police stations were contacted, they reported no kidnapping or missing report. On inquiry, the school at Vijay Vihar told police that no such child had studied there. DCP (Northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said, “The school was asked to flash the boy’s photo during online classes. A child soon identified him as Sarthak, a student of Class V. Records of the school showed him to be a resident of Rithala, but the address mentioned had been vacated by his parents. His uncle, a constable with ITBP, was then traced, who appeared before a court in Haridwar and took his custody.” “The child’s parents are yet to be found. When we traced his uncle, he was unaware that the boy was in a shelter home. The constable had not been in touch with his sister and brother-in-law for over a year,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/runaway-boy-living-in-a-shelter-reunited-with-kin/articleshow/78649507.cms||Sakshi Chand
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||1,700 new cases of Covid-19 in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 1,708 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths. While the total number of cases so far in the state has reached 2,14,792, the number of deaths have touched 1,233 so far. The death rate in the state has come down to 0.7% from 2.64% on July 14. So far, 1,89,351 patients have recovered from coronavirus infection in the state, while 24,208 patients remain active cases. On Tuesday, 46,835 samples were tested for the virus, raising the total number of samples tested so far to 36.3 lakh. The samples tested per million population now stands at 97,369. The GHMC limits recorded 277 new cases on Tuesday, the highest among the districts. This was followed by 137 cases in Rangareddy, 124 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 97 cases in Bhadadri-Kothagudem, 86 cases in Karimnagar, 81 cases in Khammam and Nalgonda each while all other districts recorded upwards of 14 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1700-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-t/articleshow/78649485.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||No more laxity on DG set ban, Haryana told||NEW DELHI: The Supreme-Court appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Tuesday wrote to the Haryana government, stating it would have to impose all directions under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), including a ban on diesel generator sets. Ample time had been provided to it to connect all townships and residential areas with the electricity grid, EPCA asserted. Responding to a letter by the Haryana government, which stated around 2,200 residents would be without electricity once the ban came into effect, EPCA reiterated that an exemption was only for “emergency” services. “You had committed in your affidavit last year that before the onset of winter 2020, all issues would be resolved. EPCA expected that the state government would rectify all deficiencies,” said EPCA chairman Bhure Lal in his letter to the Haryana government. “We are interested to know your preparedness to enforce GRAP from October 15, 2020, which includes banning DG sets in residential, commercial and industrial areas, exempting only the essential services. EPCA is very clear that GRAP will be enforced from October 15, 2020,” Lal added. Earlier, the Haryana government in its letter to EPCA stated electricity connections to townships, commercial buildings and residential colonies were already being provided, barring constraints on the part of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam or developers and builders. It, however, highlighted specific locations where there was a total dependency on DG sets. “Coming to the specific details of the residents in Gurugram whom we fear would be rendered without electricity after the ban on DG sets gets imposed, the number will be approximately 2,200. They are the residents of DLF Phase-V complexes in Gurugram and Association Express Condominium in Manesar. In Faridabad, there is total dependency on DG sets in in sectors 78 and 79 where about 125 residents will be rendered without power,” added the Haryana government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-more-laxity-on-dg-set-ban-haryana-told/articleshow/78649497.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Rock falls on house; family has miraculous escape||Hyderabad: A family had a miraculous escape, on Tuesday morning, after a huge rock fell on their house at Dilawar Gunj, Doodh Khana Mangalhat, following incessant rains. Though the people living in the house escaped unhurt, a room and a kitchen were damaged. The residents told TOI that it was about 10 am when people in the area — sounded by big and small rocks — rushed out of their homes on hearing loud sounds. “We make a dash for the outside as soon as we could, when we felt the rock was rolling towards us. Minutes later, I found a big and small rock crashed into my house. One puja room and a kitchen was damaged completely in the mishap. My wife was busy in the kitchen when the rock crashed in but thankfully she managed to get out without suffering any injuries,’’ Rajesh Singh told TOI whose house was partially damaged in this incidence. Almost 20 families were inside their respective homes at the time of the incident. In fact, Rajesh Singh said that similar incidents have taken place in the past during 2003-2009 in the locality. Meanwhile, normal life came to halt in the Old City due to incessant rains. Many roads turned into pools and localities were left inundated. Motorists had to wade through water-logged roads at several places while people living in low lying areas were faced with severe inconvenience. At night, many localities plunged into darkness owing to a power outage forcing several business establishments to wind up before time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rock-falls-on-house-family-has-miraculous-escape/articleshow/78649502.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts two days of heavy rain for Pune district||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday advised caution for the next few days over a likelihood of heavy rains at isolated places due to a depression over Telangana that is moving northwest. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, told TOI, “The system has a northwestward movement and is likely to cross Pune district, though it might lose some strength. Rainfall will be moderate in parts of the state on October14 and 15. Heavy rains at isolated places are expected in Pune district and Pune city. Ghat areas of the district may get heavy to very heavy rain.” The IMD on Tuesday updated its forecast for Pune city, expecting moderate rain with isolated heavy rain, thundery activity, lightning, with isolated very heavy to extremely heavy rain in the ghat areas on Wednesday. The weather bureau issued a red alert for Kolhapur, Satara and Osmanabad, an orange alert for Ratnagiri, Sangli, Solapur, Parbhani, Beed, and a yellow alert for Pune and Mumbai districts for the next 2-3 days. The Pune district disaster management authority on Tuesday told various departments to make suitable preparations if old dilapidated buildings and bridges collapsed in the heavy rains. Traffic should be diverted or temporarily stopped at such places, the order said, adding that in case of a flooding event, infrastructure like ambulances, swimmers, health officers etc should be ready to evacuate people. The authority also said that all citizens should be vigilant and avoid stepping out of the house. During a lightning event, no citizen should stand under a tree, or talk on the cellphone. They should stay away from electrical objects during lightning events, the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-alert-for-pune-district-forecasts-two-days-of-heavy-rain/articleshow/78647890.cms||Neha Madaan
October 14, 2020||Shimla||HP minister among 1,957 new Covid cases in region, 46 die||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The northern states of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 1,957 Covid-19 positive cases and 46 deaths together due to the coronavirus. The new Covid cases included Himachal tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda. However, his family members have tested negative. Punjab recorded 34 deaths and 692 new cases, besides 1,006 recoveries in the past 24 hours. With 1,12,417 people getting well so far, the state’s recovery rate further improved to 90.33%, while the active rate further dropped to 6.55% against the national average of 11.69%. Haryana registered 1,081 positive cases and 9 deaths due to the coronavirus. This takes the state's positive count to 1,44,302 and the death toll to 1,601. The state hospitals have discharged 1,32,382 people, while 10,319 cases remain active. Haryana has a recovery rate of 91.74% and a doubling rate of 38 days. Himachal Pradesh reported three Covid-19 deaths along with 184 positive cases on Tuesday, while 311 patients recovered. The state now has 17,762 positive cases, of which 2,507 are active, 14,985 recovered, 249 dead, and 16 migrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-minister-among-1957-new-covid-cases-in-region-46-die/articleshow/78652694.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||HP minister among 1,957 new Covid cases in region, 46 die||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The northern states of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 1,957 Covid-19 positive cases and 46 deaths together due to the coronavirus. The new Covid cases included Himachal tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda. However, his family members have tested negative. Punjab recorded 34 deaths and 692 new cases, besides 1,006 recoveries in the past 24 hours. With 1,12,417 people getting well so far, the state’s recovery rate further improved to 90.33%, while the active rate further dropped to 6.55% against the national average of 11.69%. Haryana registered 1,081 positive cases and 9 deaths due to the coronavirus. This takes the state's positive count to 1,44,302 and the death toll to 1,601. The state hospitals have discharged 1,32,382 people, while 10,319 cases remain active. Haryana has a recovery rate of 91.74% and a doubling rate of 38 days. Himachal Pradesh reported three Covid-19 deaths along with 184 positive cases on Tuesday, while 311 patients recovered. The state now has 17,762 positive cases, of which 2,507 are active, 14,985 recovered, 249 dead, and 16 migrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-minister-among-1957-new-covid-cases-in-region-46-die/articleshow/78649481.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Nashik||14 robbed of gold chains worth Rs 6.6L in 2 weeks||Nashik: Chain-snatchers in the city continue to target victims, usually women, almost on a daily basis. Three more chain robberies were reported from different parts of the city on Sunday alone. Over the past fortnight, as many as 14 women have lost their gold chains to chain-snatchers in the city. Going by the FIRs registered with different police stations, the collective value of the gold chains robbed from these 14 victims stands at roughly Rs 6.6 lakh. Over the past two weeks, four chain snatchings took place within the jurisdiction of the Ambad police station, three under the Mumbai Naka police station, two in Panchavati and one each within the jurisdictions of Gangapur, Mhasrool, Indiranagar, Adgaon and Sarkarwada police stations. In most recent cases, the chain-snatchers have targeted women walking on the streets, with or without their family members or other companions. While a common modus operandi of the chain-snatchers is to approach the victims on a bike and then speed away after snatching the ornament. However, there have also cases of the snatchers walking up to the women and grabbing their chains before disappearing in the cover of the dark. With Navaratra and Diwali approaching fast, there is a rising concern among people about safety during the festivals, when people visit pandals for darshan. Moreover, many women are also expected to visit their parents' homes for Bhaubeej. Therefore, if the police are not able to arrest the criminals on time, chain-robbers may wreak havoc in the city. Nita Jadhav, a resident of Upnagar said it is a serious problem. “Many women take precautions as they know what is happening in and around the city. Having said that, the victims are always taken unaware by the criminals. A couple of years ago, a woman, riding pillion on a scooter, had fallen from the vehicle and had died after the criminals tried snatching the purse hanging on her shoulder,” she said Jadhav added that another woman had fallen from her scooter and suffered serious injuries during a chain snatch attempt some years ago. A senior police officer said the police are working on tracing the culprits and it was just a matter of time before the culprits are arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-robbed-of-gold-chains-worth-rs-6-6l-in-2-weeks/articleshow/78646682.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 14, 2020||Pune||7k teens learn about addiction triggers & ways to deal||Pune: A trust in collaboration with an psychology institute, has decided to nip addiction in the bud by making students as young as 13 years old, understand the triggers, and how to deal, instead of succumbing, to them. The Tarachand Ramnath Seva Trust launched ‘Saiyam’, an addiction awareness initiative last year with Jnana Prabodhini’s Institute of Psychology (JPIP). The focus is on substance, media and internet abuse, and sexually risky behaviour among adolescents between 13 and 16 years of age. Darshan Mundada, a member of the trust, said low tolerance, being easily influenced, negligible patience and peer pressure are the four triggers, and the root lies in sexual evolution, and physical and emotional changes. “In our society, children are not able to talk about such matters freely with elders in the family. This leads to problems culminating in addiction,” Mundada added. Besides awareness about substance abuse, understanding sexuality and digital addiction, the team helps the students deal with everything in a rational manner. The group is planning to reach out to 12,000 students and include a helpline network for those found with addiction. “Our trainers found such cases but we are only directing them to de-addiction centres such as Muktangan. In future, we would like to counsel them by opening a dedicated helpline number,” added Mundada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7k-teens-learn-about-addiction-triggers-ways-to-deal/articleshow/78647911.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Body of a woman in sack pulled out of Saharanpur sewer||MEERUT: Body of a 45-year-old woman who had gone missing since Monday morning was recovered from a sack floating in a sewer in Rampur Maniharan area in Saharanpur district. The body had several injury marks. Vineet Bhatnagar, Saharanpur SP (City) said, "Prima facie it looks like death was due to a firearm injury on the back of the head. We are waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the exact cause. Statements of the family members of the deceased are being recorded and efforts are on to ascertain the motive behind the murder," An FIR under section 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) against unidentified accused has been registered at Rampur Maniharan police station. The woman, Mumtaz, went missing after she had left home to visit a local bank in the area on Monday morning. However, no missing report was filed by her family, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/body-of-a-woman-in-sack-pulled-out-of-saharanpur-sewer/articleshow/78646676.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Farmers given Rs 29 crore to offset cyclone damage||PUNE: The Pune district agriculture department has distributed an amount of Rs 29 crore as compensation among over 10,000 farmers, who faced difficulties due to crop damage from cyclone Nisarga that hit the state on June 3. The department’s assessment report revealed that crops covering 10,600 hectare land were damaged due to the cyclone. The farmers receiving compensation are from Bhor, Velhe, Mulshi, Maval, Haveli, Junnar, Ambegaon, Khed, Shirur, Purandar and Indapur tehsils. “The compensation has been given on the basis of the panchanama reports submitted by the respective tehsil revenue and agriculture officials.” said district agriculture officer Dnyaneshwar Bhote. Maval, Khed, Junnar and Ambegaon tehsils had faced severe impact of the cyclone. Two persons had died in a wall collapse in Khed tehsil. “Junnar tehsil has got the highest compensation amount Rs21.87 crore followed by Ambegaon Rs4.24 crore, Rs1.5 crore for Khed tehsil in the district,” he added. Grape plantations in Junnar and Ambegaon tehsil were damaged completely. Jitendra Badwai, president of the Grapes Farmers Association of Junnar tehsil, said, “The growth of maximum plantations here was severely affected due to the cyclone. To cultivate grapes on a one-acre plot, a farmer needs at least Rs2.15 lakh capital. Fortunately, June was not the harvest period. We hope that the government will consider these aspects while giving the compensation to grape farmers here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmers-given-rs-29-crore-to-offset-cyclone-damage/articleshow/78647899.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Road accidents dip by 20% in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana home department has claimed a drop of 6% in crime graph in first nine months of 2020, in comparison to the same period of 2019. As many as 96,672 cases were registered between January and September 2020, as compared to 1,02,831 cases during the first nine months of 2019. Haryana home minister Anil Vij said the Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala has been tweeting that the graph of crime was increasing in Haryana but actually it had dropped. There has been a decrease in cases of heinous crimes like murder, crimes against women, robbery, dacoity, kidnapping for extortion. There was also a decrease in crime in 2019, compared to 2018, the minister added. Vij said the state has registered a 17% decrease in crime against women, while 88% cases of murder were cracked. Rape had dropped by 13.57% this year and more than 93% rape cases had been solved, he said, adding the kidnapping incidents in the state came down by 20.73%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/road-accidents-dip-by-20-in-haryana/articleshow/78649494.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||One of three persons, who were washed away, missing||Hyderabad: One of the three persons, who were washed away in two different incidents, is still missing and authorities are trying to locate him as heavy rains, which hit the state on Tuesday, caused several streams to overflow. A father-son duo had gone to the field in the morning in Penuballi of Khammam district and while returning, they were washed away by a sudden gush of water. Locals were able to rescue Jagdeesh but his father Mallela Ravi could not be traced. Authorities are trying to locate Ravi. In Wanaparthy district, a youth, who was riding a bike, was washed away in the overflowing Eekachattu stream. The water had come on to the bridge between Atmakur and Madunapur and the youth was washed away. He, however, could save himself as he swam to a place of safety with the locals shouting out instructions on which direction to swim. The heavy rain resulted in huge inflows into the Peddavagu project at Aswaraopet in Bhadradri Kothagudem district and as a result of the water being released, Gummadipalli and Rankapur villagers were cut off. A hospital in Aswaraopet town was inundated. At another village some cattle got washed away in the floods and died. Villagers of Rangapuram in Pebberu mandal of Wanaparthy were in for a surprise when some of them spotted a crocodile in the fields. The villagers tied the crocodile with ropes and handed them over to forest officials who released it into the Krishna river. It has been raining incessantly for the past three days and the crocodile was said to have appeared there from the Jurala canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-of-three-persons-who-were-washed-away-missing/articleshow/78649539.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Medicinal herb garden to come up in Araku||Visakhapatnam: A medicinal plants garden will be one of the new attractions for visitors in Araku in a couple of months time. A joint initiative by the Paderu Integrated Tribal Development Agency and researchers from Andhra University’s botany department, the five-acre medicinal herbs garden contains around 140 species of herbs, most of which are indigenous to the Eastern Ghats, though some of the species have been brought from Tamil Nadu and Sri Lanka. Besides the usual neem, tulasi, aloe vera species, the garden also has black turmeric, camphor, citronella, lemon grass and so on. “The project has been designed for conservation and multiplication of highly valuable medicinal plants. The garden will be helpful to students, researchers, local tribes and tourists to gain knowledge about ancient medical practices and medicinal plant cultivation, and will also generate some extra income for the local body and produce plant material,” said D Sandhya Deepika, professor of botany at AU. The landscaping, pathways and irrigation works have been completed for the ITDA-funded project. Around 50 per cent of name boards have been placed by Horticulture Nursery Training Centre of Kothavalasa. “The target is development of the garden with more than 200 varieties of plants including ornamental plants. Placing of weather-proof name boards with local names, scientific nomenclature, classification and uses, making of a herbarium and nursery, huts for tourists, placing display boards in populated areas of Araku, allotting workers to facilitate weeding, irrigation, securing and guiding tourists, printing a book of total data on medicinal plants are also in the pipeline,” said Karimullah Sheik, research scholar from AU’s botany department. “With government support, we will be able to open the garden for visitors by December,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/medicinal-herb-garden-to-come-up-in-araku/articleshow/78647903.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Switch from Corona Kavach to comprehensive insurance||Hyderabad: With the number of Covid-19 cases showing no signs of abating, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), has come to the rescue of policyholders yet again by allowing migration of standard Corona policies to comprehensive health policies as well as porting to new insurers. IRDAI has also allowed policyholders to renew their Corona policies. On migration, the new norms issued on Tuesday state that in case of Corona Kavach individual policies, insurers have the choice to offer migration to any other indemnity-based health insurance product offered by them. In case of Corona Kavach group policies, IRDAI said insurers can provide migration to any other individual indemnity-based health policy when the member insured exits from the group policy or the group policy ceases. On portability of Corona Kavach (individual) policy from one insurer to another, the 15-day waiting period served in the existing Corona Kavach policy will be protected for Covid-19 coverage by the porting-in insurer, the circular said. As per the norms, the Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak policies of any tenure can be renewed for further terms of three-and-half-months, six-and-half-months or nine-and-half-months by the policyholder till March 31, 2021. However, the policies need to be renewed before the expiry of the existing policy. In such cases, an additional waiting period of 15 days will not be imposed, ensuring seamless coverage. The new norms state that during renewal, policy holders can alter the sum insured and in case of an increase in the sum insured, the waiting period will start afresh only for the enhanced portion of the sum insured. Last month, while addressing an industry summit, IRDAI chairman Subhash Chandra Khuntia had said that insurers had till then covered over 60 lakh lives under the Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/switch-from-corona-kavach-to-comprehensive-insurance/articleshow/78649510.cms||Swati Rathor
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||MIM: Why is govt seeking Aadhaar details||Hyderabad: AIMIM on Tuesday sought to know as to why the state government was collecting details like mode of acquisition of property and Aadhaar details of owner and family members while collecting non-agriculture properties for Dharani portal. Party legislator Ahmed Bin Abdullah Balala, speaking in the assembly, said many people in Old City, who are not in Hyderabad, cannot provide details as they had put their property documents in the lockers. “What is the intention of the government to collect all the details like Aadhaar numbers when many of them are not availing government schemes,” he said. He asked the government to come up with a building regularisation scheme (BRS) as a one-time opportunity to regularise unauthorised structures and deviations in the city on the lines of LRS. He said the government has not taken any decision on regularising properties on notarised properties. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao said the old BRS (2015) applications were pending with court and government was trying to get a clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-why-is-govt-seeking-aadhaar-details/articleshow/78650784.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||Snag hits modified PW engine, pilot has to shut it mid-air||NEW DELHI: A modified Pratt & Whitney (PW) engine on a GoAir Airbus A320neo flying from Hyderabad to Ahmedabad on September 19 had to be shut down mid-air after it developed a snag. The pilot, however, managed to land the aircraft safely at its destination in Ahmedabad. This is possibly the first case of a modified aircraft developing a technical fault inflight. A GoAir spokesman said the matter is under investigation and declined to elaborate on the incident. TOI has contacted PW for its comments, which are awaited. “A GoAir A320neo aircraft had a commanded inflight shutdown (IFSD) of engine number 1 while operating on the night of September 19. The aircraft landed safely at Ahmedabad. There was a ‘heat management system fault’ possibly due to engine oil system snag. Both the engines of the aircraft were modified PW engines. There were no issues of low pressure turbine or vibration (the most common trouble with the unmodified PW engines for Neos),” said a source. In India, GoAir and IndiGo use PW-powered A320/321neos (new engine option). In the last few years, these engines had a spate of commanded inflight shutdown on A320neo family of aircraft. PW then found a fix for the issues and developed a modified engine. Earlier this year, the DGCA had asked both the airlines — IndiGo and GoAir — to replace unmodified PW engines by May 30. It had said that the unmodified PW engines contain an “unsafe condition, which is prone to undesirable outcomes” and need to be dispensed with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/snag-hits-modified-pw-engine-pilot-has-to-shut-it-mid-air/articleshow/78650966.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH, OU & Kakatiya varsity postpone exams||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) and Osmania University (OU) on Tuesday postponed all exams that are scheduled to be held on October 14 and 15 due to torrential rains. “All the Principals of JNTUH constituent and affiliated colleges are informed to note that all the UG and PG regular and supplementary exams of JNTUH scheduled on October 14 and 15 have been postponed due to heavy rains,” read a notification released by registrar of JNTUH. “All exams under the jurisdiction of Osmania University Scheduled tomorrow and day after tomorrow are postponed due to torrential rains. Examinations from October 16 will be conducted as per the timetable,” read a notification released by the Controller of Examinations, OU. Kakatiya University has also released a similar circular cancelling exams scheduled to be held on October 14 and 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-ou-kakatiya-varsity-postpone-exams/articleshow/78651754.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Locals rejuvenate village tank with NGO’s help in Melur||MADURAI: The residents of Pazhaiyurpatti village in Melur taluk have rejuvenated the village tank which had become unusable for over 30 years, with the help of an NGO. The village has five water ponds. The drinking water pond is called Pazhayurpatti pudukulam. Village leader Karuppiah said that they had formed a body called the Pazhaiyurpatti agriculture water resource protection association to revive the water bodies. The villagers had approached Pradan, a New Delhi-based NGO, to help them revive the tank, which had been rendered useless as it was filled with silt for 30 years. Both the NGO and villagers contributed Rs 1.4 lakh and Rs 1.5 lakh respectively and the depth was enhanced to 15 feet against its earlier level of three feet. About 5,800 cubic metre of earth comprising silt and hard earth were removed and a 2m bund was constructed on three sides. The villagers have also decided to plant horticultural plants along the bund. A week after the work was completed, water was released in the Periyar-Vaigai channel, which is the main source of water for this tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/locals-rejuvenate-village-tank-with-ngos-help/articleshow/78650375.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Held since 1935, Ramlila to skip PU due to Covid||CHANDIGARH: It will be for the first time this year since 1935 that Panjab University, Chandigarh, will not celebrate Ramlila due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ramlila at Panjab University began in 1935 when the campus was situated in Lahore. According to the sources from Lahore, Ramleela has been part of the university since Lahore days. When the university was shifted to Solan and later to Chandigarh in 1956, Ramleela continued to be celebrated on the campus. This move has come as a big shock for residents of Panjab University as well as the city residents, who used to come to the PU to watch the Ramlila. The 85th edition of the Ramlila will not be conducted this time. Even though the final call from the Chandigarh administration is yet to come, officials of Panjab University have already written to their higher officials as well as to the police officials that they will not be conducting Ramlila this year. Deepak Kaushik, general secretary of Shri Harinam Sankirtan Prachar Mandal, which is the organising society from the past 30 years, said, “It has come as a big shock for the people who reside on the campus. Around 500 people used to gather every night and watch Ramlila here. Actors too are scared this time due to the Covid-19 outbreak. We will now conduct Ramlila next year.” Officials of the university, who conduct Ramlila, claim that the administration has taken too long to take a decision on Ramlila. “The Ramlila on the campus is funded by the Panjab University residents. There are around 1,400 residential units on both the campuses and we start collecting funds around two months before Ramlila. How is it possible to collect funds in a matter of two days if we are given a nod on October 15? Not only Covid-19, but the Chandigarh administration too is to be blamed for it,” said a source. The Ramlila script which was written in Urdu language in 1935 was divided into eight parts. “It was rewritten several times thereafter as the old papers were difficult to maintain. It was last rewritten in 1970 by my father Late Khariti Lal Bahl, who knew Urdu. He also translated the complete script in Hindi language in 1997,” said Sunil Bahl, a resident of Chandigarh and who is currently posted as assistant director, SCERT Punjab. “We tried to conduct Ramlila online this time, but the university officials didn’t agree to it. People were even requesting us to conduct only the main scenes if it is possible,” he said. 60-year-old Sushil Puri, president of the Shri Arjuna Amateur Dramatic Club, which was founded in 1935, said, “I was only six-years-old when I came into Ramlila and used to raise curtains. It was later that I was offered roles and I now supervise the whole team. Currently, there are 21 actors who play different roles. It is a tense moment for all of us this year as we will not be able to conduct Ramlila. I have been working for Ramlila for the past 50 years, but never saw such a situation.” (With inputs from Piyush Sarna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/held-since-1935-ramlila-to-skip-pu-due-to-covid/articleshow/78649560.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||BJP fields Chetan Chauhan’s widow in UP bypolls||LUCKNOW: Seeking to cash in on the sympathy factor, the BJP gave tickets to Sangeeta Chauhan and Usha Sirohi, the wives of deceased party MLAs – Chetan Chauhan and Virendra Singh Sirohi – for bypoll-bound Naugaon Sadat (Amroha) and Bulandshahr assembly seats – respectively, on Tuesday. The party announced the names of candidates for six assembly seats where byelections are due in November, withholding the name of its candidate for Deoria which fell vacant following death of its MLA Janmejay Singh. Chauhan, the cricketer-turned-politician passed away in August after contracting Corona infection, while Sirohi, a senior party leader and chief whip in the UP assembly died in March while fighting serious liver ailments. Both Chauhan and Sirohi were popular leaders in their respective constituencies. BJP’s decision to play on the sympathy factor in the two West UP seats comes even as the party battles an assertive opposition which seeks to corner the saffron party over alleged gang rape and death of a Dalit girl in Hathras. BJP sources said that the decision to field wives of Chauhan and Sirohi was taken by the UP BJP after due approval from the Central leadership. The UP BJP unit led by state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had convened the state election committee meeting on Friday last week before sending the names to the party’s central leadership. The party also decided to field former BJP’s Unnao district president, Srikant Katiyar from Bangarmau assembly seat which fell vacant following disqualification of BJP MLA and an influential Thakur leader Kuldeep Singh Senger in connection with rape of a minor. BJP’s decision to field Katiyar, a Kurmi, is seen as a party attempt to offset opposition aggressive stance of tagging BJP as a party of upper caste, essentially Thakur. Sources said that the party was initially planning to field Sangeeta Senger, wife of Kuldeep Senger but the party’s Central leadership decided against it. “The party did not wish to field a Thakur as it would have pitted the community against Brahmins. It was eventually decided to go in for a backward,” a senior BJP leader told TOI. The party, likewise, banked on local party functionaries in other bypoll-bound assembly seats. In Tundla reserved seat, which fell vacant following election of former MLA SP Singh Baghel to Lok Sabha, the party decided to field Prempal Dhangar, a local party functionary from shepherd community. He would be up against Maharaj Singh Dhangar who has been fielded by the Samajwadi Party. Similarly the party has fielded Upendra Paswan, party’s regional president (SC Morcha) from Ghatampur, the seat which fell vacant following death of party MLA and cabinet minister Kamala Rani Varun following Corona infection in August. The BJP announced the candidature of Manoj Singh, a Thakur, from Malhani (Jaunpur assembly seat which has a considerable influence of mafia-turned-politician Dhananjay Singh. Manoj happens to be a former vice-president of Allahabad University Students’ Union. State BJP chief to be in Naugaon Sadat: Hours after the BJP announced its candidates on six bypoll-bound assembly seats, state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh hit the ground running. Singh announced that he would camp in Naugaon Sadat assembly seat and preside over a booth-level meeting, followed by a gram chaupal meeting. The party said that Singh would give directions to the party functionaries on the seat which fell vacant following death of party MLA and former cricketer Chetan Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-fields-chetan-chauhanswidow-in-up-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/78650383.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 5 Covid deaths, 71 new cases, 109 recoveries||CHANDIGARH: With 71 positive cases, the city witnessed five more deaths due to the deadly virus on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 197. A total of 109 patients were discharged too. Those who died due to Covid-19 are a 76-year-old woman, a resident Sector 56. She had acute respiratory distress syndrome and chronic kidney disease. She died at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32; a 96-year-old man, resident of Sector 43. He has SARI and hypertension and died at GMCH-32; a 61-year-old woman resident of Sector 8. She had diabetes mellitus and hypertension and died at the PGI; a 55-year-old man, a resident of Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran). He had diabetes mellitus and acute respiratory distress syndrome. He died at the PGI; and a 81-year-old man, a resident of Sector 45. He had coronary artery disease and arrhythmia. He died at the PGI. Manimajra continues to see highest positive cases and recorded eight cases on Tuesday followed by Mauli Jagran (4), Sector 43 (4) and one to three cases from across the city. Till Tuesday, 13,331 positive cases have been registered in Chandigarh, of which, 1,127 are active cases and 12,007 have been cured and discharged. Chandigarh has recorded a total of 197 deaths. In Mohali district, a total of 44 positive cases were reported and 60 patients were discharged on Tuesday. However, after a few days of respite, one more death has been reported. The total recoveries have been recorded at 10,394 till Tuesday. Mohali urban recorded 35 cases followed by Gharuan (3), Derabassi (2), Kharar (2) and Lalru (2). The DC said the total number of positive cases reported in the district is 11,517, of which, 10,394 have recovered and 914 are active. A total of 209 persons have died due to Covid-19 in the district so far. Meanwhile, Ambala reported 40 positive cases on Tuesday, increasing the case tally to 8,555 with 270 active cases. said district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. As many as 19 cases were from Ambala City followed by Chourmastpur (9), Ambala Cantt (3), Mullana (3), Shahzadpur (2), and Naraingarh (1). A total of 50 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 8,179. Dr Kuldeep Singh, district civil surgeon said a total of 106 patients have died due to Covid-19. “We have collected 1,04,091 samples for testing in Ambala, of which, 78,484 are RT-PCR samples and 25,607 are antigen testing kit samples,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-records-5-covid-deaths-71-new-cases-109-recoveries/articleshow/78649545.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Pvt buses cash in on Dasara as inter-state services fail to resume||Hyderabad: With talks between officials of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) and its Andhra Pradesh counterpart over an inter-state agreement for resumption of bus services not bearing any results, passengers are being forced to shell out huge amounts to travel in private buses to head home during Dasara festival. While official sources from TSRTC say that the government might take a decision on resumption of services soon, many have already started making alternate arrangements for their travel as they don’t see the issue being resolved before the festival season commences. “It doesn’t look like they will resume the inter-state services between the Telugu states anytime soon. I have booked my tickets to Guntur on a private bus. The prices of these private travels are already on the higher side, but we do not have a choice,” said M Raghuveer, an IT employee. Another passenger who booked tickets in a private bus to Vijayawada said an additional charge of Rs 200 to Rs 400 is being levied on the public based on the distance. “I booked tickets for four members of my family yesterday to Vijayawada. In RTC, a non-AC super luxury bus ticket from Vijayawada to Hyderabad costs Rs 430 while private travels have been charging between Rs 600,” said Pallem Jayanti, a teacher. Similarly, for the AC sleeper class, the ticket which is priced at Rs 850 in RTC is costing passengers Rs 1,100-1,200 in private bus. “There are talks that the government will soon take a decision on resuming inter-state bus services before Dussehra. We are ready to start operations to AP after we get orders from the government,” a TSRTC official said. The APSRTC, on the other hand, is contemplating to run its services as stage carriers for the convenience of passengers heading home during the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-buses-cash-in-on-dasara-as-inter-state-services-fail-to-resume/articleshow/78649534.cms||Moulika.KV
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 52,000 private school students seek admission in govt schools||HYDERABAD: About 52,000 students from private schools have sought admissions in state-run schools for the academic year 2020-21 amid the pandemic. According to the commissioner and director of school education, A Sridevasena, 1.8 lakh students have taken admissions for this academic year in the government schools till date. “The admission process is still going on. Until now, 52, 000 students from private schools have taken admission in the government schools across the state,” she said. Teachers said that most of the schools have received new admissions in Class 6 and added that there is not much demand for admissions this year. “Before the admission process began, we were expecting to get admissions in huge numbers as many were enquiring about the same. However, since the process began, there is not much response,” said M Ravinder, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation, Hyderabad and teacher at Government High School, Nallakunta. He said that every year they receive 35 to 40 students in Class 6 alone, but this year the total number of new admissions till date is 40. “Only three of the admissions are from private schools,” he added. Teachers said that few high school students are willing to take admissions in government schools, but are waiting to get transfer certificate from their current school management. Telangana Recognized Private School Managements Association (TRSMA) said they have not issued TCs to any student during pandemic. “About 70, 000 government school students are accessing online classes broadcasted by TRSMA,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA, adding that some government school teachers are trying to increase the admissions by making false claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/52k-pvt-school-students-seek-admission-in-govt-schools/articleshow/78649565.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 14, 2020||Pune||Hearing impaired 18-year-old works hard to earn seat in IIT-Bombay||PUNE: A YouTube channel dedicated to helping children with special needs cope with demands of school education and entrance exam training, is what 18-year-old Tina Garg would be doing on the side while keeping up with the demanding academic pressures of being a student at Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. When Tina was just 6-7 months old, she was diagnosed with a hearing impairment. Her parents Radhika and Neeraj Garg decided to give their daughter good education and shifted from Ghaziabad to Chennai to Bengaluru, and finally to Pune. “For four years in her formative years, we stayed in Chennai so that she could attend Balavidyalaya School for Young Deaf Children. It changed her life. We never taught her sign language, and she is fluent in English and even French. She lip reads and answers. Her principal Neelam Chakrabarty always maintained that if you do not remind her, one would not know about her impairment. I believe that going ahead is the only way out. We must not be let down by circumstances,” Radhika had told TOI when her daughter scored 94% in the CBSE standard XII board examinations. Neeraj Garg, who works in the private sector, said Tina wants to take up research and had started her preparations since her standard XI. “She wanted to get into IIT and when the counselling sessions were held, she was chosen for the Engineering Physics course at IIT-B. It was a dream come true. She worked hard for this, and the credit goes to Tina and her mother,” he told TOI. When the pandemic started and all classes went online, Tina faced yet another challenge. “She can easily lip-read if a person is in front of her, but over a call or through video sessions it is problematic. She found that Google has a tool where subtitles appear when talking, and she requested her teachers at Adventure IIT to use the tool for online classes. The trainers were helpful and switched to the new platform. She scored 38th rank in the PwD category in the JEE,” Neeraj said. He said Tina is good at academics, a tennis player, and empathetic. “She has told me not to accept any fee concession that the IITs offer for differently abled, but instead fund a child’s education in the IIT who cannot afford it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hearing-impaired-18-yr-old-works-hard-to-earn-seat-in-iit-b/articleshow/78647936.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||28-year-old with mental illness raped in Andhra Pradesh's Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: A married 28-year-old woman with mental illness was allegedly kidnapped and raped at Podapadu village in Guntur’s Pedakurapadu mandal. The accused was identified as Jonnalagadda Shantiraju. According to station house officer Tirumal Rao, the woman was returning home after purchasing milk from a local shop when the accused, a drunk, realising that she had a mental disability, forcefully took her inside his house. He then allegedly restrained, gagged and raped her. Concerned when she did not return, the woman’s family began searching the area when a witness told them she was last seen with Shantiraju. By the time the family members located his house, he had already committed the offence. Acting on the information, police reached the spot, arrested Shantiraju and sent the woman to a local hospital for treatment. The accused was booked under charges of wrongful confinement, rape and sexual abuse. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/28-year-old-with-mental-illness-raped/articleshow/78647972.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University plans to let scholars from humanities return to campus||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University is planning to allow research scholars of social sciences to come on the campus from October 15 with the permission from their guide. The authorities are planning that scholars, whose thesis is on the final stage, will be allowed if their guide gives it in writing to the authorities. This was discussed and proposed by the research scholars during a meeting with the officials of the university on Tuesday. During the three-hour meeting with the scholars, various issues were discussed with the committee and the same were resolved by the authorities. Another issue which the scholars discussed in the meeting was about opening library facility to scholars. The officials said the authorities have to review whether it is possible to open library or not. They will have to first chalk out the standard operating procedure to be followed by students. The committee said a decision will be taken on the library facility by next week. The scholars demanded to give them the facility of hostels from October 15. The officials informed them that the hostels have to be allocated by adopting social distancing norms, for which they needed time. The dean research has sought data from all the departments on the number of scholars who are hostellers and have completed three years so that a plan can be chalked out regarding the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-plans-to-let-scholars-from-humanities-return-to-campus/articleshow/78649570.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 14, 2020||Pune||Technical snag holds up access to state scholarship results||PUNE: Technical issues led to a delay in the results of various school examinations, including the middle and high school scholarship, conducted by the Maharashtra State Exam Council (MSCE). The results were announced on Friday and till Monday, students were unable to access the results. The provisional results were announced on Friday but the technical lag led to issues with accessing and parents' efforts to reach out to the council in order to know the reason failed. The schools and parents were told to login to http://www.mscepune.in/ in order to check the results. When parents and schools logged in to the results section of this website and their login was fed, the window showed a technical error. Sunanda Patil, a parent whose son had given the scholarship exam, said, “We got to know on Saturday about the declaration of the results. We logged on to the website, but as soon as the login details were keyed in, the website would not move forward. So we tried it on Sunday and Monday too but we were still very unsuccessful. We tried to find out in my son's school, but they too were facing the same issue.” The exam council has said the problem was solved and they checked with some schools about access to the results and they received a positive response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/technical-snag-holds-up-access-to-state-scholarship-results/articleshow/78647957.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Meerut||Kairana locals attack Haryana police team, free suspect||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a case of mistaken identity, residents of Kairana town in Shamli district attacked a Haryana police team from Kurukshetra district, who were raiding a location in the town, and freed a suspect named Sonu, who was wanted in a theft case. According to UP Police, their Haryana counterparts were injured in the brawl. Several police teams have been formed to track the suspect, who is still at large, said police. According to sources, the incident happened in village Ramda when a team from Shahabad police station in Haryana’s Kurukshetra, along with local police, reached the village to arrest Sonu, who is wanted in a theft case in Shahabad police station. Just after police arrested Sonu, some locals attacked them and freed Sonu. According to police sources, several policemen sustained minor injuries in the ruckus. Afterwards, a case under various sections was registered in the case after sub-inspector Ramshwer filed a complaint at Kairana police station. According to Kairana SHO Premveer Rana, “Several police teams were pressed to arrest Sonu. We’re conducting drives to check vehicles and he’ll be arrested soon.” Police sources said they are also trying to identify those who attacked the police team in Ramda village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kairana-locals-attack-haryana-police-team-free-suspect/articleshow/78646737.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University coffee house, 8 shops to be auctioned on October 20, 21||CHANDIGARH: The long awaited auction of the Indian coffee house at the student centre on the Panjab University campus will be conducted again this month. The university registrar office has announced that the auction of the Indian coffee house along with eight more shops on the north and south campus will be conducted on October 20 and 21. The auction will be for vacant shop numbers 17, 29, 41, 65, 74 (joint shop),76 (ground floor hall) at the shopping complex, shop number 11 (south India coffee house) at the student centre, Sector 14, PU, and one chemist-cum-dental instruments/consumable shop at Dr HSJ Institute of Dental Science and Hospital and shop number 3, south campus, Sector 25. In March, after a lukewarm response from companies, the authorities decided to go for open auction for the coffee house. In the proposal, which was sent by the authorities to the vice-chancellor, it was stated that an open auction will be conducted for the coffee house. The base price for which will be Rs 50,000. The authorities also decided that shops, whose lease has expired as per the agreement at the student centre, will also be auctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-coffee-house-8-shops-to-be-auctioned-on-oct-20-21/articleshow/78649578.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Anil Vij reviews ‘dial 112’ project, says work will be completed by December 30||PANCHKULA: Haryana home minister Anil Vij reviewed the dial 112 project, which has been delayed from its actual time of completion. Anil Vij visited the state emergency response and support system 112 control room building in Sector 3 on Tuesday. He said the completion work was going on at full swing and will be completed by December 30. After the start of this project, anyone can dial 112 throughout Haryana and all kinds of emergency services, including police, medical and fire assistance, will be provided within 15 to 20 minutes. While providing details of the project, he said Rs 40 crore has been spent for the construction of the building in Sector 3. For Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), work orders of Rs 152 crore have been given, 630 new Toyota Innova cars with a budget of Rs 94 crore will be purchased under this project and 4,700 employees will be hired. After the start of this project, residents will be able to talk in four languages, including Hindi, English, Haryanvi and Punjabi. All types of emergency assistance will be provided within 15 minutes in the city and within 20 minutes in the rural areas of the state. The entire backup data for this will remain safe at the DGP office and at C-DAC office in Hyderabad. People will be able to send their complaints through voice call, message, mail, web alert and through social media as well. Employees will be given training in this regard. During the meeting, additional chief secretary home department Rajiv Arora assured Vij to start the project within the stipulated time. Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava provided all the information related to the project to the minister. The DGP said two vehicles of this project will be stationed at each police station throughout Haryana, which will help in lowering the crime rate in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vij-reviews-dial-112-project-says-work-will-be-completed-by-december-30/articleshow/78649582.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||RBI likely to issue new circular on fraud a/cs||Hyderabad: The RBI is rethinking about its master circular in respect of declaring fraud accounts and may soon come out with a new master circular and directions. Its counsel Nalin Kumar on Tuesday informed the high court that there is a rethinking on the current form of their master circular to declare suspicious bank loan accounts as fraud accounts. RBI authorities want to review this and before coming out with a new version they want to contact the central government and Central Vigilance Commission, he said, seeking eight weeks time. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that was hearing pleas filed by Rajesh Agarwal of BS Company challenging the method in which their account was declared as a fraud account. They are insisting that they should be given an opportunity to explain their case. SBI, which lost nearly Rs 1,500 crore on account of evasion by BS Company, said that RBI’s master circular had empowered them to declare accounts like this as fraud. But RBI counsel in the previous hearing argued that the penal consequences would follow only after a finding from a criminal court. SBI differed with it. Appearing for SBI, advocate general BS Prasad said that once an account is declared as fraud, all other banks should stop lending to that account holder and that should be the purpose of RBI circular. The bench noticed the confusion in the language of the circular and directed RBI to file a counter explaining the status. The counter was not filed. But, RBI is now seeking time. The bench gave one week’s time to pen its thoughts in the form of an affidavit. The case was posted to October 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rbi-likely-to-issue-new-circular-on-fraud-a/cs/articleshow/78649584.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two floodgates of Himayathsagar lifted||HYDERABAD: As the water level at Himayathsagar reservoirtouched its ‘full tank level’ (FTL), two floodgates of Himayathsagar reservoir were lifted and 1,300 cusecs of water released into river Musi. Based on the increasing inflow, the water board will take a decision on lifting another 17 floodgates as well. Officials of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) are closely monitoring the situation at reservoir. As per Himayathsagar’s water level recorded at 8 pm 1762.303 feet and 833 cusecs of inflows are arriving into the reservoir. “As IMD predicted heavy rains in the catchment areas, we have no other option except to discharge excess flood water by opening the floodgates,” a senior Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board official said. “We have alerted the revenue and police wings to ensure safety measures”, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-floodgates-of-himayathsagar-lifted/articleshow/78649587.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Streamline PASA process, says Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued a slew of directions to the state government to improve its preventive detention procedure and to curb the authorities from mechanically passing PASA orders. One of the important directions that the HC issued to the government is that it can pass preventive detention orders against those persons who are already behind bars, but in cases in which the government feels that the accused is most likely to get bail. Before the person could come out and disrupt public order, detention order can be issued against him. The HC said that for doing so, the government is required to satisfy the court that it was in its knowledge that the person was already in jail; likelihood of getting bail and indulgence in offence once again. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala felt that the matter relating to preventive detention should not be decided in a slip-shod manner. “It is very essential to look into the order of detention including the grounds of detention and the other materials on record threadbare and with all seriousness to ensure that the personal liberty of the detenue has been curtailed strictly following the procedure prescribed by law,” the bench said about court’s role. The judges said that even if the court does not get proper assistance from lawyers, the court owes a duty on its own to look into the matter threadbare. The court also advised government lawyers not to try to defend preventive detention orders, if they feel that they are not passed in accordance with law. The court then went on to lay down guideline for the authorities on how to pass detention orders so that the detainees also get proper opportunity to question it. The court has directed authorities to mention grounds for detention separately so that they could stand the scrutiny. The court has prescribed a timeline for the process — three weeks for the detaining authorities to send documents to the advisory board, if detention is challenged. Thereafter, the board has to take decision within seven weeks and inform the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/streamline-pasa-process-says-hc/articleshow/78647968.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||TPA against consent forms to send wards to school||Hyderabad: The Telangana Parents Association (TPA) on Tuesday demanded the state to not seek consent forms from parents to send their wards to schools once they reopen. They said that the state and school management should also take responsibility of children at schools instead of putting the entire responsibility on parents. They said that it would be even better if schools are not reopened until a vaccine is out for Covid-19. “Until the vaccine for coronavirus is made available or no new Covid-19 cases are reported in the state, the state should continue with the digital or online classes,” said Nagati Narayana, president, TPA. In a representation to state education minister, parents also demanded that low-cost tabs and data pack should be provided to those students who do not have devices to attend digital classes. They also said that as students are not provided with mid-day meals in the last eight months, the money allotted for the scheme should be given to parents, who are struggling to make the ends meet so that they can buy and provide nutritious food to their children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpa-against-consent-forms-to-send-wards-to-school/articleshow/78649576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: French firm to help with harnessing solar power||PUNE: An initiative by a group of engineers, doctors and teachers to teach people the skill of making low-cost solar lamps in drought-prone poor power-grid areas, will now receive a helping hand from a French software firm to upgrade those skills. The social welfare arm of Dassault Systemes, part of the larger Dassault group, has partnered with the Sharadashram Foundation based in Pune as well as an engineering college in Solapur, to train 16 engineering students on how to make low-cost, high quality home and community solar-based lighting systems, as well as laminators. “Our foundation has been doing work in drought-prone areas like Latur and Osmanabad to teach people simple and low-cost methods to make solar lamps, for more than a decade now. But now, the aim is to make those cutting-edge and high-quality, while keeping the ethos of simple manufacturing methods and being low-cost. Dassault is extending us a helping hand towards that end. This also helps in integrating industry with the academia, something China has been able to do very effectively. 16 final-year engineering students will learn new and upgraded methods to manufacture solar lamps, as well as a few other solar-powered equipment, such as laminators, which can be used to harness solar power effectively,” said Sachin Dhande, part of the Sharadashram Foundation. The students at the engineering college in Solapur, according to Dhande, will learn 3D imaging and printing techniques using specialized software and equipment, from trained mentors, which is part of Dassault’s contribution to the initiative. The project is scheduled to run for a year, by which a prototype is expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/french-firm-to-help-with-harnessing-solar-power/articleshow/78647974.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||173 discharged, active cases continue to decline||Vadodara: With 173 Covid-19 patients being discharged on a single day on Tuesday, the number of active patients in the city and district went down significantly. From 1,806 cases under treatment on Monday, the number went down to 1,742 on Tuesday. Against the healthy number of discharged patients, 109 persons tested positive in 24 hours since Monday evening. These were found from 4,163 samples tested across the city and district. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city and district went up to 13,275. The total number of discharged cases in the city and district now stands at 11,327. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not confirm any more deaths and the toll due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death remained at 206. Those under treatment include 62 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines. As many as 167 others were on oxygen support. Since Sunday, the number of patients on BIPAP machines and ventilators has also shown a steady decline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/173-discharged-active-cases-continue-to-decline/articleshow/78646016.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Input credit tax scam: GST officials demanded Rs 5 crore bribe, says CBI||Hyderabad: The CBI that is investigating into the GST commissionerate’s input credit tax scam has informed the high court that GST deputy commissioner Chilaka Sudha Rani and office superintendent BS Gandhi demanded Rs 5 crore as bribe from J S Sridhar Reddy of Bharani commodities. They collected Rs 10 lakh as cash and sought the rest of the bribe in the form of land and plots. Though Gandhi claims that he was posted at Medchal GST office and hence has got nothing to do with anti-evasion wing operating from Hyderabad, he was in fact operating from this very same city office and in fact from the chamber of Sudha Rani. The staff of this city themselves deposed to this effect before the CBI. Ashok Kumar Mahail, the inspector of CBI’s anti-corruption wing filed an affidavit before the high court to this effect. The affidavit was filed in response to the petition filed by Gandhi challenging the FIR registered by CBI against him. He raised a technical objection over CBI obtaining permission from the Union finance minister to commence criminal proceedings against him. He said that the competent authority to do so is the GST commissioner and not the finance minister. “We obtained prior approval under section 17 A of the Prevention of Corruption Act from the competent authority only after sufficiently briefing the higher authorities about the gravity of the situation,” the CBI officer said. “In fact, we conducted a preliminary probe to ascertain facts and only after satisfying ourselves about the veracity of the complaint, we registered the FIR,” the inspector said. When the highest authority like Union finance minister accorded the sanction, it is incorrect to say that group B gazetted officer should give this sanction. Saying that Gandhi earned crores of rupees in an illegal manner during his decade-old stint with enforcement directorate (ED), the CBI said that it filed a separate disproportionate assets case against him. “He got an advisory firm Sri Sha registered in the name of his wife. He raids certain companies as ED authority. Later, the same companies would avail advisory services from his wife and pay her hefty sums,” the CBI said in its affidavit explaining Gandhi’s mode of extortion. His wife Sirisha secured a similar work contract for Rs 29 lakh from Indu projects when Gandhi was probing Indu- Housing Board part of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy assets case. A chargesheet against Gandhi will soon be filed separately, the CBI officer said in the affidavit. The case will come up for hearing before Justice K Lakshman on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/input-credit-tax-scam-gst-officials-demanded-rs-5-crore-bribe-says-cbi/articleshow/78649593.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer fined Rs 50,000 for not attaching super SMS with combine harvester||MOHALI: The Mohali administration has imposed an environmental compensation fine of Rs 50,000 to a farmer, who was found operating combine harvester without super straw management system (super SMS) during the paddy harvesting in Mohali. The combine harvester machine of the farmer has also been impounded. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said checking by the joint team of the agriculture department and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) found that the combine harvester was being operated without attaching the super straw management system at Gharuan village in Kharar block. The combine was seized and violator Balwinder Singh has been asked to deposit the environmental compensation of Rs 50,000 within the stipulated time period. The DC said it is necessary to curtail stubble burning to prevent environmental pollution. “Amid the coronavirus pandemic, it becomes all the more pertinent as polluting air quality may put people with co-morbidity at higher risk,” he said. Pertinently, the DC has issued prohibitory orders upon the use of combine harvesters without super straw management system in the district. The PPCB under the Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1981 has also issued directions that no harvester combine shall be allowed to harvest paddy in the state without the super straw management system. Environmental compensation of Rs 50,000, Rs 75,000 and Rs one lakh will be imposed on violators found operating without attaching the super straw management system on first, second, third and subsequent violation of the orders, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-fined-rs-50k-for-not-attaching-super-sms-with-combine-harvester/articleshow/78649588.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||70-year-old bitten by daughter-in-law in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 70-year-old woman from the Sukhramnagar locality in Rakhial on Tuesday filed a police complaint alleging that her daughter-in-law had bitten her right thumb and her three grandsons and another daughter-in-law had beaten her so badly that she fell unconscious. In her FIR with Rakhial police, Kasturi Khatik stated that her daughter-in-law, Geeta Khatik, who lives in Ramrajyanagar, often fought with her over a property dispute. On the morning of October 5, Geeta and her sons Praveen and Suraj came to Kasturi’s house and began fighting with her. Geeta then bit Kasturi on her right thumb and her sons thrashed her. On hearing the commotion, her other daughter-in-law, Sunita, and her son Sanjay came there and they also began hitting her, saying that she did not want to give her property to them. When she regained consciousness, she called her daughters foer help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/70-yr-old-bitten-by-daughter-in-law/articleshow/78648005.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: NSUI protests ‘wrongdoings’ in forest guard recruitment process||DEHRADUN: Led by their national president Neeraj Kundan, the NSUI members staged a protest in Dehradun against the alleged wrongdoings in the recruitment process of forest guards. The NSUI members gathered at the Congress state headquarters and staged a march towards the secretariat. However, they were stopped by the police team at a barricading on Subhash Road. Subsequently, the agitating NSUI members sat on the ground and raised slogans against the state government over the delay in making the SIT probe public in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsui-protests-wrongdoings-in-forest-guard-recruitment-process/articleshow/78645601.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mumbai woman raped at star hotel||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old woman from Bandra alleged that she was raped by a city-based businessman with the assistance of two of her woman friends at a star hotel in Banjara Hills in June. The survivor lodged a complaint with Mumbai police in July and the case has been transferred to Hyderabad in October first week. According to Banjara Hills police, the woman from Bandra along with two of her friends, Sweety and Prajakta, came to the city on June 11 to attend the birthday party of Zubair at a star hotel on Road Number 2, Banjara Hills. “They stayed in the hotel and the complainant alleged that on June 13 night, Sweety and Prajakta forced her to consume liquor and when she was in an inebriated condition, Zubair raped her in the hotel room,” Banjara Hills inspector N Kalinga Rao said.  Police are obtaining CCTV footage from the hotel and other details to locate Zubair. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mumbai-woman-raped-at-star-hotel/articleshow/78649590.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Illegal brewing dents prohibition plans||VIJAYAWADA: Even as the state government is moving towards prohibition in a phased manner, the scale of arrack brewing has grown and become more prevalent across the state. Data from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) show that, since its formation in the third week of May this year, the SEB has destroyed 57.21 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash, the main raw material for brewing arrack. The bureau has also seized 2.58 litres of Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor and booked 19,567 cases against 19,123 accused in a span of five months. As part of implementing complete prohibition, the state government in the first phase reduced the number of liquor outlets by 33% and increased prices by 75%, a move aimed at reducing consumption. The government now plans to phase out all outlets in a phased by 2024. Though the plan to curb consumption has had some success as reflected in sales, which are down 30% for liquor and nearly 50% for beer, arrack consumption and entry of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) from other states has cast doubts over the actual reduction in liquor consumption. The SEB, meanwhile, has initiated a series of measures to control the arrack menace that has spread across all districts. In fact, three years ago, the excise department announced nine out of 13 districts as arrack-free after launching the Navodayam programme, under which habitual offenders and arrack brewers were counselled and rehabilitated. Now, with arrack brewing having made inroads into all districts, the task before the SEB—complete prohibition—has become more daunting. Senior officials in the SEB said they have intensified raids across the state and habitual offenders are under constant surveillance. The SEB is also developing networks for intelligence collection. With stringent provisions under the amended Excise Act stipulating sentences up to eight years, the bureau hopes that the trend will come down soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/illegal-brewing-dents-prohibition-plans/articleshow/78647983.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Problem more prevalent in urban areas than in rural: Teachers||The teacher added that they tried to connect with these ‘missing’ students with the help of other students in the area, but found they do not reside in their old homes. Teachers said that the problem is more prevalent in urban areas than in rural areas as many students have either moved back to districts or out of the state. According to them, this problem is mostly with class 6, class 7, and class 8 students, among other classes. “In my class, three students had Covid-19-related deaths in the family and about five to six students went back to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, among other areas. I have been trying to reach out to these students, but in most of the cases there is no response,” said a teacher from Government High School, Nallakunta, adding that when the entire school is taken into consideration the number of untraceable students will further increase. A Sridevasena, commissioner and director of School Education, Telangana, hopes that the percentage of untraceable students would not be as high as 10%. “Many students migrated to other parts during the pandemic. What we need to believe is these students are accessing digital classes as viewership for Doordarshan during the time digital lessons are telecasted. The viewership has increased by 200%,” Sridevasena told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/problem-more-prevalent-in-urban-areas-than-in-rural-teachers/articleshow/78649617.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Act against e-gambling, 1887 law needs change’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday told the state government to act against online gambling in accordance with the law. The court highlighted the need to amend the Gambling Act, enacted in 1887, to include online gambling within its ambit. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala said: “If any website is operating in the state of Gujarat or is engaged in any gambling games, the state shall deal with the same in accordance with law, rules, regulations and the policy, as may be applicable.” Besides, the court directed the state government to “examine whether such games result in money laundering or violation of laws relating to foreign exchange as well.” The court issued these directions in response to a PIL filed by advocate Amit Nair seeking restraint on online rummy. The court accepted his lawyer Bhargav Hasurkar’s submission that online gambling websites and mobile applications are mushrooming at an alarming rate and are completely unchecked by the Gujarat Prevention of Gambling Act. The court said a comprehensive regulatory framework is necessary to regulate ‘online gambling/rummy’ and to curb any illegal activity. “The problem today is that in the absence of appropriate amendments in the provisions of the Act, 1887, no check or action is being taken when it comes to ‘online gambling’,” the judges observed. The judges called for an expanded definition of common gambling house to include online gambling. They said: “…an individual would get arrested only if he is caught playing rummy/cards outside/in a gambling den in the state of Gujarat, whereas an individual playing ‘online rummy’ cannot be arrested or booked for the offence of gambling.” The HC observed that internet gambling has raised the issues posed by traditional gambling: uneasiness about the morality of the activity; the likelihood of addiction; the possibility of fraud; and the conflict between state and central regulations. The HC delved into the aspect of morality and said that children are required to be protected from this addiction just as they are to be protected from indecent material. Without proper monitoring, gambling websites could be readily available to kids the way they could access pornography. The HC said that regulating online gambling is very important in the public interest, but it cannot direct the government to legislate. But the HC ordered the government to treat Nair’s PIL as a representation and do the needful to curb online gambling. The government promised to take the required action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/act-against-e-gambling-1887-law-needs-change/articleshow/78647978.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Power demand falls to 3k MW, officials alert||Hyderabad: With heavy rains lashing the state due to depression for the last two days, power demand in the state has fallen to 3,100 MW against the normal power demand of 12,000 MW. It is likley to further dip to 2,900 MW due to power shutdown. Telangana Genco and Transco CMD D Prabhakar Rao, asked the engineers to ensure there will not be any sudden voltage drop in the units. As there is a fall in power demand, Genco has backdown the thermal power units and monitoring the situation. Both Prabhakar Rao and Telangana Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd CMD G Raghuma Reddy urged consumers to inform the discom if they find any electric wire snapped on the road and not to touch transformers. “If water gushes into the cellars in apartments, the apartment societies or owners should switch off power immediately and inform the discom to avoid short-circuit and mishaps. People can reach on 1912 or 100 fuse call office for their grievances,” the TSSPDCL chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-demand-falls-to-3k-mw-officials-alert/articleshow/78649602.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Paralytic woman dies of shock after son commits suicide||MEERUT: Unable to come to terms with her son’s death, a paralytic mother died of “shock” moments after he committed suicide allegedly due to marital discord. The incident occurred in Baghpat's Tateeri Mandi. Anuj (30) got married to Aru from Ghaziabad in 2018. A few months after marriage, a discord ensued between the two, following which the woman filed a domestic violence case against the man and started living off separately with her parents. According to police sources, Anuj's mother had suffered paralysis a few weeks ago after which he had reached the house of his estranged wife and asked her to come back. But he was ‘humiliated’ to such an extent that after coming back, he allegedly slit his throat with a blade and was rushed to hospital in a critical condition. Learning about the development, his mother couldn't bear the shock and died, Anuj's family members said. “Things couldn’t work out between my brother and his wife and she filed a dowry case against him and my family,” Anuj’s sister Anu Devi said. Meanwhile, Baghpat police station in-charge NS Sirohi said, “The 30-year-old man had bled considerably and was in an agitated state. He was unwilling to get himself treated. Our team nevertheless took him to a primary health centre from where he was referred to a higher centre. Investigations are on and we have received a complaint from the victim’s family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/paralytic-woman-dies-of-shock-after-son-commits-suicide/articleshow/78646752.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Parents, students willing to waste this academic year||Rajkot/ Ahmedabad: For Rajkot-based businessman Dushyant Patel, cash is not a deterrent for educating his son Janak studying in Class VII. Yet, Patel recently approached the school authorities inquiring about option of taking a year’s drop for Janak. Reason: Janak is not being able to cope up with virtual classes. “It’s very tough for him to grasp the subjects in online classes. In a classroom environment, teachers can give more attention to weak students. But it is not possible in virtual sessions,” Patel told TOI. Around 10-12 % students in the state are taking a year’s drop from their study for a variety of reasons – all induced by Covid-19 pandemic, said Jatin Bharad, vice-president of Gujarat Self-finance School Management Association. (GSFSA) Like many parents, Patel believes that his son too can easily clear exams as school and government will adopt a lenient approach when it comes to assessment. “But if his foundation itself is weak, he won’t be able to crack board board exam,” he said. “Those wanting to let do after current academic year are maximum from Class I to VII. Many parents have not even collected leaving certificates (LCs) while others did so that they don’t have to pay fees this year,” said Bharad. Sources said cash-strapped parents and difficulty in adjusting with online education are the prime reasons behind this. At a Palanpur-based private school, over 30 parents whose wards are enrolled from Class I to VII, have decided against online studies. “They even refused to collect their books while many have returned to their natives in Rajasthan saying they won’t be returning soon. There are others who are finding it difficult to adjust with the online system,” said school owner Kanak Pandya, who also heads Banaskantha’s SFSA In Ahmedabad too, parents have started exploring the option of taking a year’s drop for their wards. Amrut Bharwad, president of Ahmedabad School Management Association, added: “Parents believe that most of the academic year is already wasted due to Covid-19. Even if schools re-start, they don’t want to send their wards until the situation normalizes.” “Parents are worried that even if the schools re-start, the fickle-minded kids will not follow Covid protocols which in turn may result in infection,” said Hitesh Patel from Sabarkantha SFSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/parents-students-willing-to-waste-this-academic-year/articleshow/78646777.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 14, 2020||Goa||Stigma keeping people away from Covid tests: Goa medical college dean||PANAJI: Goa medical college (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that testing numbers haven’t reduced because the government doesn’t want to test more people, but because people are afraid to test for Covid-19 due to stigma. Over the past fortnight, Goa has seen a daily average of 400-500 cases, far less than in August and September. But Bandekar, who is also in charge of Covid hospitals, doesn’t feel the infection is reducing. “I won’t say cases are on the decline,” he said. “(Numbers are low) probably because people are not coming forward to test due to stigma.” Bandekar said that it has been observed that some people choose to stay home without testing even after having a fever for three or more days. “There are several cases in which patients have died shortly after hospitalisation, or were brought dead and tested positive in post mortem,” he said. He said one of the patients who died on Monday had oxygen saturation of 67%. “Patients with such low levels of oxygen can’t be treated at home,” he said. “I don’t understand how they stay home for so long with the illness.” Over the past four weeks, GMC has begun conducting a death audit of Covid-related mortalities, and some of these points were highlighted by the committee of super-specialist consultants appointed to do the audit. Bandekar said that since this a pandemic, people must be alert to even minor symptoms of Covid-19, and immediately report for testing. “People stay home and come to hospital when the illness has reached an advanced stage,” he said. The death audit committee has also given suggestions that include better monitoring of patients in home isolation. The committee also recommended that patients seek medical help at the earliest. Bandekar said that patients are not controlling their diabetes, and that many deaths have been seen in this category of patients. “Patients advised to start insulin are hesitant to do so, leading to aggravation of their condition,” he said. He said the audit has also looked at the socio-economic condition of patients, and if they refused to see a doctor. “Was it distance? Was the hospital or facility far from the patient’s residence and hence it deterred him from seeking medical help?” he said. “The committee also looked into the kind of reach available to patients who test positive but don’t report for treatment.” Bandekar said that patients who have symptoms but don’t test for Covid-19 are “more dangerous”, as they are likely to spread the infection to others. “They are super-spreaders, as people are unaware of their positive status,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stigma-keeping-people-away-from-covid-tests-gmc-dean/articleshow/78649626.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Coronavirus cases dipping in Tamil Nadu, but don’t drop guard: Health secretary||MADURAI: Covid-19 cases are declining in Tamil Nadu, and the positivity rate is less than 5% in at least 18 districts, but public must follow safety precautions and avoid crowding, especially during the upcoming festival season, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said on Tuesday. “Even as we are testing 85,000 to 90,000 samples per day, Covid-19 cases are declining in the state. We are also ensuring adequate infrastructure for treatment of Covid-19 patients. In Tamil Nadu, 188.8 MT of oxygen is required whereas we have availability of around 1000 MT. Even in taluk and non-taluk hospitals in rural areas, oxygen supply is being made available,” Radhakrishnan told reporters after inspecting the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai. Denying claims that fever camps have been reduced, Radhakrishnan said that they were focusing in areas where cases are being reported. “Early diagnosis and timely treatment can easily save lives. All latest treatments and drugs like Remdesivir or even immunoglobulin treatment for children have been made available free of cost in government facilities,” he said and reiterated that public must not take Covid-19 lightly till a vaccine is made available. Radhakrishnan said that with festival season and monsoon setting in, public must co-operate to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and other mosquito and water-borne diseases. “Crowding in public areas must be avoided. We could collect crores of rupees as fine, but the onus is on the public to be aware and follow precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Change in habits is required,” he said. Radhakrishnan also affirmed that construction work on Madurai AIIMS will begin soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/coronavirus-cases-dipping-but-dont-drop-guard-health-secy/articleshow/78650411.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath's exclusive interview with TOI||LUCKNOW: UP has risen to the challenge of coronavirus, turning one of the most formidable health challenges into an opportunity to bolster its infrastructure. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tells Subhash Mishra, Shailvee Sharda & Neha Lalchandani how India’s most populous state has tackled the pandemic and is getting ready for the post-Covid times. Excerpts... Q: What has the Covid-19 containment journey been so far like?A: We have improved constantly. Numbers speak for UP’s performance. Our recovery rate is around 90% while the case positivity is about 2.2% while case fatality rate is 1.4%. We have conducted more than 1.21 crore tests and we have been maintaining a daily average of between 1.5 lakh and 1.75 lakh tests. This is the same state where there was no facility to conduct Covid-19 tests in March. Today, we have 1.75 lakh beds of levels 1, 2 and 3. There were 36 districts where there were no ventilators. Today, we have ICU beds and HFNC in all the 75 districts of the state. Testing facilities are present in all the districts. Q: What has been UP’s strength in the battle against the pandemic virus? A: The strength of our campaign lies in the leadership of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his able guidance. Whatever decisions he took, we followed them in letter and spirit. However, governments may order… but campaigns especially the ones related to public health cannot succeed unless people join the movement. So, we also targeted for public participation to win over the people’s confidence which gave weight to our campaign against the virus. Q: Did Covid-19 jolted you into action or your government was already working on the public health front?A: In the past six years, the BJP-led Central government has undertaken unparalleled initiatives for development of health infrastructure under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana. But previous government in UP did not take advantage of the situation. Instead it created roadblocks in the implementation of the schemes. When the responsibility was given to me in March 2017, we tried to make the most of the opportunity before us. In fact we have been able to do what could not be done in 70 years. And the results are all before us. Q: What were your government’s major achievements in the health sector? A: In the past three and a half years, the state has put its best foot forward to improve the health care infrastructure. For instance, only 12 medical colleges came up in the state between 1947 and 2017. But between 2016-17 and 2019-20, 29 government medical colleges are being developed. Two AIIMS-like institutes are also ready. Undergraduate level admissions were taken in the two AIIMS previous year and we hope to start full-fledged indoor patient care services very soon. In six of our old medical colleges, 220- bed specialty blocks have been built. Now our focus is to have a medical college at least at every division to provide specialist medical services to the people. Alongside, we have worked hard to improve health facilities at the level of the CHCs, PHCs and district hospitals to bring down infant and maternal mortality rates in UP. The state worked hard to boost routine immunization. In fact, the Mission Indradhanush was taken up on a mission mode. Also, advanced life support ambulances are available in all the 75 districts. I remember till March 31, 2017, there were no life support ambulances in the state. We added 250 such ambulances at the rate of four each in big districts and two in others. These ambulances came handy during the Covid-19 pandemic. These ambulances were like mini ICUs or ICU on wheels. Q: You have spoken about turning adversity into opportunity. Does that mean a favourable atmosphere for future investment in health care?A: Yes but on our terms and conditions. We have realized that 16 districts of the state have no medical colleges… we are working to start medical colleges on PPP model in these districts. So we will provide all necessary support to private players willing to come in these 16 districts. Meanwhile, we have also started a medical university in the name of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee for strengthening the medical education in the state. In addition to this, the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and BSL labs will also go a long way in improving the quality of public sector health care facilities in the state. Q. What other kinds of health sector investments will be welcome?A: Anything that benefits the people directly in terms of their health and well-being and indirectly by creating jobs and contributing to local economies. A number of steps have already been taken. Initially medical equipment like thermometers, pulse oximeter and PPE kits were being imported but now they are being manufactured in the state. Our MSMEs are producing them and this has brought price down. Q: The focus on health sector infrastructure development is need of the hour but what about human resource shortage? A: All medical colleges will have a nursing and paramedical college to attend to the required human resource needs. We have also started medical bonds at both UG and PG levels to provide health care services in the periphery. I want to make it clear that if the state government is paying for the medical education, it is public money… and the doctors must return it to the public by aiding the government in providing affordable health care to the people. This is also their social responsibility. Q: Can we say that UP rose to the Covid challenge?A: Covid definitely gave an impetus to health infrastructure development by accelerating the work. Initially no one was able to gauge the depth of the challenge that would come up with Covid-19. But in February, we scanned the movement of people entering the state from NCR and also the Indo-Nepal border. On March 13, we closed schools and two day later all public institutions were shut. But the health infrastructure development plan was under way. The disease was so contagious that we decided to add up our resources. Q: Health infrastructure development is a cost-intensive business. How has the state managed? Did the CM Cares model work for the state? Would you like to use it again in future? A: It is true that governments always have limited means. So we pooled in funds from all possible ends besides re-distributing our resources. Contributions were taken from public representatives, corporate and social organisations. A number of initiatives would not have seen light of the day had it not been for contributions under the CM Cares funds. The donations were used in a big way in setting up labs of BSL-2 category and development of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. We used our resources to provide free treatment and testing facilities to people besides arranging for the logistics like PPE kits, sanitizers, medical equipment, etc. The model may be used again in public interest but only if there is genuine need. Q: Did the encephalitis experience come handy in controlling the epidemic?A: The encephalitis success story gave us an idea to face any kind of public health crisis. The principles of convergence and surveillance were crucial for saving lives in addition to the health infrastructure. And surveillance through testing and contact tracing has been our strength in the Covid-19 control campaign too. Surveillance of initial symptoms like fever and oxygen saturation with the use of infra-red thermometers and pulse oximeter was also undertaken. In fact we allowed home isolation much later than many states only to ensure that any suspected person was separated from the remaining population. Also, the facility was allowed only when we saw that people were hiding their disease status. The relaxation enabled the system to screen out the hidden cases. In fact, the model of encephalitis control can go a long way in checking the spread of TB too. Q: UP’s encephalitis control story is a turning point in state’s health care.A: In 1977, a team from NIV Pune identified the first encephalitis case in BRD medical College Gorakhpur. As many as 38 districts of the state were in the grip of encephalitis which killed 500-1500 people, mostly children, every year. The killer disease continued to take lives till 2017 when our dedicated campaign against the annual killer was launched. Circa 2020, the number of deaths has been reduced to double digits. In BRD Medical College, for instance, where each year 700-800 lives were lost, the number this year is 15 while the the peak season is about to end. It has proven that no goal is impossible to achieve with concerted efforts. Encephalitis turnaround came with combined efforts of various departments focusing on disease prevention, health infrastructure development, surveillance, community messaging and sanitation and hygiene initiatives. An all-round attack on the disease compelled it to leave. Q: You have favoured use of technology. Also you were open to new models of Covid-19 management before many states? A: Technology simplifies many things. The way telemedicine supported public health management has been remarkable. The learning will come handy later on naturally. Of all initiatives we launched, the concept of virtual ICUs in which mentor organisations SGPGI and KGMU trained doctors, nurses, para-medical staff to attend critical patients has been extremely useful in management of very serious patients. Available modalities of tele-consultation have also proved their use in the pandemic times. We had also launched these models in aspirational districts and will now extend it to other districts too. About Covid-19, I can only say that the world knows that there is no specific treatment or vaccine for Covid-19. The doctors manage the symptoms. Therefore, whatever appeared best for the public, we tried to embrace it with open arms in addition to whatever was possible. Q: UP’s Covid-19 control strategy has worked well so far. But the risk of a second surge stares us. What is the strategy for checking this impending crisis?A: We are in the habit of facing challenges… When the lockdown was imposed, a lot of people, about 4 lakh, started heading back to their homes and we ensured that they reached safely. Thereafter we facilitated the movement of over 30,000 students studying in Kota and Prayagraj back to their homes. Then we had the surge in cases due to Tablighi Jamaat incident. It was followed by the migrant surge in which over 36 lakh workers from UP based in different parts of the country came back. We stayed ahead of the epidemic and checked community spread. The coronavirus is the one of the most contagious viruses humanity has seen in the century. And staying ten steps ahead of it has given us the edge needed to keep it under control. We are all prepared for the anticipated surge in public activity during the festive season. We are going to undertake Covid-19 awareness through a public address system to reinforce the message of social distancing and use of masks. Covid-19 prevention is being sent out from traffic booths along with road safety messages. I would like to share that road safety is another major issue we have taken. In 2019-20, 22000 lives have been lost due to road accidents which is over three and a half times the total lives lost due to the Covid-19 pandemic in UP. In addition to this, a special cleanliness campaign has been launched. Q: How did Lucknow become a Covid-19 hot spot despite availability of every possible resource here? A: Testing is one reason. Poor adherence and cooperation by the people is another reason. In an assessment, we found that 1,000 out of 1,150 people in Lucknow had given wrong contact details which forced us to fix the responsibility and make address proof mandatory for Covid-19 testing. For deaths, I think the over-confidence in patients is to be blamed. People give lame excuses and use contacts to ensure that they do not have to go to the hospitals. The containment plan is already under implementation to break the chain. Q: Non-Covid-19 care is slowly picking up but full normalcy is yet to be achieved. What is the state doing to bolster it further?A: We have resumed all other services. Routine immunization is picking up fast. Vector borne diseases control programmes are being implemented cautiously. Q: What is your message to the people vis-à-vis public health?A: All I want to tell them is that there cannot be any friendship with a disease. Covid-19 is the century’s most damaging and contagious infection. It is the duty of the people to contribute towards its containment. They must tell the truth to the health teams in their individual interest and also for the betterment of the community. I would urge the elderly not to step out of their homes unless it is indispensable and request the younger generation to stay extra cautious if they have a vulnerable patient including a sick elderly, small children, pregnant women or diseased kin at home. We can provide services to you but cannot buy life… there is no medicine or vaccine against Covid-19. Watch TOI exclusive: 16 medical colleges on PPP model to be set up in UP, says CM Yogi Adityanath||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cm-yogi-adityanaths-exclusive-interview-with-toi/articleshow/78650412.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali check on illegal mining bares the rot||MOHALI: The administration has identified 14 illegal crushers operating in Majri block and established that the movement of trucks for illegal mining has increased during nights, in a clear indication that illegal miners are not backing down despite continuous checks and raids. In another measure to curb the practice, Ropar range commissioner Rahul Tiwari issued directions to constitute joint teams of sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs), executive engineers (XENs) of Punjab Pollution Control Board, mining department and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to keep a watch on legal and illegal mining sites, crushers and curb the movement of illegal mining tipper trucks. The orders were issued after Tiwari along with deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, additional deputy commissioner Aashika Jain, SP (rural) Ravjot Kaur, Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain and others inspected the mining sites at Majri block recently. Dayalan said, “We have decided to identify illegal crushers and impound machinery to check the source of gravel and sand. We will also impose Section 144 of CrPC during nights in mining sites.” He said the joint teams will ensure the sites are demarcated and marked. The DC said, “The source of gravel for stone crushers is being misused by showing bogus raw material receipts from area where gravel is procured, but actually it is being illegally mined from place nearest to stone crushers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-check-on-illegal-mining-bares-the-rot/articleshow/78649622.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC may order CBI probe into Rs 30 crore plot row||CHANDIGARH: Hinting at CBI probe into the alleged attempt to grab a Rs 30-crore plot in the city’s upscale Sector 5, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked all the parties related to the controversial case to submit a brief synopsis of proposed points of investigation/enquiry to be carried in the matter. “During the course of the arguments, counsel for all the parties submitted and have no objection for handing over the enquiry/investigation of the controversy involved in this case, to Central Bureau of Investigation…Not only the fraud is alleged to have been played by the parties in different manners but a tactic has also been adopted just to cheat the other parties. Accordingly, counsels appearing for the parties are also directed to prepare a brief synopsis by noting down their proposed points of enquiry/investigation so that the issues in respect of the same can be mentioned in the order,” observed the court in its order released on Tuesday. The court has also ordered stay on the proceedings of civil suit pertaining to the property pending before the district court and ordered to produce the original record in a sealed cover before the court. The matter would now come up for hearing on Wednesday. A division bench comprising Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta passed these orders while hearing the main case. The matter had reached before the court in the wake of an application filed by Padamjit Singh who had worked for the United Nations and is settled in the US. The 84-year-old was shocked from the writ petition number 9464/ 2020 that was filed before the court on July 3 in his name “fraudulently and by forging documents”. The dispute pertains to ownership of house number 17 in Sector 5 having value of around Rs 30 crore. The applicant’s father, Sunder Singh, was the owner of the house. After his death in 1986, the house became a property of Padamjit Singh and his brother Kanwar S Singh, with 50% share each. Although the family of Padamjit’s brother had filed a suit related to full ownership of the house, Padamjit had won the case. Later, Padamjit had sold his share to Pritam Kaur, wife of Peshaura Singh Thind. Even a sale deed was also executed by him in favour of Pritam Kaur. However, on July 3, Padamjit came to know from Pritam Kaur’s son Rupinder Singh Thind that a petition was filed before the court on his behalf in which he has been claiming that he is still an owner of 50% share of the house and never sold his share to anyone. On inquiries, Padamjit came to know that a “forged petition” was filed on his behalf and even a stay order was obtained from the court on July 8. He filed an application through his counsel, senior advocate Chetan Mittal, seeking a probe. The matter is pending since then. SEC 5 PROPERTY DISPUTE The dispute is related to ownership of house number 17 in Sector 5 having value of around Rs 30 crore The house had become a property of Padamjit Singh, who is settled in the US, and his brother Kanwar S Singh, with 50% share each Padamjit had sold his share to Pritam Kaur, wife of Peshaura Singh Thind Padamjit alleged a petition was filed before the court on his behalf in which it was claimed he never sold his share to anyone. Padamjit alleged a “forged petition” was filed on his behalf and a stay order was obtained from the court on July 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-may-order-cbi-probe-into-rs-30cr-plot-row/articleshow/78649627.cms||Ajay Sura
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Citing pandemic, administration bans hookah bars in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Deputy commissioner Mandip Brar on Tuesday ordered a ban on hookah bars from October 14 for 60 days in the city. The order issued under Section 144 of CrPC to control the spread of novel coronavirus stated, “…hookah bars are operational in Chandigarh in a clandestine way...the hookah in many of these bars is being smoked/consumed by people/customers through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having mouth piece, which is susceptible to physical mouth to mouth touch of many persons, posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of pandemic Covid-19 in Chandigarh.” The DC ordered no hookah would be served in hotels, restaurants, taverns and bars. Any person violating the order shall be punished under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. In 2019, the administration had sought details like samples collected from hookah bars and the outcome of the tests. A report was also sought related to building by-laws of the premises from where bars were running. The matter was discussed in the Administrator’s Advisory Council meeting on February 14, 2019, on the pattern of Punjab government but no final decision was taken. Although there are more than 10 hookah bars, sources said almost every disco and bar sell flavoured hookah. These outlets are in sectors 7, 8, 9 and 26, besides Industrial Area, phases I and II. Officials of the health department had submitted before the administration that smoking hookah was damaging the health of young people. Over the years, police and the health department officials have raided many hookah bars and seized drugs that were being served to customers. In some cases, the teams found traces of nicotine in the samples of hookah tobacco, which is a dangerous combination. Even action was initiated against a few violators. Punjab had banned hookah bars in 2018In 2018, the Punjab government had decided to impose a permanent ban on hookah bars in the state instead of issuing temporary orders against them every two months. The proposed amendment was approved by the state assembly in March 2018 and later in November 2018 President Ram Nath Kovind had given assent to a Bill from the Punjab state to check use of tobacco. Punjab was the third state in the country after Gujarat and Maharashtra where hookah bars or lounges were banned through law||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citing-covid-admn-bans-hookah-bars-for-60-days/articleshow/78649640.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Showers boost storage, stock in dams higher than last year’s||PUNE: The catchments of most dams in Pune district have reported good rainfall in the last few days, including the four that supply water to the city. Khadakwasla dam got over 100mm rainfall in the last three days, which pushed the rainfall received to over 1,000mm. Its cumulative rainfall for the last three days was the highest among the four dams in the Khadakwasla circle. The other three dams, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar, reported around 40mm rainfall each for the same period. The collective water stock in the four dams was at 28.68 TMC (98.3%). The irrigation department said storage in the dams may go up if the catchments continue to receive rain. The latest spells not only helped the irrigation department maintain the stock to near full capacities, but it was also 0.75 TMC more than last year’s storage of 27.96 TMC. An official from the irrigation department said there was no immediate plan to release water from Khadakwasla unless there was significant inflow of rain water in the reservoirs. “The stock in Khadakwasla has been brought down to 78% while stock in Panshet and Varasgaon is at 100%. The department is maintaining the maximum water in the dams. Water will be released after Khadakwasla’s stock reaches full capacity,”official said. The irrigation department has stopped release of water into the Mutha canal since there has been no demand from the rural areas. Many dams in the Bhima basin reported good spells of rain. Mulshi reported over 35mm rainfall, Gunjawani 30mm and Kasarsai 25mm. The Pavana dam that supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad reported 15mm rainfall with its 97% stock. Ujani dam released 15,000 cusecs on Tuesday after more than 50mm rainfall in three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/showers-boost-storage-stock-in-dams-higher-than-last-years/articleshow/78648007.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman thrashes man for filming her||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old woman from Chandkheda, on Monday evening beat up a 40-year-old man after she learned that he had been filming her on his phone near a shopping centre in Jagatpur. The woman, who runs a bangle manufacturing unit, later filed a complaint for stalking with Chandkheda police in which she stated that the man, Jayesh Patel, a resident of Ramol, filmed her and her woman friend without their consent. She states that she and her friend had gone to a shopping complex to buy vegetables. She saw that Patel was pretending to talk on his cellphone, which had its flashlight on, and was trying to film her and her friend. The woman told TOI that she entered a shop to mislead the man and then suddenly rushed to him and snatched his phone. When Patel tried to confront her, she took off her sandal and began hitting him. She overpowered him and hit him so much that people gathered around. The accused then began pleading with her to let him go and give him his phone back. She called the police control room and Patel was nabbed by police. The accused later told cops that he had come to install an airconditioner at a flat in the woman’s neighbourhood. The woman told TOI, “It was necessary to teach him a lesson otherwise he will do this to other women. I have always confronted men who misbehave with women.” She said she had found a video of her and her friend on his phone. She said such incidents are very common in Jagatpur. “Last week, a man was caught filming a 15-year-old girl,” she said. Chandkheda police booked the man for stalking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/action-sequence-woman-thrashes-man-for-filming-her/articleshow/78648011.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Anti-encroachment drive starts, temporary extensions razed||DEHRADUN: Six teams of Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) and the district administration started an anti-encroachment drive in four zones across the city on Tuesday. The officials said that while only temporary encroachments on roads will be removed on the first day and a penalty imposed on defaulters, permanent encroachers will be given a minimum amount of time before their structures are razed. At Dilaram Market, the team demolished extended constructions outside shops which had encroached on adjoining footpath and portions of the road. Mohammad Shoaib, a shopkeeper, said, “I repeatedly urged the officials to give time to at least remove my belongings, but the structure was demolished within a few minutes.” Encroachers in Prem Nagar area have been given two days to vacate public space, failing which, their structures will be razed and fine imposed. Praveen Sahu, a resident of Prem Nagar area, said, “The action should have been taken long back. The encroachment across the city causes traffic jams, especially at a time when a lot of development work is underway. The encroachment in Prem Nagar has been removed at some places. The shop owners and others who have encroached on the roads must voluntarily remove their structures.” Tuesday’s drive covered areas between Rajpur Road and Chakrata Road, Clock tower and Chakrata road and the stretch from Prince Chowk to Saharanpur Road. Talking to TOI, the officials at Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) said, “On first day of the drive, encroachment was removed from several parts of the city, including Rajpur Road, Prince Chowk and Prem Nagar, where extended cemented structures were demolished.” DMC and the district administration have identified over 1,700 temporary and permanent structures that have illegally occupied space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anti-encroachment-drive-starts-in-dehradun-temporary-extensions-razed/articleshow/78645614.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||392 special trains to meet festive rush||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways on Tuesday announced operation of 392 festival special trains (196 pairs) between October 20 and November 30 only to meet the festive rush. The ministry said the railway board has given in principle approval for running these trains for destinations such as Kolkata, Patna, Varanasi and Lucknow among others to cater to the demand in the ensuing holiday period of Durga Puja, Dussehra, Diwali and Chhath puja. Each zone will decide the schedule of these “Festival Special” trains. The ministry said the fare for these services will be that applicable for special trains. These festival special trains will be operated at a speed of 55 kmph. The railways has suspended all its regular services due to the pandemic and is operating trains as per demand and necessity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/392-special-trains-to-meet-festive-rush/articleshow/78651041.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Find out demand for solar plant scheme, Chandigarh told||CHANDIGARH: While UT administrator VP Singh Badnore had approved Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model for installation of solar plants on rooftops of houses in the city, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has asked the administration to first conduct a demand survey for this model. Recently, the administration had filed a petition before the JERC for seeking commission’s approval for the ambitious project. As residents were not coming forward for installation of solar plants because of initial capital investment, the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science & Technology Promotion Society (Crest), the nodal agency for installation of solar plants in the city, had decided to install solar plants under the RESCO model. Debendra Dalai, director, Crest, said during a meeting via videoconference, the commission has asked for a demand survey for the scheme. Accordingly, the department will seek responses from city residents for the scheme on its website. To start the project in, the power regulatory authority’s permission is mandatory. They had filed a petition before the JERC and after getting commission’s nod they will float tenders to engage firms, he added. Under the RESCO model, the UT will rope in private companies where they will install solar plants on private properties. In return, the building owner will be charged a much lesser tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) for the solar-produced electricity in the tariff bills as compared to normal electricity tariffs (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20 per unit). The plant will be installed for around a period of 15 years (the details of exact years will be finalised after tender process), and after that the house owner will be given the power plant. The building owner and private company will sign an agreement. The plant will be installed under net metering mode whereby a solar power system is connected to the electrical connection of a building owner and solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle. Dalai said the building owner will have to pay Rs 3.44 per unit fixed tariff for 15 years, whereas in the current scenario there is a power tariff hike every year. Besides, a solar plant has a life of around 25 years, which means, after 15 years for the next 10 years, the building owner will not pay even a single penny for power consumption, he added. Box: Solar plant upkeep is firm's job For the surplus solar energy transferred to the electricity grid, the UT electricity department will pay to the private company as a tariff Rs 3.44 per unit. The company will also maintain the solar system until the agreement period. Under the new system, building owners will only have to give permission to the company to use its rooftop for installation of solar plants. The maintenance of plants and collection of subsidies from the government will be the private company’s job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/find-out-demand-for-solar-plant-scheme-ut-told/articleshow/78649654.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: BJP MLA, four others get six months imprisonment||RAJKOT: BJP MLA from Jamnagar (rural) constituency, Raghavji Patel, was among five persons sentenced to six months imprisonment on Tuesday in a 13-year-old case of damaging public property. A court in Dhrol town of Jamnagar found Patel, Narendrasinh Jadeja, Jayesh Bhatt, Jitendra Shrimali and Karansinh Jadeja guilty for the offences lodged under Damage to Public Property Act and obstructing public servant in discharging duties in 2007. Patel, a Congress member then, and his supporters had organized a protest against poor services at a community health centre in Dhrol. During the protest, stones were hurled and the health centre was damaged. Principal civil judge H J Zala also fined each convict Rs 10,000, but the execution of the sentence was stayed till the time of appeal. Three of the convicts are local journalists. The trial was completed in March and the order was reserved. Assistant public prosecutor (APP), Ramsinh Bhuriya, said, “We had filed an application for withdrawal of this case last month, but it was rejected by the court. The government had challenged this rejection order in the high court. On Tuesday, however, the government withdrew its application from the high court.” The court convicted all the accused under IPC section 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restrain) and sections of The Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhrol-bjp-mla-four-others-get-six-months-in-jail-for-rioting-in-2007-case/articleshow/78646834.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Bundelkhand e-way Phase 2 gets green nod||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s ambitious Bundelkhand expressway project got a major push on Tuesday with the Centre granting environmental clearance for the construction on the forested land for the second phase of the project. Announcing this at a meeting attended by senior officers and developers here on Tuesday, chief executive officer, UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi said that the Central government has given fresh NOC for the construction of the expressway on over 77-hectare area. It would further expedite the project, he added. The UPEIDA got the environmental clearance when it provided 77-hectare of non-forested land to the forest department. The authority also released funds for the department to enable it to develop forest on the same land. Awasthi said that the work on the Bundelkhand expressway has been going on war-footing and nearly 19 per cent of the project completed. “I am confident that by the end of 2021 the CM would inaugurate Bundelkhand expressway which has immense potential for triggering economic activities in the region,” a confident Awasthi said, addressing top officers and the developers. He added that Bundelkhand expressway would go a long way in ensuring socio-economic development of the area which had been lying neglected for decades. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 14,840 crore and substantial part of it has been given to farmers who have sold their unproductive land to the UPEIDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bkhand-e-way-phase-2-gets-green-nod/articleshow/78650414.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Covid toll climbs to 806 as 4 succumb; 104 test positive||LUDHIANA: Four residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 104 tested positive on Tuesday. The district casualties included a 63-year-old man of Kakowal Road with diabetes and hypertension; a 57-year-old man from Ludhiana, who too had diabetes and hypertension; a 75-year-old man of Tajpur Road; and a 54-year-old man of Tanda Kalliya village of Lubaangarh. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 104 new cases, 12 were contacts of positive patients, 36 were from OPD, 36 from flu corner, one severe acute respiratory infection case and 19 through tracing process. The day also saw three outsiders, 1 each of Hoshiarpur, Fazilka and Uttar Pradesh, succumbing to the virus and 17 testing positive here. The Ludhiana case count has now increased to 19,339 and that of outsiders to 2,506. To date, 18,053 patients (93.35%) have defeated the novel coronavirus. Health department official said the district toll tally has mounted to 806 and that of outsiders to 293. On Tuesday, the health department took 1,182 samples for testing. So far, 3,31,893 people have been tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-toll-climbs-to-806-as-4-succumb-104-test-positive/articleshow/78646789.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: In partial relief, SC allows mining ore transport till January-end||PANAJI: In a major relief for the mining industry in Goa, the Supreme Court on Tuesday granted mining companies time till end of January 2021 to transport ore. The apex court also directed the state government to take possession of the ore lying at mining leases at the end of this period by invoking power under the Mineral Concession Rule, but after serving a one-month notice. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that over four million tonne of iron ore is lying in the state and that the order will allow mining activities in the state. “The lessees are granted time up to end of January 2021 for the removal of minerals excavated/mined on or before March 15, 2018, subject to payment of royalties and other charges,” a Supreme Court bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian observed. “If within the time stipulated above the lessees could not remove the mineral, the government shall invoke the power under Rule 12(1) (hh),” the SC said. Explaining the Mineral Concession Rule 12 (1) (hh), advocate general Devidas Pangam said that after January 2021 the government has to serve a notice to the mining companies asking them to remove whatever mined ore is left on the leased land within one month, and that, thereafter, the government will take possession of whatever is left. The apex court said that the quantity of minerals to be removed by each of the lessees will be determined by officials concerned with reference to the records of the government maintained at the relevant point of time. In the Supreme Court, the plea stated that the extension is being sought as factors beyond their control had affected ore transportation. The factors, according to it, include time taken by the state authorities to issue transit permits, time taken to clear stockyards, which had a huge backlog due to the high court judgment, stoppage of transportation during lockdown imposed due to Covid, restrictions imposed on extent of transportation (trips per hour), even after transportation was allowed, limited availability of labour due to the restrictions on passenger transport and the hysteria surrounding the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-relief-sc-allows-ore-transportation-till-jan-end/articleshow/78649653.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Inadvertent error in receiver’s note leaves Amrapali buyers puzzled||NEW DELHI: An inadvertent typographical error in the note furnished to the Supreme Court by Amrapali receiver and senior advocate R Venkataramani on the amounts to be recovered from various sources linked to the builder had a very disconcerting effect on homebuyers. On discovering the error in the note from the news report carried in the TOI on Wednesday, Venkataramani said it was a typographical mistake as instead of ‘recoveries from Amrapali sources' mentioned in his note, it should have been ‘recoveries to be made from Amrapali sources'. Based on the receiver's note, the TOI had reported on Wednesday that he had "informed the court that so far Rs 3,668 crore has been recovered on the orders of court and by the ED. Of these Rs 1,263 crore was recovered from Amrapali sources on orders of the SC. Realisation of Rs 2,405 crore was done more efficiently through Enforcement Directorate from Amrapali directors, their family members, CFO and statutory auditor Rs 913 cr, from Surekha family Rs 760 cr and from sale of attached assets of Amrapali directors Rs 732 cr”. Venkataramani, whose efforts in streamlining the credit line for various Amrapali projects for their early completion and handing over of flats to homebuyers have been highly appreciated by the SC, said he would correct his note to the court on recoveries to be made from Amrapali sources. Advocate M L Lahoty, who appeared for homebuyers, submitted a note to the SC which said, "During the ongoing proceedings, the SC is able to recover/retrieve an amount of Rs 325.7 crore (against Rs 7,605.94 crore). The homebuyers have also deposited a sum of over Rs 215 crore. As per NBCC status report of September 19, Rs 516.83 crore is required for the quarter October-December 2020." Lahoty suggested to the court further recoveries adding up to Rs 819 crore for timely availability of funds to NBCC — Rs 32.29 crore from Royalgolf Link City Projects, Rs 7.23 crore from Ace Infracity Developers, Rs 20 crore from Pebbled Prolease, Heartbeat City Developers, Cozy Habitat Builders and Surekha family group and Rs 760 crore from Surekha family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/inadvertent-error-in-receivers-note-leaves-amrapali-buyers-puzzled/articleshow/78669173.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Congress-JD(U) ignoring us in Bihar, to contest on own: NCP||MUMBAI: NCP’s talks with Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal for seat-sharing in Bihar have failed, senior leader Praful Patel said on Tuesday, adding that the Sharad-Pawar-led party had now decided to contest the ensuing assembly polls on its own. “On the one hand, Congress says political parties must come together to fight jointly against BJP and JD(U), but when it came to seat-sharing, Congress did not take note of NCP. Under these circumstances, we have decided to contest independently,” Patel said. Patel’s deliberations for a tie-up in Bihar were with Congress leader Ahmed Patel and JD(U) leader Tejaswini Yadav. The party did not seek a large number of seats, but their demands were completely ignored, he said. “Congress is not keen on an alliance with NCP,” Patel said. Patel’s statement assumes significance since NCP and Congress are part of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra along with Shiv Sena. NCP, however, has a negligible presence in Bihar. The loss of Tariq Anwar – one of NCP’s founding leaders who quit to join Congress – leaves it without a single prominent local face. The campaign is partly prompted by its eagerness to retain national party status, which require at least 6% of votes to be polled in four state polls. The Sena too has voiced its intention to contest 40-50 seats in Bihar. “Our aim is to dislodge the Nitish Kumar government and form a government with like-minded parties,” Patel told TOI. He said setting up of state-of- the-art health infrastructure, better education facilities and employment opportunities are the key issues in Bihar. NCP hopes its campaign slogans will resonate with the state’s migrant voters, many of whom are employed in Maharashtra. “We will soon come out with a manifesto for Bihar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-jdu-ignoring-us-in-bihar-to-contest-on-own-ncp/articleshow/78648059.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Revolt in BJD over Balasore Sadar nominee||BHUBANESWAR: A day after BJD named Swarup Kumar Das as its candidate for the Balasore Sadar by-election, supporters of the party’s Balasore unit district president Rabindra Jena revolted against it. Jena’s supporters gathered at his office and shouted slogans demanding a change. They said the party leadership should rethink its decision. Either Rabindra Jena or his wife Subasini Jena should be made BJD candidate in the bypoll otherwise the party will have to pay a heavy price in the forthcoming by-election, said a supporter. Senior BJD leader Pratap Deb, roped in by the party to pacify the dissidents, held discussions with supporters of Jena for around two hours at Balasore. “I have held detailed discussions with the workers, who are a bit unhappy. I will convey my concerns to the party leadership,” Deb told reporters after meeting the agitating supporters of Jena. On Monday, Balasore district observer and housing and urban development minister Pratap Jena also held discussions with the agitating supporters. Briefing reporters, Rabindra appealed to the workers to remain calm. “I request all my supporters to maintain discipline. BJD is a disciplined party and chief minister Naveen Patnaik emphasizes on discipline. Two senior leaders have discussed with the supporters. They will discuss with the party leadership,” said Rabindra. The ruling party on Monday named Swarup, a former councillor of Balasore Municipality, as its candidate for Balasore Sadar. BJD sources said Swarup’s name was announced on Rabindra’s recommendations. While Rabindra had earlier stated that he is not in the race for the party ticket, his wife was a contender for BJD ticket. Former MLA Jiban Pradip Das, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly election from Balasore Sadar seat, was also eyeing the ticket. Sources said Swarup has been fielded as the BJD candidate with an eye on the urban votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/revolt-in-bjd-over-balasore-sadar-nominee/articleshow/78646828.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vejalpur minor raped by neighbour, a family friend||AHMEDABAD: A 25-year-old man late on Monday night raped a 12-year-old girl, whose family he knew well. The girl’s family had a week ago settled in Vejalpur in search of work. An officer of Anandnagar police said that the accused, Raju Vaghela, is a sanitation worker. Vaghela was on good terms with the victim’s family which had migrated from Amreli. The victim’s family and Vaghela live in the same Vejalpur housing colony. He used to visit the girl’s house often. On Monday night, he asked the girl to meet him. When the girl went to him, he raped her and threatened to harm her if she complained against him. The girl sat crying on the stairs of her house later that night. Her father, who was sleeping on the terrace, woke up to find his daughter crying. He tried to find out what was wrong, but the girl could not speak about her ordeal. Eventually, the girl told her mother that Vaghela had raped her. The family then went to the Anandnagar police station and registered a complaint against Vaghela under the charges of rape and criminal intimidation. Sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act have also been invoked. Inspector S J Baloch of the Anandnagar police station said that the accused has been held. Baloch said the girl was sent for a medical examination which confirmed that she had been raped. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vejalpur-minor-raped-by-neighbour-a-family-friend/articleshow/78648023.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Hold assembly session first before reopening schools in Goa: Parents||PANAJI: The parents’ organisation, FORCE, has objected to the state government’s plans to reopen schools in Goa. Taking a dig at members of the legislative assembly, convener Savio Lopes said the state government should first conduct a full-fledged assembly session before planning to reopen schools. Allowing students back on school premises doesn’t look like a good idea at this point in time as Covid cases are yet to show a dip in the state, Lopes said. “Plans to reopen schools for Class X and XII students first is fine, but proper SOPs need to be put in place first,” he said. Lopes also said that online teaching methods being used by schools need to be streamlined immediately as some are trying to impose a timetable for online classes like the one used for regular schooling. “Online classes are a mess. There is no proper application of mind in the way they are conducted. Students are burdened by holding online sessions for subjects like physical education and craft. Schools should concentrate on teaching mathematics and science concepts properly first,” the FORCE convener said. He said this is forcing even children of a very young age to remain glued to smartphones and laptops to attend online sessions, which can be harmful for them. Lopes called for uniformity in the manner in which online classes are delivered. “Homework sent by some schools simply asks students to copy the notes sent by WhatsApp. What are the education ministry and department doing?” he said. FORCE came into prominence after 2011, during protests over the issue of medium of instruction at the primary school level. The organisation of parents from across Goa was fighting for grants to be continued to government-aided schools that switched their medium of instruction to English from Konkani and Marathi in 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hold-assembly-session-first-before-reopening-schools-parents/articleshow/78649679.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Contract worker at DCH held for selling remdesivir in Nashik||NASHIK: The Sarkarwada police have arrested a contractual worker from the dedicated covid hospital (DCH) set up at the Nashik civil hospital for his alleged role in smuggling out a vial of remdesivir from the government facility. The suspect, Deepak Satpute of Ahmednagar district, and his accomplice had smuggled out a vial of the medicine that is administered to critically-ill covid patients. He had taken it from the government hospital and sold it at a much lower price to another person, whose family member was taking treatment at a private hospital for Covid-19. An incident of illegal sale of remdesivir from Nashik civil hospital had come to light last month. Subsequently, senior officials of the district administration had instructed civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande to conduct an enquiry into it. Raokhande said that during the course of the enquiry, it was found that a physician in the DCH had prescribed the medicine for a patient admitted to the government facility. While a vial of remdesivir was issued from the pharmacy department of the hospital, this patient’s family members had already bought a vial from the open market. This vial was then administered to the patient by the physician. Meanwhile, the suspect kept the vial issued to the patient from the government pharmacy with himself and later sold it to a person outside the hospital. Hemant Somawanshi, senior inspector of the Sarkarwada police station, said that the suspect was produced before a city court and remanded in police custody till October 17. The police have registered an offence under Section 420 (cheating) 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC on the basis of a complaint filed by an official of the civil hospital. The police are on the lookout of another man suspected to be involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/contract-worker-at-dch-held-for-selling-remdesivir/articleshow/78646812.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Political newbies to make electoral debut in Nov 3 bypolls||BHUBANESWAR: Several candidates fielded by the three big political parties — BJD, BJP and Congress — for the two byelections in the state on November 3 are new to electoral politics. The ruling BJD and opposition BJP have fielded the sons of the legislators whose deaths have led to the need for byelections in Tirtol and Balasore Sadar assembly seats. While BJP has fielded Manas Kumar Dutta, son of former MLA Madan Mohan Dutta, in Balasore Sadar, BJD has picked Bijay Shankar Das, son of former MLA Bishnu Charan Das, as its candidate for Tirtol. Both candidates are banking on the sympathy factor to see them through their first elections. Bijay Shankar, 28, a mechanical engineer, has been active in the student wing of BJD for the past two years. “My father was a very popular leader in Jagatsinghpur, especially in Tirtol. He has worked a lot for the area. I will try to carry his legacy forward. The good works of BJD and the organizational skills of my late father will help me win the election,” said Bijay Shankar. He said his young age would not be a factor with voters and that he would take everyone along in his electoral journey. Dismissing reports of factionalism within BJD in Tirtol, Bijay Shankar said he had the support of all camps of the regional party. In Balasore Sadar, BJP’s Manas said he would work hard to retain the seat that had elected his father in the 2019 assembly election. The 29-year-old, who has an intermediate degree in graphic designing, said he was confident of a victory. “Age is not an indicator of success. My only aim is to fulfil my father’s dream for a developed Balasore,” said Manas. Another young face in the fray is Congress’s Tirtol candidate Himansu Bhusan Mallick. The engineer-turned-social activist, who is 33, has been running a social service organization for the past two years. “I am sure the people of Tirtol will bless Congress in the forthcoming byelections,” said Mallick. The BJP has fielded Rajkishore Behera, 59, in Tirtol, a seat reserved for scheduled caste candidates. Behera, a lawyer, had unsuccessfully contested the 2009 and 2014 assembly elections from the seat on a Congress ticket, but had gained a substantial vote share. In Balasore, BJD has fielded a lesser-known face, Swarup Kumar Das, a former councillor of Balasore municipality. Swarup’s elder brother was a two-time chairperson of the same municipality. The choice of Swarup as a candidate indicates that BJD, which had received fewer votes in the municipality area in the 2019 assembly polls, hopes to gain favour with urban voters this time. Mamata Kundu, 47, the wife of a retired IAF pilot, is Congress’s candidate for Balasore Sadar. Mamata had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Balasore on an AAP ticket, and has joined Congress recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/political-newbies-to-make-electoral-debut-in-nov-3-bypolls/articleshow/78646802.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||BSF busts e-buy racket on India-Bangladesh border||Kolkata: The BSF has busted an extraordinary racket involving online purchase of mobile phones and other goods in India which are then shipped to locations close to the Bangladesh border to facilitate smuggling. The unusual modus operandi came to light after troops of BSF’s 112th Battalion intercepted a delivery agent of a well-known e-commerce company on Saturday and seized goods without bills worth nearly Rs 4 lakh. The agent, identified as Akhtharul Gazi (28) of Swarupnagar, North 24 Parganas, claimed his manager asked him to deliver the consignment to a person in Hakimpur. “We often spotted delivery boys near the border, but it never crossed our mind that they might be facilitating smuggling. Troops at Amudia BOP in Swarupnagar, however, stopped Gazi based on specific intelligence input. They found 10 mobile phones, 17 saris and medicines on him. He had no bills and claimed his manager from Maslandapur had given him a number to call when he reached Hakimpur,” a senior BSF officer of South Bengal Frontier said. Gazi, along with the items seized, has been handed over to the customs authorities in Tentulia. Efforts are on to track down his manager who has been identified as Tapan Das. Investigators will ascertain the identity of person/s who ordered the goods online. It is possible Das is a conduit who places orders according to demands from Bangladesh and uses Gazi to send them to his contacts near zero line, sources said. The smuggled items are sold in Bangladesh at a premium. The commanding officer of 112th Battalion praised his troops for their alertness. Had such movement of goods continued unchecked, smuggling of contraband could have become easier and quicker, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-busts-e-buy-racket-on-india-bangladesh-border/articleshow/78641326.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Power theft: Over Rs 1 crore penalty on two factories in Punjab||LUDHIANA: Acting tough on power thieves in the district, officials of the enforcement wing of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) detected two major electricity thefts in Khanna sub-division and imposed a penalty of more than Rs 1 crore. Senior officials said the enforcement wing constituted a special team for conducting inspection on the premises of two factories in Sahnewal and found discrepancies in their meter reading and imposed a penalty of Rs 62 lakh and Rs 80 lakh on them. Senior executive engineer of the enforcement wing (Khanna sub-division) Paramjit Singh said, “During inspection, it was found that the bill generated through one of meters had not been accurate for the past several months, causing huge losses to the power corporation. It will be investigated how such a discrepancy went unnoticed and the issue will be probed by higher officials as per protocol. The other meter is under observation.” Officials said similar theft cases were under probe and the department was going through official formalities. Their details would be released soon, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/power-theft-over-rs-1cr-penalty-on-two-factories/articleshow/78646805.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Drugs combo can help fight virus, claims IISER study||BERHAMPUR: As the world continues to wait for a Covid-19 vaccine, scientists at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Berhampur, suggested a combination of at least three cheaper drugs as therapeutic against the deadly virus. “The combination of drugs like ivermectin, famotidine and doxycycline could offer a fight against Covid-19,” said Malay Kumar Rana and Parta Sarathi Sengupta, assistant professor and a post-doctoral fellow in the department of chemical science, IISER. The proposal has been published in an international journal, ACS Pharmacology and Translational Science as a Viewpoint, in its September issue. Notably, ivermectin and doxycycline are already part of the ‘experimental’ drugs suggested by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for Covid patients. “Patients in home isolation are already being prescribed ivermectin and doxycycline. There are many options for famotidine, which is used to treat stomach disorders,” said Jayant Panda, government’s technical adviser on Covid-19 and head of the PG Department of Internal Medicine, SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack. All three drugs are FDA approved and available in the market at cheaper prices, the authors of the article said. “The evidence points that the trio of drugs may have synergistic and robust action, warranting immediate clinical trials,” said KVR Chary, director at IISER Berhampur. Saying that all three drugs have different modes of action, Rana said famotidine, a histamine-2 receptor blocker used to treat heartburn, would probably act as a first-level barrier for neutralizing stomach acid and/or inhibiting polyprotein processing and ubiquitination during Covid-19 infection. Similarly, ivermectin, the anti-parasitic drug, is likely to act as a second-level barrier directly to stop replication of the virus inside infected cells, while doxycycline would fortify the effects by reducing inflammation, if any, caused by the viral infection, he said. Because the drugs act at different levels of the virus infection, the trio can ascertain sheer inhibition of the virus, he added. Referring to a study at Monash University, Australia, Rana said the scientists had claimed that ivermectin could kill coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) within 48 hours. It has gained considerable attention worldwide. The scientists have found famotidine to be associated with improved clinical outcomes and reduced risk of intubation or death in Covid-19 patients. The research group led by Rana has unravelled the potential SARS-CoV-2 protein targets of these two drugs in in-silico studies. Doxycycline, an antibiotic in the tetracycline group with antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory capabilities could help to fight against Covid-19 with the other two drugs, producing a synergistic effect, he said. The combination of the drugs is quite safe, relatively cheaper, and has individually fetched some positive results in the treatment of Covid-19 in multiple cases. “There is an urgent need of well-designed, randomized, and controlled trials to assess the efficacy of the trio-combination for the improved treatment of the patents,” said Rana. He, however, cautioned the public not to use the suggested combination of drugs without medical supervision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/drugs-combo-can-help-fight-virus-claims-iiser-study/articleshow/78646850.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Youth share challenges of pandemic||LUCKNOW: The valedictory session of a series of national webinars for youth titled ‘Reflections on the Pandemic: A Medley of Voices’ was held on Sunday. An initiative of Expressions in Languages and Arts Foundation, Lucknow, the series included 13 webinars by young achievers in different walks of life. LU prof Nishi Pandey was the valedictory speaker and talked about creative and academic engagement of the youth, role of literary narratives and inspirations to society during crisis situation. Participating advisor Prof Alka Singh highlighted the interdisciplinary perspectives, research and teaching out of the pandemic. Some of the preceding webinars were on ‘pandemic and startups, key survival strategies, pandemic and rule of law, youth anxiety, work-life pandemonium, economic crisis, teaching of life skills and converting challenges into opportunities. Niloy Mukherhee was the organizing secretary and Arun Kumar Yadav convenor of the series.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-share-challenges-of-pandemic/articleshow/78650419.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Poll break a respite for BJP?||AHMEDABAD: It is not just farmer distress in rural areas but damaged roads, deteriorating municipal finances and infrastructure troubles in major cities that is forcing the state government to be cautious and play on the back foot when it comes to local body elections. This is the first time in several decades that civic elections have been postponed. “In Ahmedabad, the AMC has Rs 1,200 crore worth of budgeted projects stalled and approached the World Bank for a another Rs 3,000 loan. Covid has taken a heavy toll on the AMC. The BJP cannot afford to perform poorly in Ahmedabad and Surat,” says a senior official in the state urban development department. A senior BJP office bearer in the AMC said the Covid pandemic and lockdown, and now the rapid spread of the disease has hurt the middle-income group, business class and salaried persons in all six municipal corporations that are to go to the polls. The postponement of civic elections was expected as the byelections for eight assembly seats and the civic elections were coinciding. The BJP office bearer in the AMC admitted that “a Congress MLA’s petition to postpone the elections in the High Court and also before the state election commission was a blessing in disguise for the BJP. The state election commission is not influenced by any party but the opposition MLA demanding that the election be delayed helped the final decision.” The proposed October 31 visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Ahmedabad is also seen as an adrenaline jab for the party. BJP spokesman Prashant Vala said, “Conducting elections are the prerogative of the Election Commission of India and the state election commission for local bodies. The BJP remains ready for any elections unlike the Congress which acts as if it is a seasonal activity. We were and are ready for any elections.” Another leader said that if elections were held as Covid rages on, the urban educated class will stay indoors citing the lack of social distancing. The chairman of a committee in the AMC said that the issue was discussed during a party meeting in Ahmedabad. It was also resolved that roads will be a major election issue. The three months time will give the BJP time to resurface them and make them motorable. BJP leaders said retaining power in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara will not be difficult, but Covid could affect the seat tally, especially in in Rajkot, Bhavnagar Jamnagar and Junagadh where the middle class plays a pivotal role. Congress leader in the AMC Dinesh Sharma said, “If assembly election can be held in the state why can’t you hold local body elections. The state election commission could have organised elections in phases instead. Covid is only a disguise to hide their failures.” Congress spokesman Manish Doshi said, “BJP is clearly using the government machinery to influence local elections. The BJP sensed a major defeat in the municipal bodies and panchayat elections so it used its influence to delay the local elections. BJP tries to use the government machinery to win elections but voters know it well so they will not change their mind in three months and show the BJP the door.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/poll-break-a-respite-for-bjp/articleshow/78648109.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||ED arrests city firm’s director||Ahmedabad: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested Nikita Dave, a director of the city-based Platinum Corporation Ltd, in connection with a Rs 25 crore fraud. “Dave was called for questioning in connection with the case registered with the state police’s CID (crime) in 2009,” said a source aware of the developments. “It concerns fraud involving Ahmedabad People’s Cooperative Bank. As the answers seemed unsatisfactory, the arrest was made.” The source said that Dave’s involvement in the case is primarily as a possible front. Pratik Shah, one of the prime accused, is yet to be questioned. According to case details, Shah was the director of Platinum Infotech and Hirak Biotech. He had opened accounts of both his companies at the cooperative bank. In alleged connivance with the then top officials of the bank, Shah got loans of Rs 28 crore between 2005 and 2009 without any security. Dave was one of the two account operators. Investigators filed a chargesheet against Shah and other accused for criminal breach of trust (CBT), CBT by a public servant or banker, cheating and dishonesty and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ed-arrests-city-firms-director/articleshow/78648063.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Have information on snatcher? Call police, get reward||LUDHIANA: The police have announced a cash reward for information leading to a notorious snatcher. The cops, on Tuesday, released a picture of Lovedeep Singh, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar, Tajpur Road, asking people to approach them if they see him anywhere. Police said he kept changing his appearances. In a post on its Facbook page, the Ludhiana Police said Lovedeep was a notorious snatcher and wanted in many cases, including the recent one of snatching a bike worth Rs 1.5 lakh. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said in the past two years, Lovedeep was arrested five times in different cases. However, each time he was released on bail after spending a month or two behind bars. After coming out of jail on August 25, he again started committing crimes. “Any information leading to his arrest will be suitably rewarded. Name and identity of the informer will be kept a secret,” Agarwal added. However, the cash amount of the reward has not been revealed. On October 9, Lovedeep along with an unidentified accomplice had robbed an employee of a realtor of his sports bike worth Rs 1.5 lakh in Mahavir Jain Colony, near Jassiya village. The duo had barged into the office of the realtor, brandished a gun at the worker and asked for cash. When the employee said he had none, the accused escaped with his bike. The police are also suspecting his involvement in October 6 Kashmir Nagar firing. In the case, the accused had attempted to rob a money-changer at gunpoint. They had also opened fire on him, but the bullet missed its mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/have-info-on-snatcher-call-police-get-reward/articleshow/78646837.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Festival season: Drive begins to clear city markets of squatters||LUDHIANA: With the festival season around the corner, the Ludhiana Police has resumed its anti-encroachment drive in the city. The traffic police have started serving notices on shopkeepers and vendors for removing encroachments from roads. Those failing to do so will face FIRs. The police had started the anti-encroachment drive on 12 roads of the city in January. Residents had welcomed the initiative, but traders opposed it tooth and nail. It was later discontinued due to the Covid-19 outbreak. As with the advent of the festival season, traffic chaos will be back on roads, especially in markets, the campaign has been started again. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Randhir Singh said, “The traffic police, along with the municipal corporation, had started the drive to make the city chaos free. But it was discontinued due to the pandemic, curfew and lockdown. In the festival season, residents will visit markets. Also, vendors and shopkeepers have encroached upon roads, leading to traffic mess. Therefore, we are serving notices on violators, asking them to remove the encroachments. We will lodge FIRs against those failing to act.” All the markets of the city would be covered under the drive. “Not just Old City, but markets in Model Town, Ghumar Mandi, Dandi Swami Road, Jamalpur, Dugri, and Haibowal, too, will be checked,” he added. Besides, the police would come up with new plans to ease out parking problem, he added. The traffic police on Tuesday made announcements in the Old City markets like Mochpura Bazaar, Sabun Bazaar and Chaura Bazaar, asking traders and vendors to remove encroachments or face FIR. Traffic helplinesThe city police have two traffic helplines: 7837018932 and 0161-1073. For any complaint related to traffic or wrong parking, residents can call on these numbers. ACP (traffic) Randhir Singh said, “Under the drive, first, vendors and shopkeepers will be asked to remove encroachments that create traffic chaos. The traffic police will take the help of the municipal corporation to remove encroachments. Thereafter, the police will work on parking chaos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/festival-season-drive-begins-to-clear-city-markets-of-squatters/articleshow/78646825.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP faces dilemma on 1 seat, Cong on 3||Gandhinagar: With the deadline for filing nominations for the eight seats where byelections are to be held ending on October 16, the Congress has not been able to decide on its candidates for three seats, while the BJP faces a dilemma in choosing a candidate for one seat. While the Congress is attempting to postpone the announcement of names of its candidates for three seats to avoid infighting and rebellion, an internal caste struggle between workers is making it difficult for the BJP to pick its candidate for one seat. The BJP has still not announced a name for the Limdi seat, while Congress has not named candidates for Limdi, Kaprada and Dangs seats. The BJP is facing a challenge choosing a candidate between the Koli and Kshatriya communities, while the Congress is faced with the uphill task of announcing candidates with ‘winnability’ on three seats. With the possibility of infighting and rebellion looming large, the Congress is likely to issue a mandate to one of the candidates just before the deadline for filing of nominations ends. Voting for eight Gujarat assembly seats will take place on November 3. Counting of votes will take place on November 10. All eight seats were won by Congress candidates in the 2017 assembly elections. Earlier this year, just ahead of Rajya Sabha elections, eight Congress MLAs resigned from their seats and the Congress party. Five of them joined the BJP and have got tickets while the others have not joined the BJP yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-faces-dilemma-on-1-seat-cong-on-3/articleshow/78648176.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Woman found dead in Mahi River was strangled by truck driver, his friend||Vadodara: The 24-year-old woman, whose body was found floating in Mahi River over a week ago, was murdered by two men in a moving truck on Vadodara-Ahmedabad National Expressway (NE-1) on October 2. The crime branch sleuths on Tuesday arrested the accused duo for killing Muskaan alias Gudiya Khan, a resident of Mumbai. According to the police, Muskaan was in a relationship with Shoaib Khan, younger brother of key accused Mujassam Khan, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. The victim had also filed an application with police against Shoaib and Mujassam some time ago. Later the dispute was settled and Muskaan began staying with Shoaib in Mumbai. “Mujassam, who is a truck driver, claimed that Muskaan was in relationship with him as well. He was upset as she used to allegedly keep relations with other truck drivers too. Also, Shoaib told us that Muskaan had decided to marry him which further angered Mujassam,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime). Mujassam then made a plan to kill Muskaan and roped in his friend Sandip Kumar Srivastava to execute the crime. Mujassam convinced Muskaan to join him for a short trip to Gujarat in his truck and they reached Karjan on October 2. Mujassam then parked his truck nearby and boarded his friend Krishna’s truck with Muskaan and Sandip. When the truck crossed the toll plaza of Vadodara-Ahmedabad Expressway, Mujassam and Sandip strangled her in the rear portion of the moving vehicle. The police said that Krishna heard the commotion and tried to intervene but the accused threatened him as well. The accused then wrapped Muskaan’s body in a blanket and threw it from the bridge over Mahi River before leaving for Mumbai. The body was spotted by some passers-by in the river near Fazalpur on October 5. The cops had suspected involvement of some truck driver and scanned CCTV footage of the toll plazas on Vadodara-Ahmedabad route. While Mujassam was arrested from Kutch, Sandip was nabbed from Morbi. The duo used to travel often to Gujarat for delivering goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-found-dead-in-mahi-river-was-strangled-by-truck-driver-his-friend/articleshow/78646349.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Actor-businessman taken to Hyderabad in gutka case||MUMBAI: Hyderabad police picked up actor-businessman Sachiin Joshi (36) from Mumbai international airport on Monday night soon after he arrived from Dubai. Joshi was taken to Bahadurpura police station in Hyderabad where he is one among four booked in a case registered in March after 80 alleged boxes of Goa Gutka worth lakhs of rupees were seized from a godown. Joshi is chairman of JMJ group, engaged in perfumes, packaging and construction. Goa Gutka was a JMJ brand. Joshi was in Dubai till now. Immigration officials at Mumbai airport alerted Hyderabad cops about his arrival as a look out circular was issued against him. Bahadurpura police let him go after he was served with a Code of Criminal Procedure notice and asked to appear for questioning later. None of the four has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-bizman-taken-to-hbad-in-gutka-case/articleshow/78648847.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Virtual celebrations: Traditional dandiya, garba to go ‘live’ this year||LUCKNOW: This Navaratra, revellers will have to sway on traditional dandiya and garba beats via their homes. Continuing the tradition of muted festivities due to Covid-19, dandiya organisers, too, are planning to resort to virtual celebration to avoid crowded affairs and social gatherings. The nine-day festival, which starts from October 17, will be devoid of any spark, hustle-bustle of the crowd, glittering ‘chaniya-cholis’ and people creating a ‘mini-Gujarat’ in the city dancing to traditional Gujarati folk songs. However, a few families like that of Jaya Pandya are ready to host the festivities ‘live’ so that people don’t completely miss out on the festival. “Navaratra is largely about garba and dandiya which is impossible with social distancing norms. It would have been difficult for us to accommodate even 70 people at a particular place and ensure that each one of them is safe and follow protocols. In that case, we decided to host the event virtually. I have asked all those who used to celebrate with us to record videos dancing to traditional folk songs and send it to us. We will be compiling all videos, play it on the main day,” said the 55-year-old Gomtinagar residence who has been organising garba and dandiya raas at her house for 21 years to celebrate the ‘Devi Paksh’. Another dandiya organiser, Puja Shukla, who has been organising dandiya night for universities and colleges, is brainstorming on the idea of virtually organising the event. The owner of a performing arts institute in LDA Colony has been holding online classes and dance workshops for her students since the lockdown. “We are thinking on the lines of arranging a virtual event. However, nothing is confirmed yet. Earlier, we used to call artists from different cities, plan traditional and Bollywood nights. This time it is not possible to organise it that way. There is a loss in business too. There is no substitute to magic of live audience,” added Shukla. According to the organisers, the preparation for Navratri usually begins six months prior to the festival when finalising of venues begin, events lists are made, artists are booked and promotions are set to roll out. While a few organisers are considering going virtual, many organisers in the city have decided not to conduct the cultural event. One of the biggest garba nights — Avadh Garba Festival — organised at Sangeet Natak Akademi every year and which draws over 2,000 people, has cancelled their event this year. “The limit is only 500 people. We were hoping for some miracle, though it seems unlikely,” said Ajay Tiwari, one of the members of the team. The dandiya night organised by Innerwheel Club of Lucknow also stands cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virtual-celebrations-traditional-dandiya-garba-to-go-live-this-yr/articleshow/78650426.cms||Aditi Singh
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Two from Mumbai held with charas worth Rs 1 crore||PALANPUR: In a joint operation by the state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) and Banaskantha police’s special operations group (SOG), two persons from Mumbai was arrested with 16.75kg of charas worth over Rs 1 crore from near Khimana check-post on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border on Tuesday. The contraband was seized from a car with Maharashtra registration number. The driver of the car identified as Rahim Azim (31) and another person travelling with him, Samir Sahil, both residents of Mahim in Mumbai, were arrested. According to the SOG inspector Mahavirsinh Jhala, the charas was being brought from Ludhiana in Punjab and was to be delivered to on Irfan in Vatva Ahmedabad. According to Jhala, ATS inspector Chetan Yadav had rushed to Palanpur based of a tip-off about the contraband being smuggled into the state. They kept a watch on vehicles at Khimana check-post and nabbed the accused with the drugs that was sealed in plastic bags. Police said that the accused duo has confessed that some unidentified person had given them the packet to be delivered to one Irfan in Vatva, Ahmedabad. The accused were promised Rs 50,000 after the delivery, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-from-mumbai-held-with-charas-worth-rs-1cr/articleshow/78646863.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s conviction rate in economic offences falls to 17.8% in 2019: NCRB||LUDHIANA: In 2019, Ludhiana witnessed more than 380 economic offences cases, but according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, at 17.8%, it has a lower conviction rate when compared with Amritsar. But Ludhiana’s conviction rate is higher than Chandigarh and Srinagar in the region. According to the latest NCRB report for 2019, the conviction rate for Amritsar is 42.5%. For Chandigarh and Srinagar, the conviction rate stand at 17.2% and 0%, respectively. The average conviction rate for 34 metropolitan cities is 34.7%, almost double that of Ludhiana. The latest NCRB report of court disposal of economic offences in metropolitan cities suggests that Ludhiana had pendency percentage of 77.3% whereas Amritsar had much lower pendency at 62.5%. Chandigarh had a pendency of 93.4% whereas Srinagar had the highest pendency percentage of such cases in 2019 at 95.1%. The average pendency for 34 metropolitan cities is 90.6%, which means Ludhiana has much lower pendency percentage when compared with national average. The analysis of various categories of the NCRB report for 2019 suggests that cases pending trial from previous year were 934 at the start of 2019 and the cases sent for trial during 2019 were 363. The total cases for trial in 2019 were 1,297. Cases in which trial was completed in 2019 were 286 and 294 cases were disposed off by courts. Of the cases disposed off by the courts in 2019, 51 cases witnessed conviction, 92 cases were discharged and 143 cases recorded acquittal whereas eight cases were disposed by courts without trial. The cases pending trial at the end of 2019 were 1,003. The data of conviction rate since 2016 suggests that there had been rise — from 16.7% in 2016 to 21.5% in 2018. In 2019, it fell to 17.8%. The pendency percentage too has witnessed a fall from 92% 77.3%. It was 82% in 2018. The legal experts said there are many reasons for such low conviction rate in case of economic offences in Ludhiana. “Since money is involved in such cases, parties enter into compromise as the prime motive of the complainant parties is to get money back. Also, in cases of big frauds, it is difficult to prove transactions. So both these factors contribute to low conviction rates,” said senior advocate Amit Tandon. He added that as trial takes time and there is lot of cases, so the pendency is high in such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhs-conviction-rate-in-economic-offences-falls-to-17-8-in-2019ncrb/articleshow/78646859.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Armed robbers attack gas agency employee||LUDHIANA: Two armed men attacked a gas agency employee and tried to rob him in Guru Vihar, Rahon Road, on Tuesday afternoon. The victim has been identified as Badru Ansari, 48, who works at Thaman Gas Agency, Rahon Road, as a cash collector. Amit Thaman, owner of the LPG cylinder supplying agency, said, “Ansari has been working with us as a collection agent for years. Every day, our workers reach near Guru Vihar on Rahon Road, where the vehicle of LPG cylinders is parked. From there, they supply cylinders in different localities.” On Tuesday afternoon, Ansari had collected Rs 74,000 from the areas near Rahon Road. “When he was going towards the parked vehicle, two men on a motorcycle intercepted his bike. One of them pointed a pistol at him and asked for the cash. As Ansari held the pistol and tried to snatch it, the other accused attacked him on head with a sharp-edged weapon. Ansari raised the alarm and the duo sped away,” Amit added. Thereafter, Ansari called up his employer and apprised him of the incident. He was taken to a hospital and cops were informed. Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said, “We are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed near the spot. It is suspected that more people were involved in the incident and they did a recce before striking.” A complaint has been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/armed-robbers-attack-gas-agency-employee/articleshow/78646865.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Rs 20L looted from UCO Bank in Balasore district||BALASORE: Six men looted nearly Rs 20 lakh from UCO Bank, Chowki branch, under Bhograi police station limits in Balasore district on Tuesday afternoon by holding the staff at gun-point. The six robbers, who were wearing masks and helmets and armed with guns and sharp-edged weapons, entered the bank around 1.35 pm and closed the main gate. They then threatened the customers present in the branch with the weapons and bomb and took away the mobile phones of all customers and bank staff. While three of the armed men went to the system room of the bank, the rest proceeded towards the cashier’s desk and took all the money from the cash drawer and gold jewellery from the strong room. The completed the heist in 10 minutes and fled from the spot in two motorcycles. The assistant bank manager informed police and filed a complaint with the Bhograi police station. Reaching the spot with a sniffer dog and scientific team, the cops have started the investigation. IIC of Bhograi police station Sujata Khamari said the criminals had directed the bank staff into a room before looting from the cashier’s drawer and strong room, she said. Police are trying to collect evidence from the bank’s CCTV cameras. A massive manhunt has been launched to nab the culprits. All exit points from the district at Sahabajipur, Jaleswar and other small passages to West Bengal have been sealed. “We suspect the criminals might escape to West Bengal as the border is just 5 km away from the place of occurrence,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rs-20l-looted-from-uco-bank-in-balasore-district/articleshow/78646857.cms||Kishan Sahu
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Acid attack on 3 minor Dalit sisters in Gonda, 1 held||LUCKNOW: Three minor Dalit sisters suffered burn injuries when a local youth allegedly threw acid on them, while they were asleep in their house in Gonda on Tuesday morning. Aged 17, 12 and 8 years, the girls live with their parents in Paraspur police station area of the district, which is about 120km from the state capital. Gonda SP Shailesh Pandey said that all the three were admitted to district hospital. While the eldest girl sustained 30% burns mainly on her face and chest, the second suffered 20% and the youngest 7% burns on their hands. Gonda police held the accused Ashish Kumar in an encounter near Hujurpur Road under Colonelganj police station. Pandey told TOI that Kumar was arrested after a statement by one of the girls. According to her, a few days ago, her elder sister had had a verbal duel with Kumar, at which he had threatened her with dire consequences. “On Tuesday, Kumar climbed up a ladder on the backside of the house to throw acid from the window,” Pandey said. According to the girls’ father, around 2.30am on Tuesday, he heard loud screams from the first floor where his daughters were sleeping. He and his wife sleeping on the ground woke up and rushed upstairs. Seeing the girls shrieking in pain, he rushed them to hospital and informed the police. Pandey said that after preliminary inquiry, “An FIR under charges of acid attack has been registered at Paraspur.” Paraspur SHO SK Singh said that the three sisters belonged to the Dhobi community and fall under the Scheduled Caste category. Their father is a member of local block development council and works as a washerman. According to the father of the girls, the eldest one was due to be engaged to a youth in Lucknow on October 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/acid-attack-on-3-minor-dalit-sisters-1-held/articleshow/78650442.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: 82-year-old held hostage, robbed of jewellery, cash worth Rs 2 crore||UDAIPUR: In a major robbery, four unidentified men broke into the house of a 82-year-old money-lender after midnight on Monday, held him hostage and fled with cash and jewellery worth approximately Rs 2 crore from his locker. The incident happened at the victim's house near the community centre in Kanore town of Vallabh Nagar block in Udaipur. Police said Sohanlal Kothari, who lived alone, was held hostage by four who got inside his house through the backdoor. They held him hostage and ransacked the house. Kothari is a money-lender who gave loans on ornaments. He kept jewellery in his locker at his home. In his FIR, the victim said the robbers decamped with 1.4kg gold, 125kg silver jewellery and Rs 16 lakh in cash. Kothari told the cops that four men had broken into his house through the backdoor around 2.30am. They tied his hands, legs and gagged him. He said his nose bled due to suffocation and he fell unconscious. The robbers broke open two rooms and the lockers. They ransacked the house and left after 90 minutes. The victim said that he regained consciousness after the robbers left him thinking he was dead. Kothari then mustered courage and shouted for help. Police has sought footage from all CCTV cameras installed in the area. After his wife's death five months ago, the senior citizen had been living alone. His retired son lives separately. After the news of the loot spread, people gathered in large numbers outside Kothari’s house. This was the biggest such robbery in the area in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/82-yr-old-held-hostage-robbed-of-jewellery-cash-worth-rs-2-crore/articleshow/78649810.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Tanuvas denying quota benefit for ST: Veterinary graduates||MADURAI: Tamil Nadu Veterinary Graduates Federation (TNVGF) is planning to move court against Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Tanuvas) for allegedly deviating from reservation policy by not giving opportunities for ST community during the assistant professor recruitment drives between 2006 and 2016. TNVGF co-ordinator Dr M Balaji submitted a petition to the university registrar, principal secretary to the govt, department of animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries and UGC chairman in this regard. Tanuvas filled posts of more than 300 assistant professors without vacancies for ST community during the last 10 recruitment drives, the petition said adding that most recently, it had disclosed an advertisement dated July 6 for direct recruitment of 49 posts including four backlog vacancies of assistant professors without vacancies for ST category again. The university authorities scientifically made these discriminations in the recruitment process for teaching posts taking into consideration the department as one unit instead of organisation, it alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tanuvas-denying-quota-benefit-for-st-vet-graduates/articleshow/78650444.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Russian rescued off Arambol beach||Saligao: Lifeguard rescued a 27-year-old Russian woman from drowning off Arambol beach on Tuesday. Around 3.30pm, Drishti lifeguard Sakharam Bandekar spotted the woman gesturing for help in the sea and immediately launched a jetski and rushed into the water. On reaching the tourist, Bandekar noticed she was fatigued and scared. After calming her down, he secured her to the jetski and brought her ashore. The tourist told Bandekar that she had ventured into deeper waters as she felt confident she would be able to return. Drishti has advised beach-goers to stay away from the water, rocky areas and cliffs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/russian-rescued-off-arambol-beach/articleshow/78649867.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Unemployed youths to contest upcoming by-elections||Rajkot: Any onlooker who would have seen hundreds of youth lining up outside government offices in Limbdi of Surendranagar district and in Morbi would have assumed that the queue would be of jobseekers or beneficiaries of a government scheme. But these youth, all of whom are unemployed, had lined up to get nomination forms for the upcoming by-elections to assembly seats. Backed by Shikshit Berojgar Yuva Samiti (SBYS), these youth are planning to contest independently on three seats – Limbdi, Morbi and Karjan – to fight against the ‘inability’ of BJP-led state government to provide them employment. Clad in white t-shirts with slogan on it in Gujarati – ‘Hu shikshit berojgar chhu’ (I am an educated unemployed), these prospective candidates for the assembly contest lined up in discipline and peacefully to collect the forms. On Monday, 126 youth collected the nomination forms for the Limbdi assembly seat and on Tuesday, out of 150 who had lined up, 100 of them collected the forms. At the executive magistrate’s office in Limbdi, officials had to manage more forms as they were exhausted. The group plans to line up on Wednesday to collect nomination forms for Karjan assembly seat. “We have planned to contest only on three seats where the educated people are in large numbers. We will not be campaigning for our victory, but we will go door-to-door in all three constituencies to ensure BJP’s defeat,” said Yuvrajsinh Jadeja, convenor of SBYS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/unemployed-youths-to-contest-upcoming-by-elections/articleshow/78646898.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||Covid-19: Average daily positivity rate now at 4-month low||NEW DELHI: India’s average daily Covid-19 positivity rate has demonstrated a sharp decline week-on-week over the last four weeks with it falling to 5.1% on Monday — the lowest in the last four months. On Monday, a total of 55,342 new infected cases were detected after 10,73,014 samples were tested to check for Covid-19. The average daily Covid-19 positivity rate declined from 8.50% between September 9-15 to 6.2% between October 7-13. The dip in positivity rate is encouraging as it comes despite an increase in overall testing, health ministry said. “We have maintained the average daily testing at over 11 lakh and 14 states and Union Territories have higher tests per million and lower positivity rate than the country’s average,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The cumulative positivity rate now stands at 8%, whereas India is conducting around 64,275 tests per million population. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The positivity rate is helped by constant decline in average daily new cases for last five weeks. For the last five weeks, there has been a continuous decline in the average daily new cases. The weekly average of daily new cases fell from 92,830 cases in the second week of September (September 9-15) to 70,114 in second week of October (October 7-13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-average-daily-positivity-rate-now-at-4-month-low/articleshow/78651067.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||With 33,790 flyers, airport hits Covid season peak before Puja||Kolkata: The passenger count at Kolkata airport that has been steadily rising in October on Monday, Wednesday and Friday (flights are allowed to arrive from six high-traffic cities including Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai on these days) hit a high of 33,790 flyers on Monday, the highest in the Covid season. At 60% of pre-March passengers figures, it is an indicator of how the situation is gradually veering towards normalcy despite the steady rise in Covid-19 cases. “In October, we are steadily recording 30,000-plus passenger movements on days when there are no restrictions on flights. We believe the airport could have clocked over 9 lakh passenger movements in this festive month. But with the restriction on flights from six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur — on four days a week, the airport is likely to clock around 8 lakh passenger movements,” an airport official said. Sources said the airport director had written to the state government last week for lifting the restrictions on flights from the six cities but was yet to receive a response. The travel trade fraternity has also sent separate letters to the chief secretary, requesting for easing of curbs on flights and pointing out the move was essential to kickstart both business and tourism. In the first 12 days of the month, the airport has recorded a passenger count of over 3.2 lakh, nearly as many passengers as had travelled through the airport in August and substantially higher than that of July. The curb on foreign and domestic flights had been enforced since July 1 and 6, respectively. The month also had several lockdowns when no flights were permitted to operate. Passenger count that had touched 5.9 lakh in June had nosedived to 2.7 lakh in July following the restrictions. While many incoming flyers are Kolkatans living away from the city and returning home to spend the Puja, the high outward movement is primarily of blue-collared workers flying out on tickets sponsored by their employers to resume work in construction and other industries in various cities. The airport had initially struggled to maintain social distancing at the entrance due to queue-up during the busy traffic hours. It has since managed to resolve the issue through use of an additional gate and deployment of more personnel to assist flyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-33790-flyers-airport-hits-covid-season-peak-before-puja/articleshow/78648182.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 stigma: Some preferring death at home to ensure last rites by family||Nagpur: Though the city has been witnessing sharp decline in Covid-19 cases, many still seem to be still in the grip of distrust and fear of Covid death protocol. Lack of confidence in the system and rumours are also forcing some critical patients to stay at home even at the cost of their life. TOI has come across some cases that indicate trust deficit among people despite the city recording high number of Covid deaths in last three months due to late reporting leading to severe infection of lungs. This week, a 65-year-old from South-West Nagpur passed away due to Covid-19. The elderly man had been averse to getting admitted after testing Covid positive around five days back. He feared his near and dear ones won’t be able to perform his last rites. A relative told TOI that the man preferred remaining untreated and die at home and not in an alien atmosphere with strangers performing his last rites. Another family from Pardi was fortunate after its head recovered from critical condition. The man, in his late 60s, was breathless soon after testing Covid positive. He was forcibly hospitalized as his condition deteriorated. But, the man stopped eating saying he didn’t want to live now. “It was only after a lot of convincing from family members that he started eating and recovered,” a relative said. The reason for not getting admitted was the same. A retired professor from Jafar Nagar too held similar views. “I am not afraid of dying but the manner of last rites for Covid patient is undesirable,” he said while talking about a relative who tested positive. A lawyer from West Nagpur too said they had no dearth of money for hospitalization of his father. “He refused to get admitted due to rumours of organ theft and NMC protocol of not handing over body in case of death,” she said adding eventually he got admitted and was cured. In June and July, social media was abuzz with rumours of ‘kidney theft’ and ‘organ scam’ stories. The accompanying messages would warn people that “Covid-19 was just an excuse and people were dying because government hospitals were taking out their vital organs”. Busy officials and doctors too had no time allaying such fears while the Covid death protocol didn’t allow family members to examine bodies. Gradually, relatives began to be shown only the face. This practice brought forth the problem of bodies of people from different faiths getting exchanged. “Doctors told us he was brought in at the last stage. He could have survived if he was admitted early,” said relative of a 65-year-old man. Senior psychiatrist at Regional Mental Hospital Dr Praveen Navkhare preferred to call it more of a medical science versus ritual debate. “In present circumstances, I feel the science should win. We live in a society where too much importance is given to death and afterlife. People holding belief that strangers shouldn’t touch their body after death can be educated with examples of officials carrying out numerous last rites of unknown deceased,” Dr Navkhare said. Asked about continuation of the Covid protocol, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “We need to follow it till we get new guidelines on this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-stigma-some-preferring-death-at-home-to-ensure-last-rites-by-family/articleshow/78648225.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 14, 2020||Goa||After complaint, forest department inspects mangrove-felling at Neura||PANAJI: The state forest department carried out an inspection at the site of large-scale felling of mangroves on internal bunds of the Grande-O-Neura khazan, at Neura on Thursday, following a complaint by locals over the illegal activity. The Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) had requested the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority to initiate action in the matter and submit a report regarding the illegality, as it involved extensive clearance of mangroves in the riverine area of the Zuari. In his complaint, Kanta Naik, a Neura villager, had stated that the managing committee of the local tenants’ association had cleared the area of the internal bund. After his complaint to the coastal body, the GSBB and the forest department, two forest officials inspected the destroyed mangroves on Thursday. A report is expected to be submitted to the coastal body and the GSBB, which had asked the department to inform it about action taken in the matter. The mangrove cover, even as it is increasing due to fields lying fallow for many years, is under threat. At Dandi in Agasaim, a large patch of mangroves has been cleared on the northern bank of the Zuari river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-plaint-forest-dept-inspects-mangrove-felling-at-neura/articleshow/78648189.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Private varsities move high court to oppose PIL for fee cut||AHMEDABAD: A forum of private universities and three associations of self-financed colleges have approached the Gujarat high court to join the litigation by which an NGO has been seeking fee cut for private as well as grant-in-aid and government colleges due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The Forum of Private Universities of Gujarat, the Association of Self-Financed Colleges, Swanirbhar Homeopathic Medical College Sanchalak Mahamandal and the Association of Self-Financed Ayurveda Colleges of Gujarat have filed applications in the HC urging it to hear them first before taking any decision on a PIL which wants institutes of higher studies in Gujarat to reduce their tuition fees until they remain shut due to the pandemic. Sources said that these universities and colleges are opposed to the demand made in the PIL and contend that they have their own expenditure in different overheads existing as usual. Their view should be taken into consideration before any conclusion about curtailment of fees. The PIL filed by an NGO Bridge Forum For All is for policy for all colleges and institutes of higher education to partially waive tuition or college fees until they remain shut and charge only reasonable fees to students. The colleges should not collect charges for miscellaneous activities, which are not taking place while the campuses are closed. The PIL also urge the court to ensure online education for all students irrespective of payment of tuition fees till the universities resume physical functioning. Meanwhile, the state government had formed a committee to study the issue and come up with a report on how much curb can be put on fees. Last month, the HC asked the government to place the committee’s report before it. The case could not be heard on Tuesday and now is likely to come up for the hearing in coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/private-varsities-move-high-court-to-oppose-pil-for-fee-cut/articleshow/78648200.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Minor among two detained for sodomizing two kids||RAJKOT: A 19-year-old boy was arrested and a minor was detained on Monday for sodomizing two boys near Raiyadhar quarters last month. The two accused, Prashant Solanki and the minor, had lured the kids aged 13 and 11 years to a water tank near their homes by promising them to teach swimming. On reaching, the two accused sodomized the boy and threatened them. “On September 28, the boys were playing at filtration plant near their home when the two accused approached them. After sexually assaulting them again, the kids were threatened of dire consequences which affected them mentally,” said inspector A S Chavda. The 13-year-old boy turned quieter at his home after the incidents and would not mingle with his family like earlier. Suspecting something wrong, the parents asked him about the change in his behaviour, the boy told them to ask his 11-year-old friend who, too, went through the same trauma. The 11-year-old narrated the trauma they went through. He also said that the two accused had tried to target them again on October 10, but they managed to escape. The 13-year-old boy’s father who works as a labourer lodged a complaint of unnatural offences, criminal intimidation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-among-two-detained-for-sodomizing-two-kids/articleshow/78646908.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||ED gets court nod to question 4 PFI suspects||LUCKNOW: A district court in Mathura has given permission to Enforcement Directorate to question four youths arrested by UP Police for their alleged links to Popular Front of India (PFI) and their purported plan to trigger violent agitations over the Hathras incident. ED will question the quartet on mobilisation of money and hawala transactions to fund the agitation. The four arrested — Atiq-ur-Rahman, Siddiqui, Masud Ahmad and Alam — were booked on October 6 for sedition, raising funds to commit terrorist act under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, spreading enmity between religions and other Sections of IPC. Sources in ED said Masud Ahmad had received kickbacks through bank transactions from an account allegedly operated by PFI. ED also said evidence of Ahmad’s communication with PFI secretary Mohamed Ilyas has also been traced. Sources said the four suspects will be tried under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, which was registered against the outfit in 2015. The agency is also examining the website — Justice for Hathras — and conducting enquires from offshore domain servers on details of money collected and then examine beneficiaries. Masud’s family claims he wanted to become an IAS officer and was a student of Jamia Millia Islamia. However, the university said he was enrolled but had no record of his attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-gets-court-nod-to-question-4-pfi-suspects/articleshow/78650449.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Virtual labs come in handy for students in science practicals||MADURAI: As schools remain closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students, especially those preparing for board exams this year, have been missing out on practical science lessons for upcoming exams. However, virtual labs, accessible online, are helping students and teachers to cover these portions as well. While there are several virtual lab softwares available for students and schools to buy and use, the OLabs website initiative funded by Ministry of education and information technology is most used in CBSE schools and by some state board students. “During online classes, our teachers are performing live demonstrations by using the equipment. But, in such case, students will not be able to practice it. Virtual labs are really useful in helping students learn the processExcept for the data they have to collect in a real lab, everything else they can learn here,” said Aruna MV, senior principal and correspondent, Adhyapana School. Through virtual labs, students can practice doing experiments in physics, chemistry, and biology in simulators by interacting with icons of beakers, test tubes, wires, batteries, microscope etc., shown on screen. Results and inferences can also be checked and noted down. “I love using the virtual lab to study. It is like a video game and helps me to remember the steps better. Actually, even in school, we are allowed to use the labs only for a certain time. But now, I can use it any time for learning,” said G Kaviya, a Class X student from a private CBSE school. Another Class XII student, S Anisha said that virtual labs make it interesting and fun to learn practical portions Science teachers, too, said that the virtual labs are useful in helping children learn steps for practical work. “At the same time, it is not a replacement for learning in a real science lab. Handling the equipment could be challenging for some, it is not as simple as clicking an icon and making it perform the action. Getting the correct readings is also something to be practiced, not automated,” said S Meenakshi, a Class XII physics teacher. However, schools are still hoping virtual labs can ensure students don’t have to begin from scratch for practical portions when schools reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virtual-labs-come-in-handy-for-students-in-science-practicals/articleshow/78650447.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 14, 2020||Goa||Alina Saldanha writes second letter to Prakash Javadekar opposing Mollem projects||PANAJI: Former forest minister in the Manohar Parrikar cabinet and BJP Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha has once again written to the Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, stating her objections to the three central government funded infrastructure projects that will pass through Mollem. This is her second letter on the issue. Saldanha has told Javadekar that Maharashtra and Karnataka are much bigger states than Goa and hence, projects that are possible there may not be feasible here. “The neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka are 82 times and 52 times bigger than Goa. Therefore, what may be possible in these big states cannot be contained in the dot-sized state of Goa,” Saldanha said. Also, citing the need for clarity on whether the railway line doubling project is in any way going to be used for transportation of coal, the former minister said that thousands of houses stand the risk of being sacrificed for the project. “The railway line expansion will affect thousands of people, not only within this forest area but outside too. The survey and land acquisition efforts have gone ahead while paying no attention and giving citizens no rationale for why these projects are even planned, and whether it is towards creating infrastructure for coal transportation,” Saldanha said. She has also reminded Javadekar that at least 18 different representations against these projects have already been made to him by stakeholders. Javadekar, during a recent visit to the state, had said he was not aware of any opposition to the three projects – which include railway line doubling, highway four-laning and power transmission line. Part of the projects are coming up through protected area in Mollem. Congress Curtorim MLA Alexio Reginaldo Lourenco also wrote to Javadekar stating that he had received acknowledgement for his memorandum on the railway line doubling project from the Union railways minister. “I am shocked that you are clueless to the protests at Mollem National Park,” Lourenco said. Leader of the Opposition Digambar Kamar and Prerna Singh Bindra, former member of the National Board for Wildlife, have also previously made official representations to the Union environment ministry voicing objections to the Mollem projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saldanha-writes-second-letter-to-javadekar-opposing-mollem-projects/articleshow/78648213.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Female ASI held for trying to extort Rs two lakh from snack trader||Rajkot: A female cop of Rajkot Taluka police station assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Trusha Buha was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly extorting money from a trader. Earlier, five persons were nabbed after a snack trader from Morbi had filed a complaint with the police.Police said that during the interrogation of the five accused, which included two gram rakshak dal (GRD) jawans, the role of ASI Buha was revealed. Buha, who has been working with Rajkot Taluka police station for three years, had planned the racket for extorting Rs 2 lakh from the snack trader Sanjay Somaiya. “She had even filed a case against Somaiya for not wearing mask so that later when the complainant would make allegations of honey-trap, she could say that the allegations were made because she made a case against him,” said sub-inspector A B Jadeja of University police station.Police said that there are two dozen more victims of this racket, but they are not coming forward to complain. “The other victims fear that they will be defamed if they will complain,” Jadeja added. Somaiya was trapped by the co-accused Alpana Moradiya with whom the former had extra-marital affair. On October 5, Moradiya had called Somaiya to her home on 150-feet Ring Road saying that next day her husband will not be in town. Next day, when Somaiya and Moradiya were having their private moments, her husband Ashish reached there with another person. Later the two GRD guards also came and they all threatened Somaiya with rape complaint if he would not shell out Rs 5 lakh. After negotiations, the extortion amount was agreed at Rs 2 lakh and they took Rs 22,500 from Somaiya on the spot. Somaiya had lodged a complaint against them on October 7 and the five accused were nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/female-asi-held-for-trying-to-extort-rs-two-lakh-from-snack-trader/articleshow/78646940.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gauging mood of rural voters||Ahmedabad: The farmers in distress because of crop failure have remained against the BJP since 2015 local body elections. In 2015, BJP had suffered setbacks in the district panchayat, taluka panchayat and nagarpalika polls. “The BJP feared that difficulty faced by the farmers in the state may go against it if the elections are held on time,” said a senior political leader. A senior BJP leader said that with good rains this year, almost all the dams in Saurashtra are full. “The party was hoping that it would be able to make up for the loss of the monsoon crop in the winter by supplying timely water which would lead to good yield,” he said. A section of party leaders, however, feels that the party would be in a better position to gauge the mood of the voters after the byelections are over next month. But at the same time, some workers are of the view that three months time would help the Congress party in making further inroads in rural areas which can further hamper their chances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gauging-mood-of-rural-voters/articleshow/78648244.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 15 crore revamp plan for Saryu ghat in Ayodhya before festive season||LUCKNOW: The Ram ki Paidi in Ayodhya, which has been witnessing a glittering Deepawali with lighting of lakhs of diyas for three years, is ready for a facelift with irrigation department moving a proposal to allow seamless flow of water along ghats with its ‘remodelling-of-channel’ project. The project, which comes ahead of the festive season, entails a budgetary sanction of Rs 15crore for remodelling of the main river channel and constructing a multi-box culvert at Ram Ki Paidi, a senior irrigation department official told TOI. Scores of pilgrims take a ritualistic bath in Saryu at Ram Ki Paidi and the river front brings forth a majestic landscape in floodlit nights. There were multiple bathing ghats along the Saryu and those at Nayaghat were inundated and rebuilt in 1985. Last year, Ayodhya created a Guinness record with the lighting of 450,000 diyas at Ram ki Paidi on Diwali. This time, however, the event would be a virtual affair because of the pandemic. The irrigation department would have to get a technical sanction from a designated authority and the state government would have to get legal and environmental clearance before starting the project, the order issued to the irrigation department stated. Also, it will be the responsibility of the implementation agency to meet deadlines. The order further said, the sanctioned budget for the project would be spent as per the government’s financial manual or the executing agency would be held responsible for discrepancies. To avoid duplicity, the irrigation department would ensure the project is not undertaken under any other programme. Also, a labour cess of 1% would be imposed and incurring amount would be transferred to the labour department. The department has also been barred from changing parameters of the project and extending it to include other work. If required, a formal proposal can be placed before the financial committee and it will be the responsibility of the engineer-in-chief, chief engineer and regional engineers to ensure quality during construction. The department would also be required to submit expenditure details from to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-15cr-revamp-plan-for-saryu-ghat-before-festive-season/articleshow/78650456.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 14, 2020||Chennai||E-registration to replace e-pass, Tamil Nadu tells HC||CHENNAI: A new e-registration system will be introduced to replace the current e-pass system for movement within and outside the state, the state government informed the Madras high court on Tuesday. “The e-registration is introduced only for contact tracing purposes,” advocate-general Vijay Narayan said. The AG made the submission while responding to a plea moved by KR Ezhil Nadhi challenging the restriction imposed by the government prohibiting travel to hill stations in the state. When the plea came up for hearing, the first bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said: “People are behaving as if Covid-19 has gone, but it is not so. We can afford to move out only after a vaccine comes.” Restrictions are imposed by the government only for the public good. They are not going to get anything out of it, the court added. Justifying the travel restriction to hill stations, Vijay Narayan said, “Most of the hill stations do not have adequate medical facilities to handle the pandemic. If the pandemic is spiked through the entry of outsiders, then residents of the area would be put to immense damage.” One must travel at least 3 to 4 hours to access a good medical facility in the areas, he added. Representing the petitioner, advocate Abishek Jebaraj contended that in view of the powers exercised by the union ministry of home affairs, guidelines were issued on September 30 which restrains the states from imposing lockdowns outside containment zones. It was made clear that there must be no restriction on inter and intra state movement, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/e-registration-to-replace-e-pass-state-tells-hc/articleshow/78648190.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Agra||CBI in Hathras with forensic team, reconstructs crime scene, quizzes girl's bro for 4 hrs||AGRA: The CBI began its field investigation into the Hathras case on Tuesday by reconstructing the crime scene where the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted by four upper caste men from the village a month ago. After speaking with the girl’s family and local police, the victim’s elder brother was taken away for four hours. “The officials had taken me along to get signatures on documents for sealing the evidence they had collected from the cremation site, the can that had been left there and my sister’s slippers,” the brother said after returning home from the CBI temporary office around 8pm. The 15-member CBI team has been camping at Hathras for the past two days. On Tuesday morning, they started with a visit to the Chandpa police station, where the first FIR had been registered, and questioned the cops there. Around 11am, they moved to the crime spot, mapped the field where the girl was allegedly gang-raped and strangled, and conducted a search operation for any evidence that may have gone unnoticed so far. The victim’s mother and brother were called there to help recreate the scene, which would be based on their statements. The mother had fallen ill earlier and reached the crime spot in an ambulance after receiving medication for high blood pressure, chief medical officer Brijesh Rathore said. Sources said the CBI team asked the mother, who had been gathering fodder with the girl that morning, how far away she was when her daughter was allegedly gang-raped. She was also asked if someone heard the girl when she called for help, who saw her, in what condition and what was done after that. The elder brother, who was not present in the millet field at the time, according to his statement in the FIR, was asked when he had left, when he came back and who informed him about what had happened. The proceedings were recorded on video. After more than two and a half hours of investigation and questioning them, the CBI team went to the place where the girl had been cremated by the police on September 30 around 2.40am. The two spots are about a kilometre apart. The victim’s elder brother was called there and questioned again. Remaining ashes were collected from the spot — the brother had gathered ashes earlier — and photographs taken. Then, the team left for the victim’s house, where they recorded statements of the family members. They collected the girl’s slippers and a can — left at the cremation site and later brought home by the family, which the district magistrate had told the high court on Monday was meant to carry Ganga water and not kerosene to burn the body. After a half-hour interaction, the CBI team left for its temporary office set up in the agriculture department office building. The CBI team will be in Hathras for a couple of weeks, a senior administrative official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-in-hathras-with-forensic-team-reconstructs-crime-scene-quizzes-girls-bro-for-4-hrs/articleshow/78645778.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur woman delivers on road, baby dies||JAIPUR: In a shocking incident, a 30-year-old woman, who failed to get medical attention, gave birth to a baby late night on Monday on the road. The child died a few hours later. This has come at a time when the state government is promoting institutional deliveries. The family alleged that they were forced to take the pregnant woman to the Bassi community health centre (CHC) after she failed to get medical care at the Banskho CHC which had deployed their nursing staff to the Covid-dedicated RUHS Hospital in the city. The woman gave birth to the child on the road while she was being taken to Bassi CHC. Following the incident, the health department redeployed two nursing staff at Banskho CHC from RUHS Hospital on Tuesday. A health department team also investigated the matter. “We investigated the matter and found that the family did not reach Banskho CHC. We spoke to the guard and doctor in-charge at Banskho CHC. They told us that no one had come there for delivery,” said a health department official who investigated the matter. He said the family of the pregnant woman did not call for an ambulance or inform ASHA workers or the auxillary midwife nurse in the area. Two years ago, the same woman had delivered a stillborn child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-woman-delivers-on-road-baby-dies/articleshow/78649850.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: 30% of population covered by Covid tests||BHUBANESWAR: Thirty per cent of the capital city’s residents have been covered by Covid-19 tests so far, with the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) having tested three lakh people. Initially only RT-PCR tests were being conducted. Rapid antigen tests were introduced in July, and have helped increase testing. Sources within the BMC said more than 4,000 samples were being tested every day. On September 18, the number of tests here touched two lakh. From then to now, a span of less than a month, the BMC has tested another one lakh people. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said 30 per cent of the city’s residents had been covered by tests, and only a small fraction of the tests was repeat tests of individuals. Most of the tests carried out so far are rapid antigen tests, he added. “The primary and community health centres are open to all who want to get tested. We bring out a schedule of RT-PCR tests a day in advance to help people know the location and time. Testing hasn’t gone down but the positivity rate has decreased from 12% in September to 8% now,” he told TOI. As far as the spread of infection is concerned, 2.6% people in the city have contracted the virus at some point with total count on Tuesday jumping to 26,016. The city reported 281 fresh cases. For the third consecutive day, it has remained below 300. With 22,525 recoveries and 122 deaths, the city now has 3,348 active cases. On Tuesday, 315 more patients recovered. BMC officials said with winter approaching when influenza-like illness are reported, the civic body will take a call on further increasing of sample testing after getting approval from the government. More people are likely to come to testing centres voluntarily for giving their samples. Although, the city authorities hope daily positive count will go down further towards the end of October, number of samples being tested won’t be reduced. At present, tests are being conducted at 19 primary health centres and four community health centres from 9 am to 2 pm. Besides, nine private hospitals and clinics are conducting the test. The RTPCR test is being carried out at Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC). In addition, the mobile testing van is also testing close to 100 samples a day. The BMC has made special provision for Covid test of differently-abled persons, shopkeepers, media persons, police and resident welfare association members. Six camps are being organized daily in the city for such tests. Besides, some private clinics and hospitals have been authorised to conduct the Covid test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/30-of-citys-population-covered-by-covid-tests/articleshow/78646946.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Samosawala-turned-bookie owns plush properties in city, Goa||Nagpur: Panjak Wadhwani, alias Pankaj Samosawala, alias Pankaj Kadi, among the seven arrested in a dramatic raid on Monday, allegedly turned into a millionaire cricket bookie today from being a samosa vendor on handcart known for his mouth-watering ‘kadi’ in Jaripatka market. Apart from a recent foreign trip, Wadhwani and his kin are learnt to be owning several properties in city, especially at Jaripatka, and also in Goa from where his team of bookies are allegedly operating during the ongoing IPL matches. Sources stated Wadhwani had leased and also owns lavish villas in Goa where bookies stay in rotation. Several cops from Jaripatka police station are known to be close to Wadhwani from his samosa selling days. City police chief Amitesh Kumar had conducted raids on city’s top bookies and hawala operators through squads of crime branch, Lakadganj and Tehsil police stations in which Wadhwani was nabbed along with Sanjay Agrawal, alias Chhotu, Prashant Shah, Abhishek Lunavat, Shankarlal Kakkad, Shailesh Lakhotiya and Jeetender Kamwani from different places. Kumar said no illegal activities of cricket betting, sand or animal transportation, flesh trade, gambling and liquor would be tolerated. “We have arrested the seven bookies for their complicity in an earlier case registered at Lakadganj police station. The bookies and hawala operators have been asked to stop their activities immediately or else be ready to face severe legal action,” said the CP. The top cop said more bookies are under scanner including two top names. Kumar, who had supervised the raids along with Addl CPs Navinchandra Reddy, Sunil Phulari and zonal DCP Lohit Matani, also said Wadhwani has been strictly warned for the last time to discontinue illegal activities. Lakadganj police had earlier arrested one bookie Piyush Aggrawal but its investigation was disapproved by CP who wanted to go deeper into the cricket betting and hawala racket. Later, another bookie Saurabh Khandewal was arrested following Kumar’s instruction. “Mobile phones were seized and would be sent for forensic examination. The betting rackets now operate through apps and cryptocurrencies,” said Zonal DCP Matani. In the past, bookie Agrawal was under the scanner of Enforcement Directorate (ED) too. In 2008, hawala operator Lakhotiya’s two brothers were shot dead by goons. Police also named Kakkad, Lunavat and Shah as the other key hawala operators from city. Apart from Shah, it is learnt police have several other bookies like Siraj, Feroze, Anwar too under their scanner. In Jaripatka, Shailu Pan Mandir, Jaani Anda, Satish, Kewalramani, Akash Battery, Rani Pan and Rohan too have their flourishing business and are close to Wadhwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/samosawala-turned-bookie-owns-plush-properties-in-city-goa/articleshow/78648287.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Take precautions as Covid risk persists: PM Narendra Modi||NASHIK: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has advised people not to lower their guard and observe safety protocols to avoid getting infected by the novel coronavirus. He was addressing a gathering on Tuesday via video conferencing after releasing the autobiography of Balasaheb Vikhe Patil titled, ‘Deh Vechwa Karani’ (dedicating one’s own life for a noble cause), and renaming the Pravara Rural Education Society as Loknete Balasaheb Pravara Rural Education Society during a function at Loni in Ahmednagar district. Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, Balasaheb’s son and a BJP leader, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and other top leaders were present at the function. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also addressed the gathering online. “The risk from Covid-19 still persists in the country. The risk is greater in Maharashtra. My appeal to the people of Maharashtra would be to adhere to all safety protocols like wearing masks, washing hands regularly with soap and maintaining social distancing. People have to remain vigilant from getting infected till the time medicine is available,” Modi said, adding that India will win the battle against the pandemic. Lauding the late Balasaheb Vikhe Patil for dedicating his life to society through his untiring work, Modi said his work in sectors like agriculture, cooperatives and education has earned him respect from all sections of society, including politicians. He said his government’s reforms in the farm sector is what Balasaheb had been demanding for long — that farming be termed as an enterprise. “Our government is creating opportunities that would lead farmers towards entrepreneurship and make them entrepreneurs. Our focus is to increase their profitability, which no government had earlier given importance. Their focus was to enhance the production of farm produce since the country did not have enough food. We have increased the minimum support price, provided attractive crop insurance to farmers, among other things. In fact, we have transferred over Rs 1 lakh crore directly into the accounts of farmers under the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana,” Modi said. The government has been constantly working to augment infrastructure by creating cold chains, modernizing mandis and establishing agro processing units, Modi said. The PM said his government has taken several initiatives to provide drinking water and water for irrigation in Maharashtra. “For years, 26 irrigation schemes were pending in Maharashtra. Our government completed nine of them, which are providing water to 5 lakh hectares in the state. More schemes are being implemented that would provide water to 4 lakh more hectares,” he said. Modi said that under the Jal Jeevan Mission, 19 lakh families in the state — 13 lakh of them poor families — have got piped drinking water during the Covid pandemic. Thackeray, in his address, described Balasaheb as a “jewel” and said his contribution towards the development of the state was immense. He said the Vikhe Patil and Thackeray families share a strong bond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/donetake-precautions-as-covid-risk-persists-pm/articleshow/78649830.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Calangute police bust another IPL betting racket||CALANGUTE: Calangute police, on Monday night, busted one more Indian Premier League (IPL) betting racket that was being operated from a resort room in Candolim, and arrested four Andhra Pradesh natives. This is the fourth IPL betting racket uncovered in the Calangute-Candolim tourist belt within the past 15 days. Police said they received a tip-off following which they raided the resort room and caught the four accused red-handed while being involved in betting on the cricket match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Royal Challengers Bangalore. The four have been identified as Adduri Naga Raju, 42, Irrinki Venkata Ganesh, 20, Pithani Kishore Kumar, 41, and Rudra Suryanarayan Raju, 39. Rs 15,785 in cash, 32 cellphones, a mobile conference box and two laptops, together worth Rs five lakh, have been seized from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-bust-another-ipl-betting-racket/articleshow/78648254.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar police earns DGP praise for record ganja seizures, illegal trade continues||BHUBANESWAR: The state has traditionally been a hotbed of ganja cultivation and trafficking, besides seeing record seizures of the narcotics every year. But state police have for decades failed to trace the promoters of the illegal trade. Police have so far managed to arrest only the peddlers and the carriers of ganja consignments. “We are on the job of identifying the brains and organized gangs behind the ganja trafficking. We are also probing the finances of the trade. It is in the early stages,” DGP Abhay said on the sidelines of an event to share achievements of his personnel in busting cannabis rackets in the state. Abhay did not disclose anything about the persons who have been extending patronage to the illegally flourishing ganja trade and trafficking in the state for the past several years. The DGP, however, heaped praise on state police, including the special task force (STF) of the Crime Branch, for having made significant drug hauls this year. In the first nine months this year alone, state police have seized 1,054 quintal of ganja, which is a record in the past 10 years, Abhay said. A total of 618 quintal and 523 quintal ganja were seized in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Police said only 73 quintal ganja was seized in 2010. The average seizure of ganja in the past 10 years was around 312 quintal. The average seizure of the drug was nearly 414 quintal in the past five years. The big hauls this year were made in Koraput (413.14 quintal), Malkangiri (240.66 quintal) and Gajapati (126.58 quintal) districts. Special appreciation letters have been given to the SPs of these districts, Abhay said. Police sources said joint squads of police, excise and forest departments destroyed ganja plants worth nearly Rs 1.4 crore on 11,627 acres of land (private and forest) in different districts in 2018-19. Boudh, Kandhamal, Gajapati, Rayagada, Malkangiri, Koraput, Deogarh, Angul, Sambalpur and Nayagarh witnessed rampant cultivation. Police said they had been receiving satellite imagery shared by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) with the Narcotics Control Bureau to trace ganja plants for destruction. Besides, the Odisha Space Applications Centre (ORSAC) too helps police in identifying the areas where ganja is cultivated. Abhay said he attended a virtual meeting with the DGPs of neighbouring West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand on Monday for better coordination and sharing of intelligence inputs on interstate drug smugglers. “Ganja cultivators and traffickers could not have thrived without the support of some corrupt government officers. The enforcement squads should probe the suspected complicity of government officials, police, excise, local representatives, village or panchayat committees in the trade. Nexus of some government employees and police with the mafia was established following their arrests in the recent past,” P K Pattnaik, a retired police officer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-police-earns-dgp-praise-for-record-ganja-seizures-but-illegal-trade-continues-to-thrive/articleshow/78646957.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: US siblings stuck at Nepal border||PITHORAGARH: Two siblings from America, who study at a boarding school in Mussoorie, were stopped at India-Nepal border point in Banbasa, Champawat, on Sunday and are waiting for the Union home ministry’s permission to cross over to Nepal and meet their parents. The teens, Colorado River Rose (17) and Ultra Violet Rose (15), have been living in hostels as their school closed in March in wake of the pandemic. They are now trying to reach their parents, Mark Rose and Jyoto Rose, in Kathmandu. “All entry points to Nepal were closed in March and no one is allowed to cross over without valid permission. So even though the teens have valid immigration papers, they need permission from home ministries of both countries,” said sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Tanakpur Himanshu Kafaltia, who has arranged for the kids to stay at a Public Works Department (PWD) guesthouse. The district administration has asked the parents to reach out to the Indian Ministry of Home Affairs (MoHA). Their relatives, meanwhile, are trying to seek help from Nepal’s home ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teen-siblings-from-us-students-of-mussoorie-boarding-school-stuck-at-border-and-await-nod-from-union-home-ministry-to-go-to-nepal-to-their-parents/articleshow/78645789.cms||Prem Punetha
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||‘Ready to set up rapid test unit at airport ’||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the state is ready to provide a facility for Covid rapid antigen tests at the airport like the ones already operational in Delhi and Mumbai airports if the civil aviation ministry makes the Kolkata-London flight a permanent one. “Kolkata is a gateway of north east, as well as states like Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. A large population wants to travel to Europe from here. We want direct flight operations to increase further and the direct flight to London be made permanent. The former chief secretary had written to civil aviation ministry regarding the matter and I have directed the current chief secretary to write to them again,” the chief minister said. Sources said Rajiva Sinha had prior to retirement written to the ministry, requesting for another direct flight from Kolkata to continental Europe. The London flight was initially proposed to be operated till October 24 has since been extended till the year-end and then March 31, 2021. This is the first direct connection between the city and a country in Europe since Lufthansa withdrew its flight eight years ago. The last direct flight to London was operated by British Airways 11 years ago. The Kolkata-London Air India flight has been plagued by poor loads due to a combination of factors, including the need to get Covid-test done within 96 hours prior to the flight departure. The Bengal government currently allows only passengers who have tested Covid negative to fly in from abroad. That is a major constraint due to the high cost of Covid test in London. Air India is also unable to operate a flight between Singapore and Kolkata because Covid testing is controlled in the country. Banerjee said she was aware that passengers had been unable to board the flight from London due to the problem. “I have heard it takes a lot of time to get the report over there. Hence, from our end, we can take an initiative to start a testing centre at airport where passengers who do not have a Covid negative report can get themselves tested. Those who test negative can head home while others will can be sent to a safe home or hospital as per requirement,” said Banerjee. The CM added that the state would provide all support to make the direct London flight viable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ready-to-set-up-rapid-test-unit-at-airport-/articleshow/78648309.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon GMCH conducts 101 deliveries||Nashik: The Jalgaon government medical college and hospital (GMCH) has successfully carried out 101 deliveries of Covid patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. The bulk of these deliveries were conducted after Jaiprakash Ramanand took charge as the GMCH dean in mid-June this year. Talking to TOI, Ramanand said, “A team of doctors lead by HOD of gynaecology department Sanjay Bansode and HOD of anaesthesia department Sandip Patel, nurses and health workers were instrumental in ensuring all the deliveries were successful in the hospital.” The task of undertaking these deliveries entailed high risk as the medical staff had to be in quite close proximity to the patients. “I am proud of the teams for doing their job well,” added Ramanand.District officials lauded the efforts of the authorities in conducting successful deliveries given the workload to treat the huge flow of Covid-19 patients in the hospital. “The perception about this GMCH was not a good one among a vast section of people following the recovery of a dead body of a elderly woman Covid-19 positive patient from a toilet of the hospital in early June. But, after Ramanand took charge, things improved dramatically in the functioning. The GMCH authorities must be lauded for conducting the deliveries successfully,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-gmch-conducts-101-deliveries/articleshow/78646964.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Polling to 10 RS seats from UP on November 9||LUCKNOW: Political temperatures in UP are set to go a notch higher with Election Commission on Tuesday announcing the poll schedule for 10 Rajya Sabha seats from the state that would fall vacant in November. Of 10 seats, four are currently held by Samajwadi Party, three by BJP, two by BSP and one by Congress. The commission would issue a notification on October 20 and polling would be held on November 9. Given the strength of BJP in UP assembly, maximum seats are likely to be won by BJP. However, RS polls would again test the possibility of an understanding between SP, BSP and Congress that don’t have enough numbers to sail through. Accordingly, each party has to fetch at least 35 votes, sources in Vidhan Sabha said. BJP and its ally Apna Dal comprehensively surpass their opponents with a consolidated strength of 314 MLAs. While SP has a strength of 48 MLAs, BSP has 18 and Congress only 7 law makers in the assembly. BJP’s erstwhile partner, Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) with four MLAs, has already snapped ties with the saffron party and has since been hobnobbing with the SP leadership. The House also comprises of three Independents and one MLA of NISHAD party, Vijay Mishra. RLD also has one MLA, Sahendra Singh Ramala, who, however, walked into saffron camp in 2018. Samajwadi Party MPs who are set to retire include party national general secretary, Ram Gopal Yadav, Chandra Pal Singh Yadav, Javed Ali Khan and Ravi Prakash Verma. Likewise, BJP MPs who would complete their term include party general secretary Arun Singh, Neeraj Shekhar and Union housing and urban poverty alleviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri. Of them Shekhar was earlier with Samajwadi Party, but switched over to the saffron camp in July 2019 and was subsequently nominated to Rajya Sabha by BJP. For Mayawati’s party, it would be the end of tenure for former party vice-president Raja Ram and one of the key party coordinators of west UP, Veer Singh. Likewise, senior Congress leader and bureaucrat-turned-politician P L Punia would also be completing his tenure in November. With retirement of party MPs, strength of BJP from UP would come down to 14 in Rajya Sabha, while SP’s strength would fall to four. Mayawati-led BSP would be down to two, while Congress strength in Upper House from UP would plunge to just one — Congress leader Kapil Sibal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/polling-to-10-rs-seats-from-up-on-november-9/articleshow/78650463.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Stench once again returns to haunt Vadodara||VADODARA: Strong stench has once again returned to haunt Barodians. For the second time within a month, residents of several areas of the city, especially those residing in the western parts, are experiencing strong stench wafts. The foul smell resembling some chemical emission was so intense on Monday night that some residents started complaining of headache and uneasiness in areas like Gotri, Gorwa, Harinagar Crossroads, Akota, Sun Pharma Road and even Atladara. A couple of officials of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), too, experienced this intense odour. The state pollution watchdog which received nearly half a dozen telephonic complaints, has started efforts to ascertain the reason behind the foul smell. Sources in GPCB ruled out any discharge of effluents in storm water drains or leak in pipeline as reason behind it as the spread of the smell was linear and wide-spread. “We are collecting data. Our officials were on the job even on Monday night,” said GPCB regional director R B Trivedi, adding that the gaseous emission seems to be that from industry or industrial cluster. GPCB officials have also kept a meeting with officials of Central Pollution Control Board on Wednesday. This is, however, for the first time or the first year when these areas are reeling under such foul smell. Time and again role of chemical industries have come under scanner. The stench has become a regular phenomenon during the months of winter or during the onset of winter when there is diurnal temperature variation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/stench-once-again-returns-to-haunt-city/articleshow/78646391.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: For first time in weeks, data shows no ICU bed shortage||PUNE: A drop in new Covid cases has led to an increase in the number of ventilated intensive care beds across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. On Tuesday, PMC facilities reported 107 vacant ventilated beds. Just over a month ago, these Covid units had zero available ICU beds. In PCMC areas, the virtual dashboard showed 50 vacant ventilated ICU beds. Overall, both civic zones on October 13 had 607 ICU beds between them, including 157 ventilated units. The PMC additional commissioner, Shantanu Goel, said, “In March, we had around 20 beds. Since then, bed management has improved tremendously. We brought private hospitals on board and improved our own infrastructure. Also, the Baner medical facility and the jumbo unit at CoEP are now functioning without problems.” Goel said there was a bed shortage crisis when cases were high. But the positivity rate has since dropped to nearly 15%, from about 30%. “We have had a drop in the number of critical cases as well. And asymptomatics are increasingly opting for home isolation,” he said. Kunal Khemnar, also an additional commissioner of the PMC, said authorities continue to stay prepared for surges. “We will not shut any floor of medical facility at Baner; neither will we divert its staff to other locations. There remains a possibility of a post-festival rise in cases and we are prepared to handle that,” Khemnar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-first-time-in-weeks-data-shows-no-icu-bed-shortage/articleshow/78648316.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 14, 2020||Goa||Forest rights claims to be expedited: Govind Gaude||PANAJI: Tribal welfare minister Govind Gaude on Tuesday directed government officers to expedite the process of settlement of claims filed under the Forest Rights Act. He also said that the Supreme Court has given the state a June 2021 deadline to settle the claims. Across the state, there are over 10,000 claims filed to get land in the names of claimants under the Forest Rights Act and the Forest Dwellers Act. Gaude held a review meeting at the secretariat to find out the status of the claims filed under both acts. Also in attendance were deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar, public works department minister Deepak Pauskar, MLAs and officials of the revenue and forest departments. Stating that 98 cases have already been settled so far, the minister said that a further 343 claims would be settled by November 15 Gaude later told TOI that due to the pandemic, the state had lost nearly eight months due to which the government was unaware of the status of the cases. Also, citing the lack of coordination between the forest and revenue department he said that the meeting aimed at ensuring better coordination between both departments. Elaborating on the procedure for the approval, Gaude said that once a claim is received, it goes through three committees - at the gram sabha level, the sub-district level and the district collector level. First, a team is constituted, consisting of the deputy collector, a forest department official and the mamlatdar. This team conducts a spot verification. Once this is done, the forest department may raise suggestions and objections. The claim is later discussed at the gram sabha, which then issues approval. Once this is received, the claimant must get approvals from the sub-district committee and finally, the district collector level committee. Pauskar said that the claims have been pending since 2013. Kavalekar, meanwhile, said that people have been cultivating those land for years, but are now unsure about whether they would get the land in their names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-rights-claims-to-be-expedited-gaude/articleshow/78648273.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Parents’ body wants exact fees revealed||AHMEDABAD: The Federation of Parents’ Association in a letter to the Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC), has demanded that the no parent will come forward to pay the fees till FRC reveals the exact amount of tuition fees after taking into account the 25% cut which the state government had announced. The fee amount fixed by the committee for the year 2020-21 should be disclosed to the parents for every self-financed school. “Since the parents will pay only 75% of the fees this year, FRC should reveal the exact amount to be paid this year so there is no confusion among parents. Some schools still charge excess fees in the name of various activities so there is lot of confusion among parents,” said a member of the association. The Federation of Parents Associations, had earlier demanded a minimum of 75% cut in tuition fees for the academic year 2020-21. The association had also urged the government to intervene and ensure that salaries and jobs of teachers and other school staff members are protected during this Covid-19 crisis. Schools recently agreed to cut fees by 25% after several rounds of discussions with the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-body-wants-exact-fees-revealed/articleshow/78648296.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Rajkot||Three transporters dupe finance company of Rs 3 crore||Rajkot: Three transporters from Jamnagar were booked on Tuesday for cheating a finance company of Rs 3.2 crore.According to police, the accused Kishore Gadhvi, Mohit Gadhvi and Ashok Gadhvi, who jointly own Shri Ram Transport Company, had refinanced their 13 trucks with Hinduja Leyland Finance Company for Rs 3.2 crore. After paying their first instalment, the trio stopped repayment. Even when company’s officials went asking for their repayment or to seize the vehicles, the trio threatened them. On Monday, when the finance company’s officials went to the transport company’s office on Rajkot-Jamnagar highway for seizing the trucks, an attempt was made to attack them. The finance company’s officials then complained to the superintendent of police about it following which a case of cheating and criminal intimidation among other charges was registered against the three owners. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-transporters-dupe-finance-company-of-rs-3-crore/articleshow/78646962.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Driver dies as car catches fire in Maharashtra||NASHIK: A 55-year-old farmer died from suffocation and burn injuries after the car he was driving caught fire on the Mumbai-Agra highway. The man was unable to open the door of the sedan to escape. The incident took place at Sakore Phata in Pimpalgaon Baswant on Tuesday at 12.15 pm. The deceased has been identified as Sanjay Chandrabhan Shinde. The Pimpalgaon Baswant police said though had Shinde managed to take the vehicle by the roadside, he was unable to open the door to escape. Head constable Eknath Pawar said a crowd had gathered around the burning car, but people were unable to help. The fire brigade vehicle arrived in minutes and doused the fire. Police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/driver-dies-as-car-catches-fire/articleshow/78649852.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: Residents built temporary bridge over Nagabali||KORAPUT: The residents of 10 villages in the remotest corner of Kalyansinghpur block, Rayagada district, built a makeshift wooden bridge over the Nagabali river on Sunday. The villagers said they faced serious difficulties in reaching the nearest panchayat headquarters, which had to be done by crossing the river. “It becomes very difficult for us to cross the river without a bridge, especially in the monsoon. The children used to cross it in order to reach school. It is a nightmare for someone who is in need of urgent medical treatment. Though we have been demanding the construction of a bridge over the river, no one has listened to us,” said Tamia Miniaka, a resident of Talasaja village. The villagers added that it took a week for them to collect bamboo and boles from the nearby forest. They built the 100m-long bridge in a day. The villagers further said they could now easily reach the nearest road point at Belkona Chhack. The bridge is so strong that even two-wheelers can easily pass through it. Earlier, the villagers used to trek for nearly seven kilometres to reach the road point at Majhiguda. “In a bid to test the strength of the bridge, we drove a motorcycle on it. It crossed it without any problem. Now, it will be easier for us to shift patients to the hospital at Sikarpari,” said Biswanath Miniaka, a resident of Uppersaja village. Officials said a proposal for the construction of a high-level bridge over the Nagabali River was sent to the rural works department. Sources said it was under consideration and a decision would be taken soon. Sub-collector Pratap Chandra Pradhan said it was risky to cross the river through the makeshift wooden bridge. “We have advised the villagers not to use it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/residents-built-temporary-bridge-over-nagabali/articleshow/78646976.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t use pandals for cultural events, says CM||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that cultural programmes during Puja can be held in open space or in halls. “We gave permission for the assembly of 100 people. It can be easily held in halls or open space and police should take care of the pleas with an open mind. We need to think about the artists and performers, too, who are jobless for a long time. But, the Covid protocols, too, need to be followed strictly,” Banerjee added. The CM stressed that for holding cultural events, Puja pandals should not be used as it would lead to overcrowding that the cops and organizers may not be able to control. “If clubs have open space, they can invite artists to perform. And, people can enjoy the event by maintaining physical distance,” pointed out Banerjee. She added: “You can do functions if the distance is maintained. With proper physical distancing, even up to 200 people can be allowed. For holding cultural programmes, the puja pandals should not be used, as it will lead to overcrowding. It may become difficult for the police and puja organizers to control the crowd.” Banerjee appealed to the people to enjoy Puja by wearing a mask, following Covid protocols and maintaining physical distance. “You have to protect yourself. Wearing a mask is the best way to protect yourself, it is my request,” the CM said at Nabanna on Tuesday. She added: “Since it is an airborne disease, we have to be very cautious and need to avoid the crowd.” Banerjee reiterated that physical distancing was mandatory, particularly when one visits puja pandals. “It’s spreading fast. There’s an alert in Maharashtra. So, we need to be very cautious,” she added. “Even if you visit others’ houses, wear masks and maintain a safe distance. There will be many outsiders, whom you will be meeting during the Puja, so you need to practise good hygiene by sanitizing hands.” The chief minister said that social distance was not the right word. “It is physical distance that we need to maintain to keep the virus away.” Banerjee also asked the artists not to worry as the state was trying to help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-use-pandals-for-cultural-events-says-cm/articleshow/78648398.cms||Debasish Konar
October 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Medical interns demand hike in stipend||Aurangabad: Medical interns at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad, on Tuesday carried out a protest at the hospital premises demanding stipend at par with their contemporaries in other cities such as Mumbai and Pune. The protesters said that they are getting a meagre Rs 350 per day which is much less than what is being offered to any non-skilled labour. During the protest, intern doctors unanimously said that they have been doing Covid-19 duty in dedicated covid building since June, but have been denied their rightful share of Covid-19 incentive. Due to the high number of co-morbid patients reaching out GMCH for treatment, resident doctors as well as senior medicos at the hospital were found to be overburdened, following which arrangements were made to have at least 60 interns posted at a time at the dedicated super specialty covid building. Interns maintained that on an average, they have been doing 20 days posting each month at the Covid wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/medical-interns-demand-hike-in-stipend/articleshow/78649871.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 50% freight waiver on veggies & fruits||LUCKNOW: Extending the financial help to agricultural sector in order to revive post Covid-19 lockdown, the Railways has decided to wave 50% transportation charges on vegetables and fruits. The decision was taken by the Railway Board on Tuesday, following the ministry of food processing industries (MoFPI) agreeing to extend subsidy through kisan rail trains (KRTs) under ‘Operation Greens’. MoFPI will initially provide Rs 10 crore to the Railways (to be deposited with South Central Railway). Therefore, zonal railways have been requested to extend a subsidy of 50% on transportation of selected fruits and vegetables through KRTs with immediate effect. Chief parcel supervisor of the loading station will be responsible for ensuring that only the notified commodities are extended the benefits of this scheme. According to MoFPI, transportation charges of fruits such as mango, banana, guava, kiwi, lychee, papaya, sweet lemon, orange, kinnow, lime, lemon, pineapple, pomegranate, jackfruit, apple, almond, passion fruit and pear, while vegetables like French beans, bitter gourd, brinjal, capsicum, carrot, cauliflower, chillies (green), okra, cucumber, peas, garlic, onion, potato and tomato would be waived. The MoFPI said, the objective of providing 50% subsidy in transportation via Railways is to protect the growers of fruits and vegetables from making distress sale and reduce the post-harvest losses. A railway official speaking on anonymity said, “Farmers of west UP have started booking freight trains for potato and capsicum load, which they want to be transported to north eastern state as well as southern states.” Mohan Singh Chahar, Braj Prant chairperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said: “The move by Railway ministry and MoFPI will definitely benefit the farmers, as the discount in transportation charge will help the farmers to gain over their production cost. Further, Railways is also providing refrigerated containers/coaches for us to keep the fruits and vegetables fresh till they reach mandis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/50-freight-waiver-on-veggies-fruits/articleshow/78650477.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cabinet likely to decide on reopening of schools today||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government is likely to take a call on the reopening of schools in its cabinet meeting scheduled for Wednesday. While a SOP for the reopening of schools has already been released, the state government is contemplating to do so in a phased and planned manner after taking into consideration all the aspects. In the last few days, the state authorities have also interacted with the school managements and parent bodies to discuss the issue of reopening of schools from October 15. According to TOI sources, the decreasing number of Covid-19 infections in the state may prompt the government to allow opening of schools for Classes X, XI. and XII. In the last one week, the Covid-19 positive cases in Uttarakhand have gone down considerably and on Monday, less than 300 cases were reported after almost three months. However, the state education minister Arvind Pandey has been tight-lipped on the issue by just saying — “A decision will be taken after looking into each aspect” on repeated occasions. Meanwhile, the parent associations which have met the district magistrates and education authorities are not in favour of reopening of schools this month. When contacted Arif Khan, the president of National Association for Parents and Students Rights, told TOI, “We met the district magistrates and the education department officials and have clearly conveyed that the government and schools need to take responsibility if a student is tested Covid-19 positive after schools are opened. The blame should not be shifted on parents.” Khan pointed out that it will be “extremely chalenging” for students to follow social distancing and other norms in schools as they would have to use the same toilet, same drinking water tap, and most institutes have limited entry and exit points. “Besides, maintaining social distancing in computer and science labs is not possible. Therefore, we have given in writing that the school authorities and the government should not blame us if a student is tested Covid-19 positive and the institutes need to take up responsibility,” he said while adding that it would be better if a decision in this context is taken post Diwali – after taking into account the situation then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-likely-to-decide-on-reopening-of-schools-today/articleshow/78645838.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 14, 2020||Goa||‘Work on Cacora plant has begun’||Panaji: Waste management minister Michael Lobo on Tuesday said that in the next two years, work on all types of waste treatment facilities would be completed. He also said that Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) will collect waste lying at government offices, and revenue generated through that waste would be deposited in the state treasury. Lobo said that departments should write to GWMC to clear waste, including chairs, vehicles, etc, lying at their offices. The minister also said that Goa will be the first state to have facilities to treat all types of waste. Speaking to reporters after meeting CM Pramod Sawant, Lobo said that they have prepared a booklet about the work being carried out by GWMC, including remediation of legacy waste. Lobo said that work on the Cacora waste plant has began after a delay of eight months due to the pandemic. He said that funds have been paid to the contractor to hasten work and make the plant operational before the end of the assembly term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-cacora-plant-has-begun/articleshow/78648323.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Business||Sundaram Mutual Bluechip Fund NFO mobilises Rs 650cr||Chennai: Sundaram Mutual Bluechip Fund offering has collected over Rs 650 crore from over 46,000 customers across 562 cities. It is an open-ended equity scheme predominantly investing in large cap blue chip stocks which was open between September 17 and October 1, 2020. “The response to the Sundaram Bluechip NFO was overwhelming in these challenging times, where 60% of the applications received through the Digital mode has been a strong validation of the Digital First approach adopted by us. We have always been retail-focussed in its distributor and customer approach,” MD Sunil Subramaniam said. The fund house said, “It is notable that, despite the challenges of Covid pandemic and the lockdown, this collection figure is a significant increase over those of the previous two NFOs.” It had collected about Rs 358.95 crore under Sundaram Equity Fund in September, 2019 and Rs 485.12 crore under Sundaram Balanced Advantage Fund in March, 2020. The fund reopens for subscription on October 14, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sundaram-mutual-bluechip-fund-nfo-mobilises-rs-650cr/articleshow/78648331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Goa||NGO to CM: Scrap proposed infra works by Nov 14||Panaji: Goencho Ekvott on Tuesday gave an ultimatum to the state government to take a decision on scrapping the three proposed linear projects in Mollem as well as plans for enhancing coal handling activities, before November 14.The group, which is an umbrella organisation of various NGOs in the state, has demanded dropping the expansion of the national highway in Anmod–Mollem, double tracking, and laying of a high-tension power transmission line passing through Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park in South Goa.Goencho Ekvott held a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard on Tuesday. After the meeting, Sawant told mediapersons that he will invite the group for further discussions. During the meeting, Goencho Ekvott urged Sawant to direct the land acquisition officer and Mormugao deputy collector to drop plans for acquiring 60,177 sqm of land for the Hospet-Hubli-Tinaighat-Vasco-da-Gama railway doubling tracking project.They are also against granting autonomy to Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) under the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020, and have demanded handing over MPT jurisdiction to captain of ports.The group members also urged the government against taking up the proposed enhancement of berths 5A and 6A, re-development of berths 8, 9 and barge berth respectively, dredging of the approach channel and inner basin at MPT as well as developing finger jetties at Vasco Bay for liquid cargo, coastal, passenger jetty at Khariawado.Goencho Ekvott are also opposing projects proposed under the master plan for MPT prepared by American firm AECOM in its final report for the Sagarmala project, which include satellite port for multipurpose terminal at Betul, outer harbour for iron ore/coal terminal, development of workshop area at Baina, and development of two berths with connecting flyover for the Indian Navy and Coast Guard at Vasco Bay.“We seek your stern intervention to protect the state and its nature loving people from the totally unjustified destructive and irreversible effects of this rampant devastation of our land,” Goencho Ekvott stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngo-to-cm-scrap-proposed-infra-works-by-nov-14/articleshow/78648279.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Architect assaulted by GMCH doctor, probe ordered||AURANGABAD: A woman resident doctor, pursuing her second year post-graduation in general surgery at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), allegedly assaulted a 26-year-old architect after the latter tried to record how his family member was not being treated and asked to wait for an hour. The doctor also broke the mobile phone of the architect. The incident took place after the architect, who was unable to find a hospital for his woman family member suffering from acute kidney stone, rushed her to the GMCH. After the architect requested the on-duty resident doctor to check the ailing woman, he was asked to wait for 15 minutes. When the architect returned after the said time, the doctor shooed him out of her cabin and asked him to wait for another hour. This eventually resulted into an argument following which the doctor manhandled the architect and broke his phone. Taking serious cognizance of the incident, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar has ordered a probe against the doctor. The incident has been confirmed by multiple staff at the GMCH including medicos from the surgery department and superintendent’s office. A medico from surgery department said that the architect has been offered a new cellphone as compensation against the broken cellphone. When contacted, Yelikar said, “Though we have not received any written complaint, but on learning about the incident I have ordered to form an inquiry committee to probe the alleged incident.” Architect Israr Chishti told TOI, “When we reached GMCH, the woman resident doctor on duty was sitting idle. I requested her to see the patient, but she arrogantly asked me to come after 15 minutes. When I went back to her after 15 minutes, she shooed me away while asking to come after an hour.” “This resulted in an argument following which I took out my cellphone to record her behaviour she became violent and in the presence of other staffers, security guards on duty, she manhandled me. She also snatched my cellphone and threw it on the floor,” said the architect, who then approached the Begumpura police station. On learning about the incident, RMO on night duty rushed to the spot and somehow convinced the architect to not lodge a police complaint, as it would impact the doctor’s career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/architect-assaulted-by-gmch-doc-probe-ordered/articleshow/78649873.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pulicat fishermen move online to sell catch||CHENNAI: For traditional fishermen in the Pulicat region, selling their catch on a daily basis during the lockdown was a tall order. A new online portal launched recently to sell the catch directly to customers without the help of mediators has made their life easier. Fishermen from northern Chennai (Ennore and Pulicat) would put out to sea at midnight and return with their catch before dawn. Due to the pandemic-imposed restrictions, there was no one to buy their catch, and many of them lost their income since the lockdown was declared in March. Now, www.desifish.in. has been launched to bring fresh catch directly to consumers in the city in a few hours. A centre has been opened in Pulicat to clean and pack the fish (following the standards suggested by the FSSAI) before being delivered to customers. “Many fishermen who venture into the sea using their small boats were struggling to sell their catch. Scores of them have lost their regular income. The portal will help us sell our catch to customers directly,” said M Suman, a fisherman and organiser of the portal. There are separate sections for sea, lagoon and freshwater fish and live crabs on the portal. Suman said many people were not aware of the importance of the fish that they consume.  “They just buy and consume fish without knowing its health benefits. On the portal, we have given a brief narration for each variety of fish to create awareness among people about the benefits of eating fish,” he said.  Traditional fishermen do not freeze or use any other methods to store fish. “This makes them vulnerable to sell their catch to large retailers at a lower cost,” said Xavier Benedict, founder of AARDE Foundation, which provided technical expertise to Suman and his friends in developing the portal. “Unlike large vessels or trawlers in harbours who venture and stay in sea for seven or more days, traditional fishermen go to the sea daily and have to compete with middlemen to sell their catch. The portal will help them sell fresh fish to customers in the city directly,” he added. Even though the portal was launched a week ago, it will take some more time to become fully functional. “We have started taking orders for live crabs and lagoon fish right now. The portal will be fully functional in a couple of weeks,” said Suman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pulicat-fishermen-move-online-to-sell-catch/articleshow/78648304.cms||M T Saju
October 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four treatment facilities to shut as patient numbers dip||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation said it had now closed four Covid care centres (CCCs) out of 11 such units in the city. There will now be seven civic-run Covid units, with an eighth one operating via a public-private partnership. Authorities said the closures will allow the PMC to save on infrastructural and operational costs, especially electricity and manpower. Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s establishment department, said, “There were 11 PMC CCCs functioning in Pune city; 20 such units had been proposed. Similarly, there were 16 isolation centres for close contacts and patients who did not have separate toilets at home. The units had a total of 17,597 beds.” But with two jumbo facilities, and because of a drop in the number of new cases, Muthe said it was time to save on costs and resources. “Despite the low number of patients at these facilities, the PMC has had to bear maintenance, repair and electricity costs,” he said, while adding that manpower can now be diverted to operational sites. He said the facilities that have been shut can be reopened if there is an increase in cases later this year. “There has been talk of a second wave during the winter. These facilities can be reopened. They will remain equipped to handle as many as 15,000 patients.” Sanjeev Wavare, the assistant medical officer of the PMC, said, “The home isolation policy and the dip in the number of active cases had led to big drop in patients at the CCCs.” The list of CCCs set to be shut includes units at the Sinhgad Institute in Vadgaon Budruk; Trinity College, Kondhwa; the Balewad-based Nicmar Covid centre; and the hostel of Marathwada Mitra Mandal’s College of Engineering hostel in Karvenagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-treatment-facilities-to-shut-as-patient-numbers-dip/articleshow/78648340.cms||Neha Madaan
October 14, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation allows practice sessions for outdoor, indoor games with caution||PUNE: The civic body has decided to allow sportspersons to take part in practice sessions for outdoor indoor games, provided they follow all precautionary measures in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday issued a notification giving the permission as part of the state government’s “Unlock” process. Sanitization of indoor facilities and maintaining social distancing norms are mandatory. The notification stated that the practice sessions for games such as badminton, tennis, cricket and kho kho could be held in the non-containment zones. The air conditioners have to be shut and ventilation should be allowed through open windows and doors in the indoor facilities. In case the use of air conditioner is a must, it should be regularly cleaned and sanitized. If possible, portable high-efficiency air cleaners should be installed, the notification said. The management of the sporting facilities will have to make sure that social distancing norms are followed on the respective premises. Entry of players should be restricted as per their capacity and space. Children below 10 years of age and senior citizens above 65 years should not be allowed into the facilities. People showing Covid-19-like or flu-like symptoms should not be allowed entry. The information of all the players should be collected for contact tracing, if needed. The staff members have to do regular health check-ups and undertake the Covid-19 tests. The use of masks, face shields, sanitizers and gloves is mandatory. The sports equipment and material should also be sanitized both before and after use. “People flouting the norms will be subject to punishment under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code,” stated the notification issued by Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-practice-sessions-for-outdoor-indoor-games-with-caution/articleshow/78648375.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||NEET Exam 2020: 178 from country to appear today||NAGPUR: In a record of sorts, NEET on Wednesday will be conducted for the lowest number of candidates ever. In Nagpur, only three candidates will be appearing while across the country the figure is barely touching 200. Till Monday, 178 candidates had submitted the required documents to be eligible for NEET. Till noon on Tuesday, the number had hardly moved. A senior official from National Testing Agency (NTA) said, “Number is very less. I believe, it’s fewer than 200.” Applications were being accepted till 2pm and final tally could not be confirmed till the time of going to press. Actually, the number of candidates will be much less than the support staff at many centres. With Nagpur having just three candidates, the NTA appointed staff plus school personnel will outnumber them by three. Considering that over 20,000 appeared for NEET in Nagpur barely a month ago, this one won’t bother NTA too much. Since exam centre staff is barred from speaking to the media, they did not respond to queries. However, sources said same Covid-19 safety guidelines will be followed. All three candidates have submitted a health certificate to prove their Covid-19-free status. Also with such a negligible number of candidates, there are no concerns over social distancing. One of the candidates in Nagpur said she was happy at the ‘closure’. “It had been an extremely long wait. Exam had been delayed for months and when finally the dates were announced, I had become Covid positive. Though I was asymptomatic, entry had been denied because I mentioned my health status in the mandatory undertaking. I was told that another exam will be taken for students like me,” said the candidate. She kept communicating with NTA through email, and submitted her health certificate online after recovering. “Then within hours after Monday’s Supreme Court order, I received an email from NTA confirming my seat. I also got a call from their office regarding the same,” said the candidate, who did not wish to be named. The pen-paper exam will be held from 2pm-5pm in its usual MCQ format. NEET results for all candidates will be declared on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neet-3-from-city-178-from-country-to-appear-today/articleshow/78652024.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Cyber cops finish probe in 4 days, file charge sheet||AURANGABAD: The cyber crime branch of Aurangabad police completed a probe into a case involving harassment of a married woman within four days and filed a charge sheet on Tuesday. “The alleged act of harassment by the accused has ruined the woman’s married life, compelling us to complete the probe and file charge sheet in a record time,” inspector Geeta Bagwade told TOI. The officer said she is planning to meet the complainant’s husband and convince him to withdraw the divorce papers as his wife is innocent. “The suspect knew the woman and had proposed to marry her some years ago.” According to police, the 24-year-old woman recently moved to her relative’s residence in Aurangabad city from her village in Jalna. She lodged a complaint with here on October 8, stating that an unidentified person had uploaded her photo on social media and revealed her mobile phone number, following which she started getting calls from men. The woman stated that her husband started suspecting her character because of the calls and filed for divorce. Police commissioner Nikhil Gupta directed the cyber police to take immediate action, following which it swung into action and zeroed in on the suspect within 24 hours and arrested him. The suspect, Santosh Dighode (27), a bank executive and hailing from a village in Jalna district, is in police custody, granted five days ago. He has been charged under IPC sections 354-C (capturing the image of a woman engaging in a private act), 354-D (stalking), 500 (defamation) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Sections of IT Act, 2000, and Indecent Representation of Women Prohibition Act, 1986 have also been slapped on him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cyber-cops-finish-probe-in-4-days-file-charge-sheet/articleshow/78649875.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 14, 2020||Goa||BJP wrests back Ponda dy chief’s post||Ponda: Despite two members of the BJP-backed Ponda Nagrik Samiti being absent during the voting on the motion of no-confidence against Ponda Municipal Council’s (PMC) deputy chairperson Amina Naik, the panel managed to wrest back the post from MGP’s Rising Ponda group. Amina was ousted by an 8-4 margin on Tuesday, within 19 days as deputy chairperson of the 15-member Ponda civic body. The voting was held by show of hands. Venkatesh Naik and Chandrakala Naik of the Ponda Nagrik Samiti and Rising Ponda’s Pradeep Naik were absent during the voting. On September 5, eight councillors of the BJP-backed panel had served a notice of no-trust motion against Amina, who was elected to the post on September 25. Amina had defeated BJP-backed Anand Naik by 8-7 votes. It may be recalled that the BJP panel had won only five seats in the municipal polls held in 2018. However, the panel managed to increase its to 10, after Ponda MLA’s son Ritesh Naik, William Aguiar and Anand of the Congress, and MGP’s Yatish Sawkar and Virendra Dhavalikar joined the Ponda Nagrik Samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-wrests-back-ponda-dy-chiefs-post/articleshow/78648367.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Miffed at poor upkeep of Marina, HC pulls up corporation||CHENNAI: It is unfortunate that none of the beautiful beaches in Tamil Nadu, including the famous Marina, has qualified for the ‘Blue Flag’ tag, Madras high court observed on Tuesday. “We expect the Chennai corporation to utilise every possible resource to achieve the international standard,” a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice MS Ramesh said. Taking on record two news reports published in TOI which brought to light new encroachments made on the Marina during the pandemic and other menaces dogging the famed beach, the bench said: “Chennai missed the tag only because nothing was happening (development/beautification work).” Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash, in the virtual hearing, submitted that a special team was constituted after the publication of the news reports and that the encroachments were removed. “The Loop Road is not being put to use in view of the pandemic. Utilising the situation, new encroachments cropped up,” Prakash said. Fishermen associations have been instructed to keep a watch over encroachments, he added. Police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, who was present in the hearing, submitted that the city police are cooperating with the corporation. Recording the submissions, the bench inquired about the attitude of the fishermen. “Are they cooperating, or force is being used?” the bench asked. To this, Prakash submitted that the fishermen have now understood the gravity of the situation and are ready to move. To this, the bench said construction of the market should be started as quickly as possible and the footpath along the Loop Road must be kept free from encroachment. The court suggested both the commissioners present to make it a routine to go for a walk along the Marina to ensure that it is free of encroachment. On the reopening of Marina, Prakash submitted that a decision might be taken by November 1.  The bench then adjourned the hearing to November 11. and made it clear that the court would fix the deadline for completion of projects if no improvement is reported in the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/miffed-at-poor-upkeep-of-marina-hc-pulls-up-corpn/articleshow/78648359.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Postal department releases first philatelic passport depicting Goan festivals||PANAJI: For the first time ever, Goa Posts has released a philatelic passport on Tuesday. This rare collectible has souvenir cards of festivals that are only native to Goa like Chikhal Kaalo, Satryo, Konsachem Fest, etc, along with information on the festival where they are held. “Goa’s culture and heritage is showcased through its unique village festivals. This philatelic passport will be like a travel guide for philatelists and also serve as a souvenir,” said Dr Sudhir Jakhere, the senior superintendent of post offices, Goa Division. Protected in stamp pouches are also accommodated on each ‘passport’ page for philatelists to paste. Goa Posts intends to release similar ‘passports’ highlighting other rare but interesting aspects of Goa. In addition to that, Goa Posts also released a special pictorial cancellation which has four symbols that represent Goa – fish, cashew, the coconut tree and the gaur. Dr M R Ramesh Kumar, president of Goa Philately and Numismatics Society (GPNS) said that philately is a good investment and that stamp collection is a good avenue for youngsters to explore. “Over a period of time, stamps which are purchased will give much better returns than gold. Knowledge of philately will positively help in which stamps and philatelic products to invest,” he said. He cited the example of a special cover that was recently released by GPNS. The face value of the plasma therapy Covid-19 cover which was prepared and sponsored by GPNS was Rs 25, and it was sold within a week’s time for Rs 300 in an online Covid Philately group, by Philatelic Dealers. “This shows that we need not wait for such a long time for returns on investment,” he said. He further said that much like the philatelic passport, new innovations in philately like stamps with thermochromic ink, round or hexagonal stamps must be introduced by the postal department in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/postal-dept-releases-first-philatelic-passport-depicting-goan-festivals/articleshow/78648332.cms||Nida Sayed
October 14, 2020||India||G23 to take stand on issues, expose gaps in Congress' strategy||NEW DELHI: The Congress dissidents who wrote a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi are likely to issue regular statements on national issues independent of the official party platform, a move that may appear designed to show gaps and deficiencies in the party’s articulation of criticism of the Modi government. The group of 23 senior Congress functionaries, who wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul and “able and visible leadership”, has decided that policy statements focused on the Centre were required to send out a message to the party as well as to the political rival BJP. “There are important issues on which the party is silent,” said a member in the letter writers’ group. Another member said it can be seen that Rahul Gandhi is making an effort to be “visible” over the farm issue, but pointed out that remarks like claiming a Congress government would have evicted the Chinese from Ladakh in 15 minutes and personalised comments about PM Modi again showed a lack of finesse. On Tuesday, there was a strong buzz about recrimination and clashes within the G-23 too. While it was claimed two letter writers had differed, another source said an AICC member was involved. Though it could not be confirmed, the post-letter scenario in the party is such that claims spread fast. What seems to emerge, however, is that the G-23 is developing a core group of select functionaries who are confabulating amongst themselves on the future steps while a major chunk has taken a back seat for different reasons. That appears to fan the talk that some members seem to question others over their sincerity to the objective laid down in the letter or over active participation. A section within does not want to be seen as challenging the leadership or coming across as a rebel bloc. Watch Cong's G23 to take stand on key issues, expose gaps in party strategy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g23-to-take-stand-on-issues-expose-gaps-in-congress-strategy/articleshow/78651081.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Agra||ED gets nod to quiz 4 men held on way to Hathras, to begin today||AGRA: The chief judicial magistrate, Mathura, on Tuesday granted permission to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to question the four men arrested last week on sedition and terror charges when they were on their way to meet the Hathras victim’s family. “The CJM’s court granted the permission today. No time frame has been fixed for questioning the suspects,” assistant prosecuting officer Braj Mohan Singh told the media. All four men will be questioned on Wednesday at the temporary prison where they’ve been held, police confirmed. “They are likely to be asked about their foreign ties and who they worked with,” a senior police official said. The ED team is in Mathura to investigate the alleged “international” financial connections of the four men — a journalist, a civil services aspirant, a PhD applicant and a driver — which, police had said, meant to instigate caste riots in UP. According to the police, the four men are members of Popular Front of India (PFI), an Islamic organisation banned in Kerala that UP had also tried to ban last year. The basis of the FIR was a close examination of the “evidence” — six smartphones, a laptop and pamphlets of ‘Justice for Hathras Victim’ — that, according to the police, had “revealed that the men were going to Hathras to disrupt peace.” The FIR had stated that the money to fund a protest website, JusticeForHathrasVictim, was not channelled through legitimate means and meant to “incite riots."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ed-gets-nod-to-quiz-4-men-held-on-way-to-hathras-to-begin-today/articleshow/78645879.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: CM says smart city project heading in right direction; work on at rapid pace||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, after inspecting the ongoing smart city projects on Tuesday, said that the works are being undertaken at a rapid pace post lockdown. He pointed out that Dehradun has improved its ranking in the pace of smart city works. The capital city was given the 100th rank earlier but this year, Dehradun bagged the 13th spot. He added that two Atal Adarsh Vidyalayas would be opened in each district of Uttarakhand and they would focus on quality education by highly qualified teachers. CM Rawat also inspected the ongoing works at Parade Ground and the construction of Government Girls Inter College at Rajpur Road. He also reviewed the progress of Parade Ground, smart road reconstruction, and the work of three smart schools. “When Dehradun was selected for the Smart City, the state capital was at the 100th spot but we have rapidly climbed to the 13th rank,” he said while adding that Dehradun has always been a centre of attraction for tourists from India and abroad. The CM further said that the three smart schools being constructed in Dehradun would remain interconnected and ramps would be made for differently-abled students. Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Shrivastava said that the works related to roads, drainage, rainwater collection tanks, landscaping, and water supply are under progress at Parade Ground. He maintained that a deadline of October 31, 2021, has been set for the completion of projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smart-city-project-heading-in-right-direction-work-on-at-rapid-pace-cm/articleshow/78645860.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Lapses in autopsies: Government asked to appoint scientific officers in MCHs||MADURAI: Taking into account several lapses and irregularities while performing postmortems, the Madras high court has directed forensic experts to do the autopsies themselves, and issued a series of directions to the government, including appointment of scientific officers at all medical college hospitals in the state. The court also directed to constitute a committee of experts to define the qualification, duties and responsibilities of scientific officers. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by advocate R M Arun Swaminathan, who sought for various directions, including videograph of all the postmortems, appointment of scientific officers at medical colleges and to follow the procedures as prescribed under Tamil Nadu Medical Code. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and S S Sundar observed that according to two scientific officers who assisted the court, dissection is performed by mortuary assistants and other people without following the scientific methods, and forensic experts are not present most of the time. Leaving the autopsy to the mortuary attendant is not a new phenomenon and it is common knowledge that doctors will perform the procedures only in very sensitive murders or deaths. The judges noted that of the 178 postmortems performed at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai from April 1 to 15, 2019, 57 have almost the same findings which are nothing but cut, copy and paste method. Several reports are yet to be despatched to the police. The judges also pointed out that yet another shocking revelation in the report was that one doctor had performed more than 10 postmortems in a day, which is highly impossible. If the postmortem reports are prepared in such a shabby and unscientific manner without actual performance of autopsies by the doctors, then it will lead to the collapse of the criminal justice delivery system in this country. Hence, the judges directed the doctors to follow Article 621 of the Tamil Nadu Medical Code by sending the postmortem certificate to the concerned judicial magistrate and send a copy to the head of the department on the same day. Since the handwritten reports are not understood either by the court or by the investigating officer, the judges directed that medico legal and postmortem legal reports have to be typed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lapses-in-autopsies-govt-asked-to-appoint-scientific-officers-in-mchs/articleshow/78649880.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 14, 2020||Aurangabad||25 traffic cops rewarded by CP||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta conducted a surprise checks over the last week and was impressed to find that 25 traffic policemen, irrespective of weather conditions, were promptly doing their duties at busy signals and crossroads in the city. Pleased by their dedication, Gupta rewarded them with Good Service Ticket (GST). At the same time, explanations have also been called from 15 policemen who were found to be not working on the expected lines. Aurangabad city is divided in to four divisions — Cidco, city area, Cantonment and Waluj — having a total strength of 290 policemen. All these divisions are headed by inspector rank officers who report to an assistant commissioner of police rank officer. Gupta, who has been focussing on improving the overall traffic scenario in the city, personally patrolled the city streets last week to analyse the traffic situation and traffic management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/25-traffic-cops-rewarded-by-cp/articleshow/78649881.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||BSNL loses landline, broadband users||AHMEDABAD: State-owned telecom operator BSNL lost a significant chunk of its landline and broadband connections in July, causing an overall dip in the net additions of broadband and landline connections. According to the latest Telecom Subscription Data released by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), the number of broadband and landline subscribers in Gujarat declined by 6,499 in July, down from 9,58,229 subscribers in June 2020 to 9,51,730 in July. Industry players said that the closing of offices along with shifting to other service providers was the major reason for the decline. “Due to the pandemic, many work spaces either reduced size or closed permanently. Due to this, the number of landline connections fell drastically as did broadband connections,” said industry sources. Several attempts to contact the BSNL chief general manager for Gujarat region for comments elicited no response. The number of connections also declined because several customers have shifted to private telecom operators for internet connections. Overall, net additions in June rose due to rising demand. Across India, BSNL lost some 1.54 lakh connections in July alone, according to the report. Meanwhile, the number of mobile subscribers finally grew in Gujarat in July. According to the report, 3,06,401 mobile subscribers were added in the state in July, rising from 6.62 crore in June to 6.65 crore in July. Among the biggest gainers are Reliance Jio, which added 3.95 lakh new subscribers; followed by Bharti Airtel which added 1.65 lakh subscribers. Despite its recent merger and rebranding, VI (earlier Vodafone-Idea), lost a significant share of its subscribers, 2.55 lakh. An email query sent to VI seeking comment did not elicit a response. Industry sources said people have switched to alternative service providers lured by cheaper offers and anticipating better service quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bsnl-loses-landline-broadband-users/articleshow/78648450.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Navaratri Brahmotsavams to be held inside temple||Tirupati: Navaratri Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara will be held in Ekantham inside the Tirumala temple owing to Covid-19 restrictions on public gatherings. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams had initially said Navaratri Brahmotsavams will be held with all processions related to the nine-day event along four mada streets encircling the main temple complex. After holding talks with the district administration officials and police, TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy said on Tuesday that the Brahmotsavams will be held within the main temple complex without processions along the four mada streets from October 16. Last month’s annual Brahmotsavams was conducted inside the main temple complex without any procession in the four mada streets, as is usual practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/navaratri-brahmotsavams-to-be-held-inside-temple/articleshow/78648441.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 14, 2020||Varanasi||SDM orders demolition of nursing institute & hospital of Mukhtar’s aide||VARANASI: The investigations into the land grab and properties amassed by jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and his aides resulted in the SDM Sadar court issuing an order for the demolition of Shamm-e-Husaini Institute of nursing and paramedical college and hospital owned by his associate. Ghazipur SDM Sadar Prabhat Kumar said on Tuesday, “During investigation, officials found the nursing institute and hospital building owned by Dr Shadab Siddaqi, Azam Siddaqi, natives of Barbarahna in Kotwali police station area, and their family members, was built by capturing the land of river Ganga.” Siddaqis came on the radar when the committee led by Ghazipur DM to identify and initiate action against land mafia started receiving evidence of their connections with Mukhtar. The team found that Siddaqis were very close to Mukhtar and assisted him in various ways. A team was set up for further investigation and land on which the institute is built was measured. The building map was also not sanctioned. The SDM Sadar court ordered its demolition on Monday after which a notice was pasted on the institute building, telling the owners to demolish it within a week else district administration will do it and impose costs for it. The DM had already suspended arms licences of Siddaqi family, including a pistol of Mohd Azam Siddaqi, a rifle of Mohsin Siddaqi, rifle and pistol of Mohd Shadab Siddaqi, pistol and single barrel gun of Shaqib Siddaqi, pistol of Nigar Begum, pistol of Kaisar Jahan, pistol and rifle of Mohd Sajid. All the arms have been deposited with police. Ansari’s family has already been told to demolish their hotel Ghazal in Ghazipur city voluntarily by October 15. SDM (sadar) had ordered its demolition on October 8, telling the owners to demolish the illegally constructed hotel within a week failing which administration would demolish it and claim expenses for it. Hotel Ghazal, owned by the don’s wife Afsa Ansari and his sons Abbas Ansari and Omar Ansari, is situated in posh Mahuabagh locality. Besides, irregularities in construction anomalies in land purchase had also been detected. In the first week of September, the don’s men had themselves demolished an illegally built shopping complex, owned by his wife at Laldarwaja in the main market after getting notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sdm-orders-demolition-of-nursing-institute-hosp-of-mukhtars-aide/articleshow/78650492.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Smart City project gets new CEO||Panaji: IAS officer Hemant Kumar has been appointed as the managing director/chief executive officer of Imagine Panaji Smart City Project. He was already posted as the commissioner of state taxes and continues to hold the charge. The appointment order states that Kumar will take charge after his return from the leave schedule. Till his return, the director of the department of urban development will hold charge of Imagine Panaji Smart City Project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smart-city-project-gets-new-ceo/articleshow/78649911.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC relief for DMK MLAs in 2017 case||CHENNAI: In a reprieve to the DMK, the Madras high court on Tuesday refused to vacate the stay ordered against operation of fresh privilege notices issued against MK Stalin and 17 other MLAs for bringing gutka packets into the House in 2017. Ordering notice on the appeals moved by the Tamil Nadu assembly secretary and the privilege committee challenging the single judge order dated September 24, the first bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said, “it is open to the appellants to move stay vacate petition before the single judge himself.” On August 25, the first bench of the court set aside the earlier notices issued against the MLAs for ‘foundational error’. On September 7, the committee issued fresh notices to the 18 MLAs as the first bench granted liberty to the committee to commence the proceedings afresh if it feels so. Aggrieved, the MLAs moved the high court once again. On September 24, a single judge of the court stayed the operation of the fresh notices till further order. Now, challenging the interim order, the committee and the assembly secretary have preferred the present appeal. When the appeal came up for hearing on Tuesday, advocate-general Vijay Narayan and special senior counsel AL Somayaji submitted that the bench had already made it clear in its August 25 order that the court could interfere in such matters only if a pure question of law is involved. If there is a mixed question of law and facts then the court cannot interfere, they said. The bench directed the MLAs to respond to the appeal in four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-relief-for-dmk-mlas-in-2017-case/articleshow/78648443.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolhapur||12 deaths, 67 fresh Covid cases in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported 67 fresh Covid-19, including 27 from the city, taking the total number of cases in the district has reached 46,948. Of these, 1,569 have succumbed to infection. The district also reported 11 Covid-related deaths on Tuesday, of which, three were reported from the city limits. The Covid-19 mortality rate of the city is 2.46% while that of the district is 3.34%. The district has witnessed as many as 41,280 patients getting discharged from various facilities so far. At present, 4,099 people are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, health officials said that the swabs tested negavtive during antigen drive are being sent to the RT-PCR labs for confirmatory testing. Officials also call it as the ‘gold standard’ of Covid-19 testing. On Tuesday, 80 swabs tested negative for Covid-19 during antigen drive. They were sent to the RT-PCR lab for an advanced level of testing. Of these, 25 were found out to be positive. Sangli district adds 288 cases, 9 deaths Sangli district registered as many as 288 Covid-19 cases along with 9 deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 41,757, of which, 1,538 have succumbed to infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/12-deaths-67-fresh-covid-cases-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78649884.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Retired BHEL officer & wife murdered in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: An 80-year-old retired officer from BHEL and his wife were murdered in Haridwar on Tuesday. Both the bodies were found inside their house in Shivalik Nagar falling under Ranipur police station. The deceased have been identified as Prahlad Agarwal (80) and his wife Gayatri Agarwal (79). Prahlad Agarwal was retired DGM from BHEL unit of Haridwar. The victims were parents to a son, who lives in Delhi, and two daughters, one of whom is settled abroad and another lives in Delhi. The crime came to the fore when the daughter of the victims who lives in Delhi called them but did not get any response. Later, she dialed the police control number. SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Prahlad was strangulated while his wife was hit by a blunt object on her head. The dead bodies were sent to the district hospital for autopsy and CCTV footage of the cameras in the colony are being collected to trace the accused. It is too early to comment on the motive of the murder but it seems that they were murdered for robbery as clothes and other items were scattered in the house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/retired-bhel-officer-wife-murdered-in-haridwar/articleshow/78645888.cms||MS Nawaz
October 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rainfall fills dams to their capacity||Kolhapur: Consistent rainfall in the ghat section of Kolhapur and Satara districts has led to filling of dams to their capacity. Meanwhile, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has revised the alert for Kolhapur and Satara from orange (very heavy rainfall) to red (extremely heavy rainfall) for Wednesday. However, the alert for Solapur and Sangli districts have been retained to orange. By Tuesday afternoon, the discharge from Koyna dam in Satara district was increased to 11,500 cusec. The discharge that was initiated on Monday evening was increased to around 9,000 cusec on Tuesday morning. The discharge is expected to increase further owing to the heavy rainfall forecast for the next 24 to 48 hours. Also, the current inflow in the dam is around 2,800 cusec and no major change in the water levels of downstream rivers were reported after the discharge started. Authorities have claimed that the discharge is being carried out to ensure there is no sudden rise in dam water level. The same strategy has been adopted by administrations of other dams in the region. Heavy rainfall in Solapur has caused huge damage to crops like soyabean, pomegranate and sugarcane. Farmers are worried as they had already incurred losses due to heavy rainfall in the last week of September. Crops on over around 11,000 hectare were destroyed and the final assessment to compensate the farmers is yet to be completed. Ravindra Mane, acting district agriculture superintendent of Solapur, said, “We will soon get the details of primary crop damage due to rain in the last few days. We have asked farmers to protect the crops by either immediate treatment harvesting or draining out the water logged in their farms. In such situation, crops are also prone to pest attack for which chemical spraying needs to be carried out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rainfall-fills-dams-to-their-capacity/articleshow/78649882.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||KMC focus on people with co-morbidities in Covid areas||KOLKATA: From reaching medical assistance at doorsteps and keeping a watch on a particular group in select neighbourhoods to arranging ambulances and beds at Covid government hospitals: Kolkata Municipal Corporation will go an extra mile and take all the steps to ensure that people with comorbidities are looked after properly by its doctors and health workers if they contract the novel coronavirus. “Our area of focus will be on neighbourhoods with high number of Covid-19 patients, and where a large number of residents are at a risk because of their co-morbidity conditions,” said a senior KMC health department official. According to him, now that the civic team has completed two phases of the co-morbidity survey, it is time for public health experts to analyze the findings. But as a first step towards an effective prevention strategy, he said, the KMC health department would be specially alert about areas reporting high number of people suffering from co-morbidities. TimesViewGovernment agencies are doing their bit to help the ailing. But, given the load on the system, the focus should be on prevention. Here, citizens have as important a role to play as government agencies.A health official said the preliminary data at the borough level pointed out that high blood sugar and hypertension were the most common co-morbidity factors in several areas. Next in line were tuberculosis, renal failure and cancer. “First we need to calculate the population density of people with comorbidities in a particular area and then, find the number of Covid patients there. If both the co-morbidity factors and virus threat are found to be high, we will implement our special arrangements for that locality,” said the official. But even before the initial analysis of the co-morbidity survey comes to fore, the KMC health wing is keeping a special eye on some slums and colonies that have reported high Covid cases. “Our focus is on Belgachhia and Narkeldanga slums in the north and Golf Green, Baghajatin, Bijoygarh and Azadgarh in the south, where we had to struggle to arrest the virus spread. Let the comorbidity survey results come but meanwhile, we will keep a vigil on the areas to prevent a feared second wave of infection,” a KMC physician said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-focus-on-people-with-co-morbidities-in-cov-areas/articleshow/78648453.cms||Saikat Ray
October 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur district reports 189 new cases, 9 casualties||Kolhapur: Solapur district registered 189 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, including 35 from the city. The district also witnessed 355 patients getting discharged from various facilities. These included 43 from the city limits. The district recorded nine deaths, of which, four are from the city. All the four deceased identified from the city are senior citizens. The city has reported 9,107 confirmed cases so far, of which, 5,357 are men and 3,750 are women. The city has recorded 507 deaths so far. At present, the city has 751 active patients. The number of discharged patients stands at 7,849. Solapur rural, on the other hand, has reported 28,255 cases till now. Of these, 4351 are currently active. The rural areas have witnessed 779 Covid-related casualties so far. As many as 23,125 patients have been discharged so far from rural areas of Solapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-district-reports-189-new-cases-9-casualties/articleshow/78649885.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Congress-RJD ignoring us in Bihar, to contest on own: NCP||Mumbai: NCP’s talks with Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal for seat-sharing in Bihar have failed, senior leader Praful Patel said on Tuesday, adding that the Sharad-Pawar-led party had now decided to contest the ensuing assembly polls on its own. “On the one hand, Congress says political parties must come together to fight jointly against BJP and JD(U), but when it came to seat-sharing, Congress did not take note of NCP. Under these circumstances, we have decided to contest independently,” Patel said. Patel’s deliberations for a tie-up in Bihar were with Congress leader Ahmed Patel and RJD leader Tejaswini Yadav. The party did not seek a large number of seats, but their demands were completely ignored, he said. “Congress is not keen on an alliance with NCP,” Patel said. Patel’s statement assumes significance since NCP and Congress are part of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra along with Shiv Sena. NCP, however, has a negligible presence in Bihar. The loss of Tariq Anwar – one of NCP’s founding leaders who quit to join Congress – leaves it without a single prominent local face. The campaign is partly prompted by its eagerness to retain national party status, which require at least 6% of votes to be polled in four state polls. The Sena too has voiced its intention to contest 40-50 seats in Bihar. “Our aim is to dislodge the Nitish Kumar government and form a government with like-minded parties,” Patel told TOI. He said setting up of state-of- the-art health infrastructure, better education facilities and employment opportunities are the key issues in Bihar. NCP hopes its campaign slogans will resonate with the state’s migrant voters, many of whom are employed in Maharashtra. “We will soon come out with a manifesto for Bihar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-rjd-ignoring-us-in-bihar-to-contest-on-own-ncp/articleshow/78648511.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu challenges acquittal of man in rape, murder of minor||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday ordered notice on an appeal by the state government against the order of a fast track mahila court which had acquitted a man who was involved in the rape and murder of a minor girl in Dindigul district. A division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and T Krishnavalli ordered notice after the state public prosecutor A Natarajan made a mention that they were preferring an appeal in the case. The case of the prosecution is that a 13-year-old girl was found dead at her house in the village that comes under the jurisdiction of the Vadamadurai police station on April 16, 2019. Since injuries were seen on the girl’s body, the case, which was initially registered under section 174 of CrPC, was subsequently altered to section 302, 201 of IPC and sections of Pocso Act. Subsequently, police arrested a 17-year-old boy in connection with the case and a final report was filed before the fast track mahila court. The trial court on September 29 acquitted the boy. In the appeal petition, it was stated that the trial court failed to consider the statement of an eyewitness who stated that the accused came out of the house of the girl on the day of occurrence. The trial court ought to have considered the scientific evidence of the DNA test of the blood stain found in the underwear of the accused that had matched with the DNA of the girl’s parents. The statement of the eyewitness coupled with the DNA test result had clearly established the guilt of the accused. Since the prosecution had proved the case beyond reasonable doubt, the state filed an appeal before the high court Madurai bench seeking to set aside the order of acquittal by the trial court in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-challenges-acquittal-of-man-in-rape-murder-of-minor/articleshow/78649899.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Varanasi||BHU signs agreement with FAARD to prepare roadmap for agricultural development||VARANASI: The Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Tuesday signed a document of agreement with NGO Foundation for Advancement of Agriculture and Rural Development (FAARD) to prepare a roadmap for the agricultural development by undertaking project-training programmes, technology transfer and other outreach programmes of rural development. According to the BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh, the agreement was signed in presence of the BHU vice chancellor Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar, FAARD president and former BHU vice chancellor and chancellor of Rani Laxmibai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi Prof. Panjab Singh. After the agreement, the BHU with its laboratory and other infrastructure of the Institute of Agricultural Sciences will work together with FAARD to develop a futuristic roadmap for the farming sector. The students in agriculture courses of BHU will make field visits to the places of FAARD supported progressive farmers. It will help in preparing a baseline survey of the farmers. The FAARD has been holding various technical and training programmes for farmers since 2005. It has been providing technical support to 18 Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) and also providing services to other farmer groups of eastern UP to make them self-reliant. Presently, the FAARD in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Vegetable Research (IIVR) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is engaged in works like providing improved seeds to farmers, organizing training programmes and technical demonstration for the promotion of agri export under Biotech Kisan Pariyojna of the department of biotechnology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-signs-agreement-with-faard-to-prepare-roadmap-for-agri-devpt/articleshow/78650533.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Varanasi||KVT-Gyanvapi case next hearing on October 15||VARANASI: The court of additional district judge (first) heard the Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi mosque dispute case on Tuesday, and fixed the next date of hearing on October 15. After hearing the pleas of UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar on Tuesday, ADJ (first) Rajeev Kamal Pandey asked both the parties to appear in court with all documents on October 15. The UP Sunni Central Waqf Board had filed a revision petition in the court on September 18, challenging the court’s decision to hear the petition filed by advocate Vijay Shankar Rastogi on behalf of Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar. The court had asked the board to file its petition and fixed the hearing on September 28. The Sunni Waqf Board filed the petition on October 7 with a fine of Rs 3,000 imposed by the court for the delay. The petitioner had pleaded that as the case is related to waqf tribunal, it should be heard in Lucknow Waqf court. The court had fixed the date of hearing on October 13. Earlier, in December 2019, advocate Vijay Shankar Rastogi had filed a petition as the ‘next friend’ of Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar in the court of civil judge, requesting for survey of the entire Gyanvapi compound by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), but in January, Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee filed an objection against it. Legal proceedings in the case first started in 1991, when a petition had been filed in Varanasi civil court on behalf of Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar seeking permission for worship in Gyanvapi. The petitioner had contended that Kashi Vishwanath Temple was built by Maharaja Vikramaditya about 2,050 years ago, but Mughal emperor Aurangzeb destroyed the temple in 1664 and used its remains to construct Gyanvapi masjid on a portion of the temple land. The petitioner had requested the court to issue directions for removal of the mosque from temple land and give back its possession to temple trust. The petition contended that the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act was not applicable on the suit as the mosque was constructed on a partly demolished temple and many parts of the temple exist even today. In 1998, Anjuman Intezamia Masjid Committee moved the high court contending that the dispute could not be adjudicated by a civil court as it was barred by law. The high court stayed the proceedings which continued for the past 22 years. In February this year, the petitioners approached the lower court again with a plea to resume the hearing as the HC had not extended the stay in past six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvt-gyanvapi-case-next-hearing-on-oct-15/articleshow/78650506.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nashik||No Garba or Dandiya as IG calls for simple celebrations||Nashik: With Navaratra around the corner, inspector-general (special) Pratap Dighavkar conducted a meeting of all the SPs of the five districts under him and instructed them to ensure that all government-issued Covid-19 guidelines are strictly followed. Accordingly, all cultural programmes, including Dandiya and Garba dances, which are almost synonymous with Navaratra, will not be part of the festive calendar this year.Dighavkar said the Nashik (rural) police and the police in Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar have been instructed to ensure simple celebration of festivals as per government guidelines.As per the guidelines, the height of the idol of the goddess should not exceed 4 feet for public celebrations, while at the household-level, the idols should not be taller than two feet.Meanwhile, no processions are allowed on the first day of the festival and on the day of immersion. Moreover, attempts should be made to make arrangements for online darshan to prevent people from coming to the pandals.If some devotees do want to visit the pandals in person, there should be proper physical distancing between the devotees. There should also be arrangements for sanitization, disinfection, thermal scanning etc. Not more than five devotees should be allowed inside the pandal at one time.The police said no food or beverage should be served to the devotees inside the pandal.Further, there would be no procession on the day of immersion and an attempt should be made to either immerse the idols at the place of celebration or use artificial ponds made available by the local self-governing bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-garba-or-dandiya-as-ig-calls-for-simple-celebrations/articleshow/78647070.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Statue of Unity to re-open from Saturday||VADODARA: The Statue of Unity, one of the country’s most popular tourist sites, is set to re-open from Saturday, the first day of Navratri. SoU authorities said that the Covid-19 guidelines will be implemented strictly. Located in Kevadia, the world’s tallest statue of India’s first home minister Sardar Patel was closed down for tourists in March as the Covid-19 pandemic began spreading in the country. SoU officials said that only 2,500 tourists will be allowed in the premises per day to ensure social distancing. The authorities have fixed five slots of two hours each daily. The first slot would begin at 8 am and the last slot would be at 4 pm. Five hundred tourists will be allowed per every slot in the premises of which only 100 would be allowed to access the viewing gallery located at 193 metres level. Tourists would be able to book entry tickets online and choose the time slot to visit the statue. Wearing face masks has been made compulsory and every tourist will be screened thermally. The special hop-on hop-off buses will be available for the visitors. The authorities have already opened Jungle Safari and the Children’s Nutrition Park, too, was made accessible for the tourists from October 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/statue-of-unity-to-re-open-from-saturday/articleshow/78646450.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University colleges start de-reservation process to fill up vacant seats||KOLKATA: With the October 30 deadline for undergraduate admissions closing in, some colleges affiliated to Calcutta University have started the process to de-reserve vacant seats and open them up for the general category. Prominent institutes, such as Lady Brabourne College, Maulana Azad College and Bethune College have already applied to the state backward classes welfare department, requesting it to allow them to convert several reserved category seats into general ones. While in Lady Brabourne, the vacant seats in the reserved categories are mainly in Urdu, the authorities at Bethune College on Tuesday requested the department to open up five seats in the Hindi department and four in the philosophy department for general category. At Maulana Azad College, however, the number of seats looking to be de-reserved is almost 100. “The government has asked all the state-run universities to ensure that no seat remains vacant at the end of the admission session. Now that we are nearing the end of the admission process, we wanted to convert the reserved seats into general ones because in those particular subjects, there is no possibility of getting any candidate from the demarcated section,” said a teacher at Bethune College. She added that the process would take some time. “Until we publish several merit lists and ensure that no student from the reserved categories is interested in taking admission to the seats, we can’t approach the government department for conversion,” he pointed out. At Lady Brabourne College, total seats in Urdu are 50 and the majority is available due to the reserved category. “We have several general candidates awaiting admission in the subject for which we have requested the de-reservation status for those seats. In other subjects, like philosophy, Hindi and Sanskrit, we published a wish list and it allowed us to fill up the vacancies in all the sections,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. A wish list is published after candidates are invited by a college to show interest in studying a particular subject at that institute. Several other institutes, such as Vivekanada College and North City among others, are at different stages of applying to the department concerned for de-reservation. “We will initiate the process by the end of this week,” said the principal of a CU-affiliated college. This year, heads of institutions have been worried for a different reason. “We have not received any instructions on how to verify the documents physically. As a result, as and when we begin our general degree classes on the online mode on December 1, as instructed by the state government, we may come across several students who may have found the seats without genuine documents and on fake papers, as we begin the validation process. Then the real trouble will begin because those students will be asked to leave the programmes immediately and seats will turn vacant,” said the principal of another city college. Officials at the education secretariat are planning to chalk out a method of verifying the documents before beginning the new undergraduate academic session across the state so that such a dire situation does not arise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-colleges-start-de-reservation-process-to-fill-up-vacant-seats/articleshow/78648518.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Drug bust: Nigerian, two others sentenced for 10 years in Chennai||CHENNAI: A special court for exclusive trial of cases under NDPS act in Chennai has convicted a Nigerian national and two Indian accomplices and sentenced them to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for the possession of narcotic substances including ecstasy pills and Cocaine. The accused, Chukwu Simon Obinna (30) from Abuja, Nigeria, K Kumaresan (26) and C Arun Diwakar (33) were arrested near an apartment in Porur in 2018, for the possession of the narcotic substances. According to the prosecution, SRMC police received a tip off about exchange of Narcotics in Porur and on December 17, 2018, they apprehended the trio near an apartment complex. Police found the trio to be in possession of psychotropic and narcotic substances in their bags, which they had planned to sell. Police seized 220 grams of ecstasy pills, 18 grams of Cocaine, 8 grams of MDMA, 9 gram of Meth from them. When the case came for trial, the counsel for the accused contended that their clients are not guilty and argued that there were irregularities in the arrest and lack of clear evidence. Among the many arguments, the counsel for the accused submitted that independent witnesses were not cited by the prosecution and the same is very much fatal to the case prosecution. The Judge, however observed from the records that the scene of crime is a service road and held that for the mere reason of non production of independent witnesses the case of the prosecution cannot be rejected. “The oral testimony of official witnesses cannot be disbelieved. When the evidence of seizure officer is credible, non production of independent witnesses is not fatal to the prosecution,” Judge V Thenmozhe stated. The court further observed that people are generally reluctant to give evidence in a criminal case on the ground that it may invite problems and expose them to great risk. “Though the duty of the citizen is to assist the State to set the criminal law in motion as to commission of an offence and adduce evidence in favour of prosecution, there is no effective mechanism to provide safety to them,” additional district judge, V Thenmozhe stated. The court also imposed a fine on the accused- Rs 3 lakh on the foreign national and Arun Diwakar and a fine of Rs 4 lakh on Kumaresan. EOM/Srikkanth||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drug-bust-nigerian-two-others-sentenced-for-10-years/articleshow/78648473.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Polling for Rajya Sabha seat of Uttarakhand on Nov 9||DEHRADUN: After the Election Commission of India announced the Rajya Sabha polls for 11 seats, which includes one of Uttarakhand, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Uttarakhand, Sowjanya Jawalkar issued the poll schedule. The seat presently held by Raj Babbar of Congress is scheduled to fall vacant on November 25, this year. The CEO has made wearing of masks mandatory for the lawmakers and candidates. At the same time, the thermal screening of candidates and legislators would be done and they would be required to follow social distancing norms. As per the schedule, the notification would be issued on October 20 and the last date for nomination would be October 27. The scrutiny of documents would be done on October 28 and November 2 would be the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers. The polling would be done on November 9 till 4 pm. The counting of votes would also be done on November 9 from 5 pm. Notably, Uttarakhand has a total of three Rajya Sabha seats. Raj Babbar was elected for the Rajya Sabha seat on March 14, 2015. Anil Baluni of the BJP and Pradeep Tamta of the Congress are the other two Rajya Sabha members from Uttarakhand. With a total of 57 MLAs in the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly, the victory of the BJP nominee is almost certain. Congress has 11 legislators, and the remaining two are Independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/polling-for-rajya-sabha-seat-of-ukhand-on-nov-9/articleshow/78645898.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||UK’s RSPB honours Jakati for vulture conservation||Nagpur: A Nagpurian, Ram Jakati, former chief wildlife warden of Haryana and now settled in the city, has been honoured by the Royal Society for Protection of Birds (RSPB), United Kingdom, for his contribution to vulture conservation in the country. The RSPB virtually presented Ram Jakati with the prestigious RSPB medal for outstanding contribution to nature conservation. In the 1990s India’s vulture population was pushed to the brink of extinction due to the use of the veterinary drug — diclofenac — given to cattle but lethal to vultures feeding on their carcasses. Use of the drug was so widespread that India’s vulture population dropped to just 1% of what it had been before the use of diclofenac. Jakati played a key role in not only getting the drug banned but also establishing a network of sanctuaries, breeding centres, and urgent action needed to ensure that vultures did not go extinct before the ban could be implemented. Jakati said, “I am delighted to receive this prestigious award and deeply humbled. I would like to emphasize that we could make rapid progress in vulture conservation in India because we had an excellent team to start with during early 2000.” Beccy Speight, chief executive of the RSPB said, “I am pleased that we are able to celebrate the vital work of Jakati. His energy and resolve have prevented the extinction of vultures in India. His work and the tireless efforts of everyone involved with SAVE are an inspiration that we can make the changes we need before it is too late, that with urgent and united action we can revive our world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/uks-rspb-honours-jakati-for-vulture-conservation/articleshow/78648495.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Oppn MLAs skip assembly||Hyderabad: The one-day session of the assembly on Tuesday saw very few opposition MLAs attending. From Congress, only Mallu Bhatti Vikramaraka and Anasuya attended the session, while Jagga Reddy, Komatireddy Rajgopal Reddy , P Veeraiah and D Sridhar Babu were absent. BJP’s lone MLA Raja Singh was also absent. MIM and TRS members were present, but some ministers were missing in action. TRS MLA M Kishan Reddy, while speaking in the House, said though he was infected with Covid-19 there was no danger from him to the others as he has recovered. The MLA made these remarks after speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy asked him to wear the mask properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/oppn-mlas-skip-assembly/articleshow/78650875.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra's Satara district reports 242 Covid cases, 7 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district registered as many as 242 fresh Covid-19 cases since late night on Monday along with seven deaths. Satara taluka had the highest share of cases at 78 with 50 of them being from the town. Shahupuri and Sadar Bazar reported 11 and 9 cases respectively. Karad taluka, on the other hand, traced out 73 patients. Among other talukas reporting fresh cases were Phaltan (22), Wai (7), Patan (7), Khandala (6), Mahabaleshwar (6), Khatav (10), Maan (6) and Koregaon (13). Of the seven deceased in the district, six were senior citizens. Three deaths were reported from Satara taluka while one each took place in Karad, Phaltan Maan and Khatav. According to district administration officials, Satara’s Covid-19 count has reached 42,076, of which, 6,824 cases are currently active. The district has witnessed 33,871 people getting discharged from various facilities so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-242-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/78649892.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Cooperate to prevent 2nd wave of Covid-19, collector urges all||Nagpur: Collector Ravindra Thakare, on Tuesday, called for cooperation from people to prevent second wave of Covid-19 in the district. According to experts and analysts, the second wave is likely in November-December in case we fail to take precautions. “Though the number of new patients is reducing constantly in the district, it’s not wise to be overconfident. Spread of the virus needs to be stopped. For this, people must participate spontaneously,” said Thakare. He was addressing an informal discussion with health reporters in Nagpur. The collector also informed the media men about the latest facilities available for the citizens and appealed them not to neglect any symptom of Covid-19. Thakare also said following the pandemic, Covid-19 facilities have been started not only in the city, but also in rural areas. “Health care system has been streamlined and complaints regarding non-availability of beds in hospitals, billing in private hospitals have gone down significantly,” he said. Medical superintendent of GMCH Dr Avinash Gawande, ZP CEO Yogesh Kumbhejkar, and Nagpur University’s mass communication department head Moiz Mannan Haq were present on the occasion. Covid-19 rehabilitation centre at AIIMS Nagpur Meanwhile, AIIMS Nagpur is starting a Covid-19 rehabilitation centre, where a team of specialists from various departments will cater to the needs of patients for post-Covid care. Patients often experience various health issues like difficulty in breathing, mild fever, weakness, disturbed sleep cycle, depression etc. from weeks to months after recovering from Covid illness. Rehabilitation of such patients is possible with proper treatment and care by experts. Prior registration is mandatory for attending 2-hour session. These sessions will comprise various customized modules, including breathing exercises, counselling, medical consultations by specialists. People can call on mobile no. 9404044944 for registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cooperate-to-prevent-2nd-wave-of-covid-19-collector-urges-all/articleshow/78648543.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||5th round commerce intake at GU||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University has decided to hold a fifth round of admissions for commerce courses, hoping to fill the large number of vacant seats. More than three weeks after the fourth round of admissions, the admission committee was weighing whether to entrust the colleges with filling the seats or holding another round of admissions, sources said. They finally decided to hold a fifth round given that more than 12,000 seats remain empty, sources said. In the fourth round, 2,899 candidates were on the list of whom 2,797 were allocated colleges. Out of the 40,744 seats in such courses, 28,111 have been filled so far. After three online rounds of admissions, Gujarat University decided to conduct a fourth round for 11,000-odd candidates who could not secure places. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5th-round-commerce-intake-at-gu/articleshow/78648551.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||Five persons arrested on charge of abducting man for Rs 35 lakh ransom||PUNE: The Nigdi police late on Monday night rescued a 27-year-old manager of a Mumbai-based share trader, two days after he was abducted for a ransom of Rs35 lakh on Saturday over some dispute in the trading business. The joint teams of the Nigdi police and the Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch arrested five persons, including the mastermind. Two four-wheelers, including a luxury sedan, a motorcycle and seven cellphones, collectively worth Rs61 lakh, were recovered. The police have launched a search for three more suspects. Harishchandra Rajiwade (40) of Kiwale was the plot’s mastermind. Apart from him, the police teams arrested Shashank Kadam (39) of Pimpri, Tulashiram Pokale (34) of Kalewadi, Ashutosh Kadam (28) of Rahatani and Rahul Malge (22) of Kalewadi. They were produced before the court on Tuesday and were remanded in police custody for four days. The 43-year-old share trader, a resident of Kandivali in Mumbai, on Monday lodged an FIR with Nigdi police in connection with abduction of his manager. Senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad of Nigdi police said the complainant and his manager had come to Pune for some work related to the business on Saturday and had checked into a hotel in Akurdi. On Saturday evening, the complainant had sent his manager to collect Rs5 lakh from an investor in Kalewadi. The manager called the complainant in the night and told him he had collected the amount but was in a trouble. The call was immediately disconnected. The complainant waited for half-an-hour and then called back his manager. A person known to the complainant answered the call and told the latter that he had abducted the manager. He demanded Rs35 lakh for releasing the manager. “The complainant initially did not take it seriously as one of the suspects would call and tell him that the manager was safe,” the officer said. When the suspects constantly started calling and demanding money, the complainant approached the Nigdi police and lodged the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-persons-arrested-on-charge-of-abducting-man-for-rs-35l-ransom/articleshow/78648523.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Suggestions sought on Greenfield plan||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) has invited suggestions and objections about the draft of the proposed Greenfiled township project. The township is to be developed on 753 acre in Makhmalabad areas of the city. The draft of the township has been published by the NMSCDCL and the last date for submitting suggestions and objections about the draft of the township project is November 6. Thereafter, the hearing will be held on the suggestions and objections by the stakeholders. The final draft of the Greenfield township project with inclusion of the suggestions and objections are to be sent to the town planning department of the state government for its approval. The township will create smart infrastructure like roads, water supply, sewage lines, storm water lines, smart lights and all necessary facilities and amenities. As per the draft of the township project, farmers will get 55% of the land they give for integrated development of the areas, while infrastructure like roads, public amenities space are to be developed on the remaining 45% of the land. The minimum width of the road in the proposed township will be 12 metre onwards. The farmers will get the developed plots with well equipped modern amenities, green belt, water supply, sewage supply lines, wide roads, parking spaces and host of other facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/suggestions-sought-on-greenfield-plan/articleshow/78647104.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 14, 2020||Pune||Rule violations on Pune-Mumbai expressway rise as traffic volume increases||PUNE: The Highway Safety Patrol (HSP) has issued close to one lakh e-challans for various traffic rule violations along the Pune-Mumbai expressway since travel restrictions were lifted in July. HSP officers said though the traffic volume was less than what it was during the pre-Covid times, action to nab violators had been intensified to avert accidents and ensure greater compliance. An officer said speeding and lane jumping made up for the maximum number of violations along the 91km expressway. Of the almost 97,000 e-challans issued by the department between July 1 and October 11, almost 68,000 were relating to speeding and lane jumping. Assistant police inspector Anil Hagavane said the action against speeding has had an impact on accidents in the Urse division of the expressway. “Since we don’t have any ghats in our areas, we saw many accidents involving speeding and rear-ending. But the visibility of the interceptor vehicles, along with intensified action, ensured people don’t cross the speed limi. This reduced the number of accidents over the past three months,” he explained. Police inspector Sudam Pachorkar, who heads the Panvel division of HSP, said, “The traffic is on its way to pre-Covid times and we will ensure compliance of the traffic rules. While the action against violations is constant, we will launch a special drive to nab the traffic rule violators. We want to create deterrence by intensifying action.” Both the officers were unanimous about the efficacy of the interceptor vehicles. “We keep changing the location of the interceptor vehicles for an element of surprise,” Hagavane said. “The aim is to catch the maximum number of violators,” Pachorkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rule-violations-on-eway-rise-as-traffic-volume-increases/articleshow/78648515.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Mercury soars to 35.4°C in Kolkata as depression hits Andhra||KOLKATA: A deep depression that hit the north Andhra coast on Tuesday has had an unusual impact on the weather in Kolkata, leaving it warm and dry. Maximum temperature shot up to 35.4°C in Kolkata on Tuesday, three notches above normal with real feel temperature touching 41°C in the afternoon. According to the Met office, the system that had initially been predicted to be a cyclone has sucked all the moisture and ushered in dry, hot winds from the northern plains, which are now extremely warm. A marginal slide in temperature, though, has been predicted on Wednesday. Last week, the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) had predicted that a system brewing over the Bay of Bengal might turn into a cyclone. A change in conditions, however, weakened the system that hit the Andhra coast on Tuesday as a deep depression and led to heavy rainfall along the coastal districts of the state. But the impact on Kolkata and south Bengal has not been a wet one. “While the depression is too far away for the clouds to reach Bengal, it has sucked out moisture form the region, leaving the winds dry. That apart, such systems often lead to a reversal of the wind direction, which has now happened. Instead of southerly winds, we now have warm and dry winds blowing from the north, where temperatures are high,” said RMC director GK Das. He added that while the warm spell will continue, the maximum temperature may drop by a couple of degrees on Wednesday. “With the depression moving into the land, the impact will start lessening and there could be a minor change in conditions,” said Das. The RMC, however, has not ruled out the possibility of further showers. “While October remains generally warm, systems keep forming over Bay of Bengal and occasionally develop into a cyclone. Monsoon is still active in south Bengal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-soars-to-35-4c-in-kol-as-depression-hits-andhra/articleshow/78648539.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 14, 2020||Pune||Plea to avoid Navaratra processions||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appealed to Navaratra mandals to avoid taking out procession on the first and the last day of the festival, restrict gathering of people at the pandals and celebrate the festival with simplicity against the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. The civic administration has urged the mandals to install the idols within the temples. It has said that mandals, which do not have temples and plan to set up pandals, should keep adequate space for movement of ambulances, autorickshaws and other vehicles. The festival will be celebrated from October 17 to 25. Civic officials said that a public appeal has been issued to prevent large gathering of people during the nine days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plea-to-avoid-navaratra-processions/articleshow/78648521.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Police submit report in rape case against Pandya, no substantial evidence of crime found||HARIDWAR: The final probe report submitted by city police in the rape case against Pranav Pandya, head of Shanti Kunj, has claimed that no substantial evidence of the crime was found. Earlier this year, a rape case was registered against Pandya at Vivek Vihar police station in Delhi by his former disciple. The complainant had alleged that she was raped by Pandya and his wife Shail Bala in 2010 when she was a minor. The complainant, who belongs to Chhattisgarh, added that she was threatened of dire consequences by the couple if she told anyone about the crime. The woman had left the ashram in 2013. According to sources, the police have found an audio clip in which the complainant is denying any such crime while in conversation with someone. The police also recorded statements of 38 people, including women, who lived in the ashram with the victim between 2010 and 2013 and all of them denied having knowledge about any such crime. However, the complainant has stated that it is not her voice in the audio clip. SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishana Raj S told TOI that the investigation has been completed and a final report was submitted in the court on Monday by the investigation team. While he did not disclose anything about the final report, sources said that police did not find any substantive evidence of the crime. The sources added that the complainant had taken part in two ‘Sadhna’ camps in 2015 and 2016 which were organised by Shanti Kunj. Notably, the court, in its next hearing, is likely to decide if it accepts the final report of the police or not. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-submit-report-in-rape-case-against-pandya-no-substantial-evidence-of-crime-found/articleshow/78645933.cms||MS Nawaz
October 14, 2020||Pune||Pune metropolitan region recoveries rise past 2.74 lakh, day’s toll at 46||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) breached the 2.74 lakh-mark on Tuesday, with 3,315 more patients being declared cured in the past 24 hours. The region added 1,341 new cases on Tuesday, where the rural and Cantonment areas together reported more infections than the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. As many as 486 patients were added in the PMC limits, while the PCMC areas recorded 244 new cases, far below 611 infections recorded in the rural and Cantonment areas in the last 24 hours. With this, the region’s total caseload has reached beyond 3.09 lakh, including 1.55 lakh cases from the PMC limits, 84,275 patients from the PCMC areas and 69,851 cases from the rural as well as Cantonment areas. The data released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the region’s death toll stood at 7,250 on Tuesday, with 46 more patients succumbing to the infection in the region in the last 24 hours. The total deaths in the PMC limits have increased to 4,019. The report stated that 9,180 tests were conducted in the region on Tuesday, including 4,090 in the PMC limits, 2,681 in the PCMC limits and 1,992 in the rural and Cantonment areas. The region’s active case load further dropped to 26,976 on Tuesday. Of these, 14,762 patients were admitted in various hospitals and 12,214 in home isolation. The PMC’s data released on Tuesday revealed that 833 patients were critical in the municipal limits till Tuesday evening. Of these, as many as 450 patients were put on ventilator support. As many as 2,501 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits, while 383 were admitted to the intensive care units. As for tests per million, as many as 1,22,659 tests are being carried in the Pune district, far above the state average of 57,042 and the national average of 63,435. Though the cases have come down significantly, health officials urged people to not let their guard down. “People are requested to follow social distancing norms, especially during the festival season, and always wear masks while venturing out to arrest the spread of Covid-19,” a PMC health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-rise-past-2-74-lakh-days-toll-at-46/articleshow/78648573.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Senior citizen cheated of Rs 4 crore, one booked||PUNE: The Shivajinagar police on Monday filed a cheating case against a Mumbai-based property agent after an elderly landowner from the city lodged an FIR, accusing the former of cheating him of Rs4.05 crore in 2012-14 by promising to sell properties in the state capital. Inspector Manisha Zende of the Shivajinagar police said, “A few days ago, the 72-year-old landowner from Raviwar Peth stated in his complaint that the agent had promised to return the money and he kept waiting for six years before finally filing a police complaint. The elderly man owned a large plot in Mohammadwadi. In 2012, he decided to sell it and hired the services of the Mumbai-based agent for the same. The agent sold the land successfully and the land buyer gave money to the elderly man.” Zende said, “The agent witnessed the exchange of money and lured the elderly man into investing in properties in Andheri (East) and other parts of Mumbai. The elderly man visited Mumbai to inspect a few properties shown by the agent. After this, the man agreed to buy properties in Mumbai. Following this, the agent came to Pune on a few occasions and stayed in a hotel on JM Road, where the man gave him cash for buying properties.” The officer said, “After accepting the money in a few trips, the suspect started giving excuses to elderly man on the Mumbai properties. After a gap of a few months, the agent stopped answering the calls of the elderly man.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sr-citizen-cheated-of-rs-4cr-one-booked/articleshow/78648555.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Allahabad||HC grants bail to Azam, wife & son in fake birth certificate case||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday granted bail to senior Samajwadi Party leader and Lok Sabha MP from Rampur Azam Khan, his wife Dr Tazeen Fatima and son Mohd Abdullah Azam Khan in a fake birth certificate case pending in Rampur district. However, while allowing bail application of all the three, Justice Siddharth directed that Abdullah and his mother Tazeen shall be released immediately but Azam Khan will only be released on bail after the statement of the first informant/complainant (the person who had lodged the FIR) in the case is recorded by the trial court. According to the petitioners’ counsel, the offence of obtaining fake birth certificate of Abdullah would not travel beyond the purview of Section 23 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, which provides that any information given for the purpose of being inserted in any register of births and deaths, which is known or believed by person giving information to be false, shall be punished with fine, which may extend to Rs. 50. The state government opposed the bail application on the ground that the fake birth certificate was used by Abdullah to contest the state election and his father and mother helped him in obtaining the fake certificate and if released on bail, the applicant will temper with witnesses. It is to recall that last year an FIR was lodged by one Akash Saxena at Ganj police station of Rampur, alleging that Azam Khan and Tazeen have got two birth certificates issued from two places, one dated January 28, 2012, from Nagar Palika Parishad, Rampur and second dated April 21, 2015, from Nagar Nigam, Lucknow, regarding birth of their son Abdullah. According to him, both the birth certificates were fabricated and were used for personal gains by accused persons by way of an organized fraud. Later, the Allahabad high court, while allowing an election petition, had on December 16, 2019, set aside the election of Abdullah from Suar assembly constituency of Uttar Pradesh’s Rampur district and declared it as void. The court had held that the applicant was not competent to contest election as per his birth certificate. The court had found that on the date of filing of nomination paper on January 25, 2017, and on the date of declaration of result of legislative assembly election of Suar assembly constituency of district Rampur on March 11, 2017, Abdullah was less than 25 years of age and thus was not qualified to be chosen to fill the seat in legislature of the state in terms of Article 173(b) of the Constitution of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-grants-bail-to-azam-wife-son-in-fake-birth-certificate-case/articleshow/78650538.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||CISCE extends date for Class-XI admission||Kolkata: After receiving several requests from principals across the country to allow their schools to admit students in Class-XI even after the last date for regularisation of admission of candidates is over, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has announced that they have extended the date for the schools to complete the necessary procedure of admission. It is only for the students who were in containment zones or had moved to their hometowns or were not well and could not contact the school for admission in time. “Also, this is a good news for those students from other boards, who may want to seek a seat in a Council school. Thus, they can now apply to those institutes where vacancies are available,” said the principal of Rammohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas. In a circular on Tuesday, CISCE secretary and chief executive, Gerry Arathoon instructed that the decision was taken only due to the pandemic. “This may not be taken as a precedent and is applicable for the ISC year 2022 examination only,” Arathoon wrote in the notice. He further stated that the last date to upload requests through the designated portal has been extended till November 16. The heads have to submit requests for grant of eligibility for admission to Class-XI of ISC and registration of candidates to Class-XI. “You are requested to complete the entire process of registration of all the candidates latest by November 16,” said the Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-extends-date-for-class-xi-admission/articleshow/78648577.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||Activists seek documents relief for pension & insurance claims||PUNE: Health activists and medical experts have urged the state government to consider documents like hospital’s medical cause of death and cremation pass for processing pension or insurance claims, instead of mandatorily seek the death certificates issued by the municipal corporation. The appeal was made considering huge pendency at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as far as issuance of death certificates is concerned. The PMC’s birth and death registration department issues death certificates based on medical cause of death and cremation pass. Both of these documents are issued immediately. “We are trying our best to dispense as many birth and death certificates as possible every day. But staff crunch and the pendency since the initial period of lockdown have added to our woes. We have backlog of registering 3,000 deaths (Covid as well as non-Covid) and about 4,500 births since August ,” Kalpana Baliwant, head of the PMC’s birth and death registration office, said. The main office of PMC’s birth and death registration is located in Kasba Peth. It collates daily death/birth data and uploads related data/documents on the central portal. The officials concerned then verify the data and grant approval online. The data then gets distributed to the 15 ward offices as per the citizen’s residential addresses. A citizen can then get the required birth and death certificate from the respective ward office’s citizen facilitation centre (CFCs). “Currently, there is a huge staff crunch even at the ward level CFCs. Hence, citizens from all the 15 ward offices gather at the main office with complete disregard for social distancing norms. A few of our staff have fallen ill and are on leave,” Baliwant said. Therefore, Baliwant said, the state government could start accepting to process pension and insurance-related claims to ease people’s burden. Health activist and medical practitioner Abhijit More said, “Pendency of 3,000 death certificates alone in the PMC limits is huge. I am sure the situation is almost the same in other affected cities of Maharashtra. The state government should take immediate steps to ease the clause of submitting the death certificate for processing claims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-seek-docu-relief-for-pension-insurance-claims/articleshow/78648547.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik rural SP to keep tabs on teams out on night patrols||Nashik: Sachin Patil, the superintendent of police, Nashik rural, has decided to check locations of all the night patrolling teams to ensure they are patrolling the areas to prevent incidents of highway robberies, house burglary and dacoities.  Patil said a large number of property offences take place at night. Thus, the police personnel given the responsibility of patrolling the areas must be sincere in their work. On this backdrop, Patil has instructed the in-charge of the patrolling teams to keep taking locations of the patrolling teams. The SP himself would be checking the locations of the teams from time to time. This year, there have been 10 incidents of dacoities in the rural district till December end as against eight last year during the corresponding period. Cases of robbery have been 53 as against 54 last year. However, cases of thefts have dropped from 842 last year to 603, this year.In the first week of August, four people of a family including a woman and her two children were killed by unidentified suspects by in a village of Nandgaon Taluka near Malegaon. The rural police continue to be clueless about the suspects despite it being two months of the heinous crime.Highway robberies are also common at night in the rural district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rural-sp-to-keep-tabs-on-teams-out-on-night-patrols/articleshow/78647155.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||New IITE syllabus next year||Ahmedabad: The new syllabus prepared by the Indian Institute of Teacher Education (IITE) and recently launched by the state chief minister will be taught at all government and grant-in-aid BEd colleges affiliated to the varsity. However, self-financed BEd colleges that are not under the IITE will continue with the old course, said sources. “As a result, candidates at these colleges will be left out and there will be great disparity among students studying in different BEd colleges in the same state,” said a source. Apart from combining arts, literature, and science, the new course has a provision by which students can get 16 weeks of internships in government schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-iite-syllabus-next-year/articleshow/78648598.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Dakshineswar Metro won’t chug before December: GM||KOLKATA: North-South Metro’s 4-km Dakshineswar extension can’t be unveiled before December, Metro Railway GM Manoj Joshi said. The crucial Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) equipment, a sophisticated accident prevention technology, is yet to arrive from Germany because of the lockdown restrictions, said Joshi. Even as engineers and workers of the implementing agency, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), are working overtime to complete the stretch and stations and tracks are getting finishing touches, the section can’t be readied for commissioning unless TPWS is installed. The purpose of TPWS is to stop a train by automatically initiating a brake demand, where the TPWS track equipment is fitted. “The TPWS equipment was supposed to come from Germany’s Siemens in March, but ran into lockdown restrictions. If the software comes sometime soon, we can expect commissioning of the 4-km stretch in December,” Joshi said. Meanwhile, the stations and tracks will be readied and the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) will be invited for inspection. On Monday, Metro Railway officials convened a video-conference with their counterparts in RVNL to take stock of the readiness of the Dakshineswar extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-metro-wont-chug-before-december-gm/articleshow/78648602.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 14, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus caseload less than 50 in Pune and Dehu Road cantonments||PUNE: The Pune and Dehu Road Cantonment boards have seen a noticeable dip in active Covid-19 cases, which have come down to 39 and 35, respectively. Till mid-September, the two Cantonments had over 200 active cases. Dehu Road had witnessed a peak of 290 cases in August, the highest among the three Cantonments in Pune district. “It was a bad situation for us,” R Harital, the chief executive officer of Dehu Road Cantonemnt Board, said. “We didn’t have oxygen beds, adequate doctors and hospital staff. We had to request big hospital authorities everyday to make beds available for our patients. But, over the period of time we have been able to change the situation. Indiscipline among citizens and free movement of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in localities were main concerns for us. To address these issues, we formed local volunteer teams and deployed them with our staff in each locality here,” he said. Intensive testing of all age groups was also carried by the Cantonment teams with the help of volunteers and teachers of private schools. “We have checked over 47,000 people out of a total population of 55,000 in Cantonment. Under the ‘Majhe Kutumb Majhi Jababdari’ drive, we carried out antigen tests of 943 people. Of which, 73 were positive. They were immediately isolated,” Harital said. Amit Kumar, CEO of Pune Cantonment Board, said, “We have conducted a survey extensively in core part of Cantonment, which was the worse affected. Aggressive testing has proved effective for reducing the cases. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coronavirus-caseload-less-than-50-in-pune-and-dehu-road-cantonments/articleshow/78648592.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 14, 2020||Pune||Action against banks over ATM thefts on police radar||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police are checking the legal aspects of the plan envisaging action against banks and private agencies managing automated teller machines in cases of negligent approach towards their security, particularly the unmanned establishments. Referring to the recent cash thefts from automated teller machines (ATMs), the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, said, “These thefts have been happening because of negligence of the banks and the agencies managing the ATMs. They hardly make any security arrangements for such huge amount of cash lying unattended.” On Sunday, a cash dispensing machine of a private bank at Chikhali was cut using a gas-cutter and Rs8 lakh was stolen. The Pimpri Chinchwad police probe revealed involvement of an inter-state gang in it and other identical thefts. The probe also revealed that these gangs have been targeting unmanned ATM kiosks in Pimpri Chinchwad. Krishna Prakash said the police were planning to take action against the banks and the agencies in cases where negligence was a contributing factor in thefts from the cash dispensing machines. “We are checking legal aspects in this regard,” the commissioner said. He said most of the ATM kiosks were unmanned and there was hardly any system to immediately alert the police if someone attempted to break the machine. “Most of these thefts come to light after more than five hours. By then, the thieves cross our borders,” Krishna Prakash said. He said all the crime branch units had been asked to work on it. “We are also in the process of making a new plan to curb these thefts,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Sudhir Hiremath said, “In the Chikhali case, the police patrolling team had visited the kiosk twice on Sunday — around 1.30am and again around 3.30am. The theft happened after that. The gang is from another state. We are working on some clues.” Another officer from the crime branch said the banks hardly bothered about the cash as it was insured. “We have been regularly sending letters to the banks about the security arrangements at the ATM kiosks,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/action-against-banks-over-atm-thefts-on-police-radar/articleshow/78648585.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun police seize over 12 kg cannabis and 3 kg charas in 13 days||DEHRADUN: Police have seized huge amounts of narcotics in the last 13 days as part of its ongoing one-month long special drive against drugs — Operation Satya — which started on October 1. According to the police, almost 12.7 kg cannabis, over 3 kg charas (hashish) and 687 gram smack were recovered from different parts of the district since October 1. Besides, 1,381 capsules and 229 pills were also recovered from the peddlers, said police officials. In all, police have registered 48 cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and arrested 49 drug peddlers in these 13 days. As part of its campaign, police have also rescued 19 people and are assisting them with drug rehabilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-seize-over-12-kg-cannabis-and-3-kg-charas-in-13-days/articleshow/78645948.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||‘Chandrapur’s 95% Covid deaths due to lack of medics, infra in GMC’||Chandrapur: Claiming that nearly 95% of Covid deaths in the district have taken place in Government Medical College and Hospital, former MP Naresh Puglia blamed his party rival and guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar and district administration for neglecting appointment of medics in the Dedicated Covid Hospital. Puglia, who has already moved a public interest litigation (PIL) in the high court demanding better facilities for Covid treatment in government hospitals in Chandrapur, has sent a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, health minister Rajesh Tope and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh. He has claimed that GMCH here has only 160 oxygen beds. While there is a need of 16 physicians in government facilities, only 4 are available for Covid services, said Puglia. He also pointed out severe crunch of medical staffers and alleged that guardian minister and administration is overlooking appointments to push treatment in private hospitals and upcoming 700-bed private jumbo Covid hospital. Puglia cited that Wadettiwar had on Independence Day announced to set up additional 300 oxygen bed facility at GMCH, 400-bed Covid facility at Army School, and to procure 40 ambulances. Wadettiwar had claimed to have made a provision of Rs53 crore for the same, but there is no sign of these facilities even after two months, the former MP claimed. Puglia alleged that detection of new Covid cases has gone down as only those coming forward voluntarily are being tested and contact tracing and testing is being neglected. He also informed that out of total of 187 Covid deaths, 177 have died at GMCH, while 10 have succumbed in private hospitals. Pointing out at the high cost of treatment in private hospitals, Puglia demanded that administration should use Rs700 crore mining royalty fund in the district for treatment of Covid patients in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapurs-95-covid-deaths-due-to-lack-of-medics-infra-in-gmc/articleshow/78648584.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 14, 2020||Pune||Citizen funds repair of 2km Pisoli cratered road||PUNE: A resident of Undri-Pisoli took upon himself the task of resurfacing a two-km cratered road between Khadi Machine Chowk and Undri Chowk after repeated pleas to the authorities to repair the stretch fell on deaf ears. Rajendra Bhintade paid for the materials and equipment and got the road repaired on Tuesday. “The road stretch was riddled with giant craters wide enough to fit an entire car. Almost all the accidents on the stretch have been serious or fatal,” said Lekhaji Shinde, assistant inspector, Kondhwa Police. “There was a need to repair the road and we are glad that someone has got the work done,” he added. Bhintade said he decided to take matters into his hands following a fatal accident on the stretch last week. “The condition of the road has not improved in the last 10 years. We have complained to the authorities and made repeated requests for road repairs, staged protests, but our pleas have failed to elicit any response. There was a need to get the potholes filled and the road surfaced repaired to prevent further accidents. I bought the materials and leased an earthmover and other machinery to get the work done,” he said. Over 25 personnel attached to the Kondhwa police and 100 volunteers stepped on the road on Tuesday morning to divert traffic and prevent congestion due to road repair work. According to local residents, the two-km road stretch was in a poor condition. “The road was full of potholes with gravel strewn around, making it difficult for commuters to cross the stretch. There have been accidents as well as fatalities, but the road remained unrepaired,” a shopkeeper said. “This road is a highway and needs to be concretised, considering the volume of traffic that passes through the stretch every day,” Shinde added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizen-funds-repair-of-2km-pisoli-cratered-road/articleshow/78648596.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 14, 2020||India||Three minor Dalit sisters attacked with acid in Gonda||LUCKNOW: Three minor sisters belonging to the Dalit community suffered burn injuries when an unidentified person allegedly threw acid on them while they were sleeping in their house in UP’s Gonda on Tuesday morning. Police are yet to trace the attacker. Aged 17, 12 and 8 years, the girls live with their parents in Paraspur police station area, about 120km from Lucknow. The eldest one was due to be engaged to a youth on October 23. Gonda SP Shailesh Pandey said that all the three have been admitted to the district hospital. While the eldest girl sustained 30% burns, mainly on her face and chest, the second suffered 20% and the youngest 7% burns on their hands. According to the girls’ father, who is a washerman by profession, around 2.30am, he heard screams from the first floor where his daughters were sleeping. He and his wife sleeping on the ground woke up and rushed upstairs. Seeing the girls writhing in pain, he rushed them to hospital and informed the police. “Somebody had climbed through the backside of the house with the help of a ladder to throw acid from the open window,” he told police. Pandey said, “After preliminary inquiry, an FIR under charges of acid attack has been registered at Paraspur against an unidentified person and efforts to nab the accused are underway.” Paraspur SHO SK Singh said that the father is a member of local block development council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-minor-dalit-sisters-attacked-with-acid-in-gonda/articleshow/78651086.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Allahabad||Mosque being built illegally in Kumbh Mela area: VHP||PRAYAGRAJ: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad volunteers handed over a memorandum to district authorities on Tuesday against the ongoing construction of a mosque on gram sabha land at Havelia village, Jhunsi, in the trans-Ganga area. VHP leaders said the construction of the mosque was going on near the Samudra Koop on the banks of the Ganga at Kumbh Mela Kshetra and requested district authorities to demolish the illegal structure at the earliest. VHP spokesman Ashwani Mishra told TOI, “The volunteers of VHP’s Kashi Prant handed over a memorandum to the ADM (City) today against the construction of an illegal mosque in Kumbh Mela area.” A group of unidentified persons is carrying out the construction of the mosque illegally with an intention to disturb the communal harmony of the Sangam City, he added. The lekhpal and police of the area as well as administrative officials know about the construction and are well acquainted about the issue, but no concrete action has been taken till now, said Mishra. The VHP volunteers demanded that the district authorities must take prompt action as the illegal construction of mosque was being done on the banks of the Ganga near Kumbh mela area. The VHP volunteers have given an ultimatum of seven days to district authorities for stopping the construction and demolishing the structure failing which they would start a massive protest at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mosque-being-built-illegally-in-kumbh-mela-area-vhp/articleshow/78650541.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||Cables cut during road work in Narhe, power supply hit||PUNE: The underground cables of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited were damaged at 15 spots in Narhe because of the road concreting and digging work taken up by the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). A statement issued by the distribution company on Monday stated that electricity supply of minimum 700 consumers was getting affected for long duration every day. It said the road concreting work in the Abhinav College area of Narhe had damaged high- and low-tension underground cable network of high- and low-pressure cables. The statement said, “In the past week, the work damaged underground cables in the area that has more than 600-700 residential societies. Around three-four societies are suffering from continuous power failure.” The distribution company said the department involved in the digging work should notify the MSEDCL beforehand so that it could provide information about the location of underground cables. The statement stated that the distribution company should be informed beforehand about electric poles and transformers to be shifted for road works. “The PMRDA needs to submit a plan to the distribution company, get an estimate of the cost involved and get the work done from approved contractors,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cables-cut-during-road-work-in-narhe-power-supply-hit/articleshow/78648615.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Pune||Neurologist plea to tackle issues medical students face||PUNE: A city-based neurologist has appealed to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into various issues faced by medical students. “Every day of postgraduate education is important. If PG students from branches like skin, eye, ortho, neurology and others are posted for months in Covid wards, we will be creating an entire generation of ill-trained specialist doctors,” neurologist Rajas Deshpande stated in his petition. His video narrating the plight of medical students pressed into Covid wards at medical colleges attached hospitals went viral on social media in July. Taking suo-motu cognizance, NHRC officials contacted Deshpande and told him to send them a written petition. The NHRC's experts’ committee reviewed Deshpande's written plea and admitted it on July 24. “NHRC then told the Union government to submit their say on my petition within four weeks. The deadline ended on August 24. But there has been no response from the Union government or the health ministry, so far,” Deshpande said. India has one of the lowest specialists-to-patient ratio. “It takes 15 years to make a specialist like a neurologist, liver transplant specialist and others. By posting such specialists in Covid wards, we are not only losing precious medical assets of our country, but also denying care and life to many thousands of patients,” Deshpande said. “As Covid treatment protocols are already standardized by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a specialist has nothing to offer to Covid patients, all the protocols can be easily be carried out by efficient nurses and paramedics, under the supervision of MBBS doctors and doctors with degrees in ayurveda and homeopathy,” Deshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/neurologist-plea-to-tackle-issues-med-students-face/articleshow/78648609.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 14, 2020||Nashik||Religious outfits, BJP stage protest demanding reopening of temples||Nashik/Aurangabad: Religious outfits and the BJP’s city unit in Nashik and Aurangabad staged agitations on Tuesday to press their demand for reopening the temples. The religious outfits in Nashik were joined in by the BJP’s city unit in staging an agitation in front of the Kapaleshwar temple on the bank of Godavari river on Tuesday to press for their demand. Nashik District Purohit Sangh, Ganga Godavari Purihit Sangh, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Raksha Samiti and Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad participated in the agitation. “The temples have remain closed for the last six months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The state government has allowed bars, wine shops, restaurants and hotels in the state to start their operations but is yet to reopen the temples,” said Satish Shukla, president Ganga Godavari Priests Association. “The temples have been reopened in other states. I don’t know why the state government is not taking a call on reopening the temple here,” said Shukla. In Aurangabad, members of the BJP staged demonstrations in front of the Gajanan Maharaj temple demanding the government to allow prayers in religious places. Addressing the gathering, Aurangabad East MLA Atul Save said that the state government had allowed liquor shops to operate long back. “From October 5, it has even permitted beer bars and such establishments to work. But when it comes to temples, the government has not yet decided anything,” said Save. Save also said that though the Central government had allowed reopening of temples, the Thackeray government was yet to reach a decision. “Let us pray that good sense dawns upon this government and they allow people to visit temples. By keeping the temples shut for the last six months, the government has snatched the livelihood of the people who were sustaining on the sale of flowers and other articles in and around the temples.,” said the MLA. In Kolhapur, the BJP members staged a ‘dharna’ at the Mirajkar Tikti in the city reciting bhajans and performing artis to press the demand for reopening temples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/religious-outfits-bjp-stage-protest-demanding-reopening-of-temples/articleshow/78647166.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Goa||Ex-cops divided over new police districts||Panaji: The state government’s decision to create two new police districts has met with mixed opinions from retired senior police officers. Some say that until the state notifies these as revenue districts, the superintendents of police (SP) will have no value. On Monday, the government announced the creation of the Mapusa and Ponda police districts to further facilitate the maintenance of law and order. While the Mapusa district will cover police stations in Mapusa and the Bicholim taluka, the Ponda district will include police stations in the Ponda, Quepem and Sanguem talukas. However, former SP Mohan Naik told TOI that SPs would have no value in the new police districts unless the government notifies these as revenue districts in the official gazette. “The SP will be like a deputy superintendent of police (DySP). Powers under the CrPC go only to the district SP. An SP working in a district that is not notified as a revenue district, is of no use on the ground. It is, in fact, just a liability. SPs are not investigation officers; they are only managers of the police department,” Naik said. The ex-cop said a mere police district would do little to help members of the general public. “A deputy inspector general of police and an SP will not be beneficial to the common man as much as they’ll be to public representatives, NGOs etc, as a major point of contact. The common man wants police stations,” Naik said. Former SP Tony Rodrigues questioned the division of districts only for policing and not for revenue collection. “If Goa does this, it will set a precedent for other states. If you want to create two more districts for policing, the government should create two more collectors in the state as well,” he said. On the flip side, Anita Rodrigues, a former SP herself, said the creation of two new police districts was a good initiative. “When there is one SP, he gets loaded with work and cannot concentrate. If there are two SPs, work can be equally divided,” she said. “Accessibility to the SP will also be easier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-cops-divided-over-new-police-districts/articleshow/78649946.cms||Murari Shetye
October 14, 2020||Pune||Private bus owners say no to fare hike in festive times in Pune||PUNE: Private bus owners in Pune will not hike fares during the festive season in view of the economic distress faced by commuters and lack of passengers. “According to the formula laid down by the state transport department, private bus operators can hike the fares of a route by 50% of the fare charged by a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation bus operating on the same route. This formula comes into play during the festive season. However, no bus transporter will increase fares this time,” Balasaheb Khedekar, president, Pune district luxury bus association, told TOI on Tuesday. Khedekar said that only 20% of 800 private luxury buses were operational in Pune district. Officials of the regional transport office said, “We will form squads and carry out surprise checks on private buses to see that they are not overcharging passengers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-bus-owners-say-no-to-fare-hike-in-festive-times/articleshow/78648601.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA to offer discount on flats during festive season||DEHRADUN: Following the trend of private developers, MDDA officials have moved the proposal to offer discounts to flat buyers during the upcoming festive season. The proposal was tabled during a board meeting of the Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority. The officials said that discounts can be offered on flats under different categories near ISBT and Transport Nagar areas. In addition, the board also agreed to give relief to flat owners who could not pay the monthly EMI during the lockdown and has waved off interest payment for the initial 75 days of the lockdown. The board members also agreed on the proposal to give Rs 5 crore to the forest department for developing a nature park at Lachhiwala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-to-offer-discount-on-flats-during-festive-season/articleshow/78645960.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||7 Vid dists cross projected cases, Nagpur stays below||Nagpur: Seven Vidarbha districts have already crossed the number of Covid-19 positive cases projected for them by the central government. Nagpur is among four districts where cases are less than projected number. TOI on September 24 had reported about the projection made by the Centre. Considering the growth rate upto September 13, the Centre had anticipated cases in 35 districts of the state for a period of one month upto October 13. The projection was done so that the authorities could make proper arrangements. The Centre had projected 98,663 cases in Nagpur district by October 13. The district actually registered 87,890 cases or 10,773 less than projected. Nagpur is the only district with such a huge difference in actual and projected figures. The growth rate in Nagpur was at its peak in first and second week of September. There were 24,163 cases in August or a daily average of 779. Between September 1 and 7, there were 11,477 cases with daily average shooting up to 1,640. In second week cases were even higher at 12,441 or a daily average of 1,777. They began declining from third week of September which recorded 11,634 or 1,662 per day. Last ten days of September saw 12,905 cases. Highest decline is in October. There were 9,878 cases in 13 days or 760 per day. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde had stated district will peak upto September second week. The curve started to flatten in third week of September and bend with beginning of October. The number of tests had also gone down in the district. Average tests were 5,655 per day in August and increased to 7,025 per day in first week of September and 7,741 per day in second week. In last ten days of Sept, average tests declined to 5,542 per day and improved slightly to 6,036 in October. Still, the district is having more cases than remaining 10 districts of Vidarbha put together. Nagpur was among only district of the division to register fewer cases than projected. Gadchiroli district is the only one in Vidarbha to register almost double the cases projected. Chandrapur, Wardha, Gondia and Bhandara recorded higher than projected cases. Among five districts in Amravati division, Akola and Washim registered slightly higher cases than projection whereas Amravati, Akola and Buldhana remained slightly less. Due to high difference in Nagpur district, cumulative cases in 11 districts of Vidarbha were slightly less than projection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-vid-dists-cross-projected-cases-nagpur-stays-below/articleshow/78648607.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Company told to replace man’s defective bike or refund money||Bengaluru: Dhruva Nayak of T Dasarahalli was on cloud nine on February 25, 2013 when he finally got a chance to lay his hands on the brand-new Royal Enfield Classic bike he purchased from a showroom on Lalbagh Road. His joy was, however, shortlived as the bike let out excessive noise, resulting in heating up of the engine. Frustrated with the company’s apathy, he knocked the doors of a consumer court, which ordered the manufacturer and the dealer to jointly replace the vehicle with a new one or pay him equivalent money and court expenses. Nayak had paid nearly Rs 1.2 lakh, excluding payment for extended warranty, to HSR Services showroom. Initially, he took the bike back to the service station and got the problem fixed. But after a few days, the issue cropped up again. When numerous attempts by the mechanic at HSR Services failing to yield results, Nayak demanded he be given a new bike as he had paid the full amount, trusting the brand. But the showroom and the motorcycle maker refused. After all his attempts failed, Nayak sent a legal notice to the maker and the dealer on August 19, 2014. On February 4, 2015, he filed a complaint with Bangalore Urban District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum. Mechanic’s version ruled out The judges who heard the initial pleas recommended appointment of an independent two-wheeler specialist to tell the court if the motorcycle was indeed faulty or the complainant was trying to make wrongful gain. After a few years of litigation, the judges weren’t convinced by the version of the mechanic of the manufacturer and the dealer had appointed. In mid-2017, an attempt to arrive at a settlement between the parties failed after the manufacturer backed out. Finally, the court decided to pursue the case based on the product warranty. The judges noted that Nayak had used his bike only for 450km before it turned not roadworthy. But the bike was sold to him with a warranty lasting one year or 10,000 km for free repair and replacement. On September 24, 2020, the court ruled that the maker and the dealer must give Nayak a new bike or repay with interest Rs 1.2 lakh he had paid. They also have to pay Rs 5,000 to Nayak towards his litigation expenses, all within six weeks from the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/company-told-to-replace-mans-defective-bike-or-refund-money/articleshow/78647694.cms||Petlee Peter
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Resume Pollachi-Coimbatore passenger train service soon, say daily commuters||COIMBATORE: K Parimalapriya, an employee with the Hindu religious and charitable endowments department, commutes to the city from Pollachi daily. With the Salem railway division yet to resume train services between Pollachi and Coimbatore, Parimala, along with hundreds of other employees, are forced to take bus and travel longer duration. She says buses are crowded and hence unsafe. Parimala is one of the many daily commuters on the stretch with a demand to resume the passenger train service. They say it is more than a month since the government allowed rail services to begin, but trains are yet to run through Pollachi. Government employees say the passenger train, which departed from Pollachi at 7.30am, was perfect, because they could reach Coimbatore Junction at 8.30am and walk or ride to their offices by 9am. Shylaja, another daily commuter, says, “However, now we reach the bus stop at 7.30am, wait for at least 30 minutes to find a bus with seats and reach Ukkadam by 9.30am. From there, it will take another half-an-hour to reach our workplaces.” According to Uma, a headmistress of a government school, most buses run crowded, flouting Covid-19 norms. “We feel unsafe, because buses are crowded, with people sitting and standing next to us. People wear masks, but there is no sanitizer.” Parimalapriya says buses are also more expensive and extremely tiring for a daily commute. “We have leg pain. On train, we could sit on the floor and even if we were to stand, it is more spacious.” The Pollachi Train Passengers’ Welfare Association, which tweeted the demand to resume the train service on Tuesday tagging railway minister Pollachi MP K Shanmugam and deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman, says all the daily commuters have been pressing for resumption of train services on the stretch. “This includes government employees, lawyers, court staff and even private company staff, who don’t have work from home option. We also want the train to be extended to Mettupalayam when it resumes operations,” says its secretary B Mohanraj. The train used to see 70% occupancy during peak hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resume-pollachi-coimbatore-passenger-train-service-soon-say-daily-commuters/articleshow/78648652.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Tree falls in Cubbon Park leading to loss of green cover: Walkers||Bengaluru: Will Cubbon Park soon become an open field? Members of the Cubbon Park Walkers Association (CPWA) fear such a thing is possible, given the way trees are getting uprooted at the lung space. Two trees were uprooted and scores of branches fell during a heavy bout of rain on Sunday, taking the total number of trees that have fallen over the past week to eight. “Every time it rains heavily, at least one tree gets uprooted in Cubbon Park. On average, the park is losing at least 15 trees every year since 2012 when the walkers frequenting it formed a group,” said Umesh S, president, CPWA. According to sources in the horticulture department, the park had about 8,000 trees when the tree census was conducted two years ago. The walkers’ worry is that uprooting of trees is not matched by planting of saplings. They claim the last drive was carried out in 2018 when about 150 saplings were planted. “How is this going to make up for the several large trees that keep getting uprooted every year? Saplings that were planted two years ago need a minimum of another 10 years to grow as big as the trees we have lost,” Umesh said. However, a horticulture department official said, “We conduct plantation drives very often. But this is not a forest to plant all possible species. We are trying to plant rare and endangered species, which we bring from other parts of the state. Every year, on June 5 we carry out a drive when we plant hundreds of tree saplings.” “It is very difficult for all the saplings to survive but we have tried to protect and nurture at least 90% of them,” he explained. CPWA believes the park must have fruit-bearing trees that attract birds. Umesh said, “Such trees will not just improve biodiversity but also increase green cover. Birds play a big role in dispersal of seeds.” He added: “The authorities should find a way to protect the saplings from miscreants who pluck leaves or step over them while moving around. We can’t afford to lose more green cover,” he added. The walkers recall that the park was so dense at one point of time that one could only see trees everywhere, but that is no longer the case. Roots of trees inside the 192-acre lung space have grown weak owing to constant digging to lay cables. Asphalted roads and concretisation have also played a role in cutting of the roots, Umesh explained. Rekha Satish, chairman, cultural committee, CPWA, said, “Officials should make sure the trees are replaced and more saplings need to be planted in open spaces. There shouldn’t be a long gap between plantation drives; they should be conducted once in six months or once in three months, whatever works for the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tree-falls-in-cubbon-park-leading-to-loss-of-green-cover-walkers/articleshow/78647679.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Modified P&W engine glitch forces shutdown mid-air||Mumbai: GoAir pilots operating a passenger flight from Hyderabad to Ahmedabad last month were forced to shut down the left engine of the A320Neo aircraft mid-air following indications of overheating. The twin-engined aircraft carried out a safe single-engine landing in Ahmedabad, but the incident had raised fresh concerns over possible problems that might continue to plague the Pratt and Whitney 1100G engines that power the A320Neo aircraft. The incident occurred on GoAir A320Neo (VT-WGK) aircraft operating flight G8-710 on September 19. “An investigation is on. The aircraft landed safely. It had an engine heat management system fault,” said Arun Kumar, director general of civil aviation. He added that both the engines on that aircraft had undergone the mandatory modification suggested by the aviation regulator last year. The latest problem then wasn’t related to last year’s glitch involving the engine’s “low pressure turbine” (LPT) blades. “No anomaly reported or observed concerning LPT or vibration. Further details will follow,” he added. GoAir, Pratt and Whitney spokespersons did not comment. The PW engines have been facing technical problems since their induction in 2017. Apart from LPT troubles, among the major issues that the PW engines had were combustion chamber distress, engine vibration and gear box failures. In September 2019, the DGCA issued directives to airlines ordering that at least one of the two engines be fitted with modified components.  GoAir pilots on a Hyderabad- Ahmedabad flight last month switched off the left engine of the A320Neo as it overheated. They still managed to carry out a safe single-engine landing in Ahmedabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/modified-pw-engine-glitch-forces-shutdown-mid-air/articleshow/78649918.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Surat||Textile unit owner arrested for knocking two to death||SURAT: Police on Tuesday nabbed the owner of a textile weaving unit on allegations of his involvement in a hit-and-run incident in which two employees of a restaurant chain were killed near Kargil Chowk on Dumas road late on Sunday night. Police arrested Pranav Patel, 33, a resident of Mahidharpura, for allegedly causing the death of the victims by negligence and rash driving. Additional sections of Indian Penal Code 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) were added in the complaint after investigation on Tuesday. The accused was identified from his badly damaged Honda WRV car, which the cops have seized. Earlier on Sunday, Umra police had recovered a broken wiper of the Honda car from the spot. The new model car is believed to have been purchased in November 2019. Paresh Uttam Malvi, 35, and Govindsinh Umed Kathayat, 28, both staffers of Barbeque Nation restaurant were knocked down and dragged by the car for over 30 metres. Patel, who runs a textile unit in Mahidharpura area, said he went to play and watch box cricket near Valentine Multiplex and after dinner with friends was returning home at around 1.30 am when the accident took place near Kargil Chowk. Patel told police that he was driving fast, but cops found that even after knocking his victims, he didn’t apply brakes. “He said he saw the two men crossing the road and thought he will cross from the side, but failed to control his car in speed. No brake marks were found at the spot,” said an officer. Patel claimed that out of panic he even changed the route to home and instead of going through Athwalines main road went to Ghod Dod road. Cops, however, suspect it was also probably with a plan to avoid CCTV cameras installed at multiple locations on the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-unit-owner-arrested-for-knocking-two-to-death/articleshow/78646772.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Patna||Patna: 3 kids among 4 charred to death in Katihar fire||PATNA: Four people, including three children, were charred to death and a woman was critically injured after their houses caught fire at Shivanand Basti under the Abadpur police station area in Katihar district in the wee hours of Tuesday. Abadpur police station SHO Sanjay said the three deceased children were identified as Mausami Khatoon (8), Kashmiri Khatoon (3) and Mohammad Ayush (six months). The fourth victim was Rinki Khatoon (25). “Rinki died during treatment at sadar hospital in Katihar. Noorfa Khatoon (35), who was admitted to the hospital with severe burn injuries, is undergoing treatment. Noorfa is mother of Mausumi and Kashmiri while Rinki was Ayush’s mother,” the SHO said. He added the incident took place around 2am when an earthen lamp fell down and kerosene spilled onto the floor. “The fire engulfed the houses of Noorfa and Rinki in no time. All three children died on the spot. Locals swung into action and prevented the fire from engulfing other houses,” the SHO said, adding the bodies of the victims were sent for postmortem. He said senior district administration officials, including circle officer, reached the spot and initiated the process of disbursing an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the next of kin of the victims. “Noorfa’s uncle Mohammad Sajjad has submitted a written complaint in connection with the incident. He has, however, ruled out any foul play,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-kids-among-4-charred-to-death-in-katihar-fire/articleshow/78648636.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Mandis to impose entry surcharge on vehicles from other states||DEHRADUN: In a bid to tackle the financial crunch among the mandi (vegetable market) committees of the state, the mandi organisation has proposed to impose an entry surcharge on vehicles from other states which are engaged in transportation of farmer’s produce. In addition to this, the committee has also proposed to raise the rent of shops for businessmen. The proposal was discussed during a meeting at Niranjanpur Mandi on Tuesday. Rajesh Sharma, president of Mandi Samiti, said, “Efforts are being made to increase the income of the farmers and also develop mandis equipped with facilities like cold storage. The enhanced incomes for the mandi will help us in upgrading farmers’ development centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mandis-to-impose-entry-surcharge-on-vehicles-from-other-states/articleshow/78645975.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Cabinet approves STARS project to improve school education in 6 states||Nagpur: The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved implementation of the Strengthening Teaching-Learning and Results for States (STARS) project with a total project cost of over Rs5,700 crore. Of this amount, the World Bank will fund approximately Rs3,700 crore. STARS project would be implemented as a new centrally sponsored scheme under Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Education (MoE). The project covers six states, namely Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Odisha. The identified states will be supported for various interventions for improving the quality of education. Besides this project, it is also envisaged to implement a similar ADB-funded project in five states, namely Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand and Assam. All states will partner with one other state for sharing their experiences and best practices. The STARS project seeks to support the states in developing, implementing, evaluating and improving interventions with direct linkages to improved education outcomes and school to work transition strategies for improved labour market outcomes. The overall focus and components of the STARS project are aligned with the objectives of National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 of Quality Based Learning Outcomes. The project envisions improving the overall monitoring and measurement activities in the Indian School Education System through interventions in selected states. The project shifts focus from the provision of inputs and maintaining of outputs to actual outcomes by linking the receipt and disbursement of funds to these outcomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cabinet-approves-stars-project-to-improve-school-education-in-6-states/articleshow/78660925.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Suspended RTO staffer’s friend nabbed from C’magaluru hideout||Bengaluru: Central Crime Branch (CCB) sleuths, who are probing the drug scandal with alleged links to Sandalwood stars and other celebrities, on Tuesday arrested 39-year-old Ashwin Bhogi from his hideout in Chikkamagaluru district. This takes the total number of arrests to 16. He is accused no. 9 in the FIR registered at Cottonpet police station under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), which also names actress Ragini Dwivedi. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said Bhogi will be questioned about his alleged links to drug peddling. “He is a close friend of suspended RTO staffer BK Ravi Shankar and we arrested him based on the latter’s statements. We can’t reveal more information as the matter is being probed. He was produced in court and has been remanded in seven days police custody,” he said. However, CCB sources said Bhogi played a vital role in supplying drugs to revellers. “Bhogi, a private firm employee, who lives in Basaveshwaranagar, peddled drugs on Ravi Shankar’s directions. He fled Bengaluru soon after we arrested Ravi Shankar on September 3. He has been hiding in different places in the past one month and recently landed at a friend’s house on the outskirts of Chikkamagaluru. We received concrete information about his whereabouts and raided the hideout in the wee hours of Tuesday,” said an investigating officer from CCB. A commerce graduate, Bhogi has known Ravi Shankar since their PU college days. CCB police are yet to arrest five fugitive suspects — Aditya Alva, Shivaprakash alias Chappe, Vinay Kumar, Abhiswamy and Prashant Raju. What Ravi Shankar says about Bhogi In his statement to CCB police, Ravi Shankar had said: “Ashwin Bhogi has been a friend of mine since we were studying in PU. We used to live together. Abhiswamy, a friend of Bhogi, had shared the contact numbers of Nigerian drug peddlers with him, telling him they would supply pills and cocaine powder. Our friend Prashant Raju called me saying a person called Santosh, who had arrived in Bengaluru from Delhi, needed drugs. With Bhogi’s help, I approached a Nigerian drug peddler and messaged him our requirements. However, he replied he didn’t have stock.” The statement was presented to court while explaining Ravi Shankar’s role in the scandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suspended-rto-staffers-friend-nabbed-from-cmagaluru-hideout/articleshow/78647674.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Vid recovery rate matches national average, but fatalities up||With more Covid-19 patients recovering than the number of new cases on Tuesday, recovery rate of Vidarbha has almost equalled the national recovery rate of 86.7%. Total 1,534 new cases were detected, while 2,405 patients recovered in a day on October 13. Vidarbha’s total cases reached 1,70,258 with 1,47,194 recoveries. The recovery rate is 86.4%, just a few decimal points less than the national average. However, deaths due to Covid-19 are still not reducing. Total 44 deaths were reported on Tuesday. These include Nagpur 20, Wardha 5, Buldhana 5, Akola 4, Bhandara 3, Chandrapur 3, Amravati 3, and Yavatmal 1. Vidarbha’s toll reached 4,618, and case fatality rate is at 2.71%, which is more than state’s average 2.64% and national average 1.53%. New cases came from Nagpur 660, Chandrapur 198, Gondia 118, Gadchiroli 117, Bhandara 109, Amravati 96, Wardha 79, Yavatmal 48, Akola 46, Washim 38, Buldhana 25. Patients recovered from Vidarbha include — Nagpur 933, Chandrapur 382, Amravati 186, Wardha 175, Washim 165, Bhandara 140, Gondia 114, Gadchiroli 113, Buldhana 91, Yavatmal 59 and Akola 47. WARDHA: The district saw five Covid deaths and 79 new patients on Tuesday. The day also witnessed 175 patients being discharged, highest single-day recovery till date. The deceased include two men (70 and 74) from Hinganghat, a 65-year-old man from Ashti, a 54-year-old woman from Deoli and a 67-year-old woman from Karanja. The toll has now reached 172 after these five deaths on Tuesday. With discharge of 175 patients, the district’s number of recovered patients has gone up to 3,665 while 1,689 are under treatment. The district’s caseload is now 5,526. Out of the 752 test reports received on Tuesday, 79 (including 22 women) were positive for coronavirus infection. The new cases came form Wardha 43, Hinganghat 13, Deoli 9, Arvi 5, Karanja 4, Selu 3 and Samudrapur 2. BULDHANA: Death of 5 Covid-19 patients on Tuesday took the district’s toll to 111. The deceased include a 35-year-old man from Sagwan village, 45-year old man from Dhad, 55-year-old man from Buldhana city, 73-year-old man from Deulgaon Raja, and 91-year-old man from Shegaon. Out of 245 reports received on Tuesday, 25 were positive taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana to 8,117. Total 91 patients recovered on Tuesday. This took the total number of recovered patients to 7,594. Buldhana’s recovery rate is more than 93% now. Total 412 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: After reporting record low Covid-19 cases for three days, the district once again reported 46 cases on Tuesday. Total 47 patients recovered in the day while four patients died during treatment. The deceased include 64-year-old from Khadki Khadan, 30-year-old woman from Civil Lines, 56-year-old man from Barshi Takli, and 54-year-old man from Patur. Akola now has 7,866 total cases, and 7,227 of them have recovered, which means recovery rate is well above 90%. The district has 379 patients under treatment, which is lowest in Vidarbha. BHANDARA: The day saw 140 patients recovering from Covid-19 in the district while 104 new patients were detected. With this, total number recovered patients reached 5,442 against the total caseload of 6,953. Recovery rate is more than 78%. Till date, 55,673 samples have been tested from the district. Sample positivity rate is still over 12%. Three patients from Bhandara died on Tuesday. They include 83-year-old man from Paoni, who died in Bhandara district hospital, 62-year-old man and 45-year-old man — both from Bhandara tehsil — who died in GMCH Nagpur. CHANDRAPUR: Spike of 198 patients was recorded in the district taking the Covid total to 12,413 on Tuesday. There were three Covid deaths during the last 24 hours raising the toll to 190. The day also witnessed discharge of 382 patients, scaling the recoveries to 9,359. There are now 2,882 patients under treatment in the district. The deceased belonged to Lalpeth Collieries in Chandrapur, Saoli and Sindewahi and they all died at GMCH here. AMRAVATI: The Covid-19 caseload of the district crossed 15,000-mark and reached 15,064 with the addition of 96 new cases on Tuesday. A report by civil surgeon’s office said the doubling rate has increased to 92.2 today from 47.2 for the last some days. The report said 186 patients recovered today to take the total to 13,317 for a smart recovery rate of 88.40%. Three deaths on Tuesday took the district’s toll to 335. The report further said the deceased include two males (77 and 60) from Shendurjana Ghat and Nawathenagar here and a female (75) from Chhatrapati Nagar. This left 1,412 patients, including 654 in Covid Hospital here, nine in Nagpur and 749 in home isolation, under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district recorded death of a 55-year-old woman from the city due to coronavirus infection. While 48 new patients were detected on Tuesday, 59 patients got discharge. According to sources, there are 536 patients under treatment. Till date, 9,148 Covid patients were reported in the district while 8,233 have recovered. WASHIM: The district administration conducted reconciliation of recovered patients on Tuesday which revealed that 135 patients had recovered earlier, but they were not reported. Moreover, 30 patients recovered in the day. This took the total number of recovered patients in Washim to 4,425. Total 38 new patients were detected on Tuesday. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 5,069. After reconciliation, Washim’s recovery rate jumped to 87.2%. Now, 539 patients are under treatment. No death was reported on Tuesday. GADCHIROLI: The district reported 117 new cases of Covid-19 taking the caseload to 4,155. On the other hand, 113 patients recovered taking recovery count to 3,146. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 75.72%. Till date, 61,460 tests have been done in Gadchiroli. This means, the sample positivity rate of 6.76%. With no death was reported on Tuesday, Gadchiroli has 977 patients under treatment. GONDIA: The district went past 8,000 total Covid-19 cases with the detection of 118 new patients on Tuesday, taking the total to 8,039. The day also saw discharge of 114 patients and total recoveries have now climbed to 7,315 leaving 616 patients under treatment. No death was reported in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-recovery-rate-matches-national-average-but-fatalities-up/articleshow/78648623.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 14, 2020||Agra||Agra: AMC's 11-point action plan to control air pollution||AGRA: Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has enforced an 11-point action plan to curb air pollution in the city. In accordance with National Green Tribunal (NGT) dust mitigation guidelines, the 11-point plan is being enforced. AMC executive engineer (environment) Rajiv Rathi said, “A 11-point action plan is being enforced to control air pollution. Besides, mechanized cleaning at public places, water obtained from treatment of sewage will be extensively used for sprinkling at public places and on trees for dust mitigation. Work in this regard has been initiated." Track the pollution level in your cityAll construction and demolition waste dumped at open spaces will be collected from different parts of the city, he said. Spot penalties will also be imposed in cases of garbage burning and dumping of construction and demolition waste in open spaces. The air quality in Agra, which falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), has significantly worsened over the past 13 days. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) report, the air quality (AQI) index in Agra on Tuesday was recorded at 281 -- "poor" category. Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 380 milligram per cubic meter, considered hazardous to health by doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amc-enforces-11-point-action-plan-to-control-air-pollution/articleshow/78645984.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Navratri darshan closed at Pavagadh’s Mahakali temple||VADODARA: The Mahakali temple at Pavagadh will remain closed for visitors during Navratri when lakhs of people visit the temple during nine days. The decision was taken by the temple trust in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Several devotees throng the temple during Navratri and the footfalls on some days run into over one lakh persons. Given this, social distancing remains a challenge at the pilgrimage place. This was observed even on Sunday when there was a heavy rush and some persons not wearing masks had even entered into an argument with the police. The temple trust declared on Tuesday that the temple will remain closed from Friday to November 1 for pilgrims. The period includes Navratri and other religiously significant days. Inside the temple, the rituals will continue as per routine every Navratri and people will be able to do ‘darshan’ on live feed that will be broadcast on screens in two open grounds near the Pavagadh hill. There will be live ‘darshan’ on temple website. The release by the temple trust stated that the decision had been taken in interest of the health and safety of devotees. It added that this would also ensure that Covid safety guidelines are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/navratri-darshan-closed-at-pavagadhs-mahakali-temple/articleshow/78646614.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Allahabad||No Covid related death in Sangam city in two days||PRAYAGRAJ: Officials of health department can heave a sigh of relief as the Sangam City has not reported any death related to Covid-19 infection in past 48 hours. However, officials of health department made it clear that people above 60 years of age and tested positive for the coronavirus infection would not be permitted for home isolation and they would be shifted to Covid hospital or Covid care centre for treatment. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer, Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Prayagraj district has not reported any covid related death in past two days ( Monday and Tuesday). However, department has decided that people above age of 60 years and tested positive for the coronavirus infection would not be permitted for home isolation and they would be shifted to covid hospital and covid care centre for treatment. After conducting a study on Covid patients who were initially permitted for home isolation after being tested positive for infection but found asymptomatic, the medical teams found that there were some cases when patients particularly above 60 years of age had developed symptoms within two or three days since they were granted home isolation permission. Following which, the department had to shift them to covid hospital and covid care centres for treatment.” Dr Sahai added that, “Patients who have diabetes, hypertension, and suffering from any other serious ailment would also be not given permission for home isolation”. Dr Sahai was of the view that restricting home isolation among people above 60 years of age as well as those suffering from serious ailments and tested positive for infection would help the department to check the mortality rate among covid patients and such patients would also be getting better treatment in hospitals. The Sangam City has reported 288 deaths since the outbreak of the disease. Till Monday, the city has reported 21,468 cases and 19,356 of them have been cured and recovered. The recovery percentage of the city is 90.16. Pointedly, 14,359 out of 19,356 patients have completed their home isolation while 4,998 patients have cured and discharged from the hospitals till Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-covid-related-death-in-sangam-city-in-two-days/articleshow/78650547.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Man kills 2-year-old daughter to save political career||BENGALURU: Fearing that his ‘bright’ political career was at stake, a 35-year-old budding politician allegedly strangled his 2-year-old daughter in Chitradurga district, 250km from Bengaluru. Though he had committed the crime a month ago, it was discovered only after the child’s mother approached police. The accused, Ningappa, is a resident of Jagalur in Chitradurga. Shirisha was the daughter of Ningappa and Shashikala, 29, his second wife. According to police, Ningappa and Shashikala were in a relationship but separated after their families opposed it 10 years ago. Shashikala came to Bengaluru to pursue a nursing course, while Ningappa ran a tailoring shop and dabbled in politics. He married another woman after two years. Ningappa and Shashikala resumed their relationship later. They secretly tied the knot four years ago and Shirisha was born. All this while, they managed to hide their relationship from their families. Ningappa was getting ready to contest the gram panchayat elections, while Shashikala, a nurse in a private hospital, was busy with work. Recently, Shashikala’s family began forcing her to marry and started looking for a bridegroom. On September 9, Shashikala told Ningappa to end their secret relationship and inform their family members. Ningappa did not agree and said it would adversely affect his prospects in the upcoming GP elections. The same day, he asked Shashikala to go to her village and said he would take care of their daughter. Believing him, Shashikala left for her place. At 5.30pm on the same day, Ningappa took Shirisha to an isolated place in Chitradurga and strangled her to death. Later, he dug a 2-ft deep pit and buried the child. He returned to his house where he stayed with his first wife. Separated from her child for two weeks, Shashikala asked Ningappa about her whereabouts, but he told her she’s with him and is doing well. On October 8, she fought with Ningappa over the phone as she wanted to speak with Shirisha. He told her to forget their daughter. Suspecting something amiss, Shashikala approached Chitradurga town women’s police station and filed a complaint. She named him as the prime suspect and police nabbed him on Monday. After interrogation, he confessed to having killed his daughter to ensure his bright political future. Inspector S Lakhmikanth said Ningappa has been taken into police custody for four days. He has three sons from his first marriage and his wife was not aware of his second marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-kills-2-yr-old-daughter-to-save-political-career/articleshow/78647577.cms||Kiran Parashar
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Plea in HC seeks BSNL upgradation to 3G/4G connectivity in estates||MADURAI: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the Tirunelveli district administration and BSNL on a plea which sought to upgrade the 2G network to 3G or 4G connectivity at estate regions in Tirunelveli district. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi ordered notice on the public interest litigation filed by I Irudhayamary.  The petitioner stated that for more than 90 years, hundreds of labourers are working at the tea, coffee, cardamom and pepper plantations at Manjolai, Kakkachi, Nalumukku, Oothu estates in the district. At present, nearly 2,000 labourers are working in the estates and about 100 children are studying in schools and colleges in and around the district. She stated that some 10 years back, BSNL established a 2G cellular network at the estates and due to the strong winds and rains that hit the region often, the said cellular network connection fails intermittently. Till now the network had not been upgraded due to which the people are facing difficulties. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students are attending classes which are conducted online. But, due to poor network connection, students are unable to attend the classes properly. Though the petitioner submitted a representation to the authorities seeking to upgrade the 2G network to 3G or 4G, no steps were taken in this regard. Hence, she moved the HC Madurai bench seeking relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-seeks-bsnl-upgradation-to-3g/4g-connectivity-in-estates/articleshow/78649935.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC grants bail to Azam Khan’s wife, son in Quality Bar case||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday granted bail to senior Samajwadi Party leader and Rampur MP Azam Khan’s wife Dr Tanzeen Fatima and their son Mohd Abdullah Azam Khan in a case where they had allegedly got allotment of a state property by cheating. The property in controversy was a hotel, Quality Bar, allotted in March 2014 in the name of Abdullah and Tanzeen Fatima after their bid of Rs 1,200 per month was found to be highest. Allowing the bail application of Abdullah and her mother Tanzeen Fatima, Justice Siddharth directed the trial court to expeditiously decide the case, preferably within one year. An FIR was lodged against Tanzeen Fatima and her son Abdullah on November 21, 2019, under section 420 (cheating) and other sections of IPC at police station Civil Lines, Rampur district, alleging that a property, which was under the administration of district magistrate, was illegally let on rent to the applicants. The petitioners’ counsel had taken the plea that Tanzeen Fatima took the property on rent in the bonafide belief that property belonged to Zila Sahkari Vikas Sangh, Rampur and was not aware of the fact that it belonged to district administration. Further, the applicants were falsely implicated in this case due to political rivalry. “Even if it is accepted that the property belonging to the state had been let out by the Zila Sahkari Vikas Sangh, Rampur to the applicant illegally, then the termination of the tenancy was the only remedy,” argued the petitioner’s counsel. However, opposing the bail application, the state government’s counsel argued that Azam Khan, who was then a minister of the state government, used the government machinery to create forged documents for extending undue gains to his wife and son, who colluded with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-grants-bail-to-azam-khans-wife-son-in-quality-bar-case/articleshow/78650556.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Active Covid cases dip as number of discharged patients tops new cases||Coimbatore: The number of active Covid-19 cases dipped to 4,764 on Tuesday, when the number of patients discharged from treatment centres was higher than the new cases for the third consecutive day. The Covid-19 tally touched 37,919, with the district recording 398 new cases. It was the fifth consecutive day when the daily spike was less than 400. With 478 patients getting discharged on the day, the number of recovered patients has gone up to 32,653. The recovery rate has touched 86.1%, the highest since June. The toll, meanwhile, zoomed past the 500-mark to 502, with five more patients succumbing to the virus. All the deceased had comorbidities. Among them was a 67-year-old asthmatic man, who was admitted to the ESI Hospital with breathing difficulty on last Thursday. He died on Monday. The remaining four - a 64-year-old diabetic man, two hypertensive men aged 70 and 74, and a 35-year-old diabetic woman – died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Sunday and Monday. In the wake of growing complaints of district health department manipulating number of Covid-19 cases, which has been reducing consistently, municipal administration minister S P Velumani has instructed officials to declare the exact numbers daily. “He has instructed officials to declare the figures as they appear on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal and then show a drop, if there is any,” said an official who attended the meeting that was convened by the minister. Besides warning private hospitals to collect only the government fixed fee, Velumani also instructed both officials and laboratories not to manipulate the cycle threshold values to reduce the positivity rate. “The minister has instructed all private and government hospital laboratories to stick to the guidelines followed in Chennai regarding the cycle threshold cutoff value to declare a person positive. If laboratories in Chennai are following technical instructions given on the kit, the labs here must do the same,” the official said. Laboratories were also strictly instructed not to run any Covid-19 test without issuing an RF id from the ICMR portal for the sake of showing less cases. “Laboratories either have to use their existing RF ids for re-testing a patient or issue a fresh id for a new patient,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-cases-dip-as-number-of-discharged-patients-tops-new-cases/articleshow/78648662.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Husband-wife duo commits suicide while talking over mobile phones||PILIBHIT: A husband-wife duo, who got married seven months ago, allegedly ended their lives by hanging themselves at separate places after speaking to each other over mobile phones in Kheri district around 3am on Tuesday. The wife was staying with her parents for the last few days. Police said they received information after family members cremated them. The reason behind their taking the extreme step was not yet known, said police. Station house officer of Lakhimpur kotwali Arvind Pandey said, “The husband, Sushil Verma (27), hanged himself at his parental house in Sisauna village, while his wife Archana committed at her father’s house in Abaripur village under Hargaon police station.” “Their family members informed police that the couple had spoken over mobile phones before taking the extreme step. No complaint was lodged, so far,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/husband-wife-duo-ends-lives-at-separate-places-after-speaking-to-each-other-over-mobile-phones/articleshow/78641678.cms||Keshav Agrawal
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC lists petition challenging promotion rules for cops for final hearing||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday listed the writ petition challenging the promotion rules laid down by the state in 2018 for final hearing while also directing the state government to file its response. Over 600 policemen had filed a writ petition in the HC against the norms. The plea was heard by the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani on Tuesday. Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for the petitioners told TOI that the new rules give undue benefit to the armed constable when it comes to promotion and therefore, discriminates against the civil and intelligence policemen. “We told the court that the new rules have created unequal promotion rules for the Police Armed Constable and the civil and intelligence policeman even though they fall in the same category. The court heard us and have now listed the case for final hearing. Meanwhile, the state government has also been asked to file its response,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-lists-petition-challenging-promotion-rules-for-cops-for-final-hearing/articleshow/78646009.cms||Prashant Jha
October 14, 2020||Kolhapur||School principal held for forging signatures||Kolhapur: Bhudargad police in Kolhapur district have arrested a school principal for allegedly forging the signatures of the teachers and other non-teaching staff on their service books. Vyankatrao Anandrao More was the principal of Krantisinh Nana Patil School which was was established at Khanapur in Bhudargad tehsil in 1993. The school has a total of ten employees, including four teachers. More was accused to have not updated the service books of the employees since 1993. When the teachers and the other staff did not get a response from him despite repeated insistence, they approached the education department. More then told the staff that their service books were already updated and all of them were signed. When the staff were shown their service books, they realized that their signatures had been forged. More was arrested following a complaint lodged by a teacher.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/school-principal-held-for-forging-signatures/articleshow/78647185.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Veggie prices to soar as festive season begins||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s (TNAU) Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell (Demic) has forecast that the farmgate prices of tomato, brinjal and ladies’ finger would see an increase of Rs 2 to Rs 3 per kilogram in the coming months. “The price of good quality tomato during November-December will be Rs 17-Rs 20 per kg, while that of good quality of brinjal and bhendi would be Rs 23-Rs 25 and Rs 21-Rs 23, respectively,” Demic said in a press release. When contacted, a Demic official said the forecast prices were higher than the prevailing market prices. “This is because of the upcoming festive season of Diwali, Christmas, and New Year. The prices would also be subject to northeast monsoon. If monsoon is severe, it would affect arrival of vegetables and prices would increase.” The release quoted trade sources and said fresh tomato was arriving to the district from Natchipalayam, Kinathukadavu, Madhampatti, Chettipalayam and Aalandurai. “Arrivals from Tumkur in Karnataka have commenced this month and will continue till December. Tomato price has dropped now mainly because of the continuous arrivals from Karnataka,” it said. The release said the markets in the district were seeing huge arrivals of brinjal from Mysuru. Ladies’ finger is arriving from Aalandurai, Salem, Oddanchathiram and Udumalpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/veggie-prices-to-soar-as-festive-season-begins/articleshow/78648669.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Man injured in house blast succumbs after a week||Vadodara: One of the two persons who had suffered burns in a blast at a house in Gajrawadi last week succumbed on Tuesday.The deceased Ramesh Maheshwari and his wife Bhavani were injured on October 7 when toxic gas accumulated in the bathroom of their house caused a blast when a bulb was switched on. The couple was taken to SSG Hospital and was under treatment since then. However, Ramesh passed away at 1.57 am on Tuesday as his injuries were grievous. Bhavani is still under treatment, police said.The poisonous gas emanating from the drainage pipe was accumulated as there was no proper ventilation in the bathroom and the house. When a bulb in the bathroom was switched on, a suspected minor spark had triggered a blast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-injured-in-house-blast-succumbs-after-a-week/articleshow/78647209.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||17-year-old boy held for raping 14-year-old girl in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 17-year-old boy of a village under Madhotanda police station was detained on Tuesday for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl of his neighbourhood on Sunday night. Police have sent the girl for a medical examination and registered an FIR against the minor accused. After his medical examination, police produced the boy before the juvenile justice board, which sent him to Kishor Sadan, a Bareilly-based juvenile home. In his complaint to police, the girl’s father stated that his daughter had gone to the toilet — constructed outside their house — around 9pm on October 11 when the accused raped her. As the girl screamed for help, his family members rushed to the spot and caught the accused, said the father. SHO Ram Sevak said the accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/17-year-old-boy-held-for-raping-14-year-old-girl-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78641689.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Shift us from Noyyal bank, say residents||COIMBATORE: Residents of Nanjundapuram Itteri near Kurichi Pirivu on Tuesday demanded the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) to provide them alternative accommodation. Pointing out that they had been living along the Noyyal river bank for long, A Hakkim, a resident, said the TNSCB had identified the families residing along the river bank two years ago and provided them alternative accommodation at its housing unit at Ukkadam. “They had then left out 30-odd families. We had made several representations to the TNSCB, the city corporation and other government departments to take necessary steps to provide us alternative accommodation, but to no avail,” he said. Hakkim said the river was brimming with water after the continuous rainfall and reptiles were entering their houses. “It has become extremely difficult to reside in our houses.” Another resident said they had been staying at their present house for more than 30 years and they had documents to prove the ownership. “If we were in a position to rent a house, we wouldn’t have run after the officials, begging for a house.” When contacted, officials assured to look into the issue at the earliest and find a permanent solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shift-us-from-noyyal-bank-say-residents/articleshow/78648685.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 14, 2020||India||Father: DM lied in court about our consent for girl’s cremation||AGRA: With legal proceedings having begun to determine if there was wrongdoing in the way the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras was cremated, her family said on Tuesday that they are counting on the court for justice but won’t immerse her ashes until it’s all over. “I told the high court that the administration did not allow us to see our daughter’s face one last time,” said the girl’s father, who returned with four other family members at 11 pm after appearing before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday. The high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the late night cremation. “The DM lied that he had taken permission from the family for cremation … I will not immerse the ashes till I get justice for my daughter.” DM Praveen Laxkar had told the court on Monday that it was his decision to cremate the girl, that there were no instructions from the government and that the family had given its consent. The victim’s father said the court had given them the space and opportunity to explain what had happened on September 30, the night the police had cremated the girl after she was brought back to her village from the Delhi hospital where she had died. The victim’s elder brother said, “The DM was reprimanded by the court...I am hopeful we will get justice from the court.” The next hearing is on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/father-dm-lied-in-court-about-our-consent-for-girls-cremation/articleshow/78651089.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 14, 2020||Surat||Tests find 20 of four families in Rander infected with Covid||Surat: As many as 20 members of four families tested positive for Covid-19 during testing drive at Krushna Kunj Society in Rander Zone of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday. Following this the civic body once again urged citizens to get themselves tested at Dhanvantari Raths deployed in their areas and ensure they get timely treatment.“Covid-19 is a serious health concern. We urge people again to get themselves tested if they see any symptoms and ensure that they don’t spread it among family members,” said a SMC official.Meanwhile, SMC’s enforcement teams fined 214 people for not following Covid-19 guidelines on Tuesday and collected Rs 73,400 in fine from them.Surat city has reported 23,602 Covid-19 cases till date of which 696 have succumbed to the infection. According to SMC, 21,570 people have recovered from the Covid-19 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tests-find-20-of-four-families-in-rander-infected-with-covid/articleshow/78646071.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||10 lakh cardholders now under ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Almost two weeks after the ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme was implemented at 135 ration shops on a pilot basis, the civil supplies and consumer protection department is all set to extend the scheme to all the ration shops in the district. Under the scheme, cardholders could buy their monthly entitlement of ration products from any fair price shops in the country. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had launched the scheme in the state on October 1. On the same day, the scheme was implemented at 135 ration shops in the south taluk in the district. An officer with the district civil supply office said the ration could be bought by only a person whose name was included in the card. Earlier, ration products would be handed over to anyone who turns up at the shops with a smart ration card. “As the software is linked to the Aadhar card database, fingerprint of the person collecting the ration at the shop should match with the fingerprint in the database. Only then, products could be given. People will have to swipe their card and give their fingerprints every month to get the ration,” the official said. There is an exemption for elderly people, differently abled and people with learning difficulties, who, the official said, could in a letter request the tahsildar to allow their family members or neighbours to collect the ration on their behalf. The official said they had completed the integration process at all the 1,419 ration shops in the 12 taluks in the district and they would be covered under the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme from Wednesday. The district has 10.37 lakh cardholders. While rice is distributed for free of cost, other products, including sugar and dal, are sold at subsidized price to the residents. People from other states could avail only two products – rice, which is priced at Rs 3 per kg, and wheat, which is priced at Rs 2 per kg. However, both the public and authorities seem to face some difficulties in implementing the system effectively. “Now, we are able to serve only 30-50 customers a day, against 150 earlier. It is mainly because of the poor network - only 2G sim cards are used in the POS machines - and difficulties in obtaining fingerprints,” the official said. G Rajendran, state president of Tamil Nadu Ration Shop Employees’ Union, said it was important to rectify the issues to make the scheme successful. “With the scheme in place, smuggling could be reduced to almost nil and certain people, especially those belonging to the upper class, would not get the products and their share could be given to guest workers without increasing the district’s share of ration products to a larger extent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10l-cardholders-now-under-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-in-coimbatore/articleshow/78648704.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 4 solvers arrested at exam centre||KANPUR: In a major crackdown, four members of a paper-solvers gang were held on Tuesday just as they were about to appear for the Triple-C Examination in place of the actual aspirants in Kalyanpur police circle. The raids were carried out inside an examination centre in Ambedkarpuram area in Kalyanpur. According to the officials, all the accused have been booked for cheating and forgery. Several printers, mobile phones and seals were seized from the accused persons. It has been learnt that there was a Rs 4,500 per candidate deal between the gang and aspirants to clear the examination. Inspector Kalyanpur Ajay Seth said, “Arrested accused persons have been identified as Ankit Umrao, Shailendra Kumar, Digvijay and Ved Prakash.” SP West Dr Anil Kumar said that a massive manhunt have also been launched in search of the absconding gang members. There will be more arrests soon, he assured. All the accused were booked under relevant sections of IPC including 420 (cheating).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-solvers-arrested-at-exam-centre/articleshow/78650563.cms||---
October 14, 2020||India||HC stays CBI investigation against Kerala project CEO||KOCHI: In a relief to the LDF government, the Kerala high court on Tuesday stayed for two months the CBI probe against the CEO of LIFE Mission, a state housing project, over alleged FCRA violations in respect of funds received from a foreign sponsor for construction of dwelling units in Thrissur district. Justice V G Arun granted the interim stay on a plea by Life Mission CEO U V Jose challenging the registration of the FIR by the central agency against unknown officials of Life Mission. The Judge, however, allowed the CBI to continue its probe initiated against the managing director of Unitac, a private firm which has been awarded the contract for construction of the houses in Wadakkanchery Municipality. The case against the firm and others was registered on the basis of a complaint by Congress MLA Anil Akkara alleging violation of the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act in acceptance of funds from a UAE aid agency for executing the housing project for the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-cbi-investigation-against-kerala-project-ceo/articleshow/78651090.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||Gangster Act to be slapped on Satta kingpin||KANPUR: Tightening its noose around Sonu Sardar, the ‘king’ of illegal IPL high-tech betting racket with Dubai and Abu Dhabi connections, the police have initiated the process of invoking Gangster Act and freeze his bank accounts in cities including Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Kanpur. Besides , the police will also seal the moveable and immovable property of Sonu Sardar. “We have recovered several incriminating documents along with tracing dubious financial transactions of Sonu Sardar. During the investigation, it came to fore that Sonu have accounts in 10 banks across Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Kanpur. We are now in the process of scanning details of his laptops and mobile phones for further probing the illegal businesses of Sonu and his associates,” said SP West Dr Anil Kumar. The police team who accompanied with Sonu Sardar from Jaipur to Kanpur, revealed that he mentioned several names, including that of politicians and big businessmen who used to patronise him. To recall, Sonu Sardar was arrested from Rajasthan’s Jaipur on Sunday and brought to the city on Monday for questioning. Police have also arrested one of his aides, Ranjit Singh alias Rinku Singh, who lives in Pandunagar area of the city, from Naubasta bypass on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gangster-act-to-be-slapped-on-satta-kingpin/articleshow/78650565.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Erode||Man, wife grow ganja on government land, arrested||Erode: A 32-year-old man and his wife were arrested on Tuesday for cultivating ganja plants near Gobichettipalayam in Erode district. The Bungalowpudur police received a tip that a farmer, S Ramesh Kumar, of Perumpallam dam area, was cultivating ganja plants on government land in the dam water spread area. When the police reached the spot, they found ganja crops grown between sorghum crops. A police officer said farmers in the village use dry space of the water spread area for cultivating crops whenever the water level in the dam was low. “The government allowed farmers to cultivate short term crops. The accused and his wife, R Vedachi, 29, were growing ganja crops on the government land for nearly three months,” the officer said. Preliminary inquiry revealed that a 45-year-old woman Putri alias Karuppathal of Erode had supplied ganja seeds to Ramesh Kumar. “As she managed to escape from her house, we have launched a search for her,” the police officer added. Police have also seized Rs 2.56 lakh from the couple. A case was registered and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-wife-grow-ganja-on-govt-land-arrested/articleshow/78648718.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls likely to be held before term conclusion||HYDERABAD: For the first time in nearly 50 years, elections to the civic body in Hyderabad are likely to be held before the term of the present elected body ends on February 10, 2021. Five elections have been held to the Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) since 1969, and all these elections were held after a gap of two to 12 years following the completion of the term of the respected elected bodies. Though elections were held in time prior to 1969, they were held after the term of elected bodies was completed. With the legislative assembly on Tuesday approving the amendments to the GHMC Act and reservations of BCs fixed for 2016 polls to be continued for a second term, all indications pointed towards early polls. The fact that the special session of the assembly was convened mainly to approve amendments to GHMC Act of 1955, among other issues, despite the recent monsoon session of the assembly being cut short due to rise in Covid-19 cases, indicates the ruling party's eagerness to go for polls to GHMC at the earliest. Even the multiple surveys conducted by the ruling party have given the TRS anywhere between 100 and 104 seats of the total 150 wards in the city. Though sources in the ruling TRS did not rule out the possibility of an election notification being issued by November-end or in December itself, the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) is preparing ground to hold elections anytime before February 2021. TSEC chairman C Partha Sarathi told TOI that they would be able to complete the entire election process in a month once the work on reservation of wards and preparation of ward-wise voters list is completed. With reservation issue being solved with approval of the assembly, half the work is done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-likely-to-be-held-before-term-conclusion/articleshow/78649959.cms||Roushan Ali
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Ex-boyfriend sets woman on fire, she holds on to him, both die||VIJAYWADA: A 24-year-old nurse was set ablaze by her ex-boyfriend at Hanumanpet in Vijayawada late on Monday night. While the woman was charred to death, the man too succumbed to his injuries after the victim caught hold of him and did not let go of him despite being in flames. The nurse has been identified Chinnari and worked at a Covid care centre. Police said the accused, G Nagabhushanam, 25, attacked Chinnari while she was returning home after work. Nagabhushanam followed her and both had a heated argument. As tempers flared, he doused her in kerosene and set her on fire. The woman, who was in flames, pulled Nagabhushanam towards her. He later died while undergoing treatment. Police officials said the accused had brought a kerosene can with him. Governorpet circle inspector MVS Nagaraju told TOI that an FIR for murder has been filed. Officials have also invoked 174 of the CrPC in Nagabhushanam’s death where the police will investigate if it was a suicide. Officials said Nagabhushanam and Chinnari were in a relationship for about two years. She eventually broke up with him under pressure from her parents, but Nagabhushanam allegedly continued to stalk her and pestered her to elope with him. Despite repeated warnings, he pursued her relentlessly. About two months ago, Chinnari along with her parents lodged a harassment case against him with the Governorpet police. The officials had summoned him for questioning and given him a warning. A couple of days later, Chinnari withdrew the complaint and requested cops to ensure that he doesn’t interfere in her life again. Sources added that this left Nagabhushanam very upset. Cops said that while Chinnari died on the spot after she was attacked Nagabhushanam, who suffered 80% burns, was taken to Guntur Government General Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nurse-holds-on-to-ex-boyfriend-who-set-her-on-fire-both-die/articleshow/78651091.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Two crocodiles rescued near Lalbaug||Vadodara: Two crocodiles were rescued from the city since Monday evening. A five-foot-long crocodile had ventured out on the road on Monday evening from a pond under the Lalbaug bridge. Some passers-by spotted it and immediately informed Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) volunteers who rushed to the spot. The crocodile was rescued and handed over to the forest department. Another crocodile that was about 4.5-feet long was rescued from Laxmi Vilas Palace compound near Lalbaug. The reptile was resting under a tree when a cattle grazer spotted it. Volunteers of Gujarat Society of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) rescued it and handed it over to the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-crocodiles-rescued-near-lalbaug/articleshow/78646574.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Amonkar’s literature works to be gifted to Central library in Goa||PANAJI: The Goa state central library’s Goa section is set to become a little more enriched with the donation of personal collections by three of Goa’s eminent personalities at its storehouse of knowledge. The entire literature collection owned by renowned writer Suresh Gundu Amonkar along with the manuscripts of his works are being donated to the library by the writer’s family on October 14. “They are gifting us a total of 1,818 titles owned by Amonkar. He had also written many books, manuscripts of which need to be preserved. Amonkar’s literature will be of great value to researchers because his thought processes have been translated into his works,” curator of the library, Carlos Fernandes told TOI. Amonkar who was a Padma Shri awardee, journalist, Konkani writer and educationist passed away at the age of 84 in December 2019 after a prolonged illness. He is well-known for publishing the Konkani translation of the 17th century Christian epic on the coming of Jesus Christ ‘Christ Purana’. Amonkar is also credited for the first translation of a Shakespeare play in Devanagiri Konkani. He had translated Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar in Konkani. The library is also going to receive 104 cartoon frames of tiatr artists created by Alexyz and 40 original manuscripts and songs written by Tomazinho Cardozo. “Cardozo wrote only for titar competitions and played an instrumental role in founding the tiatr academy of Goa. His works also hold great research value besides that of Alexyz especially since many young students are researching tiatr in Goa,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amonkars-literature-works-to-be-gifted-to-central-library/articleshow/78649985.cms||Nida Sayed
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||Two UP girls selected in women T-20 Challenge tournament to be held in UAE||KANPUR: Two UP girl cricketers have been selected in two teams in the women T-20 Challenge- 2020 tournament to be held in UAE from October 21 to November 11. Meghna Singh of Bijnor has been selected in Team Velocity and Muskan Malik, the prolific batswoman of the senior team has been selected for Supernovas. BCCI had announced three teams for the T-20 Challenge cup cricket tournament a couple of days ago. The three teams are Supernova, Trailblazers and Velocity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-up-girls-selected-in-women-t-20-challenge-tournament-to-be-held-in-uae/articleshow/78650569.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||BSP, Congress candidates file nomination papers||KANPUR: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Congress candidates filed their nomination papers on Tuesday for the Ghatampur assembly constituency byelection to be held next month. Congress candidate Kripa Shankar, a resident of Asha hospital Ghatampur, and BSP candidate Kuldeep Kumar, resident of village Pipri, post Amraudha, filed their nominations. Some independent candidates purchased one set of nomination papers on Tuesday. BSP candidate Kuldeep Shankhwar, accompanied by former health minister in the BSP government Anant Mishra alias Antu Mishra, was the first candidate who submitted his nomination papers in the morning before the returning officer. Later, Congress candidate Dr Kripa Shankar also filed his nomination papers. The candidates and their supporters complied with the Covid-19 protocol while filing their nomination papers. Only candidates and their two proposers were allowed to enter in the court of the returning officer. Samajwadi Party had already declared the name of Inderjit Kori as its party candidate, who would file his nomination papers in a day or two. BJP leadership has made Upendra Paswan as its party candidate. Upendra, who is a teacher in BNSD Inter College, is also regional president of SC Morcha of BJP, has been active in the party for a long time. In 2017, when BJP declared Kamal Rani Varun as the party candidate for the assembly election, Upendra was l one of the strong contenders for the ticket. The Ghatampur seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting MLA and former minister Kamal Rani Varun. Kamalrani Varun’s daughter too was a strong contender for the ticket as some the party workers were of the opinion that she would give a good fight by bagging sympathy votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bsp-cong-candidates-file-nomination-papers/articleshow/78650575.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t fear police cases: AICC secy to partymen||Hyderabad: AICC secretary in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore on Tuesday said the party rank and file should not get intimidated by police cases being booked against them. During his interaction with 68 activists against whom police cases were booked for staging a dharna in front of home minister’s residence, Tagore said: “You should feel proud that even if you go to jail it would be for the cause of the people.” He said Congress will not step back but only intensify its efforts to raise issues concerning the people. “All the police cases will be withdrawn once Congress comes to power.” TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that some of the government officials, especially some IPS officers, have turned into ‘Kalvakuntla police sainyam.’ He said Congress would play its role as a responsible opposition and would come back to power in next elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-fear-police-cases-aicc-secy-to-partymen/articleshow/78649977.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||DVAC seizes Rs 2.25 lakh from office of sub-registrar||COIMBATORE: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths on Tuesday seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 2.25 lakh from sub-registrar office in Mettupalayam. The DVAC began search at the office around 5pm on Monday based on a tip and completed it around 7am on Tuesday. A 10-member team led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) T H Ganesh conducted the surprise check. DVAC sleuths seized Rs 2.25 lakh unaccounted cash from sub-registrar Latha Rani, three office staff members and four document writers. They were booked under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) read with section 13 (criminal misconduct by a public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.  The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption officials said they would recommend the registration department officials to cancel the licence of four document writers. On inquiry, the four document writers told the police that they kept the amount to provide them to officials and office staff for completing the document registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dvac-seizes-rs-2-25l-from-office-of-sub-registrar/articleshow/78648755.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Lawyer shoots elderly parents dead during morning prayers||BAREILLY: A septuagenarian couple was allegedly shot dead by their son — a lawyer — over a property dispute in Bahroli village of Meerganj area in Bareilly district on Tuesday. Police said the accused first attacked his parents with an axe when they were offering morning prayers at their house, and then he shot them dead with a country-made pistol. Police booked the accused and launched a manhunt for him. According to police, after marrying off his four daughters, Lalta Prasad, 76, a retired schoolteacher, gave one house to his elder son Durgesh Kumar, 43, and another to his younger son Umesh, 38, while he used to live with his wife in a third house. Durgesh, the accused, was going through a financial crisis and was forcing his father to give him money to bailout him of the trouble, said police. Bareilly senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan, who also inspected the spot, said, “The couple was offering prayers when the accused — who lives nearby — arrived there and started thrashing them. His 72-year-old mother went to the washroom to shield herself, but Durgesh shot her dead, and then he shot his father dead in the prayer room. We have booked the accused for murder. He will be arrested soon.” Umesh, who lives in Meerganj, 6 km from his father's house, said, “Upon learning that my brother had attacked my parents, I rushed to see them at their house, but by the time I reached there my brother had killed them. My parents never harmed anyone in their life and were living peacefully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lawyer-shoots-elderly-parents-dead-while-offering-morning-prayers/articleshow/78644049.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Four arrested for selling fake gold biscuits||KANPUR: The police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a four-member gang involved in cheating people by selling fake gold biscuits here. All four hails from Gonda district. The police identified them as Kalim Ahmad, Taj Babu, Kewle and Shiv Kumar. The police recovered 13 fake gold biscuits, three mobile phones and cash from their possession. During questioning, they told the police they had cheated several people in the city’s crowded spots like Jhakarkati bus station, Kanpur Central, besides other public thoroughfares. Investigators said the four would roam around crowded spots and look for soft targets. “One among them make hue and cry that he has lost a gold biscuit and ask passersby to help him fetch it. As per the plan, other members of the gang, who pretend themselves to be part of the crowd, conduct frantic search and after recovering the lost gold biscuit returned it to their counterpart. After targeting curious person in the crowd, they would then approach him saying that if he/she is interested in purchasing the gold biscuit, they would give him/her on very reasonable rates,” said Inspector Babupurwa Janardan Pratap Singh. According to police, after negotiations, they would agree to sell the biscuits for anywhere between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 6,000. “Once they got the money, they would hand over the fake gold biscuit and vanish,” said the police further. The police were in search of the gang after receiving several complaints. SSP Dr Preetinder Singh had alerted the city police about the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-arrested-for-selling-fake-gold-biscuits/articleshow/78650582.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Amid protest to reopen market, trader tries to set self ablaze||GUNTUR: A trader tried to self-immolate when a group of traders protested demanding the reopening of PVK Naidu vegetable market on Monday. Police rushed to the spot and prevented the trader who poured petrol on himself from burning himself. The merchants continued their agitation till senior officials from the municipal corporation visited the spot and assured them to reopen the market. The plan to build a new market complex by bulldozing the old one has been on the cards for long but the civic body was hampered by the reluctance of the merchants to vacate. The problem started when the government asked GMC to evacuate the traders from the dilapidated PVK Naidu whole-sale vegetable market complex six months ago. After several rounds of discussions, officials made the merchants evacuate the place with an assurance to construct a new market. Subsequently, the government decided to sell the PVK Market site through Build AP scheme which was aimed at raising funds for implementation of schemes. However, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy directed officials to exempt the PVK Market site from the build AP auction list following the requests of local YSRC legislators Mohammed Mustafa, Maddali Giridhar and former MP Modugula Venugopala Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amid-protest-to-reopen-mkt-trader-tries-to-set-self-ablaze/articleshow/78627183.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Agra||4 killed, 6 injured in an illegal toy factory blast in Aligarh||AGRA: At least four persons were killed while six others were seriously injured when an LPG cylinder exploded in an illegal toy making factory in Aligarh’s Khatikan area on Tuesday evening. The impact of the blast was so severe that not only the house in which the illegal unit was being run came down, at least five neighbouring houses also suffered damages. Police said that the blast took place at 4pm in the house near Delhi Gate, where the illegal factory owned by one Surendra Singh was being run. Bhim Singh (35), Vicky (22), Manoj (35) and Abhishek (24) were killed on the spot. The six injured, Rahul, 18, Mona, 20, Kanti Devi, 50, Triloki Singh, 25, Mansi, 16 and Sanju, were taken to a hospital. Aligarh’s district magistrate CB Singh told TOI, “City magistrate will probe the incident. He has been asked to submit a report within 15 days. Action will be taken against all those responsible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-least-4-dead-six-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-explosion-in-an-illegal-toy-factory-in-aligarh/articleshow/78646107.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||5 arrested for murdering elderly woman for gold||Coimbatore: Five people, two of them women, were arrested on Tuesday for murdering an elderly woman at Kempatti Colony here on September 30 for gold ornaments. The mastermind behind the murder is still on the run. Police have recovered gold ornaments weighing 30 sovereigns that the accused had stolen from the deceased. An investigation officer identified the accused as Latha alias Latha Rani, 47, her younger sister Mala alias Revathi Rani, 43, of Kempatti Colony, Manoj alias Manojkumar and his friends Siva alias Selvam and Sathy alias Sathyaseelan, all residents of Peelamedu. The officer said Latha had befriended the victim, identified as Dhanalakshmi, 62, of Kempatti Colony, at a grocery shop, where the latter used to frequent. “Latha visited her house often and learned Dhanalakshmi was in possession of lots of gold ornaments and she was alone at home during the day time. Her younger brother Thilak and others then hatched the plan to rob the woman of her gold more than a month ago. Their first attempt, however, went in vain.” They murdered Dhanalakshmi on September 30, when her son Manikandan was away at work, and made away with the gold ornaments. Based on her son’s complaint, the Big Bazaar Street (crime) police registered a case. City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said, “They collected footages from CCTVs that were installed in the locality and found two people wearing helmets walking on the road. Our special team managed to trace and nab them, who confessed to the crime.” The duo named the other accused in the case during the interrogation. All the arrested were booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 380 (theft in dwelling house etc) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-arrested-for-murdering-elderly-woman-for-gold/articleshow/78648800.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Bizman from Kerala dupes investors of Rs 10 crore, arrested||COIMBATORE: The Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) sleuths have arrested a 38-year-old man from Kerala for duping several hundreds of investors of more than Rs10 crore through a ponzi scheme and seized a car from him. Police are on the lookout for the wife and three accomplices of the accused, who has purchased a new villa and a commercial complex in Thrissur in Kerala. Police identified the arrested as P S Sherin, of Peramangalam in Thrissur. He was engaged in gold and diamond business in Mumbai. He started a branch of his firm ‘Vinn Wealth International’ at a mall in the city and launched a ponzi scheme in 2019. An officer said, “He lured investors by offering to pay Rs 1,600 a week for 25 weeks and either a gold or diamond ornament for every investment of Rs 20,000. Several hundreds of people from Tamil Nadu and Kerala invested crores of rupees in the firm. He paid the amount to the investors in the initial few months and then stopped the same.” Meanwhile, A M Xavier, 50, of Gandhipuram, lodged a complaint with the EOW police in December last after he received only Rs 11,000 in return on his investment of Rs 1.50 lakh. Police registered a case against Sherin, his wife Ramya and his company staff Shynesh, Roy and Baijumon under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (in financial establishment) Act on December 31. Following this, Sherin went into hiding and police were not able to trace his whereabouts. On Monday, police got a tip that Sherin was heading to the district from Thrissur on a car and nabbed him at Walayar check post at night. He was later produced before the special court for TNPID Act cases and remanded in judicial custody. Police said Sherin had cheated more than 1,000 investors. They have received more than 100 complaints against Sherin so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bizman-from-kerala-dupes-investors-of-rs-10-crore-arrested/articleshow/78648777.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||Cop to be probed for getting massage in Jalaun||KANPUR: A probe has been ordered after the video of a police constable in Jalaun caught on camera getting a massage from an elderly chowkidar went viral on social networking sites. Chowkidar Gyan Singh was seen giving foot, head and shoulder massage to constable Niyaz Ahmad inside the Churkhi police station of the district. The video of constable Ahmad surfaced on Tuesday, in which he can be seen sitting comfortably on a chair conversing with his counterpart, who was preparing ‘khaini’ (a form of chewing tobacco, containing slaked lime), while an elderly chowkidar is seen pressing his shoulder. The video was posted online and has caused a stir on social networking sites, with many demanding strictest possible action against the police constable on duty. Taking cognizance of the video, SP Jalaun Yesh Veer Singh told reporters, “A probe has been ordered in this regard. An ASP rank officer has been handed the inquiry into the matter and was asked to submit report in two days.” Gyan Singh, on being questioned by the reporters over the issue said, “As I’m a very small employee, I will have to give massage to them (cops).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-to-be-probed-for-getting-massage/articleshow/78650584.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Over 7,500 applications cleared on Day 2 of DU admissions||NEW DELHI: On the second day of admissions under the first cut-off list at Delhi University, 7,640 applications were approved and 6,790 students paid the fees. There was a steady inflow of applications across DU colleges on Tuesday. Hindu College witnessed over 140 applicants with 100% in their best of four completing their admission process. The university had received 49,712 applications for around 70,000 total seats in 61 colleges. Wednesday is the last day of admissions under the list. The fees will have to be paid by Friday. “It was a glitch-free day. We did not face any technical issues unlike the first day of admissions. Many of our teachers have now got the hang of the admission procedure and the system,” said Venkat Kumar, principal of Sri Venkateswara College. Anju Srivastava, principal of Hindu College, said, “the situation improved a lot today and even DU clarified on the OBC and EWS certificate issue, which had been creating confusion.” She informed that by evening, the college had witnessed over 280 applicants who completed the entire admission process, including fee payment. Lady Shri Ram College for Women, which had pegged their cutoff at 100% for three subjects, saw many candidates applying for these subjects. “We are getting a lot of applications even for courses with 100%, but we have to scan those applications as some who are not eligible have also applied. I can assure that there will be a second list, even though it will see a marginal drop,” said the college principal, Suman Sharma. At Hansraj College, there were 103 admissions in science courses and 225 admissions in the arts and commerce courses. Principal Rama Sharma said, “Compared with previous years, admissions in the first list have been very good this time.” Ramanujan College, which had kept the cutoff for mathematics (H) at 94%, has overadmitted students. “We have 58 seats for the course and I have already approved 150 applications for the subject. I think there are more such applications pending,” said principal SP Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-7500-applications-cleared-on-day-2-of-du-admissions/articleshow/78648844.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: No Ravan Dahan in popular Dussehra fairs this year||DEHRADUN: In the wake of Covid-19, the committees that organise Dussehra fairs in the capital city have decided to refrain from burning the effigy of demon king Ravan as it attracts a large crowd. Shree Ramlila Kala Samiti, which has been organising Dussehra fair in Jhanda Mohalla for 151 years now, has also decided to abstain from ‘Ravan Dahan’ and just conduct a recitation of the Sunderkand (one of the seven sections of epic Ramayan). The Dussehra fair at Parade Ground, organised every year since 1948, will also not conduct 'Ravan Dahan' due to the pandemic. Harish Virmani, president of Bannu community which organises Dussehra fair at city’s Parade Ground, told TOI that the reason behind not conducting ‘Ravan Dahan’ this year is Covid-19 threat and also the death of the patron of the community. “My father LD Virmani died on June 12, this year. He was the founder of our Bannu community and had been organising the fair for the last 72 years,” said Harish Virmani. He added that over a lakh people gather at Parade Ground every year to witness ‘Ravan Dahan’ and such large gatherings are not permitted in times of a pandemic. “But as the administration has allowed small-scale events just two days back, we are planning to organise some symbolic celebrations so that the tradition continues,” Virmani further said. Manmohan Jaiswal, media coordinator of the 151-year-old Shri Ramlila Kala Samiti, also confirmed that there will be no ‘Ramlila’ or ‘Ravan Dahan’ but organisers are mulling to hold a ‘Ram Baaraat’. “We have called for a meeting on Thursday and the decision of holding Ram Baaraat will be taken after discussion with all the office bearers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-ravan-dahan-in-popular-dussehra-fairs-this-year/articleshow/78646141.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 14, 2020||Surat||Tribals to dish out delicacies at Vyara restaurant||Surat: Thee ‘Van Shree Restaurant’ was inaugurated by the Vyara Forest Division at Panvadi area at Vyara town of Tapi district where people can get a taste of the tribal foods and will provide employment to local tribals. The restaurant was inaugurated by the Tapi District Development Officer, Neha Singh, in the presence of deputy conservator of forests (Vyara division) Anand Kumar.“The restaurant will be run by around 20 women of Self Help Group (SHG) and people can enjoy local food recipes such as Nagli Dosa or Nagli Idli among others. This falls into the tourists route of Dangs and tourists can enjoy the local delicacies,’‘ said a forest official.“Recently, we have a tribal mall at the same place where local bamboo products, handicrafts, local grains and cereals and ayurvedic medicines are sold. Tribal mall is a great success especially after Covid-19 as people rush to purchase Ayurvedic products. On an average, each of the three shops at the tribal mall sells products worth Rs 5000 daily,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tribals-to-dish-out-delicacies-at-vyara-restaurant/articleshow/78646163.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||BMC eyes joggers now, but masks not good for 5km run||MUMBAI: Morning walkers will be targeted as a part of the civic corporation’s drive to penalize citizens who fail to wear a mask despite the Covid-19 pandemic. Masks have been equated, in efficacy, with vaccines in their ability to prevent Covid-19, but medical experts say masks are not advisable while running distances of 5km or more. The BMC took the decision to fine runners on Tuesday by roping in the police, traffic police, corporators and ward officials in its stepped-up its Covid drive. A civic official said stated it’s understandable if a person jogs without a mask but many fail to mask up even after their workout. ``There are some people who use jogging as an excuse to not wear a mask,’’ said another official. Masks have emerged as a contentious issue as Covid-19 cases shot up after the Ganpati festival ended. Many doctors said the spread has increased because Mumbaikars have been failing to use a mask or maintain social distance. BMC commissioner I S Chahal issued the new directive during a virtual meeting on Tuesday with senior BMC officials and police officials. The correlation between running and wearing a mask is tough. A senior doctor said it’s not advisable to wear a mask while running in the October heat in Mumbai. Senior medical consultant Dr Pratit Samdhani said the answer depends on how many kilometres one is running and the type of mask being used. Also, Dr Samdhani said that runners tend to be younger and the main drivers of the infection. ``It makes sense to ask runners to use a mask, but it would be hazardous to run 5km with a mask, especially if one is not accustomed to it,’’ he said. Also, wearing a surgical mask is better than a N95 mask. ``Climbing a flight of stairs while wearing an N95 mask can leave one breathless,’’ added Dr Samdhani. An official said people fail to use a mask even while at the markets or crowded places. ``The civic staff should be told to focus on them instead of joggers. Joggers should follow social distancing rule and wear the mask when not jogging,” he added. The BMC, as a part of its ‘No mask, no entry’ campaign, distributed 20 lakh stickers across the city. Around 60 lakh pamphlets of ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ theme asking people to maintain hygiene was also distributed. The BMC has so far penalized 40,000 people for not wearing mask and collected over Rs 1 crore in penalty from them. ADD MATTER: Using a mask can make it difficult for the runner to catch his/her breath. Runners can get fatigued faster while wearing a mask and may have to reduce his/her speed. However, doctors said that one can adapt to masking by improving their fitness levels. In a blog on world renowned Cleveland Clinic’s site, sports medicine specialist Caitlin Lewis wrote, “A face mask is going to decrease your airflow, making it a little harder to breathe.” It won’t decrease your oxygen or retain carbon dioxide. ``But it will probably impact your performance or pace,” she wrote. Chief of infectious diseases Dr Faheem Younus from University of Maryland who has a fan following for Covid advice is concerned said, tweeted that one doesn’t need to wear a mask while ``running, exercising. biking (sweat may increase growth of microorganisms), but keep 6ft distance’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-eyes-joggers-now-but-masks-not-good-for-5km-run/articleshow/78648102.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||UPMRC erects 106 double T-girders||KANPUR: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (UPMRC) has achieved a new milestone by erecting 106 double T-girders in just about 2.5 months. UPMRC engineers are working hard to complete the civil construction work of the 9 kilometre long Priority Corridor, which is being built between IIT, Kanpur & Motijheel, in time. The Corridor comprises of nine Metro stations and a total of 384 double T-girders are to be used for constructing the concourse levels of these stations. The erection of double T-girders for preparing the concourse level of the Metro stations had commenced on July 25 and that was the first time in India when double T-girders were used for constructing concourse level of a Metro station. Erection of all the 50 double T-girders at the IIT Metro station has been accomplished. Also double T-girders are being erected daily at Kalyanpur and SPM Metro stations. Another 36 double T-girders have been placed at Kalyanpur Metro station and 20 at the SPM Metro station, while 52 double T-girders are to be erected for constructing base for the concourse of each above mentioned Metro stations, informed public relations department of UPMRC. After erecting double T-girders on one side of the Kalyanpur Metro station, the teams of UPMRC engineers have started the erection of double T-girders at the SPM Metro station. Different teams of contractors execute different jobs at the construction sites. UPMRC engineers are planning the civil construction in such a way, that at a given time no team of the contractor has to sit idle and wait for their turn to execute their specific responsibility. On the completion of erection of more than 100 double T-girders, UP Metro’s MD Kumar Keshav praised the strategy being put into implementation and said, “Utilizing the time in appropriate manner is the most important part of our strateg.” He added, “I am happy that we have maintained our rhythm and speed since inception and definitely we will complete the work of the Priority Corridor between IIT and Motijheel on time. We are committed to provide a world class Metro system to the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/upmrc-erects-106-double-t-girders/articleshow/78650591.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||BJP proposes, admin opposes: 50% rebate in tax, water bill remain elusive||Nagpur: After former municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, even current civic chief Radhakrishnan B appears to be defying directives of ruling party BJP to give rebate of 50% in property tax and water bills. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Tuesday held a meeting and again directed the water works department to table the proposal for rebate in water bills as well as exemption from levying penalty for late payment.TOI had reported on August 3 BJP was raising a hue and cry over power bills but not giving rebate in property tax and water bills in NMC, and also remained silent on disconnection of water supply.Mayor Sandip Joshi had on August 13 held a meeting with all party leaders and decided to give 50% rebate in property tax, water bills and exemption from penalty on late payment. He directed the then municipal commissioner Mundhe to submit a proposal to the general body.Mundhe had said demand notes for current fiscal had been already issued. He also said only state government could give such relaxation, and not NMC. He did not table a proposal before general body, saying NMC’s financial crisis would further deteriorate. He was transferred on August 26.On Tuesday, Zalke, also chairman of water works consultative committee, held a review meeting with officials of water works department and private operator OCW. He told TOI, “Directives have been given to table the proposal for exemption in penalty on late payment of water bills, and rebate on water bills.”Asked about similar proposals for property tax, Joshi said, “Mundhe did not agree. I spoke to Radhakrishnan when he joined. He had asked for a month to study financial situation of NMC and take decision. He is yet to table any proposal. Unfortunately, we are unable to hold general body meeting as it is not possible online, so we cannot pass a resolution.”Radhakrishnan assumed charge on August 28 and completed 44 days on Tuesday. “Any proposal, if required, will be appropriately analysed and submitted as per need,” the civic chief said.The rebate and penalty exemption on property tax and water bills was meant to be a relief to people from effects of lockdowns.Zalke also said on Tuesday, “NMC will give independent connection to each residential tower in a housing society. Disputes are arising among flat owners due to single connection to entire society, even delaying payment to NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-proposes-admin-opposes-50-rebate-in-tax-water-bill-remain-elusive/articleshow/78648848.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly:9-year-old Class V student raped by her 14-year-old neighbour||BAREILLY: A nine-year-old Class V student was allegedly raped by her 14-year-old neighbour when she had gone to his house to watch a movie on his laptop in Majhola area of Moradabad district on Monday. The girl returned home crying and told her mother about the sexual assault. Her parents rushed her to a hospital, and then they lodged a complaint at Majhola police station. In his complaint, the girl’s father stated that his daughter was playing outside their house when the accused offered her to watch a cartoon movie on his laptop. “After some time, my daughter returned home crying with pain, and then we came to know that she was sexually assaulted by the accused," said the father. The minor accused was detained, said police, adding that the girl completed the medico-legal process on Tuesday and now she would record her statement in the presence of a magistrate soon. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Kuldeep Singh, meanwhile, met her family and promised strict action against the accused. “The medical examination of the girl confirms a sexual assault on her. The accused is also a minor, and thus, he will be sent to a juvenile home. The condition of the girl is stable. She was discharged from the hospital,” said the ASP. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/9-year-old-class-v-student-raped-by-her-14-year-old-neighbour/articleshow/78644111.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Work on to unearth Keeladi brick structure||SIVAGANGA: Although the curtains came down officially on the sixth phase of excavation at Keeladi in Sivaganga district on September 30, archaeologists at the site are working around the clock to unearth the entire brick structure discovered recently. The sixth phase was inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on on February 19. As archaeologists of the Tamil Nadu State Archaeology Department stumbled upon the brick structure, which they believe is an extension of the brick structure found by ASI in the second phase, they are continuing work for a few more days. According to sources, the documentation of the sixth phase is currently underway as the brick structure has many interesting facets. Archaeologists are trying to ascertain if the entire structure lies buried below. Sources said they would continue work for a few more days at the site. A new quadrant is being opened up adjacent to the brick structure as they think that it may be a continuation. Meanwhile, PMK leader Dr S Ramdoss has been demanding to know why the Tamil State Archaeological Department is delaying in publishing the findings of the fifth phase. In a statement, he has said, “Though there was literary evidence which spoke of the ancientness of Tamil culture, which is believed to be one of the oldest civilisations in the world, we did not have proper archaeological evidence till Keeladi was excavated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/work-on-to-unearth-keeladi-brick-structure/articleshow/78649987.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||‘We conduct surprise checks on quality of tea leaves supplied’||UDHAGAMANDALAM: In the wake of ongoing stand-off between small tea farmers and bought leaf factories (BLFs), executive director of Tea Board of India (south) M Balaji said the board has introduced mechanization for tea harvesting considering the rise in labour cost and shortfall in labour. The board suggested supply of quality leaves to the factories and plucking should be such that quality cannot be compromised by any means, he told TOI. The board conducts surprise checks of tea leaves supplied to BLFs periodically. In the past two months, the board carried out surprise inspections in about 119 BLFs in the Nilgiris wherein several deviations, including in quality, were found in as many as 109 factories, he said adding that they were issued show-cause notices. The board also conducts regular awareness programmes by our development officers at the fields on plucking of quality tea leaves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/we-conduct-surprise-checks-on-quality-of-tea-leaves-supplied/articleshow/78648846.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 20 Covid-19 deaths for second time||DEHRADUN: For the second time since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, Uttarakhand recorded 20 deaths in a day due to the virus. With this, the toll of the virus shot up to 782 in the state on Tuesday. In the last 13 days, the state has recorded 157 deaths of Covid-19 patients. Among the 20 deaths on the day, 18 were reported from Dehradun alone. According to the health department data, Dehradun accounts for over 50% of the total deaths due to Covid-19 in the state. “Nainital has also recorded 129 Covid-19 deaths so far, followed by 108 from Haridwar, and 75 from Udham Singh Nagar. The nine hill districts of the state have collectively reported 60 deaths,” said Abhishek tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 300 for the second consecutive day. On Tuesday, the state recorded 294 new infections, taking the Covid-19 case tally of the state to 55,641. Those infected include Munni Devi Shah, MLA from Tharali. In a tweet, Shah stated that her antigen report has come out positive and urged all those who have come in her contact in the last four days to get themselves tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-20-covid-19-deaths-for-second-time/articleshow/78646153.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Pocso case victims updated on bail proceedings: DGP to Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Maharashtra director-general of police on Tuesday informed Bombay high court that legal provisions exist to provide updates on bail proceedings in Pocso matters to victims, and that on October 6 a circular was issued to sensitize all units on proper implementation. The circular issued by special inspector-general of police Suhas Warke to police commissioners and superintendents of police said the complainant must be informed of court proceedings and schedules, arrests and applications for bail and parole. The DG’s office, in its affidavit, submitted by public prosecutor Deepak Thakre, opposed admission of a PIL by activist Arjun Malge to allow for child victims to be informed of developments and to be permitted legal representation to oppose bail pleas by an accused. The PIL sought court’s intervention to ensure “strict implementation” of Pocso provisions along with section 439(1A) of criminal procedure code (CrPC) that provides for presence of informant or her representative during bail hearings in rape cases. Malge’s counsel Somashekhar Sundaresan said on October 1 HC had raised a valid point of debate on inter-linking of salutary provision of section 439 of CrPC with Pocso cases. A March 2020 notification by ministry of women and child development framed rules under Pocso which make it local police’s responsibility to keep the child or her parents and guardians updated of developments connected with the case, including arrest, bail pleas and other court proceedings. The rules also provide for appointment of a ‘support person’ who has to be kept in the loop so that she or he can relay information to the child’s family. The HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni posted the matter after a week for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pocso-case-victims-updated-on-bail-proceedings-dgp-to-hc/articleshow/78648078.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kanpur||JJB to hear Amar widow’s case on October 20||KANPUR: The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) has fixed October 20 as the next date of hearing with regard to defence battery plea to try the minor widow of Amar Dubey, slain aide of gangster Vikas Dubey, as a child rather than an adult. The defence also pleaded JJB to set up of a special medical panel of psychologists to examine the juvenile’s mental status. The minor widow of Amar on Tuesday was brought to Juvenile Justice Board in Kanpur Dehat from Juvenile Home in Barabanki amid tight security. The minor, who was behind bars for over a month, was allegedly married to Amar, just three days before the Bikru bloodbath, which claimed lives of eight policemen, including a deputy SP rank official on July 2 & 3 night. The minor was, however, booked under stringent IPC sections, including murder and criminal conspiracy and sent to jail. Later, she was declared juvenile by the board, which further instructed authorities to shift her to Juvenile Home in Barabanki from district jail. Defence lawyer Shivakant Dikshit told TOI, “The plea moved on Tuesday in JJB was to try minor as a child rather than an adult, besides it also sought setting up of a special medical panel of psychologists to examine the juvenile’s mental status. The JJB with regard to our plea has fixed October 20 as the next date of hearing.” Amar was shot by police in an encounter in Hamirpur, days before Vikas surrendered in Mahakal temple, Ujjain. Later, on July 10, Vikas too was gunned down in an encounter with police while being taken to Kanpur from Ujjain. Prior to their encounter, four other of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters, while more than 44 other accused have been identified. Out of which 36 were arrested and sent to jail, two others are still absconding and police are zeroing in on them to make their arrest possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jjb-to-hear-amar-widows-case-on-oct-20/articleshow/78650600.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 14, 2020||Delhi||10k tonnes of C&D waste used for highways in 6 months: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has utilised around 10,000 tonnes of recycled construction and demolition waste generated in Delhi for building highways in the past six months, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. “We had set the target of procuring and utilising nearly 40,000 metric tonnes of processed construction and demolition (C&D) materials in highways projects for the 2020-21 financial year considering the ongoing works in Delhi and its surrounding areas,” the minister tweeted adding the use of such materials will prove to be an important step for conservation of environment in the national capital. An NHAI official said they are confident of using more of these materials in the remaining months of the current financial year. “The ustilisation would be more when we start the construction of Urban Extension Road-II in Delhi. There is a focus to recycle and reuse the material, which is good for environment,” the official said. Recently, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had asked the Delhi government to pay special attention to C&D waste and garbage being dumped in the open. Proper utilisation of such waste after recycling will reduce the environmental concerns in the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10k-tonnes-of-cd-waste-used-for-highways-in-6-mths-gadkari/articleshow/78648856.cms||---
October 14, 2020||---||BJP talks about terrorism and China in Bihar polls||PATNA: BJP on Tuesday made Kashmir, terrorism and China as Bihar election issues. Addressing a public meeting in Mahnar assembly segment of Vaishali district, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said ‘Kashmiri terrorists will take shelter in Bihar’ if RJD came to power. He said the NDA government would never allow this to happen. “If RJD forms government in Bihar, Kashmiri terrorists, whom we are trying to wipe out, will take shelter here. PM Narendra Modi will never allow that to happen. And fulfilling the responsibility given to me by PM Modi and Union home minister (Amit Shah), I will also never let them come here. But they will have intentions to somehow strike some deal with people greedy of power in Bihar,” Rai said.  “We fight with swords and our armed forces fight with weapons as well to protect the country. And most recently, our armed forces made their hands as their weapons to defeat China,” Rai said. The former state BJP chief said the country can also fight neighbouring country (Pakistan) using Rafale fighter jets and the strength for the same comes from the people. He also mentioned that Article 370 has been scrapped for the betterment of Kashmir. This is not the first time that BJP has raked up terrorism to corner RJD during Bihar elections. It’s firebrand Hindutva leader and Begusarai MP Giriraj Singh had said during the byelection to Muslim-dominated Araria parliamentary seat in March, 2018 that RJD win would make Araria the hub of terrorism. Nityanand was also booked for violating the model code of conduct through an allegedly provocative speech that if the RJD candidate won, Araria would ‘become a hub of Islamic State’. RJD has accused the BJP of ‘insulting’ the people of Bihar by making such ‘hate speeches’. “Nityanand ji is a Union minister and it seems he wants a civil war by making hate speeches like this. It is a fact that people of Bihar voted RJD to become the single largest party in the last assembly election. If people voted us to power last time, then going by Nityanand’s speech, all such people were terrorists. It is an insult to Bihari people and he and BJP should apologize for it,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjai Tiwari said. Watch Bihar polls 2020: Kashmiri terrorists will take shelter in Bihar if RJD comes to power, says Union minister Nityanand Rai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-talks-about-terrorism-and-china-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/78647309.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 14, 2020||Patna||BJP talks about terrorism and China in Bihar polls||PATNA: BJP on Tuesday made Kashmir, terrorism and China as Bihar election issues. Addressing a public meeting in Mahnar assembly segment of Vaishali district, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said ‘Kashmiri terrorists will take shelter in Bihar’ if RJD came to power. He said the NDA government would never allow this to happen. “If RJD forms government in Bihar, Kashmiri terrorists, whom we are trying to wipe out, will take shelter here. PM Narendra Modi will never allow that to happen. And fulfilling the responsibility given to me by PM Modi and Union home minister (Amit Shah), I will also never let them come here. But they will have intentions to somehow strike some deal with people greedy of power in Bihar,” Rai said.  “We fight with swords and our armed forces fight with weapons as well to protect the country. And most recently, our armed forces made their hands as their weapons to defeat China,” Rai said. The former state BJP chief said the country can also fight neighbouring country (Pakistan) using Rafale fighter jets and the strength for the same comes from the people. He also mentioned that Article 370 has been scrapped for the betterment of Kashmir. This is not the first time that BJP has raked up terrorism to corner RJD during Bihar elections. It’s firebrand Hindutva leader and Begusarai MP Giriraj Singh had said during the byelection to Muslim-dominated Araria parliamentary seat in March, 2018 that RJD win would make Araria the hub of terrorism. Nityanand was also booked for violating the model code of conduct through an allegedly provocative speech that if the RJD candidate won, Araria would ‘become a hub of Islamic State’. RJD has accused the BJP of ‘insulting’ the people of Bihar by making such ‘hate speeches’. “Nityanand ji is a Union minister and it seems he wants a civil war by making hate speeches like this. It is a fact that people of Bihar voted RJD to become the single largest party in the last assembly election. If people voted us to power last time, then going by Nityanand’s speech, all such people were terrorists. It is an insult to Bihari people and he and BJP should apologize for it,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjai Tiwari said. Watch Bihar polls 2020: Kashmiri terrorists will take shelter in Bihar if RJD comes to power, says Union minister Nityanand Rai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-talks-about-terrorism-and-china-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/78659695.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 14, 2020||Goa||‘Organic farming sector needs organisation’||Panaji: Organic farmers must be able to sell directly to the buyer without the involvement of middle man, said panelists speaking at a webinar of the pre-Earth summit on Tuesday. “Organising organic farmers markets is one of the ways to bridge this gap. This way, a relationship is built between the buyer and seller, besides allowing the buyer to understand where their food comes from and whether or not it’s really organically grown,” said organic farmer, Darryl D’Souza. Green crusader Irfhan Shaikh said that efforts must be made to connect all the organic farmers in Goa and give them a market. “If every village in Goa can dedicate one or two spaces to organic farmers for a few hours every week, it can go a long way,” he said, adding that he is trying to promote the produce of such small farmers so that their produce is marketed properly. Merwin Fernandes, another organic farmer, said that sale of authentic organic produce comes with an expensive price tag at stores. By connecting the farmers to buyers, the prices can be reasonable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/organic-farming-sector-needs-organisation/articleshow/78650049.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vadodara||Unidentified woman’s remains found||Vadodara: Remains of an unidentified person was found from a ravine in Karali village in Chhota Udepur. The post-mortem conducted at SSG Hospital on Monday revealed that the body was of a woman aged around 50 years. Police said that the body was found in the ravines by a cattle grazer on Sunday. The cattle grazer informed this to the sarpanch of the village, who called the police. “The remains were such that it was not possible to ascertain whether it was a man’s or a woman’s body. The preliminary report of the post-mortem revealed that it was a woman,” said a police official. “We have registered a case of accidental death and are awaiting the detailed report of the post-mortem,” the cop said. Meanwhile, police are investigating if a woman in the area or other parts of the district had gone missing lately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/unidentified-womans-remains-found/articleshow/78646753.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court takes note of charges against Tahir Hussain in two cases||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has taken cognisance of rioting, criminal conspiracy charges against ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and others in two cases related to northeast Delhi riots. Chief metropolitan magistrate Purshotam Pathak, however, did not take cognisance of offences under Sections 505 (statements conducing public mischief) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and some offences under the Arms Act, on the ground that sanction to prosecute these offences hadn’t been obtained by the investigation agency from the competent authority. According to the investigating officer, a letter seeking sanction was sent to the competent authority but it was not clear as to how much time it would take for obtaining sanction. “In this scenario when there is no time frame for obtaining sanction and any delay in proceeding further in the matter will unnecessarily defeat the purpose for which the special courts for trial of riot cases have been created, I deem it fit to take cognisance of all the offences as discussed herein above except for offences under Sections 505 and 153A and Arms Act,” the court noted. Cognisance was taken against 16 accused persons in one case whereas eight accused persons in the other. Hussain is accused in both cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-takes-note-of-charges-against-tahir-in-two-cases/articleshow/78648888.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||NU students seek refund of exam fees worth crores||Nagpur: Nagpur University students and senate members have sought refund of exam fee for Summer 2020. The students had paid fee ranging between Rs200 to Rs2000 in January while many had also paid late and super late fees up to Rs4,000 by Feb-March this year.As the regular exams were never conducted due to Covid-19 outbreak, they feel the university didn’t have to pay for invigilation, answersbooks, exam centre, photocopying of question mark and other facilities needed in offline mode.Interestingly, the NU won’t even need to pay for valuation works as it is holding MCQ on a software, they said. They pointed out that the software ‘RTMNU Pariskha’ is claimed to have been developed and made available by private agency Promarc “free of cost”. “The university may deduct clerkage and some more amount but it must either refund or adjust the money in the next exam,” they said.NU exam director of examinations Prafulla Sabale ruled out refund of exam fee. “Pre and post exam work had been going on. Paper setting was done, college got renumerated for ex-students’ exam, 70% of answerbook and question papers were printed, so money was utilized to a large extent,” he said.Sabale said the university is not commercial entity. “Students fee is spent on students only. We charge Rs275 for science and Rs230 for arts though university spends much more,” he said.Senate members Manmohan Bajpai and Sarita Nimbarte said the Graduates constituency is of the view is that 50% fee must be refunded. “No offline exam has been held. Printing was not done. We had raised the issue during last senate meeting,” said Bajpai.FeeArts--- Rs230Science – Rs 275Engineering Rs – 2000Late fee – Rs100 to Rs10,000 or moreExpensesExam centre is paid per examineeInvigilator gets paid on hourly basisPeon is paid for serving drinking waterAnswerbook and question printingQuestion paper settingEvaluation of answer books||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-students-seek-refund-of-exam-fees-worth-crores/articleshow/78648853.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: PTR, forest dept officials trained in forensic techniques||PILIBHIT: In a first, officials of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) and the forest and wildlife division were imparted training on forensic techniques and wildlife crime prevention strategies by Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) experts at a four-day session that ended on Tuesday. H Rajamohan, PTR field director, said the training will aid in making watertight cases against criminals based on scientific analysis and collection of evidence from crime spots. PC Pandey, regional head of WTI, said, “Forensic plays a pivotal role in scientifically identifying and collecting the evidence at ground zero. This is the prime work upon which depends the success of the conviction rate as well as the rejection of criminal’s bail." Prashant Kumar, forensic expert, said, “It is imperative to first seal the spot of wildlife crime to protect the ground evidence from spoilage. The forest personnel need to search for clues of criminals which might be tested for DNA such as spitted tobacco juice, cigarette butts or any object which has fingerprints and any piece of poisoned flesh. Preservation of evidence is another salient process.” Monesh Singh Tomar, expert in crime prevention strategies, said the field forest teams are essentially required to have detailed knowledge about types of wildlife crimes.They can prevent a crime by knowing about the kind of snares and traps set by poachers and possible spots where they are set up so that these can be removed in time. “Normally, poachers set up snares and traps in the fringe area of core forest or in adjoining agricultural fields to keep out of the forest department's radar. The bike’s clutch wire, which is quite cheap, is used for making snares but there is no offence if anyone is seen carrying it near the core forest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-forest-dept-officials-trained-in-forensic-techniques/articleshow/78644159.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Police help two e-fraud victims get Rs 6 lakh refund||NAVI MUMBAI: Vashi and Rabale police helped two persons get back more than Rs 6 lakh that they lost to e-fraudsters, who posed as representatives of digital wallet platforms. Belapur resident Mahesh Pawar (35), a medical representative, was told to open a link sent to him by text message, and revealed his OTP, resulting in Rs 1.4 lakh getting debited. Airoli resident Varunraj Prabhakar (35) was told to download an app for KYC update of his wallet, which enabled remote access of his mobile to the e-fraudster, who got his OTP and nearly Rs 5 lakh was debited. PSI Nilesh Pol of Vashi police said Pawar was at his Vashi office on October 12 around 3pm when the fraudster claimed he was calling to update his KYC. As Pawar lodged a complaint immediately police contacted the nodal office of of the wallet and bank officials, and helped him get a refund of more than Rs 1 lakh. Inspector Giridhar Gore of Rabale police said Prabhakar was told to download a QS support app by sending a link. It gave the fraudster remote access to his mobile. He shared an OTP and nearly Rs 5 lakh was debited on September 22. He lodged a complaint after three days. The bank and wallet officials enabled a total refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cops-help-2-get-refund-after-scam/articleshow/78648085.cms||George Mendonca
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Holes yet to be plugged, commuters face double trouble on Delhi's roads||NEW DELHI: On October 17 last year, Delhi government announced that all potholes on roads managed by PWD would be filled in by the following day. A year later, the electoral promise of world-class roads, at par with those in European and American cities, remains unfulfilled. PWD’s internal survey has noted at least 1,205 potholed stretches across the city, many of them affecting traffic movement as well as posing a threat to commuters’ safety. A PWD official admitted receiving more than 950 complaints about potholes and poor road infrastructure this year. In the first 10 days of October itself, around 257 people filed complaints related to road conditions. With PWD claiming to have filled at least 400 potholes between September and October 8, TOI ventured out to assess the roads. Contrary to expectations, the Munirka flyover was discovered in a bad shape, most of its carpeting having eroded. Commuters have complained about the derelict condition of the flyover for more than a year now. In the recent past, PWD had claimed the repair of the flyover was on its agenda, but nothing seems to have changed on the ground. The Akshardham flyover too is in need of repairs, its surface now pockmarked with bald spots. Outer Ring Road near IIT-Delhi hostels, Mathura Road near the Sundar Nagar nursery and Lodhi Road were similarly riddled with potholes. In west Delhi, Najafgarh and Janakpuri had numerous road sections needing some attention, while the road behind Epicuria mall at Nehru Place in south Delhi has been in a bad state for many months. The potholes plus the heavy encroachments on the road approaching Shahdara from Laxmi Nagar make it unsafe for two-wheelers. “Forget the potholes, even when an agency carries out repairs, it leaves the debris behind,” complained Kapil Bhatia, who uses the road every day. A PWD official pleaded that the construction ban to check pollution and the Covid lockdown hampered the revamp work. “Road repairs are an ongoing process. Roads are inspected every day, and we fill up the potholes that we spot,” he said. “This year, road maintenance works were scheduled to be completed by April, but the work was affected by the lockdown.” Another official disclosed, “We have hired GPS-tagged road inspection vehicles. These carry a mason and bitumen, cement, water and other construction materials. The mason inspects the roads and fills up the potholes on the spot.” Others claimed tenders had been issued and some work had been taken up to recarpet and redevelop some roads. To reduce dust pollution as winter sets in, Delhi government recently directed PWD engineers to repair all potholes by October 15. After that, water sprinkling and planting of shrubs and plants is expected to curb dust on pucca roads, while kaccha roads will be patched up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/holes-yet-to-be-plugged-commuters-face-double-trouble-on-delhis-roads/articleshow/78648915.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Director of Tribal Research Centre dies||Udhagamandalam: Subramaniam, director of the Tribal Research Centre (TRC), Ooty, died at ESI Hospital in Coimbatore on Monday evening after battling with Covid-19 for ten days and cured of the infection. He was 45. He recovered and tested negative for the virus. However, he died at the hospital on Monday. He had been serving as the director of the TRC, falling under the department of tribal welfare, Government of Tamil Nadu, in Ooty for the past four years. He is survived by his wife and two sons. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/director-of-tribal-research-centre-dies/articleshow/78648913.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Pvt hosps must provide ambulance to their patients: Health panel||Kolkata: Private hospitals will be responsible for transporting patients to their facilities for treatment, a West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) directive issued on Monday stated. It also capped the ambulance charge at Rs 3,000 within Kolkata and suburbs. The state health panel stated that private hospitals “would be responsible for transportation of the patients and, depending on the need of the patient, the hospital would provide adequate transportation service, including critical care ambulance”. While hospitals are allowed to charge patients for this transportation, they are expected to provide patients free ambulances — “as a goodwill gesture” — to return home after their discharge. Private ambulance providers are allowed to charge Rs 300 per hour for oxygen, Rs 500 per trip for PPE and Rs 500 per hour if the patient requires ventilation or critical care. The operators can also charge Rs 300 for sanitization. The rate per kilometre has been fixed at Rs 20 for non-AC ambulances and Rs 25 for the air-conditioned ones. The number of ambulances owned and operated by private hospitals across the city ranges between three and five each. Most have tie ups with private operators, who usually charged between Rs 15 and 30 per kilometre. The ones owned by private hospitals are mostly critical-care ambulances that charged between Rs 1,250 and 1,500 within a 5km radius to ferry patients. Charges for oxygen and doctors, if required, were extra.“We have both in-house and outsourced ambulance services. Our charges have always been nominal, and are well within the guidelines set by the WBCERC. We have ensured that our services and the outsourced services comply with the order,” said R Venkatesh, zonal director (east), Narayana Health.The state government provides free ambulances and any patient, even if they head to a private hospital, can avail of the service by dialling 102. Most complaints of fleecing, however, come from private ones. “Such vigilance and regulation on private ambulances during this pandemic was absolutely required,” said Amitava Basu, secretary St John’s Ambulance. The apex court on September 11 had said, “We are of the view that all states should fix a reasonable charge for ambulances and monitor that no excess amount is taken by the ambulance providers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-must-provide-ambulance-to-their-patients-health-panel/articleshow/78650052.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Big dip in positivity rate in 3 central dists||TRICHY: The positivity rate of seven out of eight districts in central Tamil Nadu, except Nagapattinam , has come down. The drop has been especially significant in three districts-Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Perambalur. From October 4 to 10, the region recorded 4,295 cases out of 81,772 samples tested in the eight districts. The positivity rate of the seven districts has dipped compared to the period between September 28 and October 4. Perambalur district recorded its lowest positivity rate of 2.7 with the average testing of around 300 samples. The rate was 4.5 in the previous week. A senior public health official in the district said that they have stuck to their existing strategy of testing around 300 to 400 samples daily. Yet, the number of positive cases has come down. It may be pointed out that the positivity rate of Perambalur had stood at 13 in the months of June and July. The positivity rate subsequently came down with number of positive cases dropping. The positivity rates of Ariyalur and Pudukottai too witnessed a drop from 6.2 to 3.6 and 3.4 from 4.5 respectively. The trend was similar in most of the central districts, like Trichy which found its positivity rate at 4.1 in the latest report. The rate was 4.5 earlier. Contradictory to the trend, the positivity rate of Nagappattinam district alone went up from 5.9 last week to 7.5 this week. The rate went up though there was not much difference in the number of tests conducted. In the previous week, 323 patients tested positive of the 5,503 tests conducted. As many as 5,466 tests were conducted from October 4 to 10, of which 408 people tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/big-dip-in-positivity-rate-in-3-central-dists/articleshow/78648914.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||House passes agriculture land conversion bill||Hyderabad: The assembly on Tuesday passed the Telangana Agricultural Land Conversion for Non-Agricultural Purposes Bill-2020. The bill takes away the powers of revenue officials under section 47(A) of the existing Act. Introducing the bill, legislative affairs minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said the amendments were aimed at making the administration transparent and stop irregularities. “I am a builder and farmer also, so I know the value of these amendments. Under valuation of various parcels of land by officials had caused Rs 826 crore loss to the state government,” he said. Since 2016, the government earned only Rs 263 crore because of undervaluation by revenue officials, the minister said. With the new bill, citizens can apply for conversion of their agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes through the Dharani portal, he said. He also said the amendments would ensure better coordination among panchayat raj, municipal administration and revenue departments in identifying agricultural land put to use for non-agricultural purposes.  After citizens book a slot on Dharani portal, revenue divisional officer concerned will call the applicant and complete the entire process, including land conversion, online entry and issue a temporary e-passbook permitting usage of the land for non-agricultural purposes. A permanent passbook will be delivered to the residence of applicant by mail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/house-passes-agriculture-land-conversion-bill/articleshow/78650044.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Thanjavur cases dip; active cases still high in Madurai||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 492 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Tuesday. The deaths were reported in Madurai, Dindigul, Theni and Tuticorin districts. Meanwhile, the central region reported 475 cases taking the tally of total cases to 58,850. Two deaths were recorded in Thanjavur. With this, the toll has climbed to 789 in the eight districts. The deaths in south include a 60-year-old woman from Dindigul who did not have any comorbid conditions. The woman suffering from fever and cough for six days tested positive on Sunday and was admitted to the Dindigul government hospital where she died 10 minutes later. Kanyakumari (78) recorded the highest number of cases in the region, followed by Madurai (65), Dindigul (61), Tirunelveli (50), Theni (58), Tuticorin (55) and Virudhunagar (51). Sivagangai (16), Ramanathapuram (17) and Tenkasi (31) recorded less than 50 fresh cases. The number of active cases in the region is 4,421 on Tuesday with all the districts recording less than 800 active cases and six districts recording less than 500 active cases. Madurai (793) had the highest number of active cases in the region, followed by 768 in Kanyakumari. In the central region, the drastic dip in the number of cases in Thanjavur was the major reason for the drop in fresh cases. But, Thanjavur’s tally of total cases (13,984) is the highest among the eight districts in the region. The number of active cases, which had been hovering around 4,000 to 4,500, has come down to 3,778 on Tuesday. Thanjavur’s active cases also dipped to 727. Perambalur reported five cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thanjavur-cases-dip-active-cases-still-high-in-madurai/articleshow/78650031.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Man held for raping and impregnating minor girl in Trichy||TRICHY: A 23-year-old man was arrested on Monday for raping and impregnating a 14-year-old girl in Trichy. The girl, who is seven months pregnant has been admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). The incident came to light after the girl’s mother filed a complaint with the all women police station (AWPS), Cantonment. The accused has been identified as K Karthik. He was booked on on charges of committing rape against a minor girl repeatedly and causing her to become pregnant, under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and for trespassing into the house and intimidating the girl not to reveal the sexual assault. Police said the girl, who is from a neighbouring district, was a close relative of the accused. She had come to his house in March due to the lockdown and was staying there since then. The girl’s mother said that Karthik raped her daughter at his house resulting in her pregnancy. District child protection unit (DCPU) in Trichy was informed about the issue so that the girl could be given psychological counselling. The upper limit of medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) is 24 weeks. Since the girl crossed seven months, police would require the intervention of the court to decide whether to permit the MTP. The accused was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-for-raping-and-impregnating-minor-girl/articleshow/78648920.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||International Day for Disaster Reduction observed in dist||Coimbatore: International Day for Disaster Reduction 2020 was marked at the district collectorate on Tuesday. It is marked on October 13 every year. The event at the collectorate included the fire and rescue services and the revenue department officials conducting an awareness programme among all the departments.“It is a day where we understand that natural disasters can not be prevented, but we can reduce the risk involved when these disasters occur,” district fire officer Jagatheesh said. “We created awareness on different disasters that we may face or different emergency situations we will witness, things that have to be done to be prepared for it, different departments that need to coordinate and whether we have that coordination,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/international-day-for-disaster-reduction-observed-in-dist/articleshow/78648926.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Care not free for those from outside Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Many Covid-19 patients from other districts are making a dash to Bengaluru, seeking treatment, but are not getting it free since the BBMP which allots beds in the city does not consider non-Bengalureans patients. Though the government had announced free treatment for the needy, most of these patients have had to pay, especially since bed availability for them is a tricky issue. They need to book in advance to be assured of a bed. Patients from other districts are not covered under Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust scheme, which is supposed to be valid across the state, said Dr HM Prasanna, president elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). The association had raised the issue with the health department. “Only patients with a BU number and who are allocated a bed by BBMP are eligible for government-sponsored treatment,” said Dr Prasanna. “Patients from other districts cannot use this facility. This is a grey area which the government must address.” Dr Srinivas Chirukuri, CEO, Prakriya Hospitals, Tumakuru Road, said the hospital gets patients from other districts. Some are on ventilator when they arrive and some even die en route. “Patients come from districts like Tumakuru, Hassan and even Udupi,” Dr Chirukuri said. “They are moderate to severe cases of infection and transportation is a big challenge. Some are shifted from the local hospital directly. Some come through their contacts, but presentation is pretty late and it’s very challenging to save them.” He said 5-6 patients from other districts seek treatment in his hospital every day and the management is trying to expand services to them, although shortage of beds is a hurdle. Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, member of Covid expert committee formed by the state government, said early diagnosis and management can be implemented in districts with virtual consultation and e-ICU as a PPP model exists between the government and private hospitals. “It’s true some patients are brought to Bengaluru when in a critical stage. We should catch and manage them early. The rate of mortality of patients brought in the end stages is too high,” Dr Ballal, who is also chairman of Manipal Hospitals, said. N Manjunatha Prasad, commissioner, BBMP, said given dynamics of bed availability, patients arriving from other districts must get a referral from the deputy commissioner of their district to ensure a bed and free treatment in Bengaluru. “If they come on their own, treatment in private hospitals depends on bed availability. If their admission in Bengaluru hospitals is routed through DCs, we can ensure beds. We have handled hundreds of such cases,” Manjunatha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-free-treatment-for-patients-from-other-districts-seeking-care-in-bluru/articleshow/78646856.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt’s drive against tax evasion nets Rs 50 lakh||NEW DELHI: In a special ‘anti-evasion’ drive conducted on Monday, Delhi government’s department of trade and taxes conducted raids at 29 premises belonging to 22 commercial enterprises and collected Rs 50.3 lakh as tax. In total, 22 teams of the department were deployed for the raids and each team was led by an assistant commissioner. The raids were part of the department’s efforts to identify taxpayers who are misusing the GST system and defrauding the government of its legitimate taxes, it said in a statement. The department said that the modus operandi of the fraudulent taxpayers included bogus invoice creation without movement of goods, fraudulent interstate sale to avoid tax scrutiny by the department, etc. The department has started utilising Business Intelligence and Fraud Analytics, which has been prepared by Goods and Services Tax Network and utilises data analytics and artificial intelligence to identify fraudulent transactions. The department said that the premises of non-existent dealers have been sealed and some incriminating documents have also been seized and are being scrutinized. The department said it will continue to carry on such drives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govts-drive-against-tax-evasion-nets-rs-50l/articleshow/78648923.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Call for conducting serosurvey||Trichy: With the number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases declining for the past few weeks in Trichy, residents have demanded that a serosurvey be conducted in the city. While herd immunity is suspected to be one of the causes for the dip in positive cases despite not reducing the number of RT-PCR tests conducted per day, the need to conduct serosurvey was reiterated to ascertain the situation. From reporting 100-150 fresh infections per day two months ago, the count is down to 30-50 fresh cases in the past few days, a fall by 70%. Although the public movement post the relaxations has increased, the plunge in fresh infections has even puzzled the civic body. While targeted anti-Covid19 drive focussing the hotspots was cited as the possible reason, the possibility of the city developing herd immunity was not ruled out. “Earlier, we were told that fresh infections in the city should come down to 30 per day for starting the serosurvey. Now the fresh infections are down to the desired level, it is an ideal time to conduct the survey,” K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/call-for-conducting-serosurvey/articleshow/78648922.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||7 held for making dalit fall at thevar man’s feet||MADURAI: Seven people have been arrested for making a 60-year-old dalit shepherd fall at the feet of a thevar man and apologise following a dispute over grazing sheep and goat in Olaikulam village near Kayathar in Tuticorin district. The incident which happened on October 8 had come into the open two days ago amidst the revelation that a dalit woman panchayat president in Cuddalore was made to sit on the floor for meetings. The arrested include S Sivasangu, 60, on whose feet the shepherd, Paulraj, was made to fall and apologise, his sons S Sangilipandi, 19, and S Maharajan, 20, their relatives and accomplices S Periyamari, 47, his brother Veeraiah, 42, and Periyamari’s son Mahendran, 20. They were booked under eight sections including three under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and under The Information Technology Act. Tuticorin district superintendent of police S Jayakumar said the victim lodged a complaint with Kayathar police on October 11. “We registered a case the same day. He lodged a complaint against seven people, but we booked the eighth person for recording the offence. But for a woman who was idling at the spot we arrested the seven others on Monday. They will be remanded today,” he said. They have provided police protection for Paulraj after the SP visited the victim at his house. Paulraj said he and Sivasangu were grazing their goats separately when one of his sheep ran into Sivasangu’s herd. “He confronted me for it, attacked me thrice and chased my sheep. I defended by holding his rod with which he attacked the fourth time. We fell on the ground and fought when we were separated by another person,” he said. Paulraj said Sivasangu called his kin over phone who arrived, beat him up and dragged him by his collar for half-a-kilometre before Sivasangu’s kin asked him to fall at his feet and apologise. “They threatened to slit my throat and murder me when I refused. My son’s pleas also went in vain. I was left with no option but to fall at his feet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-held-for-making-dalit-fall-at-thevar-mans-feet/articleshow/78650055.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC wants BMC to be party to PIL on Covid drugs’ availability||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday told a petitioner to make BMC a party to a PIL seeking an order to ensure that drugs like Remdesivir to fight Covid-19 be made available directly at quarantine centres and hospitals for quick access by patients. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni, after hearing advocate Prashant Pandey for petitioner Jayesh Mirani, said measures can be taken to make information available to people on where medicines and injections for Covid-19 patients are stocked and available, and it can be published. Pandey said he was seeking that patients should not die for delay in getting medicines. He said though the state said many stockists were there, some when contacted did not have it, and a helpline offers help, but the next day at times. HC will now hear the matter on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-wants-bmc-to-be-party-to-pil-on-covid-drugs-availability/articleshow/78648094.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 14, 2020||India||PM Modi to address at least nine physical rallies in Bihar||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi is likely to address at least nine physical rallies for the Bihar polls — three each for the three phases — for which BJP will deploy over 10,000 “social media commandos” at booth level to enable people to listen to the PM live amid Covid-19 restrictions. Sources said the party in-charge for the state polls — former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and national general secretary Bhupender Yadav — are camping in the state before finalising the dates and venues for the rallies. “The venues and dates will be decided once the PM’s availability is confirmed,” a senior party functionary said, adding that the schedule for the first phase will be officially announced in a couple of days. “We are trying to make sure maximum people are connected through digital platforms for which the party has worked since June,” said a BJP member. Party sources said at least 4 lakh party cadres with smart phones have been identified, who will be at the booth level to help people watch the PM and other leaders live. “At least five party workers with smart phones will be deployed at every booth,” he said. said. Besides, over 10000 “social media commandos” will fan across the state to help the party cadres streamline the smooth broadcast of the rallies. BJP is likely to focus on the decisive leadership of the Modi government like its stand on India-China border, construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, benefits under direct transfer schemes and the projects dedicated to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-address-at-least-nine-physical-rallies-in-bihar/articleshow/78651106.cms||Akhilesh Singh
October 14, 2020||---||PM Modi to address at least nine physical rallies in Bihar||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi is likely to address at least nine physical rallies for the Bihar polls — three each for the three phases — for which BJP will deploy over 10,000 “social media commandos” at booth level to enable people to listen to the PM live amid Covid-19 restrictions. Sources said the party in-charge for the state polls — former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and national general secretary Bhupender Yadav — are camping in the state before finalising the dates and venues for the rallies. “The venues and dates will be decided once the PM’s availability is confirmed,” a senior party functionary said, adding that the schedule for the first phase will be officially announced in a couple of days. “We are trying to make sure maximum people are connected through digital platforms for which the party has worked since June,” said a BJP member. Party sources said at least 4 lakh party cadres with smart phones have been identified, who will be at the booth level to help people watch the PM and other leaders live. “At least five party workers with smart phones will be deployed at every booth,” he said. said. Besides, over 10000 “social media commandos” will fan across the state to help the party cadres streamline the smooth broadcast of the rallies. BJP is likely to focus on the decisive leadership of the Modi government like its stand on India-China border, construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, benefits under direct transfer schemes and the projects dedicated to Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-modi-to-address-at-least-nine-physical-rallies-in-bihar/articleshow/78651100.cms||Akhilesh Singh
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Fresh cases in Trichy city go down to June levels||TRICHY: In a major relief for residents as well as civic body authorities, Trichy city on Tuesday recorded only 26 fresh Covid-19 infections, four less than Monday and the lowest in the past three months. The city had reported such a low number only in the first week of July but now the dip comes amid relaxations through unlocking measures. Fresh positive cases saw a gradual increase between April and June and it peaked in July with the highest daily infection so far on July 24, when it registered 177 cases. Fresh cases started declining gradually in late August (70 cases) and September (50 cases) before hitting a new low now. Ariyamangalam zone reported only one positive case and Srirangam seven while K Abishekapuram and Ponmalai zones reported 11 each on Monday. Until June, Trichy corporation was testing only 350-400 people a day when an average 30 fresh cases were reported. Now, even as 800 tests are conducted daily, fresh cases range between 30 and 50. Trichy corporation officials said that the positivity rate of the city is down to 3%, from around 5% in September and 8% in August. Early detection and isolation of positive cases through fever camps and containment strategy have helped us contain fresh infections,” M Yazhini, city health officer (CHO), said. Although relaxations in the lockdown have drastically increased crowding in markets and commercial streets, the corporation said that positivity rate has decreased. While the claims of city attaining herd immunity were not proven, the drastic fall in fresh cases has put the civic body on alert too. Authorities fear people may lower their guard now and take preventive measures for granted. “We will continue the random screening in hotspots at periodic intervals. Big Bazaar street is one of our focus areas,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. Officials said that containment zones are still being established in streets that record three or more positive cases. The measure was identified as one of the reasons for the plunge in fresh infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-cases-in-trichy-city-go-down-to-june-levels/articleshow/78648933.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 14, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Wearing face mask compulsory for ride on BRTS buses||HUBBALLI: In order to make the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) a safer mode of travel during this pandemic, HDBRTS officials have ordered all the station staff not to issue tickets to those who turn up at the station without wearing a face mask. The HDBRTS has taken the decision following repeated complaints from the public, that in the HDBRTS Chigari buses people are not following safety protocols. Vivekanand Vishwajnya, divisional controller of the Hubballi-Dharwad city division, said that he has already instructed ticket vendors at all stations not to issue tickets to those who turn up at the station to board a bus without wearing a proper face mask. The move is to curb the spread of Covid-19. The security personnel deployed at the station will ensure that those having passes are wearing masks while boarding buses, he said. He also said that the bus driver will also ensure that every passenger is wearing a mask during the ride. “Wearing a mask is an important measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19, and people should understand their responsibility in containing the pandemic, and hence they should cooperate by wearing a mask during their journey, for their own safety as well as the safety of others,” said Vivekanand. Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi, an ophthalmologist, said that he recently travelled on a Chigari bus, which he boarded at Vidyanagar station, and found that many passengers were not wearing masks. He said that the AC Volvo bus did not have proper ventilation, and many people may have been infected, as they were not wearing masks. “I was standing as the seats were occupied, and I found that hand sanitisers were not available at the stations. The bars and handles on the bus to grip while standing may have had fomites on them, which could spread the infection, if hands were not sanitised at regular intervals,” he said. When this issue was brought to the notice of the higher officials of the NWKRTC, they said that they would look into the matter. Not only in Chigari buses, but in normal buses too, people are not wearing face masks. there is no provision for the staff to fine those not wearing masks,” said an NWKRTC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/wearing-face-mask-compulsory-for-ride-on-brts-buses/articleshow/78646254.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 123 new cases, 92 people recover||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris added 123 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 5,635, even as 192 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. The district now has 727 active cases. The recovery rate stands at 86.5% The Covid-19 toll rose to 31 with a 76-year-old man from Bikkatty village succumbing to the virus at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Of the new cases, 12 were reported from Ooty town, while Gudalur reported seven cases. At least 30 people tested positive after visiting other districts. The rest of the new cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. While 18 cases are being treated at the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 190 patients are kept in home quarantine in the district. The remaining cases are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor, and Gudalur, and six covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-123-new-cases-92-people-recover/articleshow/78648934.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Failed to meet quota of 5% for disabled, JNU concedes in high court||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Tuesday admitted before Delhi High Court that its method of allocation of seats for disabled did not achieve the mandate of 5% reservation provided under the law. The university conceded before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan that once admissions got over, it found that the intake of disabled people did not meet the 5% quota provided under Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act. “Even according to you (JNU), you are not meeting the reservation requirement in admission. Reservation provided under the statute is institution-wise and not course-wise. Can you have an administrative allocation that results in not achieving the 5% reservation in admission? If you are not realising the purpose behind the statute, then we have a problem,” the bench remarked. It reminded JNU that it could not “juggle allocation of seats in such a way that it achieves only 4 or 4.5% reservation for PwD instead of 5% or more. Ultimately, after filling up all the seats, you have to see whether you have realised the 5% reservation for PwD.” The high court also said if JNU allocated seats for disabled people in courses or centres where such students did not apply or there were fewer applications, then the varsity would not realise the reservation provided under the Act. The court’s comments came while hearing a PIL by Javed Abidi Foundation, pointing out that the university had failed to meet the requirement in the academic session 2020-21. During the hearing, JNU’s counsel, Monika Arora, said the issue would be placed before its executive council, which would consider coming up with a better method of allocating seats, and urged the bench to dispose of the PIL by keeping the main issue open for the future. The bench, however, declined and made it clear that it had to “know for sure how JNU is going to ensure the quota is met and not just an allocation on paper.” It listed the matter on November 6, when JNU would have to indicate how it would ensure the 5% reservation was met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/failed-to-meet-quota-of-5-for-disabled-jnu-concedes-in-high-court/articleshow/78648939.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Extension for Covid hosp doms||Kolkata: The state health department has extended the service tenures of doms engaged at its Covid hospitals and scavenging personnel at the Covid-19 labs attached to government hospitals. Sources said this had become essential in the light of the rising Covid infection across the state.Six additional doms were engaged at Medical College Hospital on contractual basis once it was decided that the hospital would serve as a tertiary-level Covid facility. Away from the limelight, these frontline warriors have been silently working, taking away diseased bodies from wards to the mortuary before they are sent for cremation.The health department has now extended their service tenure by six months, during which they will get monthly remuneration of Rs 10,000 each. “With the surge in number of Covid cases, hospital occupancy is gradually rising. Hence, retaining the services of these personnel was important,” said a source at MCH. Hospitals have also been outsourcing scavenging and housekeeping service for their Covid labs, isolation wards or Covid wards. The tenure of these personnel, too, was extended by another four months along with those of the security personnel.“We hardly talk about this workforce, especially doms, scavenging and housekeeping personnel. But they are an integral part of the Covid facilities,” said a senior doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/extension-for-covid-hosp-doms/articleshow/78650067.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hubballi||Lumpyskin disease haunts livestock in Kalyana K’taka region||Kalaburagi: The infectious lumpyskin disease (LSD) has been found in 16,891 heads of cattle and buffaloes in Kalaburagi district. Speaking to TOI, veterinary officer Yallappa Ingle said that the symptoms of the disease are large skin nodules covering the entire body, fever, enlarged lymph nodes, nasal discharge and lachrymation, poor growth, reduced milk production, infertility, and at times death of the infected cattle. However, no casualty is reported in the district till now. It is said the disease was initially reported in north India and then spread across the country. Cattle and buffaloes in all the districts of Kalyana Karnataka region have contracted the infection. It is also found in the neighbouring Bidar, Yadgir and Raichur districts. According to veterinary doctors, it may spread to other districts of the state in a few months. To check the endemic disease, the cattle must be vaccinated and precautionary measures be taken. Officials of the veterinary and animal husbandry department also said that veterinarians working in 214 taluks and hobli veterinary hospitals/ dispensaries are being trained. In turn, these vets will conduct awareness programmes to educate farmers to contain the disease. “The department officials are currently engaged in creating awareness on animal health care,” Ingle added. So far in Kalaburagi district, 6,500 cases have been reported in Chincholi taluk, 2,400 in Sedam taluk, 2,500 in Jevargi taluk, 1,800 in Aland taluk, 1,060 cases in Kalaburagi taluk and 2,010 in Afzalpur taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lumpyskin-disease-haunts-livestock-in-kalyana-ktaka-region/articleshow/78646291.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Gujarat becoming global chemical manufacturing hub’||Ahmedabad: Gujarat is slowly turning into a global hub for the manufacturing of chemicals, according to Union minister of state for the environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC), Babul Supriyo. He delivered the keynote address at the CII Gujarat Chemical Conclave: Challenges and Way Forward, held virtually on Tuesday.“Gujarat has been a role model for the country. Gujarat has 5% of India’s population, yet contributes 8% to India’s GDP and 20% of India’s exports. This is phenomenal. Gujarat is a hub of chemicals in India and slowly India is becoming a global base for chemicals. Thus Gujarat will play a major role in making India a $5 trillion economy,” said Supriyo.“The ministry understands that there are concerns of chemical companies relating to compliance and timely approvals and I request a delegation of Gujarat chemical companies come and meet me in Delhi with a white paper which will clearly indicate the obsolete processes and delays, this will help chemical companies compete with global players,” he further said.The objective of this conclave was to identify the challenges and potential solutions in terms of technology and compliance for the chemical industry. The conclave also focused on the latest environmental legislation and how it will impact the chemical sector in Gujarat.Domain experts and stakeholders including heads of 150 Gujarat-based chemical companies attended the online conclave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-becoming-global-chemical-manufacturing-hub/articleshow/78648968.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Man commits suicide after sharing suicide note on FB, wife booked||BAREILLY: A 30-year-old old man killed himself by consuming poison shortly after sharing a suicide note on Facebook in Shahjahanpur city on Tuesday. Police have filed an FIR against his wife for abetment of suicide. Deceased Chandan Singh Verma, a social worker, claimed in his suicide note that he was being harassed by his wife Kalpana Verma, who is demanding Rs 20 lakh for giving divorce. Chandan got married in 2014. According to police, when Chandan’s friends and relatives saw the suicide note on his post, they immediately started calling him, but he didn’t answer them. A few even knocked reached his house, but it was locked from inside. Police were informed and Chandan was found lying unconscious on his bed. He was immediately taken to a district hospital and later referred to higher centre in Bareilly, but he died on his way. SHO Kotwali police station Pravesh Singh said, “We have sent the body for autopsy. We have filed an FIR against his wife under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide). The suicide note is evidence and we will include it in our investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-commits-suicide-after-sharing-suicide-note-on-fb-wife-booked/articleshow/78646309.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Amrapali case: Don’t be a fence sitter, SC tells RBI||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Reserve Bank of India to use its good offices with commercial banks to facilitate smooth credit line to stuck Amrapali housing projects and help harassed homebuyers realise their dream of a roof over their head in the shortest possible time. The SC-appointed receiver and senior advocate R Venkataramani told a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan that despite court directions for assistance from RBI in facilitating credit line for the projects from commercial banks, nothing substantial had been achieved. “RBI should be called upon to issue a clear directive to banks that they shall draw up a project funding proposal within such limit as they deem fit on the basis of information already shared with them, within a span of one month,” he said. But the banking regulator, through advocate Ramesh Babu, said banks took commercial decisions and it would be unwise for the RBI to force certain decisions on them. Striking a balance between the two opposite views, the bench directed the RBI to depute a “responsible officer”, who can be in touch with the receiver and also arrange meetings with members of the Indian Banks Association (IBA) for arriving at appropriate decisions in the shortest possible time. “Final decisions may rest with the banks which may be taken on a commercial basis. But active participation of RBI will expedite the exercise,” the bench said. It was informed by the receiver that independent of the exercise to get credit line from banks, he had signed MoUs with Union Bank and UCO Bank to facilitate approval of loans for over 3,000 homebuyers. HDFC Bank said it was in the process of approving loans for homebuyers who had approached it. The SC said the MoUs signed by Union Bank and UCO Bank with the receiver would serve as a model for other banks. The receiver informed the court that so far, Rs 3,668 crore had been recovered on the orders of court and by the Enforcement Directorate. Of this, Rs 1,263 crore was recovered from Amrapali on orders of the SC. Realisation of Rs 2,405 crore was done efficiently through the ED from Amrapali directors, their family members, CFO and the statutory auditor. The receiver was also given liberty by the SC to approach Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco) for the purpose of funding/financing ongoing projects. He also informed the court that pursuant to earlier directions, the NBCC has proposed a series of measures towards sale of unsold inventory. The court-appointed committee has also examined the set of proposals and has in principle agreed with it. The bench sought to peruse the list of unsold units before passing any order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amrapali-case-dont-be-a-fence-sitter-sc-tells-rbi/articleshow/78648973.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crane flies 4,300km to return home||AHMEDABAD: A female common crane that was satellite tagged in March by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) near Nalsarovar has returned from her breeding site in Kazakhstan. The bird was named ‘Vadla’ after the village near the Nalsarovar Ramsar site where she was tagged. She came back to Vadla after covering 4,300km over 12 days on her return journey.  On landing, she spent the entire day foraging and venturing into the nearby fields. The bird landed at Vadla on October 10, which coincides with World Migratory Bird Day, said Suresh Kumar, a senior scientist at WII. Kumar said that the bird roosted in the wetlands and the next day morning ventured about 5km away from Vadla. This is not the first time that a crane has been satellite tagged in India. A similar experiment was carried out in 2000 in Kutch, but it did not yield proper results, said Kumar. “The bird exhibits high site fidelity, which means it can be found at the same sites year after year,” said Kumar. Cranes move in flocks and whether the satellite tagged bird was part of a large population or an isolated population is something that will need further research, said Kumar. For this, WII plans to satellite tag nine more common cranes from different locations in Gujarat. One thing that emerged from the satellite tagging is that the common crane has found wintering grounds at Vadla in Gujarat, according to Kumar. Satellite tagging gives an insight into the path the bird took on the long journey from its breeding ground in Kazakhstan to the wintering ground in Vadla. The bird used the Central Asian Flyway for its migration and going by the number of common cranes and demoiselle cranes flocking at various parts of the state, Gujarat emerges as the most important wintering destination in the Indian subcontinent for the cranes. “Every year about four lakh common and demoiselle cranes flock to Gujarat. The bird’s wintering journey shows that beside the availability of food, water and shelter, the region provides a safe haven. The bird feeds on rhizomes that are found in plenty in the region,” said Uday Vora, a retired chief conservator of forest and presently a member of the National Wetland Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crane-flies-4300km-to-return-home/articleshow/78648937.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Locals slam pole plan for lighting hillock||TRICHY: Residents around the Rockfort hillock have raised objection to the proposal to install poles to illuminate the iconic hillock here. Local people said that the poles on the residential roads will shrink the motorable space of the already narrow streets. As part of a heritage tourism development project proposed under the Smart Cities Mission, Trichy Corporation identified Rockfort hillock as one of the sites for beautification in 2018. There was a plan to install LED focus lights to illuminate the 83-metre hillock. Although a tender for the proposal was floated in March 2020, the got delayed. Meanwhile, the civic body identified spots in the narrow streets including Vadakku Street around the hillock to fix around 100 poles, which was resisted by the residents. “Already, fire service vehicles and ambulances are finding it hard to enter the streets. The proposed poles will further shrink the space from 12 feet to 8 feet,” R Sundarrajan, a functionary of Rockfort Residents Welfare Association, said. Raising worry over congestion, the residents sought the civic body to relocate the proposed poles. However, as the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) that manages Rockfort hillock has instructed the civic body to place the lights in a manner not affecting the rigidity of the rock, it is highly unlikely to relocate the poles to the hillock. “We will hold talks with the residents on the project. The poles will not reduce the width of the roads,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-slam-pole-plan-for-lighting-hillock/articleshow/78648935.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Ooty MLA seeks collector’s intervention in row between tea farmers and factories||Udhagamandalam: Members of small tea farmers associations and Ooty MLA sought the district collector’s intervention on limitations imposed by the bought leaf factories (BLFs) for procuring green leaf tea in name of quality control. In a letter to collector J Innocent Divya, Congress MLA R Ganesh said BLFs are refusing to buy green leaf tea from the farmers and are trying to make exorbitant profit making use of the situation. “Leaves are fully grown and if not purchased by BLFs, they could not be used in manufacturing process,” the letter said. As many small tea farmers are agaitated, the situation may lead to law and order problem in the district, the letters said, seeking the collector intervention in the matter at the earliest.Meanwhile, a few other small tea farmers’ associations too submitted a petition to the collector in this connection.Subsequently, the collector instructed the Tea Board officials to sort out the issues between BLFs and farmers.M Balaji, executive director of the Tea Board of India (south) told TOI, “BLFs have no problem in getting good leaves. Only sub-standard leaves are rejected so as to comply with the quality standard of the Tea Board.” He further said, “As the green leaf tea price is on the rise, we are cautious about maintaining the price level by strictly maintaining the quality.”He said the board was regulating the supply of green leaf tea as it is the peak season. Only a few sections of the farmers had been creating problems in the past one week, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-mla-seeks-collectors-intervention-in-row-between-tea-farmers-and-factories/articleshow/78648970.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Body of jawan, 28, cremated at native village in Tenkasi||MADURAI: The body of an Army jawan, who allegedly committed suicide in Jammu and Kashmir a couple of days ago, was cremated at Ayalpatti, his native village near Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district on Tuesday evening. According to his family, D Mullairaj, 28, joined the Army nine years ago. His latest posting was in Baramulla district. On Sunday, the family received a call that Mullairaj is no more. The family could not reach him over phone or confirm his death. They said that they did not receive any official communication on his death from higher officials through the official channel. His mother Alagathal approached Tenkasi district collector G K Arun Sundar Thayalan on Monday seeking clarity on the plight of her son. The collector got in touch with the ministry of defence, and MDMK general secretary Vaiko also wrote to the defence minister. They sought steps to bring the body to his native village without delay. Meanwhile, Vaiko sought a probe into the cause of his death. On Tuesday Army officers and personnel brought Mullairaj’s body to Aayalpatti. The relatives of the jawan and a few villagers staged a road blockade on the Tirunelveli highway alleging that they were not properly informed about the death. The protesters also sought due compensation and other benefits to his family. Army officials along with revenue and police officials pacified the protesters and they withdrew the stir after nearly two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/body-of-jawan-28-cremated-at-native-village-in-tenkasi/articleshow/78650100.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Compost from crematorium’s flower waste will fertilize agriculture farms||SURAT: Times change and along with it takes the sting out of dogged stigmas. Among many changes augmented by rationality so far, one more societal dogma on crematoriums will be done away by converting flowers offered to the dead as per ritualistic Hindu traditions to create compost manure. Shree Ramnath Ghela Smashan Bhumi Trust (SRGSBT) in Umra will start making compost fertilizer from flower waste by using an indigenously developed technology by Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT). With this, SRGSBT may prove to be a pathfinder among the country’s crematoriums to start converting waste into organic utility. “On an average daily 100 kg of flower-waste gets generated in the crematorium. Disposing waste flowers becomes a major issue as decomposing flowers stink in monsoon and dried waste needs to be burnt in summer. We do not throw the waste into the adjoining river directly and so, this machine can help us with a permanent solution,” said Harish Umrigar, president of SRGSBT. Ending their research that spanned a few years, associate professor at the varsity’s civil engineering department KD Yadav and PhD student Dayanand Sharma developed the technology for which the duo also bagged a patent for invention. After a successful trial run for nearly two years at the institute, researchers now put it up for public use. The crematorium will require a machine with 450 kg capacity to convert the waste into compost manure in 25 days. From 100 kg waste, it will produce 30 kg compost, researchers informed. “It produces high-quality compost that can be used as fertilizer. It is a trial project and we are going to install similar machines in temples as well with the support of Surat Municipal Corporation,” said Yadav, adding that they have approached Gujarat Council of Science and Technology (GUJCoST) for funds. “From the composter machine, the organizations can produce fertilizer which is sold at Rs 20 per kg in market. Farmers are ready to buy a good quality fertilizer that we are distributing for free in some of the villages,” Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/compost-from-crematoriums-flower-waste-will-fertilize-agriculture-farms/articleshow/78646321.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 14, 2020||Agra||Agra: No doc for 2 hrs, pregnant woman faints||AGRA: Lying “unattended” and writhing in labour pain for over two hours, a pregnant woman fell unconscious in Agra’s Khandoli community health centre (CHC) “as no staffer came to attend her”. But her sudden silence achieved what the screams and yelling couldn’t-- she got the medical attention at last. A video of the incident shot by family members was shared on social media platforms on Tuesday. A resident of city’s Ashok Nagar, 24-year-old Karishma was brought to the CHC on Monday morning. Her husband Pravesh said, “My wife was made to wait for over 2 hours. No staffer came to attend her even after repeated requests. When I tried to question staffers over the delay in providing her treatment, they asked to first go and conduct Covid-19 test." “I told them that my wife cannot wait for Covid-19 test and needed immediate medical help. The staffers at the hospital then said that the doctor is not available. She fell unconscious after over two hours.” Chief medical officer of Agra, Dr RC Pandey, said, “A warning has been issued to the CHC in-charge. He has been directed to ensure that such an incident does not repeat again.” The CHC in-charge, Dr Upendra Singh, denied the charges. “The pregnant woman was provided treatment after a few important tests. She gave birth to a healthy girl. They were discharged from hospital on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/writhing-in-labour-pain-woman-faints-after-getting-no-medical-attention-for-over-2-hours/articleshow/78645252.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Never-seen-before stills from lost footage of ‘Sonar Kella’ to be out in Sandesh Pujabarshiki||Kolkata: Even as fans across the world pray for the recovery of Soumitra Chatterjee—their favourite Feluda—there is one news that will make them happy. Director Sandip Ray has decided to share never-seen-before stills of Chatterjee from the shooting of ‘Sonar Kella’ that were edited out by Satyajit Ray. Those footage may be lost forever but the stills from the iconic 1974 classic will be published in Sandesh Pujabarshiki. Any cinephile will know that Ray was “absolutely ruthless” while his films were being edited. “We would feel very sad even if one centimetre of a film was cut out. But Baba would say this shot is not taking the film forward or is hampering its pace. Or, he would want them edited out to make the scenes fatless. Though the edited-out footage is lost forever, fortunately some stills of those scenes clicked by me have survived,” Sandip said. Approximately, five or six minutes of footage have been edited out this way. “Five or six minutes of footage is quite a lot. It is almost the duration of a short film,” he added. During the shooting of ‘Sonar Kella’ in 1973, Sandip had accompanied his father’s unit. One of the edited footage is from Felduda’s scene with Sidhu Jyatha. “Then, there is a long scene, where Feluda is sharing their travel itinerary with Topshe. Baba had done that in a very interesting concept. It was also shot very beautifully. Then, there is a scene where Feluda calls up Sudhir babu (Sudhir Dhar) and tells him for the first time that he and his cousin will visit Rajasthan. That’s the first time Topshe gets a definite idea that he, too, will be travelling to Rajasthan. Hearing that, Topshe does a spin and then claps in excitement. There is a still of this clap but the footage is lost,” Sandip recalled. But the director had felt this scene would be irrelevant as the audience would eventually get to see where they were going. Even on September 30, when Chatterjee was being interviewed by Sandip for a docu-series, ‘Aami Soumitra’, the topic of Feluda came up in the conversation. “That day Soumitra kaku was excited about talking about Feluda. Not for a moment did I feel he was unwell. I hope he recovers soon. On September 30, he had mentioned how he portrayed Feluda. His look had to be intense and had to reveal Feluda’s observation power,” Sandip said. A still from the lost footage shows Topshe sitting beside a lamppost listening to Feluda, both with the same look of concentration on their face. In the original film, this footage came just before the tyre puncture scene at the end. No scene of Mukul (Kushal Chakraborty) was edited out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/never-seen-before-stills-from-lost-footage-of-sonar-kella-to-be-out-in-sandesh-pujabarshiki/articleshow/78649011.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks CBSE not to hold board exams before May||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Tuesday requested Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) not to hold the board exams before May 2021, reduce the syllabus further and extend the date for paying the examination fee. In a letter to the CBSE controller of examinations, Directorate of Education (DoE) said, “Due to the pandemic, a major chunk of the academic session (approximately seven months) has not been utilised for classroom teaching-learning process as schools are closed till October 31. Online and semi-online activities have been conducted through live classes as well as worksheets. However, this cannot replace the physical classroom teaching-learning process.” To ensure that students get enough time to learn, DoE has asked for extending the 2020-21 academic session beyond March and board exams not before May 2021. The letter added that the next academic session could commence from July 2021. The syllabus should be slashed beyond 30%, which was done keeping in view that schools would open by July, and sample question papers should be uploaded following the syllabus reduction. DoE also sought detailed guidelines on conducting practical exams or suggestions of any other alternatives. “Practical and project work is an integral part of any subject, which includes assessment of desired skills and competencies. It is pertinent to give students hands-on practice for the same,” added the letter. The department requested that payment of examination fee be extended to November 14 from October 15. On September 25, DoE had written to the board seeking a fee waiver for government school students. CBSE had said they wouldn’t be able to provide any relaxation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-asks-cbse-not-to-hold-board-exams-before-may/articleshow/78648996.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Shai Evra bags Sastra Ramanujan prize||TRICHY: The 2020 Sastra Ramanujan Prize will be awarded to Dr Shai Evra of Princeton University, USA, and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel. The prize is awarded for outstanding contributions by individuals below 32 years of age (Srinavasa Ramanujan died at that age) in mathematics influenced by the genius in a broad sense. Though the prize is awarded annually at an international conference during December 21-22 at Sastra University in Kumbakonam, Evra will receive the prize in 2021 at a suitable date, a university release said. Shai Evra was chosen for his outstanding work on high dimensional expanders in the area of combinatorial and geometric topology, and on “Golden Gates” for three dimensional unitary groups. The prize notes that he employs deep results from representation theory and number theory pertaining to the Generalized Ramanujan Conjectures. Born in Be’er Yaakov, Israel, Evra received his BSc, MSc and PhD (2019) degrees from Hebrew University in Jerusalem. He has been recognized with several prizes, most notably the Hebrew University Dean’s Prize in 2010, the Perlman Prize in 2015, and the Nessyahu Prize in 2020.  He spent the years 2018-20 as a Visiting Member at Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, and is spending this year at Princeton University, following which he will return to Hebrew University permanently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shai-evra-bags-sastra-ramanujan-prize/articleshow/78648997.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Trichy||DVAC officials raid sub-registrar office, seize Rs 23,000; 5 booked||THANJAVUR: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) conducted raids on a sub-registrar office functioning on the premises of the district registrar office on Kutcheri Road in Kumbakonam and recovered Rs 23,000 in cash late on Monday. The officials also booked five people including the sub-registrar. Based on a tip-off that the officials and staff of the sub-registrar office had been indulging in widespread irregularities, the DVAC sleuths from Thanjavur headed by deputy superintendent of police S Manoharan, inspector C Padmavathi arrived there in plain clothes and monitored the entire activities in and around the office on Monday. Around 7 pm, the team entered the office and conducted a search in the office after locking the front doors of the office from inside along with the officials and staff. During the process, DVAC officials recovered Rs 23,400 as cash reportedly received by the staff as bribe. The rupee notes were recovered from various places such as sub-registrar’s room, computer room and document room. However, no one from the office claimed the money. The team also questioned sub-registrar Asaithambi and other employees till 11 pm. Based on their statements, the DVAC booked five people including the sub-registrar, junior assistant, office assistants, and computer operator under various sections. Further investigations are on, DSP Manoharan said. “All the money recovered from the office was unaccounted. On Monday, 28 documents were registered at the office. So, the money seized from the office might be bribe money,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dvac-officials-raid-sub-registrar-office-seize-rs-23k-5-booked/articleshow/78648990.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two Mumbai men held near Palanpur with 17kg of charas||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Anti-terrorism squad (ATS) along with a team of the special operations group of Banaskantha police on Tuesday morning nabbed two men from Maharashtra with 17kg of charas (hashish), worth Rs 1 crore, which they had brought from Ludhiana in Punjab. They were held at a hotel in Palanpur.  According to a statement from the ATS, an inspector of the agency got an input that a car with Mumbai number plates was carrying a large amount of narcotics and would be stationed at Hotel Mahakali in Malana village in Palanpur. A team of ATS and SOG reached the spot and began monitoring the hotel, waiting for the car. When they saw the car, they stopped it and searched it. They found apple boxes, at the bottom of which charas was hidden. The ATS also called a team of forensic experts who checked the contraband and found that it was charas. “The charas weighed around 16.75kg, and has a market value of Rs 1 crore. The two men held by the ATS were identified as Fahim Baig, 31, a taxi driver from Mahim West in Mumbai and Sameer Shaikh, 31, a resident of Aurangabad in Maharashtra,” reads the ATS statement. The statement further says that the duo told cops that a man named Imran, who has rented a house in Vatva and is a resident of Mahim in Mumbai, had told them to get the apples a consignment of some herb from a vegetable market in Ludhiana. They told the cops that they were given Rs 50,000 to bring the boxes from Ludhiana. The statement said that efforts are on to nab Imran as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-mumbai-men-held-near-palanpur-with-17kg-of-charas/articleshow/78649032.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Trichy||We will back party that fulfils our demands: Karunas||TRICHY: Stating that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s rule is appreciated by the people, actor and MLA Karunas has reiterated his party Mukkulathor Pulipadai’s demand for sub-quota reservation for thevar community. He said the government should take steps for naming Madurai airport after Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar and installing statues of Marudhu Pandiar brothers in Parliament. Karunas was in Trichy to meet Mukkulathor community people after the portrait of Muthuramalinga Thevar in Gandhi market was allegedly desecrated. He told reporters here on Tuesday that sub-quota reservation for thevar community would enable youths to get seats in educational institutions and qualified youths to get better employment opportunity as in the case of vanniyars. While rubbishing rumours that his party would merge with BJP, Karunas clarified that it would however go along with any party which accepts their demands. He said there was no possibility of his party contesting on a separate symbol and it would be decided at the time of election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/we-will-back-party-that-fulfils-our-demands-karunas/articleshow/78649008.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hubballi||2 Covid care centres shut in Haveri as cases dip||Haveri: With the number of Covid cases dropping in Haveri, the district administration has temporarily shut two Covid Care Centers (CCC). The district currently has three CCCs, and fewer patients. Although, the district administration had set up a total of 10 CCCs but only five were active. Following the government’s decision to allow home isolation for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid cases, there has been a drastic fall in the number of patients getting admitted to the centers. As on October 11, the district had 893 active cases — 681 patients in home isolation and the remaining 212 patients admitted to government centers. Dr Jayanand, DHO in-charge said the Covid situation during June and July had reached a peak in Haveri district because a 20%-25% positivity rate was registered. On an average, 200 cases were reported every day against 600 samples tested. “But, the positivity rate has dropped drastically in the entire district in September and October; it has come down almost up to 2%-3%. Now, only 100 cases are being reported against 1,000-1,200 samples tested, including RAT and RT-PCR,” he added. “We have set up a total of 10 CCCs, a DCH and seven TLHs in Haveri district, but only five CCCs were functioning. Following approval to allow home isolation asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid cases, several patients declined to admit themselves to government hospitals. Now, the positivity rate has down drastically, so we have temporarily closed two CCCs in Kalkeri in Hanagal taluk and Byadagi,” said S Yogishwar, an additional deputy commissioner. “We have the facility with a potential capacity of over 1,314 beds in DCH, TLH, and CCCs, but only 212 patients are undergoing treatment now. The remaining beds have been vacant since October 11,” Yogishwar clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/2-covid-care-centres-shut-in-haveri-as-cases-dip/articleshow/78646331.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Blast rips roof off club in Kolkata's Beliaghata||KOLKATA: A powerful blast ripped off the roof and a portion of a wall of a two-storey club in Beliaghata early on Tuesday. The impact also caused extensive damage to the attic room and first floor of the building. The incident took place at the Beliaghata Gandhi Math Friend’s Circle club located in the Gandhi Math area — barely 40 metre from the historic Gandhi Bhawan. No one, however, was injured in the incident. Local residents said they heard a loud blast around 7am and rushed outside to notice the extensive damage. The impact left a gaping hole in the attic room roof with the debris falling several metres away. There were cracks on the wall and black soot marks in the third floor. Police said a forensic team has picked up samples and will provide its primary opinion on what caused the blast. “We are waiting for their primary report,” said DC (eastern suburban) Ajoy Prasad, who visited the spot in the morning. Forensic experts, who visited the spot, told TOI they are certain that the blast has taken place from within and that explosive substances were kept secured in the attic room. This claim is in direct contrast to what the club members said. The club members said they saw two masked men, who had their faces covered with gamchha, come near the club and lob bombs before fleeing.  “We heard a huge explosion, following which we rushed out and found two persons fleeing. Their faces were covered. We do not know what exactly happened,” said a local, who is a member of the club, adding the first floor was used as a computer-training centre for kids. After talking to locals and club members, TOI came across three possible reasons behind the blast.  Cops said that all possibilities such as a blast triggered from outside, a cylinder blast and that some explosive substances could have been stored in the club has been kept open. “We have found that the impact of the blast led to the debris to fall outside. If the impact would have been from outside, the debris would have fallen inside. In addition, we have recovered some traces of sulphur and ammonium nitrate along with jalkathis. The jalkathis were kept inside a jute sack. We have sent the traces to our lab for confirmatory reports. The confined space — on top of the bathroom — meant there was atmospheric heat and we believe that autoignition (and not an external ignition) triggered the blast,” said a forensic expert. He also ruled out the possibility of a cylinder blast. Some of the local residents claimed it might be remnants of a “suti bomb”. A case was registered at Beliaghata police station and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy), 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the IPC along with Section-5 of Explosive Act was filed against unknown accused persons. Besides the local cops from Beliaghata police station, officers from bomb squad, dog squad and anti rowdy squad (ARS) of the detective department, visited the spot.  The club is believed to be run by a local developer, who had switched political affiliations in the past and has been involved in some gang wars in the area almost nine years ago. The area had then witnessed frictions in between but off late has had a long spell of peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blast-rips-roof-off-club-in-beliaghata/articleshow/78650115.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 14, 2020||India||TRP case: Cops summon two Republic TV editors||MUMBAI: The city crime branch probing the TRP manipulation racket is searching for two persons, including a relationship manager of Hansa Research, who officials believe have extensive information on viewership rigging by a television channel. Police have also summoned on Wednesday two senior editors of Republic TV, Niranjan Narayanswamy, based in Mumbai, and Abhishek Kapoor, based in Delhi. Police said they wanted to question the two editors in the case and also regarding a telecast on October 10 in which documents purportedly belonging to Hansa Research Group were shown. On Tuesday, the special investigation team led by assistant commissioner of police Shashank Sanbhor, while seeking remand of the five arrested accused, said the police were looking for Dinesh Vishwakarma, employed with Hansa Research, and one Rocky. Police had earlier arrested Vishal Bhandari, a former relationship manager of Hansa Research, one of the persons who was allegedly assigned the work of paying households for watching certain channels. Republic TV, Fakt TV and Box Cinema are being probed for rigging the viewership numbers. Sources said Hansa itself had mentioned in its complaint that two of its employees, Vishal Bhandari and Dinesh Vishwakarma, destroyed its reputation. Police on Tuesday produced all the five accused — Vishal Bhandari, Bompelli Mistri, Shirish Shetty, Narayan Sharma and Vinay Tripathi — before the Esplanade Metropolitan Magistrate. All of them were further remanded in police custody till October 16. In the remand, police said they want to confront Vinay Tripathi with Vishal Bhandari and other accused to know the flow of money. Police said they have sought bank details of Mistri, Shetty and Sharma to know the flow of money coming in from various channels. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has installed 2,000 people meters. BARC had given the contract of monitoring the barometers to Hansa Research. The accused connived with each other and manipulated the TRPs by asking people to watch certain channels and paid them a fixed monthly pay and caused huge losses to other channels, advertising agencies and misled the general people, said police. Police said they wanted to question the two editors in the TRP case and also regarding a telecast on October 10 in which documents purportedly belonging to Hansa Research were shown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-case-cops-summon-two-republic-tv-editors/articleshow/78651110.cms||S Ahmed Ali
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Nightingale of Gujarat’ Kaumudi Munshi passes away in Mumbai||AHMEDABAD: Legendary singer Kaumudi Munshi, known as the ‘Nightingale of Gujarat’, breathed her last on Tuesday. She was 91. Rich tributes were paid to her from various parts of the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi while paying tribute to Munshi said her contribution to make ‘Sugam Sangeet’ popular to the masses will be remembered by generations of music lovers. She tested positive for Covid-19 and was hospitalized in Mumbai recently, according to her son, Uday Mazumdar, also a classical singer. Born in Varanasi in 1929, her family is originally from Vadnagar. The sixth child of Kunvar Nandlal Munshi and Anuben Munshi, she completed her degree in arts from Banaras University in 1950. She married Ninu Mazumdar, who was the music director associated with All India Radio, where Kaumudi spent her early career singing songs in Gujarati. Some of her songs in Gujarati that are popular even today are ‘Sachi re maari satre bhavani maa’, and ‘koi aghe aghe thi venu vai che’. After their wedding, Ninu sent her to legendary artist Siddheshwari Devi to train in singing. Devi was the ‘Queen of Thumris’ at that point in time. However, as society discouraged women singers from making a career in singing in those days, Kaumudi could not start public performances immediately thereafter. Her husband, also a poet, wrote some songs for her, composed them and helped her cut a music album. Though she learnt Indian classical music, she was keenly interested in and fascinated by thumri, dadra, chaiti, kajari, ghazals and Bhojpuri folk songs. She believed that lyrics made for these styles of singing have emotions of the people and the experience of the lyricists. The performer gets engrossed in the song and becomes the poet for those moments. Because of this engagement, the performance touches the heart of the audience and the performer is appreciated. This is the reason why people find more emotions and flow in Kaumudi’s work than purely singing skills. Though Kaumudi was more popular in her performance of Sugam Sangeet, she is one of the few Gujarati artists who excelled at thumris. She sang duets with other legendary singers including Lata Mangeshkar, Manna Dey and even C H Aatma. Kaumudi also sang in Bhojpuri. In the Bhojpuri movie release in 1963 ‘Bidesiya’, she san ‘Neek saiyan bin’ with renowned singer Geeta Dutt. Her contribution to children’s music has also been noteworthy. She wrote some of these songs herself. She has compiled a Gujarati album for children called Chhaani Maani Raat Padi where the playback singing is by her students. Kaumudi has written many Hindi baal-geet which help kids learn about various principles, social behaviour, food, vegetables, cooking style and so on, said Upagna Pandya, her student and a playback singer who has a number of songs to her credit including ‘O Pappad Wale’ in Vishal Bharadwaj’s film Makdee. “Apart from this, she also gave words to sargam and paltas for kids to learn music faster. And unknowingly they learn concepts like numbers, relationships, taal, fruits among other things,” said Pandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nightingale-of-gujarat-kaumudi-munshi-passes-away-in-mumbai/articleshow/78649029.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Delhi||Cheap thrills: Select movies & lower prices to win you back||NEW DELHI: If there’s any major hit that you wanted to see but couldn’t, you may be able to catch it at the theatre closest to you now. With cinemas to open from October 15, of course with some restrictions, theatre owners are not only arranging safety features like sanitisation and safer popcorn and cola, but also thinking of the screen fare that will most be to your liking. The aim for cinema halls in the initial weeks is not business, but winning the trust of people. Cinema chains are meticulously arranging the show schedules so as to allow viewers a comfortable experience given the reduced seating and safety protocols to be followed. Cinegoers will have to mandatorily wear masks and temperature checks will be carried out at the entry. There will be special attention paid to food and beverage, with popcorn being served covered and all packaging disinfected using the latest technology. Alok Tandon, CEO, INOX Leisure Ltd, has spruced up his own website and will offer tickets safely in tandem with the popular movie ticket aggregators. The movie experience, to a large extent now, is going to be digital from booking the ticket to ordering the food. Tandon added that his chain will also stock PPE kits — mask, gloves, hand sanitiser — at the cinema complex for anyone who might want to purchase one. Amit Sharma of Miraj Cinemas said being the last major industry to reopen, cinema would have to put in place the best hygiene practices to reassure the clientele. Above all, theatre operators are keen on offering the right fare — with perhaps discounted tickets thrown in as an extra incentive. PVR Cinemas, for instance, has lined up events such as the Christopher Nolan festival, Yashraj festival and Unmissable Hits, alongside screenings of Punjabi, Gujarati and Bengali movies. Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, declares the next few weeks as ideal for moviegoers. While the first day on October 15 will be reserved for the PVR staff and health professionals in the vicinity of the multiplex chain’s 11 outlets, operations for the general public will start from the following day, according to Dutta. He said to build customer confidence and to draw more viewers, ticket prices, even those for the premium lounge, will be reduced. Miraj’s Sharma will be keenly following the performance of major Bengali cinema releases next week as a part of the festive releases. He felt these movies will set the tone for the weeks ahead, while conceding that predictions about audience response to the resumption is guesswork at this time. “The whole industry will keep an eye on the Bengali movies’ performances and those of a few Punjabi and Telugu releases before we get to the big-ticket Hollywood and Bollywood releases from next month,” said Sharma. While staff in the cinema halls are agog at the prospect of renewed operations, Dutta cautioned that it is important the theatre operators do not let their guard down and constantly educate consumers and employees about self-discipline and hygiene protocols. While awaiting major releases closer to Diwali next month, most cinema chains, mindful that it will not be the usual back-to-back Friday releases to be screened over the next two weeks, will work overtime to get as many screening slots as physical distancing norms will allow, while training staff in crowd and food handling to comply with the Covid guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cheap-thrills-select-movies-lower-prices-to-win-you-back/articleshow/78649071.cms||Amin Ali
October 14, 2020||Kolkata||Shopping shows the way: Crowd control panic for organisers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The surge in shopper crowd every evening at Hatibagan, New Market and Gariahat has left Puja organizers in cold sweat. While they have time and again committed to police officers that they will enforce physical-distancing measures at the pandals, senior functionaries of clubs that organize the Pujas are spending sleepless nights over how to keep the promise if pandal hoppers descend in large numbers. After the concerns were relayed to police officers on Tuesday, the latter drew up a strategy that includes wider road space for pedestrians during Puja and strict access control at pandals. “We are adhering to all measures that have been laid out. But beyond what’s known is the X-factor — the crowd count. We cannot predict how many people will turn up and when. We just hope and pray people will be cautious when they step out and avoid crowds, even if it means missing a pandal that is on their must-visit list,” said Kingshuk Maitra, secretary of Suruchi Sangha in New Alipore, one of the biggest draws in the city. Last year, the Puja drew 5 lakh visitors a day or 35 lakhs in a week. Even if half the number of people turn up this year over 10 days, it will mean 1.7 lakh people a day. And that is too much for 250 volunteers to control. At Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav, secretary Saswata Bose is experiencing early signs of panic as he sees a sea of shoppers descend in the neighbourhood every evening. “If Puja shopping is any indication, we are heading for an extremely difficult situation. If everyone, who has shopped hits the streets to pandal, there will be pandemonium. I am very scared over what might happen, both during the Puja and thereafter,” said Bose, who is also secretary of Forum for Durgotsav, the platform of the leading Durga Puja organisers in Kolkata. In central Kolkata, Santosh Mitra Square Sarbajanin Durgotsav secretary Sajal Ghosh said they have decided to shut the entry if there is a crowd surge. “It is not that Covid will strike only inside the pandals. If people queue up even outside, Covid can spread. It’s better we shut down if there is a crowd surge,” said Ghosh. At Singhi Park near Gariahat, organisers are so worried that they have asked police to arrest revellers if they violate Covid norms during the festival. “Usually, Puja is a time for bonhomie when we take everything in good spirit and look the other way if there are minor aberrations. But not this time. It will be unmanageable if the kind of crowd that is turning up to shop at Gariahat also visits the pandal,” said functionary Prasanta Sarkar. During the coordination meetings held by Kolkata Police in various divisions, officers said they had been approached by various Puja organisers anxious about crowd control. On their part, the cops have altered their strategy by widening the walkway for pandal hoppers. “Usually, we confine pedestrians in a narrow channel or push crowds to parallel streets to keep a road free for traffic. Thus, to keep D H Road in Behala free, we used to drive pedestrians to Roy Bahadur Road or James Long Sarani. Similarly, we used to ensure that the main Ultadanga-Sobvabazar link didn’t get disrupted. This year though, more space will be reserved for pedestrian movememt. We are also working on measures to control the crowd well ahead of the pandals,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shopping-shows-the-way-crowd-control-panic-for-organisers/articleshow/78650119.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 14, 2020||Salem||Mettur dam’s water level crosses 100ft||Salem: The water level in Mettur dam crossed 100ft for the second time in a year on Tuesday afternoon. “The dam reached the 100ft for the 66th time in its 87 years of existence,” a PWD official said. The dam reached 100ft on September 25. The inflow to the dam rose to 27,212 cusecs from 22,000 cusecs on Tuesday morning. “On Tuesday morning, the dam’s water level stood at 99.10ft against its full capacity of 120ft,” the officer said, adding that it touched 100ft on the same day. The PWD released 14,000 cusecs of water from the dam to delta districts for irrigation needs while 900 cusecs into dam’s east and west bank canals for Salem, Namakkal and Erode districts for irrigation needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mettur-dams-water-level-crosses-100ft/articleshow/78649054.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Trichy||Dalit panchayat president protests caste abuse in Tamil Nadu||NAGAPATTINAM: Close on the heels of a dalit woman president being made to sit on the floor for panchayat meetings, another has alleged caste discrimination by her colleagues belonging to vanniyar community in Mayiladuthurai. The 23-year-old president of Mannampandal panchayat in Mayiladuthurai district staged a sit-in in front of the union office on Monday evening along with her father Periyasami, alleging that the panchayat vice-president and a section of councillors belonging to vanniyar caste had not allowed her to sit on a newly bought revolving chair at the office. P Priya had won her first local body election last year. She had bought a new rolling chair with the consent of her colleagues including panchayat vice-president R Amala and councillors a week ago. New chairs were bought for other members as well. However, Priya alleged that Amala's husband Rajagopal abused her mentioning her caste during a meeting at the office for buying the chair and continued to do so in public from the day it arrived. She said the other office-bearers did not cooperate with her. “On October 5, we had an informal discussion with vice-president Amala and few councillors at the office. Amala’s husband Rajagopal was also present. Under the free goat scheme, the government had allotted 110 goats to our village. Rajagopal pestered me to allot more goats to vanniyar community beneficiaries. When I refused, he started to shout at me. When my father tried to pacify him, he kicked the new chair that had been set aside for my use. He went out of the office and started abusing me naming our caste for spending public money on the rolling chair. So we vacated the place and complained to block development officer C Saravanan. However, no action has been taken,” she alleged. She also alleged that the vice-president along with officer-bearers refused to sign bills demanding bribe. When contacted, Amala told TOI that Priya misappropriated panchayat fund to the tune of Rs 9 lakh without her knowledge. “She is using caste card to cover up her misuse of fund using my digital signature fraudulently”, she alleged. Mayiladuthurai BDO Saravanan told TOI that based on the district administration's instruction, assistant director of panchayats Rajasekaran will conduct an inquiry. The president, vice-president, all councillors and panchayat clerk have been asked to report for the inquiry on Thursday. Further action would be initiated based on its outcome, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dalit-panchayat-president-protests-caste-abuse-in-tn/articleshow/78649027.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Housing demand rises in AP, but banks proceed with care||Vijayawada: While there is a growing demand for houses in the state, banks are taking a cautious approach in approving home loans. This in turn is hurting the prospects of the realty sector. Even for approved loans, banks have reduced ‘loan-to-value’ (LTV) by around 40% compared to pre-pandemic times. With tighter norms imposed by banks, realtors in Amaravati are placed in a peculiar situation. On the one hand, the demand for houses has seen a rise, especially for low-cost and affordable housing; on the other hand banks are wary of giving out loans making realtors unable to convert enquiries into transactions. T Vamsi Krishna, general secretary of Builders Association of India (BAI), Amaravati chapter, said that bankers would earlier approve loans on the basis of future growth prospects of the area. But now, they are considering minimum realisation value of the property while issuing home loans. Property valuations have come down drastically in Amaravati, Vijayawada and Guntur due to the prevailing uncertainly over the capital issue. The Covid-19 induced lockdown further brought down valuations. The corrective measures taken by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have caused interest rates to plummet and have thereby led to an increased demand from home buyers. The cautious approach adopted by bankers is creating a huge gap between LTV offered and requirements of home buyers. Bankers are wary of giving out easy loans at low margins for fear of NPAs (non-performing assets). Bankers are worried of an increase in NPAs in the realty sector as many projects have come to a grinding halt due to the uncertainly over the capital issue and the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, housing loan in-charge of State Bank of India (SBI), Tummala Vasantha Lakshmi said that the bank has reached pre-Covid levels in issuing fresh loans. There has been an increased demand for cheaper houses ranging up to Rs 40lakh post the lockdown, she observed. “We are soft in issuing fresh loans provided the loan seeker has had regular income in the last six months. However, there has been a change in LTV as property valuations have come down,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/housing-demand-rises-in-ap-but-banks-proceed-with-care/articleshow/78647580.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 14, 2020||Hubballi||3,311 kids from pvt schools joined govt schools||Haveri: The pandemic saw children from private schools migrating to goverment schools. The switch is attributed to families in distress returning home due to the pandemic-induced lockdown affecting jobs and many parents unable to pay fees. As many as 3,311 students have enrolled in government schools in Haveri district. Normally, the district would see aroud 250-300 students from private schools join government schools. With many parents unable to pay the fees or procure gadgets for online classes many are shiftng to government schools. Hirekerur taluk saw the highest migration with 605 students switching to government schools, followed by Hanagal (562), Ranebennur (512), Byadagi (412), Haveri (471), Savanur (297), and Shiggavi (452). "Despite easing of lockdown restrictions, daily wage labourers are still struggling to get back on their feet," said an official in the education department. Mallappa Somasagar, a parent from Nadineeralagi village in Savanur taluk, whose son studied in a private school in Karjagi said the school will open only when the situation is back to normal. "When we went to the government school in our village, we were satisfied with what the school was offering in terms of education without any fee. I will decide next year whether to go back to the old school," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3311-kids-from-pvt-schools-joined-govt-schools/articleshow/78646368.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy rain forecast for Saurashtra, South Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Heavy rainfall has been forecast for parts of Saurashtra and south Gujarat on October 16 and 17. Light to moderate rainfall has been forecast for most parts of central Gujarat between October 15 and 17. The state has so far received 135% of its average seasonal rainfall. A virtual meeting of the weather watch group was held on Tuesday to review the situation ahead of the forecast rainfall. Relief commissioner Harshad Patel said that none of the talukas in the state received any rainfall from 6am to 2pm on Tuesday. Till Tuesday, the state has received 1,122.6mm of rainfall this season, which is 135.1% more than the average seasonal rainfall of 831mm over the past 30 years. The state agriculture department said on Tuesday that sowing of kharif crops has taken place across 87.2 lakh hectares. Last year, in this period, sowing had taken place across 86.8 lakh hectares. Compared to the average kharif crop sowing over the past three years, the sowing this year has been 102.8%, the agriculture department said. Officials of the irrigation department said that currently there is 2.94 lakh million cubic feet of water in the Sardar Sarovar reservoir, while 205 other reservoirs in the state have 5.4 lakh million cubic feet of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rain-forecast-for-saurashtra-south-gujarat/articleshow/78649062.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bareilly||Man commits suicide after sharing a suicide note on FB||Bareilly: A 30-year-old old man killed himself by consuming poison shortly after sharing a suicide note on Facebook in Shahjahanpur city on Tuesday.Deceased Chandan Singh Verma, a social worker, claimed in his suicide note that he was being harassed by his wife who is demanding Rs 20 lakh for giving divorce. Chandan got married in 2014.When Chandan’s friends and relatives saw the suicide note on his post, they immediately started calling him, but he didn’t answer them.A few even knocked reached his house, but it was locked from inside. Police were informed and Chandan was found lying unconscious on his bed.He was immediately taken to a district hospital and later referred to higher centre in Bareilly, but he died on his way.SHO Kotwali police station Pravesh Singh said, “We have sent the body for autopsy. We are waiting for the family to lodge a complaint. The suicide note is an evidence and we will include it in our investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-commits-suicide-after-sharing-a-suicide-note-on-fb/articleshow/78645303.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rahul Gandhi likely to lead farmer rallies in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to visit Gujarat by the end of the month to participate in farmers’ protest rallies against the new farm bills that have recently been passed by Parliament. The state unit of the Congress is looking to mobilize farmers as was done during farmer rallies in Punjab, to protest the new farms laws. The state Congress has sought permission to hold farmer rallies in Saurashtra and North Gujarat. Paresh Dhanani, leader of the opposition, said, “Rahul Gandhi is leading the protests across the country against the anti-farmer bills passed by the BJP in Parliament by using its majority. We have asked the central leadership to schedule Rahul Gandhi’s farmer protest rallies in Gujarat to create awareness among Gujarat farmers against the perils of so-called farming reforms laws.” “We have asked for the necessary permissions for farmer rallies in Saurashtra and North Gujarat. Rahul Gandhi is expected to visit Gujarat in the third or fourth week of October. Even if the BJP government does not give permission for the rallies, we will continue to raise our voice for the farmers of Gujarat. We will highlight the plight of farmers and continue to create awareness about how harmful the new farming laws are,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-lead-farmer-rallies/articleshow/78649055.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||NTC workers protest delay in reopening mills||COIMBATORE: Workers of the National Textile Corporation (NTC) mill staged a protest in front of its headquarters at Kattoor in the city on Tuesday, demanding the mill management to reopen its units in the district at the earliest. M Anand Kumar, district vice-president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said, “While almost all industries and companies have resumed operations as usual after the government relaxed the lockdown norms, NTC mills are yet to be reopened. The mill management has been citing the pandemic as a reason for not reopening the mill.” There are seven NTC mills in the state. The mill in the district employs more than 5,000 workers. He said while the NTC has been disbursing half the salary to the salaried employees, daily wage workers have been forced to take up odd jobs, as they were not paid anything. “They were earning anywhere between Rs 400 and Rs 450 a day.” The workers withdrew the protest after police intervened. The management has, meanwhile, decided to hold talks with the protesters in a few days. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ntc-workers-protest-delay-in-reopening-mills/articleshow/78649063.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Akola collector admits excavation illegal but no action taken||Nagpur: Even as authorities have admitted that large-scale quarrying on the fringe of Katepurna wildlife sanctuary in Akola district is in violation of Supreme Court orders, all the three departments – revenue, territorial, and wildlife – have taken no action against any official in the matter. TOI on September 29, exposed how Barshitakli tehsildar JK Hamand granted permission for illegal quarrying of murrum and gravel for road work to Swami Samarth Engineering, Pune, in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) in August-September. The act was brought to the fore by Sheikh Munna Sheikh, president, Sarpamitra Nisarga Sanwardhan Bahuuddeshia Sanstha, Akola, by launching a formal complaint with sanctuary officials on August 23. “However, even after two months, officials are just pushing papers and those involved have gone scot-free. Over 600-800 truckload of murrum was extracted from the spot,” Sheikh said. The two big hillocks in Waghgad in Survey No 45 on the south-eastern part of the sanctuary were pulled down by the contractor. According to ACF (wildlife) VG Sable, the extraction was hardly 50 metres from the sanctuary border. Thirteen days after TOI expose, departments are still to verify the boundaries and fix responsibility. The wildlife wing is passing the buck to territorial officials while the latter is engaged in finding out to whom the 17 hectares area where quarrying took place belongs. Akola territorial DFO Vijay Mane said, “Mineral extraction was done in violation of laws in Survey No 45, but we need to fix the boundaries to fix responsibility. It is E-class land and road used to transport material belongs to wildlife. During my visit to the spot twice, I found some sanctuary pillars dismantled.” “I have demanded maps from the revenue department and we are identifying papers to verify whether the land falls in the sanctuary or outside. Any permission for quarrying is routed through the forest department but this matter was never put before us. In a week, we will be ready with all the facts. It is true that tehsildar played a blind game,” said Mane. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar expressed shock and surprise over the activity. “Agreed the tehsildar shouldn’t have granted permission if the area lies in ESZ, but why were forest officials quiet when such a big damage was done? They should have stopped it. I will take up the issue with the department officials at a meeting on October 15.” The apex court directions are very clear. The final ESZ notification of Katepurna (73sqkm) is yet to be out. In view of the ESZ delay, the default area of 10km is treated as ESZ. Proposals involving mining of minerals within the ESZ or one kilometre from the boundary of national parks and sanctuaries, whichever is higher, is prohibited as per SC order of August 4, 2006, in the matter of TN Godavarman Thirumulpad Vs UoI. Meanwhile, Sheikh has moved an application requesting the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to treat it as a PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-collector-admits-excavation-illegal-but-no-action-taken/articleshow/78649065.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rising ridership, migrant workers’ return behind surge in Covid-19 cases in Metro||BENGALURU: With daily ridership increasing and migrant workers returning from other states, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is seeing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. As many as 465 project staff and labourers involved in 72km Phase 2 work have been infected and four have died. Of these cases, 407 have recovered and 54 are under treatment/isolation. A majority of the infected are migrant workers who had returned from their hometowns and villages. Separately, 254 BMRCL employees including those working in Metro stations have tested positive till date. They include 93 BMRCL employees, 87 cleaning/ticketing staff and 74 security personnel. However, they have all recovered. Asked if they plan to exempt those with comorbidities and the elderly from duty, BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth said: “It has been considered on a case-to-case basis, taking into consideration work requirements and wherever work from home is possible.” Metro services remained suspended between March 22 and September 6 (169 days) due to the pandemic. BMRCL daily ridership has risen steadily from 4,220 on September 7 when services resumed on the purple line. It was 18,925 on September 10 when trains chugged on both purple and green lines for six hours (8am - 11am and 4.30pm -7.30pm). A total of 29,114 people used Namma Metro after green and purple lines operated for 14 hours on September 11 (7am and 9pm). On October 5, BMRCL recorded a ridership of 52,962 and records an average daily ridership of around 50,000 since. However, the ridership before Covid was 4.50 lakh when both lines were operational between 5am and 12midnight. Back to normalBMRCL said more than 7,500 new workers have joined work. “Now, the total strength is 9,500, the same as pre-Covid days. These workers are a new batch and there are still skill gaps,” said Seth. BMRCL has established a Covid Care Centre for its employees and bears the cost of all facilities including accommodation, food and medicine. “This has restored faith in workers on healthcare,” said Seth. Most workers are from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Odisha and Assam. BMRCL, which has handed contracts to various infrastructure firms, relies on subcontractors to source workers.  The return of migrant workers was possible only after the state government lifted all travel restrictions in August. Those coming from other states were neither required to undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine period nor obtain an e-pass to travel. This helped contractors bring workers from other states without hassles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/namma-metro-sees-surge-in-cases/articleshow/78646761.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Filing of papers for polls to 6 civic bodies begins today||JAIPUR: The process of filling nomination papers for the 560 wards of the six newly formed municipal corporations will commence from Wednesday. The last date for submission of papers is 3pm on October 19. Nominations will not be allowed on October 18 due to a holiday. After release of the notification, candidates of Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South will be allowed to file papers adhering to Covid protocol. Election commissioner PS Mehra said while filing papers, bike or vehicle rally or gathering of applicant’s supporters will be restricted. Legal action can be taken if the rules are violated. “Keeping in view the spread of nfection, compliance of guidelines will be mandatory. Returning officers or assistant returning officers without masks will also not be allowed to enter the chamber. Also, candidates and people who are accompanying them have to sanitise themselves before entering the room,” he said. Applicants can also download nomination papers from the website of the commission. Information about the various wards will issued by the returning officer. The age of the applicant must be 21 years on the date of scrutiny. Applicants must fill all entries in form-3 and no column should be left blank. Official said, “In the declaration, it will be necessary to provide information related to convictions and criminal cases under consideration, information about children and toilets. Apart from this, the candidate should also put a certificate issued by a competent authority of the state government about the caste.” As per the schedule, nomination papers will be scrutinised on October 20. Candidates can withdraw their names by October 22. An official said the allotment of election symbols will be done on October 23. Polling for Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North will be held on October 29 while that for Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South municipal corporations will be on November 1 from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. Counting of votes will take place from 9 am on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/filing-of-papers-for-polls-to-6-civic-bodies-begins-today/articleshow/78649067.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Veligonda oustees agree to cash compensation||Ongole: Clearing the last hurdle for completion of first phase of the prestigious Veligonda project in Prakasam district, the oustees have agreed to take cash compensation under one-time settlement and move out of the flood zone. The project works are expected to pick pace now as the district administration has succeeded in convincing the oustees. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had set November 30 as deadline for the completion of the first phase. The locals were resisting accepting the package announced by the government. After holding several rounds of discussions with villagers, the district administration has decided to grant Rs 12.5 lakh as one-time settlement grant. The government will release Rs 5.66 lakh for those who want to construct houses on their own without taking a house in the rehabilitation colony. The district administration also agreed to take up a resurvey to identify the eligible newly-married youths in the project-affected areas and treat them as project (to be) displaced family (PDF). “We have identified 4,617 PDFs in Sunkesula village of Veligonda project and we will grant all benefits to them under relief and rehabilitation package,” said district collector Pola Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/veligonda-oustees-agree-to-cash-compensation/articleshow/78647594.cms||Samdani MN
October 14, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Police foil robbery on road, nab 5 men||GADAG: Police on Sunday foiled an attempt of road robbery on Gadag Laxmeshwar Road near Dobhighat. They arrested five persons planning to target commuters with iron rods, sticks and red chilli powder. The accused have been identified as 23-year-old Rohit Kattimani, 22-year-old Hanumanth Handigund, 24-year-old Ganesh Gokak — all residents of Gandhi Nagar area in Betageri, 20-year-old Sunil Kolhapur, resident of Tagore Road and 19-year-old Sahil Annigeri from SM Krishna Nagar. Tried to ambush passers-by The accused were stationed on the sides of a road near Dhobighat holding a rope, iron rods, sticks and chilli powder to pounce on passers-by to rob them of their belongings, when a patrolling team noticed them, said the town police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-foil-robbery-on-road-nab-5-men/articleshow/78646404.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amit Shah in Ahmedabad for first time since lockdown||GANDHINAGAR: Union home minister and Gandhinagar MP Amit Shah arrived in Ahmedabad on Tuesday evening. He is expected to remain in Gujarat for five days. Shah arrived in Ahmedabad for the first time after almost seven months since the lockdown. Shah had recently been hospitalized twice for Covid-19 treatment and other medical issues. He has not scheduled any official or party meetings during his five-day stay here. He has planned to spend time with his family while keeping government and party work to minimum. However, there is a lot of excitement over his visit due to the ongoing assembly byelections as well as the long overdue reshuffle in the government and party in Gujarat. Shah is expected to visit his ‘Kul Devi’ temple in Mansa town near Gandhinagar on the first day of Navratri on October 17 for rituals. Shah has reportedly scheduled a review meeting of development work in his constituency along with chief minister Vijay Rupani, state party president C R Paatil, and other key leaders in the state. Although party workers in large numbers have been seeking his appointment, his office has restricted his meetings during the visit. There is a strong buzz that Shah may consider a number of changes in the state cabinet and the state BJP. Shah is expected to visit Gujarat again during Diwali and New Year festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amit-shah-in-city-for-first-time-since-lockdown/articleshow/78649100.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor cops nab 2 accused, almost 2 months after theft, recover stolen jewellery||BJINOR: Almost two months after thieves broke into a house and decamped with jewellery, police on Tuesday claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of two men. Stolen jewellery worth Rs 1.75lakh was seized from the possession of two suspects, police said. According to superintendent of police (SP) Dharamveer Singh, “Rajeev Kumar, a resident of Tubewell Colony had filed a complaint alleging that he along with his family members were out of house for some work on August 26. When they returned the next day, they found the lock of the house broken. Jewellery worth Rs 1.75 lakh was missing from the house.” Police had registered a case. According to Singh, “Police have arrested two persons identified as Nazakat and Farukh of Shah of Mandawar town. We have recovered gold jewellery from their possession.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/almost-2-months-after-theft-bijnor-cops-nab-2-accused-recover-stolen-jewellery/articleshow/78646389.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 14, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Filing of papers for polls to 6 civic bodies begins today||JAIPUR: The process of filling nomination papers for the 560 wards of the six newly formed municipal corporations will commence from Wednesday. The last date for submission of papers is 3pm on October 19. Nominations will not be allowed on October 18 due to a holiday. After release of the notification, candidates of Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South will be allowed to file papers adhering to Covid protocol. Election commissioner PS Mehra said while filing papers, bike or vehicle rally or gathering of applicant’s supporters will be restricted. Legal action can be taken if the rules are violated. “Keeping in view the spread of nfection, compliance of guidelines will be mandatory. Returning officers or assistant returning officers without masks will also not be allowed to enter the chamber. Also, candidates and people who are accompanying them have to sanitise themselves before entering the room,” he said. Applicants can also download nomination papers from the website of the commission. Information about the various wards will issued by the returning officer. The age of the applicant must be 21 years on the date of scrutiny. Applicants must fill all entries in form-3 and no column should be left blank. Official said, “In the declaration, it will be necessary to provide information related to convictions and criminal cases under consideration, information about children and toilets. Apart from this, the candidate should also put a certificate issued by a competent authority of the state government about the caste.” As per the schedule, nomination papers will be scrutinised on October 20. Candidates can withdraw their names by October 22. An official said the allotment of election symbols will be done on October 23. Polling for Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North will be held on October 29 while that for Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South municipal corporations will be on November 1 from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. Counting of votes will take place from 9 am on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/filing-of-papers-for-polls-to-6-civic-bodies-begins-today/articleshow/78656323.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Meerut||Seven most polluted cities of India in NCR, Panipat & Bhiwadi share top slot||MEERUT: Haze has started descending over National Capital Region (NCR), whose cities were on the top seven spots on the list of most polluted areas of the country released by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday. All of them fell in the ‘very poor’ category, which, CPCB says, can cause "respiratory ailments on prolonged exposure". Baghpat, which was on the top on Monday, was next most polluted place in the country with 324 AQI. Faridabad and Charkhi Dadri cities of Haryana were tied at third spot with 314 AQI. While AQI of Greater Noida and Jind was 306 and 305 respectively. Track the pollution level in your cityAlmost all the districts of western Uttar Pradesh reeled under the "poor" category except Bagphat whose air was "very poor" and Hapur which was in the "moderate" slot. The drastic rise in AQI numbers coincides with the onset of winter. And, by November, when fields of Haryana, Punjab and western UP are glowing with fires, the air quality is at its nadir. In November last year, the air quality of NCR had hit the “emergency level” and in most parts it had breached the 400 mark on AQI scale. The farm fires are yet to hit their peak. They will during November and December. According to a rough estimate, 5.86million hectare area is under paddy cultivation in UP. And once the crop is harvested, large-scale stubble burning leads to alarming levels of pollution in the NCR region. Despite several measures, including satellite monitoring, filings of hundreds of FIRs against farmers and as many flying squads, the states have achieved little. People with respiratory ailments, elderly and children suffer the most. Pulmonologist Veerottam Tomer says, “Suspended particulate matter -- PM 10 and PM 2.5-- in the air lead to breathing discomfort in most people. On prolonged exposure, it also leads to respiratory illness.” The authorities are on toes to curb the stubble for the last one month. According to joint director of agriculture department in Moradabad division, JP Chaudhary, “A watchful eye is being kept on paddy fields through satellite surveillance. And if any field is found on fire, FIR will be filed immediately apart from slapping of hefty fine. Besides, a flying squad has been constituted to take prompt action. Of late, a decision has been made that village heads will also face FIR for negligence this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/seven-most-polluted-cities-of-india-in-ncr-panipat-bhiwadi-share-top-slot/articleshow/78646393.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Chikungunya cases up 113%; dengue dips 92%||AHMEDABAD: Chikungunya cases this year registered a 113% rise compared to 2019. Cases of dengue and malaria, however, declined by 92% and 87%. Health officials are yet to find out the reason behind the rise of chikungunya cases. “Dengue and chikungunya both are viral infections spread by Aedes mosquito. If the mosquito density is high it would have resulted in increase in dengue cases also. We are analyzing the trend to find out the reason behind it. We are scanning the areas reporting an increase in chikungunya cases,” said Bhavin Solanki, the medical health officer. The cases are on the rise since August and it continued to increase in October. In the first 10 days of the month, the average case per day was six against four in September. Officials said that total dengue cases may be less as compared to the last year, but currently there is a steady rise in cases. The officials said that in 2019, 13 dengue deaths were reported against which this year there have been no deaths either due to dengue or chikungunya. He said cases of malaria and falciparum malaria were also declining in the city. “This year fewer raids were conducted against commercial establishments and construction sites because the administration was engaged more in the Covid management,” said the official. Prof Deepak Saxena, an epidemiologist at IIPH-G, said that along with Aedes aegypti, Aedes albopictus (Asian tiger mosquito) also act as secondary vector for the transmission of both chikungunya and dengue. “The tiger mosquito is considered to be highly competent vector for chikungunya. The virus is found replicated to high levels in the mosquito as early as two days after the ingestion of infected blood,” he said. “Circulation pattern of dengue and chikungunya are likely to be modified in the future. Co-infection of mosquitos in Ahmedabad needs study.” Dr Sanjay Shah, head of emergency department at a city-based hospital, said that the chikungunya outbreak is a cyclical event and was seen about three years back in the city. “There are no specific medical reasons for less dengue and more chikungunya cases – but we believe it’s to do with the viral distribution and vector carrier,” he said, adding that this year, the chikungunya is more severe with patients reporting severe polyarthritis where they can’t even get up from day one. “Mosquitos for malaria are found in dirty water whereas mosquitos for dengue and chikungunya prefer clean water. It’s seen more prevalent on open construction sites and stored water. While malaria mosquitos bite during night hours, Aedes aegypti are active during daytime,” said Dr Manoj Vithalani, a city-based consulting physician. “One must wear full-sleeve clothes and clear the open stored water. Compared to last year, we have seen significant rise in chikungunya cases this year. Malaria cases have been reduced perhaps due to cleanliness drives in the light of Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chikungunya-cases-up-113-dengue-dips-92/articleshow/78649123.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Cyber cops nab 4 Nigerians for duping ex-Army staffer of Rs41 lakh||Nagpur: Cyber police station personnel have arrested four Nigerians and one Indian citizen in Delhi for their role in duping a former medical officer of the Indian Army to the tune of Rs41.70 lakh. The five, produced before court on Tuesday, were remanded till October 19. The Nigerians, in the garb of cloth traders, were involved in a racket operating in Mumbai in Maharashtra, Kolkata, Delhi and Nagaland. They had duped several Indians to the tune of crores of rupees through online fraud. In the latest case, the former Army personnel was befriended through social media, then lured with a job in Canadian army and lucrative gifts to dupe her. Asking for money on the pretext of various reasons, the money received from the ex-Army official was diverted into eight different accounts. Most of these accounts were traced to a Delhi resident, Sujit Tiwari, who was the first one to be picked up by the city police team. Cyber cops, under city police chief Amitesh Kumar and additional CP Sunil Phulari, had frozen the eight bank accounts with balance of around Rs18 lakhs, seized 13 mobile phones and 18 different credit cards from the gang. Police are yet to trace out the passport and visas of the Nigerian nationals. A team of only six persons, comprising senior inspector Raghavendrasingh Khirsagar, Asst PI Vishal Mane, head constable Sanjay Tiwari, constable Ajay Pawar, Deepak Chavan and Bablu Thakur had to strive for several days in Delhi to arrest the Nigerian nationals and their local contact Tiwari. It was Tiwari who helped the racket with his bank accounts, Sim cards and other documents to receive the money from their victims. One of the Nigerians had nearly slipped away from the cops but was pinned down by the alert team. In another arrest, the police team had been outnumbered and surrounded by Nigerians in a locality, but they were able to get away with one of the accused they had arrested. Police are now alerting the enforcement directorate, ministry of external affairs and other agencies regarding the Nigerians. HOW THEY WERE CAUGHT Bank accounts of Sujit Tiwari were traced in Delhi Police managed to trace and nab Tiwari first, from whom details of the Nigerians were mostly gathered CCTV footage of one of the Nigerians was recovered from the ATM from where he used to withdraw cash Police used Tiwari to trap two Nigerians and used local help to nab others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-cops-nab-4-nigerians-for-duping-ex-army-staffer-of-rs41-lakh/articleshow/78649127.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP set to finalise Ramchander for MLC election||Hyderabad: State BJP unit will target sympathisers of the party and get them enrolled as voters for the ensuing graduates constituencies MLC elections. After a hectic pre-poll preparation meeting on GHMC election on Monday, the party has decided to get more people enrolled as voters. Sources said party activists would go to the houses of the sympathisers and collect their data for enrolment. For Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency, the name of MLC N Ramchander Rao has almost been finalised. The party is also keen on giving a tough fight in Nalgonda-Khammam-Warangal constituency. The fight in this seat is set for a close finish with TJS founder-president M Kodandaram also entering the poll fray. The BJP is considering the candidatures of Revuri Prakash Reddy and E Peddi Reddy for this seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-set-to-finalise-ramchander-for-mlc-election/articleshow/78650146.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Mathikere swab collector takes 251 samples in just 4 hours||Bengaluru: A swab collector in Mathikere has created a record of sorts by collecting throat and nasal swab samples of 251 people in a span of four hours. PK Manjunath, 28, has been working with BBMP’s Covid-19 team in various capacities for close to three months now. His feat on Tuesday drew appreciation from BBMP brass. Dr Revanasiddayya M, Covid medical officer at Mathikere primary health centre in RR Nagar zone, said, Manjunath was the only swab collector available for its mobile unit on Tuesday. The PHC has been set a target of 360 samples a day, a majority of which is collected through the mobile unit. Tuesday’s effort was achieved at Yeshwantpur railway station. Dr Revanasiddayya said Manjunath takes 50 seconds to swab an individual, while protocol suggests one minute for the job. Manjunath, who joined BBMP’s Covid team in August, has not yet received a single rupee in salary. He was selected in a walk-in interview arranged by the Palike to pick staff for Covid Care Centres. BBMP promised him Rs 25,000 per month, but he was never paid. At first he worked at the Jnanabharathi CCC. After 10 days of continuous work, he was in quarantine for a week. By then, the CCC closed down. “I got a call again asking me to join as a swab collector for a salary of Rs 14,000 per month. I rejected it as the payment was too low and dues for August were pending. But then they upped the offer to Rs 19,000 and I joined work on September 15,” Manjunath said. Manjunath, who has completed a paramedical diploma course, collects about 200 samples a day, which begins at 6.30am and ends at 8pm when samples – properly packed and barcoded – are sent to the lab for tests. He works in PPE for four to five hours. Usually, the mobile unit team consists of Manjunath, another swab collector, three data entry operators and Dr Revanasiddayya. Manjunath says often people take their anger out on swab collectors since the process is painful. “Some yell at us, others get angry and ask why they need to get tested since they have no symptoms. Officials step in and sort out things,” he said. Passengers arriving at Yeshwantpur railway station without masks or wearing one improperly must be tested, besides those with Covid symptoms. “Of 100 passengers tested, 10-15 would be infected. We collect contact number, Aadhaar and address of those providing samples. Many do not give their correct address,” Dr Revanasiddayya said. Manjunath said: “It’s a tough job, but I give it my all. I hope to get a government job one day.” He is aspiring for a junior health assistant or health inspector post. Manjunath earlier worked in a garment shop which closed during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mathikere-swab-collector-takes-251-samples-in-just-4-hours/articleshow/78646785.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||BCG to act against lawyers in other professions||Ahmedabad: The Bar Council of Gujarat (BCG) on Tuesday resolved to act against those lawyers who are full-time engaged in other professions and have not deposited their sanad (license to practice law) with the council. The BCG decided to take action against such sanad holders after seven cases of full-time lecturers employed in law colleges came to its notice. These lecturers have not deposited their sanad with the Bar Council according to the Advocates Act, which provides for prior approval from the body before taking up any other profession if a person wants to keep the sanad. The Bar Council stated that there are many more cases in which advocates have not deposited their sanads, though they are engaged in other professions than practising the law. The Bar Council has assigned an inquiry into this to its enrolment committee. Meanwhile, due to the nationwide lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic, lawyers have been hit hard financially. As the courts were shut, the BCG permitted the lawyers to take up other professions till the year ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bcg-to-act-against-lawyers-in-other-professions/articleshow/78649128.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Government teachers oppose move to modify age for direct recruitment||Coimbatore: Government teachers in the district have demanded the state to revoke the order reducing the age limit for direct recruitments to 40 from 57, stating the move would affect the prospects of candidates, who have been selected through the teacher eligibility test (TET) and teacher recruitment board (TRB) exam, and awaiting their postings. Representatives of the Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers’ Association (TNPGTA) condemned the order, saying around 80,000 candidates, who had passed the TET in 2013, have been waiting for postings and their seven-year validity of the TET qualification was about to expire, as there have been no recruitments in the state in the past seven years. V M Michaelraj, state information and communication secretary, TNPGTA, said, “Most of them have now crossed the age of 40 years. Because of the state’s move, they would not be able to write the exam now. They have not done anything wrong. It is unfair for the state to punish them in the name of a policy decision.” Pointing out that there was no age limit for direct recruitment of government teachers for the past 30 years, he said the only criteria was that they had to be able to complete a year of service, if recruited. “So, a teacher could be recruited at 57. Now that the state has increased the retirement age to 59, the age limit for direct recruitment should have been increased to 58. But it is ironic that the same has been brought down to 40. This would shatter the dreams of several aspiring government teachers.” T Arulanandam, state auditor of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers’ Association, expressed a similar view. He said there were several candidates aged around 40-45 awaiting posting after clearing the TET and TRB exams. “If they are given jobs, they could earn for a decade and help their families.” Teachers associations said the eligible and aspiring candidates, including those aged above 40, were presently getting low pay in private schools and the move was unfair to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-teachers-oppose-move-to-modify-age-for-direct-recruitment/articleshow/78649146.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Madurai||Cop vigil up in Periyar canal in Madurai after drownings||MADURAI: Police have increased vigil alongside the Periyar canal in Madurai to prevent bathing after incidents of people drowning in the water were reported. Police beat teams, highway patrol teams and traffic police personnel have been roped in to check for people entering the canal. Vigil has been increased at places like Alanganallur, Kallandiri and other villages, where a large number of people take bath. “Many venture into the canal without knowing swimming. It would be risky even for those who know swimming when the water current is high. Those, who live in nearby villages know the risk involved and take bath in safer places. But, people coming from other areas may not know the potential danger,” said a police officer. Another officer said that lately the canal is turning into a getaway as hundreds of people throng during weekends. Many come with families. There have been instances, of some people getting washed away in the water, saved by villagers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-vigil-up-in-periyar-canal-after-drownings/articleshow/78650161.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Lottery drawn for reserved seats in 10 municipalities||Jaipur: Lottery for wards reserved for OBC and women candidates in 10 municipalities of Jaipur district were drawn on Tuesday. District election officer Antar Singh Nehra took out the lottery, which helped to finalise the reserved wards.The 10 municipalities for which the lottery was held consist of 320 wards. Though election dates are yet to be announced, the lottery will help in finalising election calculations. In the lottery, the following seats were reserved for women and OBC candidates: Chomu (45), Shahpura (35), Bagru (35), Virat Nagar (25), Jobner (20), Phulera (25), Kishangarh Renwal (35), Kotputli (40), Chaksu (35) and Sambhar (25).A senior official at district collector’s office said, “The lottery has decided the reserved seats. This will help people decide how to make a strategy till the election dates are announced.” One-third of the seats have been reserved for women. Political parties are speculating that the decision of municipal corporation elections in Jaipur will impact the poll in those civic bodies.Jaipur civic poll be held on October 29 and 30. Dates for civic polls in other municipalities of the districts haven’t been announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lottery-drawn-for-reserved-seats-in-10-municipalities/articleshow/78649165.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Leaders seek tickets for wives from reserved seats||Jaipur: In the upcoming municipal elections, many former councillors and leaders are seeking tickets for their wives. After the delimitation of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), 250 new wards have been created. Many new wards, which were earlier non-reserved, are now reserved for women. Hence, former councillors and politicians are now planning to let their wives contest.Sushil Sharma, whose ward is now divided into three parts (Ward 11, 16 and 17), will contest from two of them. “One ward is for general category from where I will contest and from women reserved ward, my wife will contest. Since, I have been contesting as an Independent candidate, ticket is not an issue for me,” said Sharma. Ajay Yadav, former councillor is now claiming ticket from the BJP for his wife Kusum Yadav, from Ward 74. Kusum has been a councillor herself in the last election, but this year, the seat is reserved for OBC women. So, she is planning to contest alone.A senior Congress leader said that this is a way to keep power in the family. Most of these people have once been former councillor or in any way related to local politics. So, any member of their family contesting elections will be beneficial for them.Manoj Saini is claiming ticket for his wife Renuka Saini from Ward 82. Manoj’s father, Madan Lal Saini, had been BJP state president until his death last year. “Women will have more connection with female in the household. During election, along with the civic issues, there are many women related issues which a female councillor can handle better,” said Saini. In some cases, the changing categories of seats have given opportunity to both husband and wife in municipal elections.Rajesh Aakad contested and won councillor’s seat in 2004. However, the seat is now reserved for women. “In 2009 and 2014, my wife Sunita Aakad contested and was victorious. This year again, the seat has become general, so I will be contesting from Ward 71. People have seen our work in the area. I am hopeful that party will give us ticket,” said Aakad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leaders-seek-tickets-for-wives-from-reserved-seats/articleshow/78649154.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 14% decline in daily tally in 13 days for Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday recorded 1,158 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 1.53 lakh. It was seventh day for state of constantly declining cases and third consecutive day of below 1,200 daily case tally. The new cases included 248 in Surat, 177 in Ahmedabad, 124 in Vadodara, 109 in Rajkot, and 100 in Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases in Rajkot crossed 11,000 as cases in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 39,372, 32,596, and 13,729 respectively. The state recorded deaths of 10 positive patients, taking the total to 3,587. The deaths included three each from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara, and one from Mahisagar. The death toll of Vadodara reached 199 as Ahmedabad and Surat have recorded 1,855 and 807 deaths so far. A total of 1,375 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.35 lakh. The discharges included 286 from Surat, 200 from Ahmedabad, 173 from Vadodara, and 147 from Rajkot. With the update, the active cases in Gujarat was reduced to 15,209. For the first time, the share of active cases in Gujarat got reduced below 10% at 9.9%, as the share of discharged and deceased patients was 87.8% and 2.3% respectively. The number of tests carried out in 24 hours was 50,993, taking the total to 51.14 lakh. Against average 53,588 daily tests in October so far, the number of tests has got reduced below 51,000 for the past two days. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 5.82 lakh persons under quarantine - out of total, 298 were under facility quarantine, whereas the rest under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-14-decline-in-daily-tally-in-13-days-for-gujarat/articleshow/78649200.cms||---
October 14, 2020||---||Rivals belt out songs, hope they’re music to voters’ ears||PATNA: A day after RJD released its poll song ‘Tejashwi bhava: Bihar’, BJP on Tuesday launched its own ‘Bihar Me Ee Ba’ to showcase the infrastructure development in Bihar under the NDA regime. The BJP’s video song also mentions the opening of IITs, AIIMS, new bridges as well as improvement in the health and education sector. It also talks about transforming Bihar cities into metros like Mumbai and Delhi. All senior BJP functionaries, including party’s national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, have posted the song on their social media handles. This song is seen as a reply to ‘Bihar me ka ba’, a song by Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore. Neha, in her song, has raised questions about migration, handling of Covid-19 and dilapidated educational infrastructure, besides the 15-year rule each of Nitish Kumar and Lalu-Rabri. Earlier, cine star Manoj Bajpai had come up with a rap, ‘Mumbai me ka ba’, which talked about the plight of labourers who migrated to big cities like Mumbai for work while leaving behind their families. The rap talks about the hardships the migrants suffer, the kind of food they eat and adversities in which they live in the metros, leaving behind their village life just to earn livelihood. However, BJP spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh said the party song is a reply to the opposition which questions the development in Bihar in the last 15 years. “Few people suffer from political disease and they are not able to see any development. This song is an eye-opener for them. They should recall that Bihar is the land of Chandragupta. They need to be reminded about the Kosi rail bridge inaugurated recently,” he said. Political parties are making full use of digital platforms to reach the audience in the times of Covid pandemic. They are coming up with several audio-video songs to attack the opposition and try to send their messages across the common people. RJD on Monday launched its campaign song with a punch line, ‘Is baar Tejashwi tai hai’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rivals-belt-out-songs-hope-theyre-music-to-voters-ears/articleshow/78651120.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 14, 2020||India||Rivals belt out songs, hope they’re music to voters’ ears||PATNA: A day after RJD released its poll song ‘Tejashwi bhava: Bihar’, BJP on Tuesday launched its own ‘Bihar Me Ee Ba’ to showcase the infrastructure development in Bihar under the NDA regime. The BJP’s video song also mentions the opening of IITs, AIIMS, new bridges as well as improvement in the health and education sector. It also talks about transforming Bihar cities into metros like Mumbai and Delhi. All senior BJP functionaries, including party’s national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, have posted the song on their social media handles. This song is seen as a reply to ‘Bihar me ka ba’, a song by Bhojpuri singer Neha Singh Rathore. Neha, in her song, has raised questions about migration, handling of Covid-19 and dilapidated educational infrastructure, besides the 15-year rule each of Nitish Kumar and Lalu-Rabri. Earlier, cine star Manoj Bajpai had come up with a rap, ‘Mumbai me ka ba’, which talked about the plight of labourers who migrated to big cities like Mumbai for work while leaving behind their families. The rap talks about the hardships the migrants suffer, the kind of food they eat and adversities in which they live in the metros, leaving behind their village life just to earn livelihood. However, BJP spokesperson Sanjay Mayukh said the party song is a reply to the opposition which questions the development in Bihar in the last 15 years. “Few people suffer from political disease and they are not able to see any development. This song is an eye-opener for them. They should recall that Bihar is the land of Chandragupta. They need to be reminded about the Kosi rail bridge inaugurated recently,” he said. Political parties are making full use of digital platforms to reach the audience in the times of Covid pandemic. They are coming up with several audio-video songs to attack the opposition and try to send their messages across the common people. RJD on Monday launched its campaign song with a punch line, ‘Is baar Tejashwi tai hai’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rivals-belt-out-songs-hope-theyre-music-to-voters-ears/articleshow/78651122.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan civic polls: BJP and Congress start finalising candidates||JAIPUR: The main political parties — BJP and Congress — have started finalising candidates for the six municipal polls spread across three cities — Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur. Candidates seeking tickets have been running from pillar to post to get their names approved. “Party will consider the candidate with good credentials—socially active, engaging and party background. Those who are active on social media and have good understanding of local and state level issues will an added advantage over others,” said Satish Poonia, BJP state president. Party leaders have started working on finalising issues which will be raised during campaigns. Similarly, Congress is also wisely selecting candidates. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said their party would give preference to party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-and-cong-start-finalising-candidates/articleshow/78649193.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Agra||Two paramedic staff among 50 who tested Covid positive in Agra||AGRA: Fifty new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced while the infection claimed one more life in Agra on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 6,469 and the death toll to 133 in the district. The deceased include a 65-year-old male who died at SN Medical College. The Balkeshwar locality resident was suffering from diabetes and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Among the 50 new cases include two paramedical staffs of the SN Medical College. Meanwhile, 96 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Out of the 6,365 cases reported in the district, 5774 (89.26%) have been declared cured and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases reduced from 589 on Monday to 562 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-paramedic-staff-among-50-who-tested-covid-positive-in-agra/articleshow/78646498.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Salem||Timely act saves life of man kept in freezer box||Salem: Timely act by a former DMK councillor and police saved the life of a 73-year-old man who was kept in a freezer box with his hands and legs tied for at least 24 hours by his 70-year-old brother at their residence at Old Housing Board area at Kandampatty in the city on Tuesday. Balasubramaniya Kumar, 73, of Old Housing Board at Kandampatty, is living with his younger brother Saravanan, 70. On Monday, Saravanan had contacted a freezer box company in the city asking them to deliver a box to keep Balasubramaniya Kumar’s body. Based on his request, the employees kept the box at Saravanan’s house around 4pm. They informed Saravanan that they would take back the box on Tuesday evening. When the employees of the freezer box company came to the house around 4pm on Tuesday to take the box back, they saw some motion in the body kept inside the freezer box. Shocked over this, they immediately alerted former DMK councillor V Deivalingam who came to the spot. When inquired, Saravanan replied that the ‘soul’ was still in the body of Balasubramaniya and he was waiting for it to leave from the body. Shocked Deivalingam alerted the Suramangalam police who rescued Balasubramaniya from the freezer box and sent him to the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital for treatment. “Now the man is being treated at the hospital,” Deivalingam said. Watch Frozen: Man kept in freezer for 20 hours, survives in Tamil Nadu||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/timely-act-saves-life-of-man-kept-in-freezer-box/articleshow/78649188.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Metro to allow tokens from October 15||JAIPUR: During the upcoming festive season, the Jaipur Metro Rail Corporation (JMRC) will allow commuters to travel after purchasing tokens. At present, only commuters having smart cards can travel in Jaipur Metro. The move has been initiated after many commuters and market associations demanded to start the token system again. A JMRC official said, “The token system will once again start from October 15. The corporation has also developed a token sanitisation equipment at Mansarovar metro station.” The move is expected to increase the ridership as many commuters are going back in the absence of tokens. The JMRC can increase 300 to 1,000 passengers in the present times if it allows tokens. “At present, it’s mandatory for a commuter to purchase a card to travel in Jaipur Metro after paying Rs 100. A poor person who is travelling with three family members will not spend Rs 300 for travelling. Nearly, 300 people are returning from the stations daily for the same reason,” he said. Though senior officials claim Jaipur metro ridership is between 2,500 to 3,000 per day, sources confirm the ridership of Jaipur Metro on Mansarovar to Badi Chaupar corridor has fallen to abysmally low, as not even a thousand commuters are using the service daily. In the last 20 days, the total ridership has not even touched 45,000. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-metro-to-allow-tokens-from-oct-15/articleshow/78649167.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan civic polls: BJP and Congress start finalising candidates||JAIPUR: The main political parties — BJP and Congress — have started finalising candidates for the six municipal polls spread across three cities — Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur. Candidates seeking tickets have been running from pillar to post to get their names approved. “Party will consider the candidate with good credentials—socially active, engaging and party background. Those who are active on social media and have good understanding of local and state level issues will an added advantage over others,” said Satish Poonia, BJP state president. Party leaders have started working on finalising issues which will be raised during campaigns. Similarly, Congress is also wisely selecting candidates. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said their party would give preference to party workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bjp-and-cong-start-finalising-candidates/articleshow/78653493.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana to have construction and demolition waste plant||LUDHIANA: The road is clear for the setting up of a construction and demolition waste plant in the city as the committee of chief engineers has given the nod to the same. The work on finalising the tenders is still going on at the state government level and within this week even this process will get over. The officials claimed that the project is being conceived for Ludhiana, Jalandhar and Amritsar under the smart city mission. This project is essential for the city to get rid of debris lying in every nook and corner of the city. The project had been under discussion for a long time and the officials were waiting for the completion of formalities so that they should float the tenders for the project. The committee of chief engineers has given the nod to the project and it will cost around Rs 7.90 crore. The plant is to be set up at Dhandhari Kalan. MC superintending engineer Rahul Gagneja while confirming the same said, “We have got the nod finally and now the proposal document is also under preparation. In one week almost the procedure will get completed.” He said it took so long because the project was getting ready for three smart cities and it would be implemented on a similar pattern in these cities. A delegation had recently visited the C&D waste plant in Indore and they learnt how debris were crushed and converted into tiles for roads. The delegation members claimed that even Ludhiana MC should do something like this because it was equally important to get rid of construction and demolition waste. The MC had fixed six sites to prevent people from dumping their construction waste arising out of new construction of houses, commercial units or from renovation, in city parks, green belts or the banks of canal. This plant has been proposed under the smart city mission. Earlier, the plant was proposed at Noorpur Bet, but that location is quite far off and the authorities had rejected that place. Now, a vacant piece of land near Dhandhari flats has been identified for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-to-have-construction-and-demolition-waste-plant/articleshow/78647732.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Kallar horticulture farm to now offer vermicompost and honey||COIMBATORE: The state horticulture farm at Kallar near Mettupalayam in the district has taken up production of vermicompost and honey, in addition to the principal activity of producing fruit saplings, from this year to increase its income. A horticulture officer said they had started with two vermicompost beds earlier this year. “Now, we have 14 vermicompost beds with a capacity of two tonnes each. We use animal manure as raw material. If we fill one tonne raw material in a bed, we would get 800kg compost in three months.” He said they had produced around a tonne compost so far and they had been looking to market the same at Rs 10 per kilogram. “We are looking at producing another 10 tonnes compost in three months. We expect people, who buy fruit saplings, to buy vermicompost as well.” The official said the honey production was started last month by setting up five beehive boxes. “We would harvest honey once in three months. We expect demand for honey also.” The farm is being renovated at a cost of Rs 50 lakh to make it an eco-tourism hub with a food court, gazebos, children’s play area, footpaths and reverse osmosis (RO) drinking water system. The 22-acre farm produces saplings of fruit trees such as mangosteen, durian, jack, custard apple and avocado. According to the official, the facility focuses on sub-tropical fruit saplings. “We have also, however, produced ornamental and indoor plants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kallar-horticulture-farm-to-now-offer-vermicompost-and-honey/articleshow/78649225.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||State clears Nagpur broad gauge Metro project||Nagpur: The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared the Nagpur broad gauge (BG) Metro linking Narkhed, Wardha, Bhandara Road and Ramtek with the city through high speed local trains on Indian Railways (IR) tracks.The trains will travel at a speed of 120 kmph and reduce travel time by half. The project will now be submitted to central government for sanction. The project was the brainchild of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari.The distance and number of stations on these routes are: Wardha (78.8 km, 11 stations), Bhandara Road (59.2 km, 9 stations), Ramtek – (41.6 km, 6 stations) and Narkhed (85.5 km, 10 stations). The travel time is Wardha – 1 hour 10 min, Narkhed – 1 hour 15 min, Ramtek – 1 hour and Bhandara Road – 55 minutes. The cost of Metro tickets will be 1.38 times the railway fare.The minimum fare up to distances of 5 km is Rs 20 while the maximum fare for distances above 70 km is Rs 90. Monthly pass tickets will range from Rs 400 to Rs 1,800. The expected daily ridership on various routes in 2021 is: Wardha – 5,669, Narkhed – 2,616, Ramtek – 3,929 and Bhandara Road – 2,556. The total ridership will be 14,700.The trains will have three cars having total passenger carrying capacity of 885. The three cars with passenger capacity are: driver motor car – 285, trailer car – 315 and car train – 285. Initially there will be four trains. Later the number would be increased to eight. There will be total 10 trips in both directions on Wardha route, Narkhed – 8, Ramtek – 5 and Bhandara Road – 4.The total cost of the project is Rs 333.60 crore. Trains will cost Rs 200 crore, fare collection system – Rs 11.64 crore, information technology (IT) infrastructure – Rs 15 crore, construction of car shed, station upgradation and passenger amenities – Rs 23.12 crore and station integration – Rs 25 crore. BG Metro facility would act as feeder service to Nagpur Metro services too and help in increasing its ridership. The international funding agency – KfW – which has funded MahaMetro’s Phase I project, has agreed to finance BG Metro project to the tune of ₹ 305.20 crore of the total project cost of ₹ 333.60 Crore.Of the balance, the state government would also provide 50% of the Strategic Debt (SD) of the Government of India (₹ 7.10 crore) and 100% (₹14.20 crore) of SD incurred by state government. Thus collectively, an amount of ₹21.30 crore would be sanctioned by the state government. Rest will be borne by the Central government.The memorandum of understanding (MoU) between Indian Railways, Government of Maharashtra and MahaMetro was signed in July 2018. Railway Board approved the project in November 2019.Meanwhile, Gadkari has thanked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, urban development minister Eknath Shinde and all other cabinet ministers for clearing the project. “It would provide fast connectivity to people living in towns and villages near Nagpur and help in growth of the city,” he said in a press statement.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh issued a statement saying his efforts to expedite the project have bore fruit. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit said the BG Metro would reduce dependency on private vehicles and transportation services. “This would reduce traffic congestion on the roads, consequently accidents and pollution,” he added.INFOGXRoutes | Wardha, Narkhed, Ramtek, Bhandara RoadTravel Time | Wardha - 1 hour 10 min, Narkhed – 1 hour 15 min, Ramtek – 1 hour and Bhandara Road – 55 minutesNo of trips in each direction | Wardha – 10, Narkhed – 8, Ramtek – 5 and Bhandara Road – 4Fare | Rs 20 to Rs 70, monthly pass between Rs 400 and Rs 1,800 Cost of project | Rs 333.60 croreNo of coaches in train | 3 with total carrying capacity of 885Expected ridership in 2021 | Wardha – 5,669, Narkhed – 2,616, Ramtek – 3,929 and Bhandara Road – 2,556MoU signed with Railways | July 2018Railway Board approval | November 2019||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-clears-nagpur-broad-gauge-metro-project/articleshow/78668736.cms||Ashish Roy
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||DGP Bhupendra Singh to retire today after Rajasthan govt okays his VRS application||JAIPUR: DGP Bhupendra Singh is all set to retire on Wednesday after the state government approved his VRS application on Tuesday night. Singh had applied for VRS last month and sources claimed that he is likely to join as the chairman of Rajasthan Public Services Commission (RPSC). Singh, 1986-batch officer, has had 29 postings in his 34 years of career and has held many coveted posts including a four-year tenure as SP in CBI from 1995 to 1999. He was awarded the President’s Police Medal in 2016 for distinguished services. Before taking over as the DGP in June 2019, Singh was DG of Special Operations Group (SOG) and Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) for nearly six months. Prior to this, he was DG (jails) and also had a tenure in the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). He also served as the SP of Baran, Churu and Sawai Madhopur. Singh said, “Previously, I had planned on taking VRS in November but revised the application and it has been accepted by the government. I plan to enjoy my retirement.” Man of few words, Singh did his MBBS before becoming an IPS officer. Even before his retirement was formally announced, senior officials were asked to be present at police headquarters at 10 am on Wednesday and preparations for his farewell was underway since Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dgp-to-retire-today-after-govt-okays-his-vrs-application/articleshow/78649201.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Duty-bound to follow up on IoE tag: Anna University VC||CHENNAI: Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa, who is facing criticism for writing to the Centre directly, detailing how the university could generate the funds needed to get the Institute of Eminence tag, explains the rationale behind his actions. Excerpts from an interview: What is the context in which you wrote to MHRD on IoE status?I made a presentation to the chief minister and group of ministers on how we would be able to meet the financial commitment on May 20. After that presentation, the chief secretary sent a letter to the central government accepting in principle the IoE status provided they allow the university to follow existing reservation policy. I just followed up the chief secretary's letter. Whatever I presented to the chief minister and ministers, I have written in my letter on June 2. The financial commitment was also a part of our IoE proposal submitted by the higher education department to UGC's committee. It was prepared before I took over as vice-chancellor and it was nothing new. What about criticism that you wrote independently to the Centre?I do correspond with various ministries to ensure smooth functioning of the university. I have a copy of the approval letter sent by the chief secretary. I am duty bound to follow it up. I have certain powers and responsibilities as vice-chancellor and I exercise those powers within the statutes and acts of the university. Some including the higher education minister are saying the university got where it did with state government funding; that there is no need for IoE status.  The university has received large amounts of funds from UGC, DST and various ministries of the central government. The annual funding from the Centre is Rs40 crore to Rs50 crore. The state government's contribution is just Rs40 crore as block grant to meet the salary expenditure. There are concerns that the Centre will take over Anna University? In the last 20 years, the central government has not taken over any university or institution without approval from the state government. What is your view on bifurcation and renaming of Anna University? There was no discussion on bifurcation between the university and state government before the announcement. Name change would be a disaster. The university’s reputation in the academic world is associated with the name. You have just six months to go. Do you think you have performed to your fullest capacity as vice-chancellor? I could have done much more if the syndicate had allowed many of my proposals for reform. Most of them were blocked by government officials. If the bureaucracy was with me, I could have achieved more. The DMK and other parties have asked for your removal. I don't want to react to that. I know what I have done is correct. There is a gap in understanding of people about the university's role and role of the vice-chancellor. I am willing to subject myself to any kind of scrutiny.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/duty-bound-to-follow-up-on-ioe-tag-anna-univ-vc/articleshow/78647745.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 14, 2020||Bengaluru||CS orders crackdown on truant hospitals||BENGALURU: Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar on Tuesday met BBMP officials involved in pandemic management and is said to have expressed concern over shortage of beds and exorbitant cost of treatment. Bhaskar is said to have asked officials to crack down on hospitals violating rules. “If a patient complains that s/he is being overcharged, the grievance cell will look into it, reimburse the excess charged and warn the hospital,” a senior BBMP official later said. “Earlier we had only about 3,000 fresh cases a day and it was easy to allocate beds. Now, with increased testing and cases going up to 5,000 a day, allocating beds is a challenge.” The official said the number of patients, who opted for home isolation but are rushing to hospitals later for treatment, has also risen. He said the medical education and health and family welfare departments will provide another detailed schedule of available beds, post which changes will be made to the Covid bed management system. Bhaskar is also believed to have asked IAS officers in charge of hospitals to pay surprise visits to check if beds are occupied as per data provided. “Many hospitals show beds are filled when they are not,” the official said. “Also, many patients have been charged anywhere between Rs 75,000 to Rs 150,000 per day,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chief-secretary-orders-crackdown-on-overcharging-hospitals/articleshow/78646730.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 14, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: JSS hospital agrees to trial Sputnik vaccine||MYSURU: JSS hospital could soon begin Stage II and III trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Sources privy to the developments say the hospital has agreed to launch trials on behalf of a Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm and has communicated its consent to the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI). If DGCI grants approval, clinical trials will be carried out on around 60 volunteers in the age group of 21-60 years. Sputnik V will be the third vaccine to be tested in the 1,200-bed hospital after Covishield and Novavax. “Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Hyderabad, approached us to conduct Stage II and III clinical trials of Sputnik V,” said B Suresh, pro chancellor, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research. “We have given our consent. Once DGCI approves the proposal, we will start work.” Incidentally, trials of Sputnik V ran into trouble last week after the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulator, ordered Dr Reddy’s to resubmit its application to conduct trials. CDSCO said the firm cannot conduct Stage III trials directly — since the human sample size in trials in Russia was “small” — and that it had to conduct Stage II trials as well for which a fresh application had to be submitted. Meanwhile, JSS University has also completed formalities to launch Stage III clinical trial of Novavax. For this trial, the hospital will test the vaccine candidate on 80 volunteers. Stage III trials of Covishield vaccine, produced in conjunction with Oxford University, is already in progress in the hospital after successfully completing the Stage II. Sources say no volunteer faced any kind of problems. The hospital is also carrying out efficacy of BCG vaccine to prevent Covid-19among senior citizens. “There is no shortage of volunteers for the clinical trials,” Suresh said. “JSS University will be the trial institution while the JSS hospital will be the trial site.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/jss-hospital-to-trial-sputnik-vaccine/articleshow/78646904.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 80,000 voters registered for GSHSEB poll||AHMEDABAD: Around 80,000 voters have been registered across the state for elections to the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB). The elections come after the introduction of new rules that were passed in the state legislative assembly recently, by which the number of elected members in the board has been reduced from twenty-six to nine. Elections for the board are held every three years. The decision has irked the managements of schools as their representation in the board will go down. According to the earlier rule, there were six school principal members. This number is now down to one after the amendment was passed in the state assembly. The representation of higher secondary teachers and secondary teachers has also come down from five and three to only one each. Management associations, whose earlier strength on the board was four members, have been reduced to only one member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80k-voters-registered-for-gshseb-poll/articleshow/78649253.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Virus claims 10 in 2 weeks in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Covid has claimed at least 10 lives including four members of a family in the district over the last 15 days. In the last 45 days, the virus has claimed 25 lives and 10 among them were aged between 5 years and 45 years. The member of the family who lost battle to the virus are a woman, her two sons and their aunt. They included Basant Vyas (50), his younger brother Dinesh Vyas (45), their aunt Hemlata Vyas and mother Sharda Vyas. In the last 10 days, Bhagwat katha reciter Shailendra Vyas also lost his life because of the virus. Around 15 days ago, he was affected by corona and died while undergoing treatment in Jodhpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-claims-10-in-2-weeks-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78649227.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Almost 10k +ve cases each in Bikaner & Kota districts||Jaipur: Two more districts in the state, Bikaner and Kota, are inching closer to cross 10,000 Covid-19 infections.With 218 new infections on Tuesday, Bikaner’s Covid-19 cases reached 9,768, while Kota reported 84 new cases, taking its overall tally to 9,878. Three other districts, which have crossed 10,000 infections, are Jaipur (26,940), Jodhpur (24,482) and Alwar (12,862).So far, the state has reported 1,63,219 infections. It logged 2,035 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday. Besides, 14 people died on Tuesday, taking its toll to 1,679. The graph of active cases is constantly moving upward as active cases touched new high of 21,924 cases.Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The economic condition of the country and the state is not encouraging. In such a situation, lockdown is not a viable option for containing the spread of the virus. If people follow social distancing, wear face mask and maintain hygiene, they will be able to stop transmission of the virus.”He further added that the state government had imposed Section 144 of CrPC to prevent spread of Covid-19 virus, that too, did not prove effective. Sharma said that despite rising cases, they have managed to bring down the mortality rate close to 1%.However, in Jaipur, the active cases are constantly decreasing for fifth day in a row. Active cases in Jaipur remained at 8,716, highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (5,632), Bikaner (1,601), Kota (572) and Alwar (531).Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (397), Bikaner (218), Jodhpur (218), Ajmer (156), Alwar (156), Nagaur (132), Udaipur (105), Pali (102), Kota (84), Sriganganagar (66), Jalore (64), Bharatpur (58), Jhunjhunu (45), Sikar (45), Sirohi (28), Hanumangarh (27), Tonk (22), Banswara (20), Churu (17), Rajsamand (14), Barmer (14), Bundi (9), Jaisalmer (7), Bhilwara (6), Dausa (6), Dholpur (6), Chittorgarh (5), Sawai Madhopur (4), Karauli (2) and Jhalawar (2).Jaipur reported two deaths on Tuesday, taking its toll to 340, Jodhpur (158), Bikaner (125), Ajmer (121), Pali (72), Udaipur (56), Nagaur (50), Alwar (47), Sikar (44), Jalore (30), Bhilwara (29), Banswara (26) and Chittorgarh (22) Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/almost-10k-ve-cases-each-in-bikaner-kota-districts/articleshow/78649242.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Irregularities flagged in Tamil Nadu free goat scheme||CHENNAI: After issues in the PM Kisan Scheme, similar irregularities have been flagged in Tamil Nadu’s free goat scheme. Fake beneficiaries were found to have received funds allocated for poor women, official documents revealed. As per guidelines, beneficiaries are selected by Village Level Committees (VLCs), comprising representatives from village panchayat, revenue department, and village poverty reduction panel or self-help groups. The list of beneficiaries is finalised at the gram sabha meeting. Accordingly, Katharipulam grama sabha in Vedaranyam, Nagapattinam district, shortlisted names of 659 beneficiaries and sent the list to the animal husbandry department, the implementing agency. But many shortlisted villagers did not receive the sum for free goats while others got Rs 12,000 to purchase four goats or sheep. M Rajendran, of Katharipulam village and a member of Chennai-based anti-corruption NGO Satta Panchayat Iyakkam, filed a request under Right to Information Act for relevant files at the local veterinary office. He found that 30 people were missing from the beneficiaries list and instead there were names of those who didn’t belong to Katharipulam. Authorities had no explanation for the fake accounts. When TOI contacted Sundaramoorthy, an animal husbandry officer from Vedaranyam, he said the final list was signed off by at least seven authorities of various departments. Their role was largely restricted to administering funds while actual ground-level checks are to be done by the VLC, he added. Besides this, none of the 36 panchayats in Vedaranyam provide any form of training to rear goats as mandated in the guidelines, Rajendran said, adding that free ropes/kits too weren’t distributed as promised. “If such blatant violation was possible in Vedaranyam alone, then it could rampant across TN,” he added, demanding a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/irregularities-flagged-in-tn-free-goat-scheme/articleshow/78647770.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||UP government schools get English Booster Club to improve students’ skills||LUDHIANA: The education department has decided to set up an English Booster Club (EBC), a unique initiative for qualitative development of students of Classes VI to XII, in government schools. The purpose is to eliminate hesitation and fear in the pronunciation of English among the students as well as to make them proficient in the language. The club has been formed in all government schools of the district. “While increasing enrolment in government schools, when we talked to the parents of private schools, we used to hear that the teachers of government schools could not strengthen the children’s grasp of English and now the establishment of EBC will help in increasing enrolment in government schools as it will encourage healthy competition with private schools,” states Swaranjeet Kaur, district education officer. “The EBC will be established in schools in two phases. In the first phase, the formation of the club at different levels, including schools, district and block and at the state level will be ensured. In this phase, which has been scheduled for one month, our objective is to make students shed their inhibitions and speak a few sentences in English on any given theme/topic without any help. Besides, guided video, sample audios and audio tapes will be shared by the state resource group to enhance listening skills, pronunciation and vocabulary of students and they will further reproduce the given content in their own way.” In this regard, Ramneek Bala, block mentor, Mangat II and also English mistress at GSSS Kasabad said, “I have spent 10 years in private schools and the students at government schools are no way behind. Now, with EBCs being started by English teachers, it will give them a kick on an individual level. They will be encouraged and motivated to learn more skills. This will give them an environment to speak in English. The students are good in spoken English and now students will see the result.” The activities to be carried out by the district mentors and block mentors under the EBC have also been outlined. District mentor, English and SST, Subodh Verma and a social science master at GHS, Bhamia Kalan, said, “Some of the blocks have already started the club and they have started sharing videos. It is essential for every school where an English teacher will form the club. Three students of each class in each section will be included in the club and they will be taught. They will become motivation for other students. This is to strengthen students’ speaking competency and enabling them to overcome their language shyness and anxiety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/govt-schools-get-english-booster-club-to-improve-students-skills/articleshow/78647748.cms||Mehak Jain
October 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala has over 10% of India’s total active cases||KOCHI: Over the past four weeks, Kerala's Covid cases have grown by 166%, with all its 14 districts witnessing over 100% jump. The average growth of Covid cases in India as well as mega states (with more than 10 million population), meanwhile, is just about 50%. Maharashtra is the only other state that has seen such a sharp growth. The 30-day moving growth rate (MGR) for positive cases is the highest in Kozhikode (256%), followed by Thrissur (220%) and Kollam (219%). The lowest 30-day MGR is in Kasaragod (105%) while it is 112% in Thiruvananthapuram which had the highest MGR at one point of time. Analysts said this indicated that despite the best efforts of the state government, its containment management is failing to stop the spread of the virus. It is also a people's failure as violation of social distancing protocol by a considerably large number of population remains key for the surge. “India's active cases have degrown by 11% over the last four weeks, on the other hand Kerala's active cases have shot up by 233%. Kerala has more than 10% of India's total active cases now,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeevan Raksha -- a public-private partnership initiative. The initiative -- involving Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Indian Medical Association (IMA) and management consulting firm Proxima -- has analysed the Kerala situation and shared its report with the government and Indian Medical Association (IMA). “The state government needs to focus its attention and resources both on containment management and clinical management," Sanjeev said. The surge in cases is a challenge to hospital resources. The 30-day MGR for active cases in Palakkad and Kozhikode is more than 400% and Ernakulam and Thrissur over 300%. The national average, meanwhile, is -11%. The IMA has requested the state government to extend the Covid treatment rates fixed under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Paddhati to everyone. “The government needs to urgently intervene. Some private hospitals are charging exorbitant rates," IMA-Kerala president Dr Abraham Varghese said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-has-over-10-of-indias-total-active-cases/articleshow/78647772.cms||Preetu Nair
October 14, 2020||Jaipur||Free corona test for surgery patients in private hosps||Jaipur: Pregnant women admitted to private hospitals for deliveries or patients admitted for surgeries will not have to pay for Covid test. The health department on Tuesday issued directions stating that RT-PCR test will be done for free for such patients at laboratories run by the state government. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora said to prevent spread of the virus, private hospitals conduct Covid tests on patients admitted for surgeries or women for deliveries and labour issues for a fees. But now the health department has decided to help such patients and getting their Covid tests done at government-run laboratories for free. A health department official said private hospitals, which do not have facilities for Covid tests, have been directed to send the samples of patients admitted for surgeries and deliveries to government-run laboratories. The samples will be tested for free and private hospitals will not charge money for the tests. Such private hospitals will get registered at the RTPCR portal and upload the details after collecting the samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/free-corona-test-for-surgery-patients-in-private-hosps/articleshow/78649270.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||MC, traffic police have no clue about number of speed breakers in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Setting yet another example of carelessness, MC officials have given a very vague reply to an RTI query about the number of speed breakers on city roads by saying that they do not have any record about the same. The bridges and road branch of civic body is responsible for repair and construction of roads in the city but surprisingly they have denied to provide information. Even the traffic police has no idea about the speed breakers as it said that the civic body builds the speed breakers, so it might be having the records. A city-based activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had filed an application under the Right to Information Act with the MC and traffic police about the total number of authorised and unauthorised speed breakers constructed on city roads, along with their location and location plan. The traffic police clearly denied having any information by saying that the MC was constructing the speed breakers on city roads so they must be aware of the same. Whereas the officials of zones A, C and D said that they do no have this kind of information in the office, from zone B the reply was more interesting as officials denied to provide the information by saying that it was not in the prescribed format and moreover, it was voluminous, so they could not provide it. The activist said, “I wanted to file a PIL in the Punjab and Haryana high court against these unauthorised speed breakers but before that I wanted to collect some information. But both departments have denied to give the information, so I will file a PIL in this matter now.” He said the kind of carelessness being adopted by the civic body and traffic police was proving dangerous for the residents and commuters. He claimed that at many locations the unauthorised speed breakers were taking lives of human beings. Traffic expert Dr Kamaljit Soi said, “There are clear guidelines that speed breakers will be built as per norms set by the Indian Road Congress (IRC).” He said it was height of irresponsible behaviour by both departments if they are not having this information with them. He claimed that now according to the new Motor Vehicle Act, the official as well contractor who would be found guilty for any accident on roads would be held accountable and suitable action would be taken against them. Meanwhile, despite repeated attempts officials of B&R branch of the MC could not be contacted for comments. A resident of Maharaj Nagar, Kewal Krishan Sharma, said, “The speed breakers are seriously a pain while driving as sometimes it is difficult to guess and suddenly there is one speed breaker without any warning board. This is dangerous for the commuters, especially for pregnant women and senior citizens.” As per IRC guidelines, a speed breaker should have a radius of 17m with a width of 3.7m and height of 0.1m. It is calculated to reduce the speed of vehicle to 25kmph. The drivers shall be warned of the presence of the speed breakers by posting suitable advance warning signs. Speed breakers should be painted with alternate black and white bands to give additional visual warning, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-traffic-police-have-no-clue-about-number-of-speed-breakers-in-city/articleshow/78647769.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Five KYC fraudsters nabbed from Jharkhand||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad’s Cybercrime police arrested five members of a gang involved in KYC frauds from Jharkhand and seized Rs 1.4 lakh cash and other evidence from them. The gang has associates in Punjab and Delhi, who provide SIM cards and siphoned off money through various accounts. The accused were identified as Nanku Mandal (27), Rajesh Mandal (26) from Jamtara district of Jharkhand, Shiva Shakti Kumar (25) and Dilkush Kumar Singh (18) from Deogarh district, and Gaurav Arun (46) from Ranchi. According to the police, a team of cops spent about 20 days in Punjab and Jharkhand investigating and later arresting the offenders. Nanku is said to be the mastermind behind the fraud. The gang cheated a victim from Miyapur in September this year by sending a message asking her to update KYC of her Paytm account. The victim was asked to install a remote access application ‘team viewer quick support’, and login with her credentials. After accessing the victim’s credentials, they asked her to make a transaction of Rs 1, but the victim ended up losing Rs 4.2 lakh. “The offenders would get the stolen money in their online wallets. Through their associates, they would encash the amount. Many people in Punjab, make electricity bill payment through vendors. The offenders were in touch with such vendors,” said Shyam Babu, ACP cybercrime Cyberabad. The offenders would transfer the wallet money to their associates in Punjab to make the electricity bill payment using the wallet money and take cash from the customers. “Later, they divided the cash among themselves on a commission basis,” said the ACP. “We tracked one of the vendors and tracked back the offenders to Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-kyc-fraudsters-nabbed-from-jkhand/articleshow/78649269.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 1.5kg gold ‘washed away’ in storm water, probe on||HYDERABAD: An employee of a jewellery store claimed that a bag containing 1.5 kilo gold jewellery got washed away in storm water at Banjara Hills on October 9. Based on a complaint of the jeweller, police have registered a servant theft case on October 10 and started investigation to trace the gold. On October 10 afternoon, Ajay Kumar Agarwal, partner of VS Gold, Basheerbagh, lodged a complaint with Banjara Hills police alleging that his employee, Pradeep Kumar Bodake, claimed to have lost 1.5 kilo gold ornaments while bringing them to their office from another jewellery storein Jubilee Hills on October 9 night. “Pradeep claimed while travelling on scooter, he kept the jewellery bag between his feet and near Kangaroos School on Road Number 3, Banjara Hills, the scooter got stuck in storm water flowing across the road and the bag got washed away,” Banjara Hills inspector (Detective) Md Hafeezuddin said. Police later found the empty bag nearby at a garbage bin. The executive has been reportedly taken into custody||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-5kg-gold-washed-away-in-storm-water-probe-on/articleshow/78649291.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||SBI ATM in Mithakhali sealed||The State Bank of India’s Mithakhali branch ATM was sealed by AMC on Tuesday after they found social distancing norms being violated at the ATM. AMC officials found more than one person crowding inside the ATM. The AMC officials first warned the bank administration and then sealed the ATM. Similarly, Gabha Bazar in east Ahmedabad was also sealed after AMC officials saw social distancing being violated at the local market. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sbi-atm-in-mithakhali-sealed/articleshow/78649292.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers’ agitation, poor production hit veggie supply as prices shoot up||LUDHIANA: The ongoing protest of farmers, which has badly affected the railways and road transportation, is having a bearing on the supply of essential items and vegetables. Besides, low production in crop of potato, tomato, green peas and onion in several parts of Himachal, Gujarat and Maharashtra has also attributed towards the rise in prices of vegetables. As the supply of these essentials got affected, the prices of vegetables have started soaring. The prices of onion, green peas and potato have witnessed a surge of about 20% in the retail market. Besides, the prices of capsicum, ginger, green chilli and coriander too have started burning holes in the pocket of consumers. Some freight trains have been transporting onions from Maharashtra to several markets across the state. After farmers’ rail roko agitation now onions are being transported by road on trucks, which are taking long and also affecting the supply. Raj Yadav, a local vendors in retail market, said, “Due to uncertainty over the resumption of trains for ferrying the essential items to northern region of nation, the transportation of essential food items, along with vegetables, has been badly affected. As road transport service is costlier, it has led to an increase in the prices of essentials goods and vegetables.” Another vendor Arjun Mourya said that inconsistent rainfall in several parts of the nation has also affected the crop and resulted in disruption of supply in the across retailed market of city. Meanwhile, local residents, especially the women who have to run the kitchen, are upset over the rising prices of the vegetables. Gunjan Kumari, a home maker of Atam Nagar said, “With the continuous rise in the prices of onion and potato in the retail market, it has become very difficult to manage the household budget.” Anamika Verma, a resident of Prem Nagar, said, “At a time when unemployment has risen due to the imposition of lockdown and poor economic condition, there is no respite from the government side to control the rising prices of all vegetables. The government should take immediate measures to control and cap the prices of vegetables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-agitation-poor-production-hit-veggie-supply-as-prices-shoot-up/articleshow/78647775.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
October 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Theft at ex-Union minister’s house||Hyderabad: Burglars stole Rs 6.5 lakh worth property from former Union minister Renuka Chowdhury’s house in Banjara Hills. Family suspects the role of employees in the heist. On October 11, G V Subba Reddy, personal secretary of Renuka Chowdary, lodged a complaint with Banjara Hills police alleging that in November 2019, there was Rs 3 lakh cash and Rs 3.5 lakh worth gold and diamond jewellery at Renuka Chowdary’s house on Road No. 12, Banjara Hills. The complainant said the family suspects employees, Vijay, Munni and Master. Police registered a case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/theft-at-ex-union-ministers-house/articleshow/78649295.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Agra||DM lied in court about our consent for girl's cremation: Hathras victim’s father||AGRA: With legal proceedings having begun to determine if there was wrongdoing in the way the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras was cremated, her family said on Tuesday that they are counting on the court for justice but won’t immerse her ashes until it’s all over. “I told the high court that the administration did not allow us to see our daughter’s face one last time,” said the girl’s father, who returned with four other family members at 11 pm after appearing before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Monday. The high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the late night cremation. “The DM lied that he had taken permission from the family for cremation … I will not immerse the ashes till I get justice for my daughter.” District magistrate Praveen Laxkar had told the court on Monday that it was his decision to cremate the girl, that there were no instructions from the government and that the family had given its consent. The victim’s father said the court had given them the space and opportunity to explain what had happened on September 30, the night the police had cremated the girl after she was brought back to her village from the Delhi hospital where she had died. The victim’s elder brother said, “The DM was reprimanded by the court...I am hopeful we will get justice from the court.” The next hearing is on November 2. The family’s legal counsel Seema Kushwaha, who was present in court on Monday, told TOI, “The DM will have to produce a report about this in the next hearing … When the DM said the decision was taken because of law and order considerations, the court said human rights cannot be violated for maintaining law and order.” The family, through counsel Kushwaha, informed the court that a large number of cops were present in the village that day. “However, the DM said 300-400 people were present, which is again incorrect … We presented three demands before the court — facts and reports related to the case remain confidential because it is under investigation, the case be transferred out of UP and the victim’s family be provided security until the case concludes."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dm-lied-in-court-about-our-consent-for-girls-cremation-hathras-victims-father/articleshow/78645461.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Schools in Ludhiana resume board classes for doubt clearing sessions||LUDHIANA: As schools opened after a gap of almost seven months on Tuesday, it was an altogether different experience for principal, staff and students, when the students of board classes reported back on the campus for taking classes. On Monday evening, the state had issued directions to open the schools and coaching institutions. City schools, including DAV School, BRS Nagar, and BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, remained open for doubt clearing session. At DAV School, the principal and the staff welcomed the students at the gate amid chanting of ‘gayatri mantra’ and showering of flower petals. Standard operating procedures (SOPs), including thermal screening, oxygen saturation level testing and hand sanitisation, were followed before allowing entry into the campus. Principal of DAV School, BRS Nagar, JK Sidhu said, “Response was mild as it was not compulsory. We received consent from 30 parents of class XII students and 16 visited the school. We will conduct the classes from Monday to Wednesday for class XII and Thursday to Friday for Class X. Over 35 parents have given consent for Class X students. The number is increasing as we shared a video coverage of the day with the parents and hoped that more students would start attending the school from Wednesday as all the preventive measures against Covid-19 pandemic are being taken. She added, “The teachers were extremely happy and geared up for blended teaching. The students went back home satisfied after attending the classes for two and a half hours.” About 150 students reported at BCM Arya Senior Secondary School, Shatri Nagar, on Monday. Talking to TOI, principal of the school Paramjit Kaur said, “Students came in two batches, one batch was for Class X and other was for Class XII. Students were glad to visit the school and guidance was provided and they cleared the doubts whatever they had come for. They was no break as the session was limited for two periods. The students carried their own bottles and no canteen was opened. Now, we are receiving great response from other parents as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/schools-resume-board-classes-for-doubt-clearing-sessions/articleshow/78647781.cms||Mehak Jain
October 14, 2020||Ranchi||‘Raped & killed’ minor girl’s body exhumed in Sahibganj||DUMKA/RANCHI: Police on Tuesday exhumed the body of a 13-year-old girl, who was allegedly gang-raped, killed and buried in Sahibganj without conducting a post mortem or filing an FIR, for a medical examination after getting a tip-off over the social media. Opposition BJP took an opportunity to attack the Hemant Soren government over the incident ahead of the twin bypolls in the state. The area where the crime took place falls in Barhait, represented by chief minister Hemant Soren. The alleged crime occurred on October 9 (Friday) but police filed an FIR on Tuesday while initiating a probe formally. Four persons have been detained based on the statement of the victim’s friend. According to Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta, parents of the victim had buried the body on the outskirts of their village, Lakhipur, after the girl's body was found abandoned near their house under Ranga police station on Saturday morning. He said, “The victim along with her friend had gone to neighbouring Taljhari village to meet their friends on Wednesday last week. While returning on Friday, they were intercepted by a few youths on the way. The victim’s friend managed to escape.” Kispotta further said, “On Saturday, her body was found lying on a pavement of an under-construction house in the neighborhood. Her parents later buried her.” The SP said after getting the information about the crime, he sent a police team to the village on Monday evening and decided to exhume the body under the supervision of a magistrate for a medical examination. “We have started interrogating the four suspects,” he added. Unconfirmed reports said the victim’s parents were allegedly pressurized by the local panchayat to dispose of the body against their wishes. The reports also claimed that the parents had tried to lodge an FIR of rape and murder with the Ranga police station on Saturday but was not accepted. DC Ramnivas Yadav told TOI that the role of the local police station and the village panchayat in the crime will be investigated. “We have learned about the role played by a few panchayat members to force the parents to bury the body without informing the police. At the same time, we will also probe the role of local police,” he said. Reacting to the incident, BJP said lawlessness in the state, especially in terms of crime against women and children, is increasing under the coalition government. The party has appealed to governor Droupadi Murmu for her intervention into the incident and accused the state government of trying to cover up the crime. Senior BJP leader Babulal Marandi said, “The victim’s parents had gone to Ranga police station to file a complaint but were made to return by telling them to sort out the issue with the panchayat. They were finally forced to bury the body after getting no help from anywhere.” Demanding Murmu’s intervention, the party’s state president, Deepak Prakash, said, “The girl’s father in his statement has clearly said that his daughter was raped and killed, yet the police did not file an FIR. This is not an isolated incident of crime in Barhait, the CM’s constituency. Women in the entire Santhal Parganas are terrified and shocked by this incident,” he said. BJP’s Ranchi mahanagar unit also took out a candlelight protest against the incident at Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi on Tuesday evening demanding justice for the victim. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/raped-killed-minor-girls-body-exhumed-in-sahibganj/articleshow/78647140.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 14, 2020||Ranchi||Special trains from Ranchi, Tatanagar to Kolkata||RANCHI: The Indian Railways will operate three festival special trains from Ranchi and Tatanagar to Howrah (Kolkata) during the festive season to clear the rush of passengers. The first of these trains will depart from Tatanagar station on Thursday. As per government norms, all passengers arriving by these trains will have to go under home quarantine for 14 days. South Eastern Railways’s Ranchi division on Tuesday said a special express train will operate daily between Ranchi and Howrah from October 17 to November 30, making a total of 45 trips between the two stations. “The train will leave Ranchi railway station at 9:30pm and reach Howrah at 5:10 am the next day. Likewise, the Ranchi-bound train will leave Howrah at 10:05pm and arrive here at 5:50am. The trains will have stoppages at Kharagpur, Tatanagar and Muri railway stations,” the division said in a statement. The SER also notified the operation of a special festival special between Tatanagar and Howrah. The train will operate daily running as per the timings of the Tatanagar-Howrah Steel Express. On Monday evening, the Eastern Railways had announced to operate the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Special Express from October 15 until further orders. The train will operate six days a week (barring Sunday), the zone had said. While the operation of two trains were notified by ER and SER, the Railway Board on Tuesday evening issued a notification approving the operation of six special express trains. In the notification, the board directed SER to begin the operations of Anant Vihar-Ranchi special express, Ranchi-Jaynagar Special Express, Hatia-Lokmanya Tilak Special Express, Hatia-Yesvantpur weekly special express and Tatanagar-Yesvantpur special express from October 20. Sources in the SER and Ranchi railway division said the Jharkhand government has been intimated about the operations of the trains. The state government is yet to take a call on the SER’s October 3 request seeking approval to resume operations of 28 express trains connecting six states. Members of the trading community and lawmakers, including BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, advocated for the immediate resumption of trains. “The proposal has been forwarded to the office of chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. We are awaiting a formal order on this,” a senior official in the state department of transport told TOI. The official did not specify if the ER was given the nod for running the Shatabdi Express. Meanwhile, Ranchi railway division said it is prepared to receive the train and manage the boarding and deboarding of passengers in compliance to the social distancing protocols. At present, Ranchi station is catering to Ranchi-New Delhi Rajdhani Special Express and Darbhanga-Secunderabad special express “All the trains starting from Ranchi or making a stopover here are being parked at platform number 1, which has been equipped for the purpose. As many as four permanent kiosks have been set up for thermal scanning while adequate provisions have been made for hand sanitization. More than 1,000 chairs are being placed six feet apart. Adequate RPF and GRP personnel are deployed to maintain social distancing,” Niraj Kumar, chief public relations officer of the division, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/spl-trains-from-ranchi-tata-to-kol/articleshow/78646598.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 14, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum Durga Puja guidelines, SoPs leave committees unhappy||JAMSHEDPUR: The district authorities here notified guidelines for the upcoming Durga Puja festival on Monday night. Like the notification released by the state government a few days earlier, the 22-point guideline of the East Singhbhum administration emphasises on strict adherence to Covid protocols while observing Puja rituals. The administration also warned Puja committees of legal action in case of any violation at the Puja venues. Puja committees have been asked to ensure thermal screening of visitors and implement social distancing at the pandals, among others. Not more than seven people, including the priest and committee volunteers, are allowed at the pandal at any given point of time. Putting up welcome gates, distribution of bhog, decorative lighting and so on have been banned while the height of the idol has been fixed at four feet. Children, senior citizens and ailing persons are prohibited from venturing out. “Keeping the difficult times in mind, people should avoid going to the pandals and instead celebrate the festival at home with their family this year,” DC Suraj Kumar said. SSP M Tamil Vanan said, “Circles will be drawn at the pandals to maintain social distancing and Puja committees will have to install CCTVs to record the movement of people and activities at the pandals.” He added, “The officer in-charge of the respective police stations will carry out random inspection of the pandals twice a day.” The Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti (JKDPS) said Puja committees will comply with the guidelines but at the same time the organisation expressed dissatisfaction with some of the points. “To perform any ritual, we require at least 10 people including the dhaki, priest and the volunteers. Hence the seven-person ceiling is not logical,” said JKDPS secretary Arun Singh. Notably, till Tuesday afternoon the district has reported 15,387 Covid cases, of which 1,553 are active. Also, East Singhbhum has the highest number of Covid cases in the state after Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-durga-puja-guidelines-sops-leave-committees-unhappy/articleshow/78646536.cms||B Sridhar
October 14, 2020||Ranchi||Caution thrown to wind for twin bypolls in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Three weeks before Dumka and Bermo assembly constituencies go to the polls, the Jharkhand government has issued a notification allowing political gatherings outside containment zones in areas under the two segments and issued a list of protocols to be followed during campaigning. An order issued by state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh late on Sunday capped the number of people allowed at gatherings to 200 people in closed spaces with all Covid safety norms in place. However, there will be no limit on the number of people who can attend rallies organized in open spaces, subject to a formal consent from the local district administration. The order said only persons without Covid-like symptoms will be allowed to attend the gatherings and those present must maintain a distance of six feet and wear masks. Thermal scanning is also mandatory before entry to the venue. These norms apply to gatherings both in closed spaces like auditorium/conference hall or at open grounds. The order added that due consent of the local district administration will be mandatory for hosting any political event. “Prior to the gathering, the hall must be duly sanitised and organisers must ensure provision of thermal scanners, sanitizers among others. “All visitors must put masks/face shields among other precautions,” read the order. On gatherings in open spaces, the order read, "The district administration should take a call on the basis of the size of venue and other aspects." Nomination for Dumka and Bermo began on October 9 and will be on till October 16. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be on October 17. While the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD alliance has named Basant Soren as its candidate in Dumka, Kumar Jaimangal will contest from Bermo. The NDA, comprising BJP and Ajsu Party are banking on old horses — Lois Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto Batul — in Dumka and Bermo respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/caution-thrown-to-wind-for-twin-bypolls-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78627694.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 14, 2020||Ranchi||Lois files nomination for Dumka bye-election||DUMKA: BJP veteran and former minority welfare minister Lois Marandi filed her nomination papers for the November 3 Dumka assembly constituency bypoll on Tuesday. Earlier on Monday, grand alliance candidate and chief minister Hemant Soren’s brother, Basant Soren, filed his papers from the constituency. The BJP veteran will clash with the political greenhorn for the seat. Lois visited several religious places, including Thakur Bari, Durga Mandir, Sai Mandir, Shiv Pahar, Disom Majithan, to offer prayers before filing her papers at the office of the returning officer. Senior BJP leaders, including Babulal Marandi, state party president Deepak Prakash and many others visited Dumka to support of Lois. In the 2019 assembly polls, Lois had lost to chief minister Hemant Soren. Soren vacated the seat to retain Barhait, necessitating a bypoll. Election will also be held in Bermo, where the sitting MLA from Congress, had died after an ailment. Talking to media persons on the occasion, the BJP leaders came down heavily on the JMM-led coalition government. Marandi claimed that the family of JMM president Shibu Soren indulged in nepotism and do not have the courage to contest from anywhere except Santhal Parganas. He said, “It is evident that Santhal Parganas has turned out to be the only place for the Sorens to indulge in favouritism sidelining the common JMM cadres." He added, “After Shibu, his sons, late Durga, Hemant and daughter-in-law Sita, had already contested from different assembly seats of Santhal Parganas. Now, his youngest son is in the fray from Dumka. The common JMM cadres of the region are never given any opportunity.” Marandi also accused the government of “plundering” the state coffers and supporting corruption. "While the Hemant government often cries citing lack of funds, the fact is that the all the revenues of the state are going into the pockets of the ruling leadership,” he accused. The BJP leader also cited how Hemant’s own MLA (Sita Soren) has been raising the issue of illegal stone mining in Dumka but the government is doing precious little to curb the menace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lois-files-nomination-for-dumka-bye-election/articleshow/78646644.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 14, 2020||Ranchi||Ahead of Puja, night sweeping resumes in Dhanbad pockets||DHANBAD: The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has resumed night-sweeping services in all commercial areas in view of the upcoming festive season. Talking to TOI, DMC commissioner Satyendra Kumar said, “At present, night sweeping is being carried out at commercial areas only and it will be extended gradually to other areas.” Prem Prakash, the city manager of DMC, said, “The corporation conducted night sweeping in Dhanbad in the last couple of years. But the practice was not implemented properly. We have revived it again in view of the festival and the ongoing pandemic.” He added, “The sweeping work is being carried out by our own staff, while the garbage collection from households as well as from public places is being done by a solid waste agency, Ramky Enviro Engineers. In Dhanbad circle, night sweeping is being carried out in market places like Bank More, Park Market, City Centre and Saraidhela, while in Jharia night sweeping has been launched in Jharia Bazar. In Katras, the same is being carried out in Panchgarhi and Rani Bazar area.” The official said they were focusing on commercial areas as they generate huge amounts of garbage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ahead-of-puja-night-sweeping-resumes-in-dhanbad-pockets/articleshow/78646568.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||NU to conduct re-exams of over 3k students on Sunday||Nagpur: In a big respite for over 3,000 final year students, the Nagpur University will be conducting their re-examination on Sunday. All of them had missed their MCQ tests due to technical snag and other problems related to Pariksha App on the first two days of online exams.On Tuesday, students continued to face the problems with app despite tall claims by NU officials that it would work even in remote areas where connectivity is slow. Over 700 appearing for BA exams faced problems in language selection.Many Marathi and Hindi medium students had to forcibly solve the questions in English as language option wasn’t visible in the app. Even many principals, particularly from rural areas, called on NU officials after several examinees complained of not getting paper in their language. Of the 9,745 registered for exams, 9,135 (93.75%) appeared on Tuesday.Confirming the news on re-exam, Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI that only examinations of BSc students would be conducted on October 18. “It will be held in two shifts and their quantum is more. We will officially issue a notification in this regard on Wednesday,” he said.The university has also decided to re-conduct papers of students from other faculties who missed examinations due to app, server, connectivity or other problems. “We will declare their dates soon,” the BOEE director said.Explaining the language selection problems faced by over 700 students, he said that they didn’t read the instructions properly on NU’s website and app. “I’ve received many calls from the examinees and even principals. When I explained to them about having an option in the app, many of them managed to select it. By default, it shows English language, but students need to go to options and select Hindi or Marathi. In fact, the app asks examinees before the start of a paper on language, but in a hurry they oversee it,” he said.Apart from BA students, NU also received a host of complaints on common difficulties like slow connectivity and app not opening. “The connectivity is not in anyone’s hands. It solely depends on the service provider. Many students, particularly in the rural areas, are still using old handsets having Android 5.0 version called Lollipop. These mobiles are obviously slow as now we’re using the Android 10 version. So, they faced problems,” Sable said.Like Monday, many students faced difficulties in submitting their question paper. Many told TOI and also sent messages on social media that their BSc (Information Technology) paper ended at 2.30pm, but they were unable to submit it till late evening.The director, however, replied that students shouldn’t worry as all papers get automatically submitted to the NU server at the end of exam or as and when connectivity improves. “All data submitted by them in one hour is received on the server. We will not let any student suffer due to such glitches,” the director said.(With inputs from Anchal Bhatia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-conduct-re-exams-of-over-3k-students-on-sunday/articleshow/78647821.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 14, 2020||India||Vested interests, not MSP, fuelling stir, finds SBI study||CHANDIGARH: A research study conducted by the State Bank of India (SBI) research team has found that the ongoing farmers’ agitation is not due to the MSP but vested political interests, as some states are concerned about the loss of revenue from mandi taxes and fees. It currently ranges from 8.5% (6% mandi tax and 2.5% fee for handling central procurement) in Punjab to less than 1% in some other states. The study, conducted by a team under SBI’s group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh, has also found that apart from Haryana, in no other state do farmers sell their crops in electronic national agriculture market (e-NAM) mandis. In the case of Punjab, where annual income of agricultural households is almost Rs 2.8 lakh, only 1% farmers are associated with e-NAM. Only 19% households aware of MSPAs per the National Sample Survey’s 70th round survey on key indicators of situation of agricultural households in India, on an average only 19% of households are aware of MSP and 15% are aware of procurement agency. Only 7% households sell crops to procurement agency and only 10% of total crops are sold at MSP. This indicates that almost 93% of households sell goods in open market and face market imperfections, says the study. Lopsided system of procurement“India follows a legacy and lopsided system of procurement of primarily cereals that was implemented in the 1960s to benefit from the cereal granary states in north India, primarily Punjab and Haryana, and a large part of edifice of food grain procurement infrastructure is built around such states,” says the study. While UP and West Bengal are at first and second number in rice production, food grain procurement is only 18% by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) from such states, but in Punjab and Haryana (number 10) which are lower in rice production, the average procurement is still a staggering 90% by FCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vested-interests-not-msp-fuelling-stir-finds-sbi-study/articleshow/78651135.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Students’ organizations stage protest at univ over online exam fiasco||NAGPUR: After four days of unending trauma for students due to Nagpur University’s ‘failed’ experiment with online examinations for final year students, the students’ organizations staged protests on Tuesday in front of its new campus near Amravati Road. Delegations of Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) later met vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and submitted a representation of demands to improve the system. The VC assured them that no students would be put to loss and NU would conduct re-examinations of all those who couldn’t appear due to technical snag or server problems. The ABVP even threatened to gherao VC if NU administration failed to resolve the difficulties faced by examinees within three days. “Right from October 8, students have faced all kinds of problems in online exams, including difficulties in login and password. If somehow they manage to access papers, the app slows down and the screen becomes blank. Even after solving the full paper, the app still shows they solved zero questions. The biggest problem is with the helplines, which either remain engaged or no one picks up,” ABVP city secretary Amit Patle said. The ABVP activists reiterated their demand to increase helplines numbers to avoid such problems and also to take action against those circulating a fake audio clip of NU employees, where students were advised to “drink tea and relax”. They further demanded that the VC should address students through Facebook live and clear their confusions regarding exams. The BJYM, under newly appointed region secretary Kalyan Deshpande, demanded that NU should hold re-exam of all those who have suffered problems. They also insisted the company that developed ‘Pariksha App’ should improve it, so it doesn’t hang often. “If NU can’t resolve these issues immediately, it should postpone all examinations,” he said. “The examinees are under tremendous mental stress due to all these debacles. Many of them were kept waiting till midnight for submission of their papers. The papers couldn’t synch with the server for hours. NU should immediately ask the software company to resolve all these issues and ensure smooth conduct of exams,” spokesperson Prasad Mujumdar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-organizations-stage-protest-at-university-over-online-exam-fiasco/articleshow/78647836.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||When did you turn secular, governor mocks Maharashtra CM as shrines stay shut||MUMBAI: In a sharp escalation of tensions, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday wrote a sarcasm-laden letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray saying “it was ironical” that shrines were still shut while bars and restaurants were allowed to reopen in the state and asked if Uddhav, “a strong votary of Hindutva”, had “suddenly turned secular”. Uddhav hit back within hours to say he did not need a certificate of Hindutva from Koshyari and, in an indirect reference to actor Kangana Ranaut, added that “giving a rousing welcome to a person who described Mumbai as PoK does not fit into my definition of Hindutva”. Koshyari’s letter requesting Thackeray to “announce forthwith the reopening of all places of worship” came on a day the BJP launched a statewide agitation to press for the same. Koshyari said, “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing...or have you suddenly turned secular ...” Thackeray wrote back, “Do you feel that merely opening of temples means Hindutva and not opening means secular? As governor you took oath of office and secrecy as per the the Constitution, which is based on secularism. Do you agree with that secularism?” Governor cites bars & beaches; Uddhav snipes at ‘BJP memos’The governor must have personal experience of divine premonition. I have absolutely no idea, I am not that big. I am studying what’s happening in other states and trying to implement what is better for Maharashtra,” the CM added. Relations between the NDA-appointed governor and the Thackeray-led coalition government of Sena, NCP and Congress have been fraught right from the beginning when Koshyari swore in BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis as CM unannounced at 8am on November 23 last year, only to be forced three days later to invite Uddhav to form government. “You have been a strong votary of Hindutva, you had publicly espoused your devotion for Lord Rama by visiting Ayodhya after taking charge as CM, you had visited the Vitthal Rukmini Mandir in Pandharpur and performed the puja on Ashadhi Ekadishi,” Koshyari said in his letter. In response, Thackeray said Koshyari had correctly referred to his Hindutva, but he did not need a certificate of Hindutva from the governor, nor was he required to learn it from anyone. “My definition of Hindutva is very clear. Neither my state nor the state capital will give a rousing welcome to a person who described Mumbai as PoK. It does not fit into my Hindutva,” Thackeray retorted. Ranaut had called on the governor after parts of her bungalow in Bandra were demolished by the BMC on September 9 alleging illegal alterations. The demolition had come after the actor criticised the MVA government over the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. Kosyari noted that while, on the one hand, the state government had permitted the reopening of bars, restaurants and beaches, on the other, “gods and goddesses have been condemned to stay in lockdown.” Despite the CM’s promise, the ban on places of worship was being extended again and again, he added. Thackeray wondered if it was a coincidence that the three memorandums attached to the governor’s letter were from the BJP. “My government has taken serious note of your letter and a decision will be taken as early as possible after taking due precautions,” he said. NCP spokesperson and the state’s skill development minister Nawab Malik alleged that Koshyari was indulging in petty politics. “Raj Bhavan has become a hub of political activities. Let the CM do his job. He is handling the situation in the field as political head of the state, and he will take a decision on places of worship at an appropriate time,” Malik said. A Congress leader alleged that Koshyari was pushing the BJP’s agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/when-did-you-turn-secular-governor-mocks-maharashtra-cm-as-shrines-stay-shut/articleshow/78651129.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Tragedy averted after blast at Gorewada bamboo unit||NAGPUR: A major tragedy was averted following a blast at the bamboo treatment unit of the Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) in Gorewada reserve forest on Katol Road on Tuesday afternoon. According to forest sources, at least 4-5 workers were at the treatment unit when the blast took place. The vacuum pressure impregnation unit has been installed by Anil Enterprises, Dewas. The machine treats at least 150-200 bamboos at a time depending on size and shape. The machine has a safety valve that shuts it automatically in case it is unable to stop operation on its own. However, as this did not happen, the heavy steel nut-bolts were broken into pieces and flew past the workers like bullets. The workers did not wear any safety gear and they are also not covered under any type of insurance. The unit treats bamboo with a hazardous chemical called copper chrome boron (CCB) and at least 3,000 litres of chemical liquid run off into the perennial nullah used by wild animals to quench thirst and Gorewada lake from where drinking water is supplied to the city. Usually, the discharge goes to the lake. MBDB managing director TSK Reddy, who was on a tour of Mumbai, was unavailable for comments as his phone was switched off. PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu did not respond to TOI’s calls and an SMS. Video grab and pictures show how serious the incident could have been. The MBDB has been allocated a one-hectare area for office, unit, and nursery. However, an industrial unit cannot be started in a reserve forest as it is a non-forest activity. Sources said the unit has no licence from the industries department and no permission from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tragedy-averted-after-blast-at-gorewada-bamboo-unit/articleshow/78647843.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Shocked by the intemperate language used by Maharashtra governor: Sharad Pawar||MUMBAI: NCP Sharad Pawar wrote to PM Modi on Tuesday saying he was “shocked and surprised” by the “intemperate language” used by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in his letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray on reopening places of worship. “I have not discussed this matter either with the Governor nor with Uddhav Thackeray. However, I felt that I must share my pain with you and the public at the erosion of standards of conduct by the high constitutional office of the Governor,” Pawar said in his letter to Modi. Referring to Governor Koshyari’s mention of Hindutva and his question to Uddhav Thackeray if he was “receiving divine premonition” and had “suddenly turned secular,” Pawar said that in the very preamble of the Constitution, the word secular had been added “that equates and shields all religions and hence the chair of the CM must uphold such tenets of the Constitution.” “Unfortunately,” he stated, “the Governor’s letter to the CM invokes the connotation as if written to the leader of a political party. I firmly believed that in a democracy, free exchange of views between the Governor and the CM must take place. However, the tone and tenor used must always be in keeping with the stature of the constitutional post occupied by the individuals. Looking at the turn of events, the CM was in fact left with no option but to release his reply to the Governor to the media. I fully endorse the decision of the CM on his issue,” Pawar said. On the Governor’s plea on reopening of religious places, Pawar said he agreed that Koshyari could have independent views and opinions on the issue, and he appreciated his prerogative to convey his views to the CM. But he said he was shocked and surprised to see the governor’s letter released to the media and the kind of language used in the letter. Pawar, at the same time, defended the CM’s decision not to open places of worship as, in view of crowds at prominent places of worship, it is impossible to maintain a safe distance between people. “Keeping this in view, the state government had decided to stagger the decision regarding opening of places of worship. It is planning a campaign to make people aware of the importance of Do Gaj ki Doori,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shocked-by-the-intemperate-language-used-by-maharashtra-governor-sharad-pawar/articleshow/78651141.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Narayana Koradi Rd branch kids’ parents protest fee demand||NAGPUR: After the school’s Wardha road branch, now parents of children in Narayana Vidyalayam’s Koradi Road branch staged protests in front of school on Monday alleging the management was forcing them to pay full fees during Covid-19 pandemic. Since August, the school has stopped online link of students who failed to deposit Rs60,000, the parents said. Aggrieved by the school’s decision, over 250 of parents gathered in front of school and demanded that the management should charge only tuition and term fees as directed by the Maharashtra government. They claimed many of them had wanted to withdraw the admission of their wards after management rejected their demand to reduce the fees, but they were harassed for days. The school’s management’s representative Simon Mathew did not take TOI’s repeated calls and also failed to reply to text messages in this regard. A parent Mohnish Ramteke, who is working as an umpire at VCA, told TOI that when he demanded transfer certificate (TC) for his son studying in KG1, the school harassed him for a couple of weeks. “It was only after I threatened to lodge a police complaint that they granted TC. Many other parents had the same experience and are yet to get TC. Meanwhile, their teachers called me regularly asking me to drop my decision. I was once called in the school on the pretext that the director will meet me, but he never came,” he said. Other parents told TOI the school had asked them to pay full fees of Rs60,000 and not even provided instalment facility. According to them, the school didn’t have a regular principal ever since Vinod Pillay resigned in December. “They told us that they will refund the amount if the government reduced fees in future. They are charging for sports, extra-curricular activities and other things, despite the fact that school hasn’t opened this year. Many of us have lost jobs or our business has slowed down. A majority of us are not receiving full salaries. We are unable to pay such exorbitant fees at one go,” they said. In August, the aggrieved parents from Narayana’s Wardha Road branch had staged protests for “exorbitant fees” charged by the management. They also lodged complaints with deputy director of education and with speaker Nana Patole and other leaders. However, they failed to get relief from any quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/narayana-koradi-rd-branch-kids-parents-protest-fee-demand/articleshow/78647850.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||‘Focus on de-addiction instead of liquor ban’||Chandrapur: Facing flak from many social workers for his efforts to lift liquor ban in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli, state minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Tuesday asked them why is crores of rupees spent on de-addiction in the two districts when prohibition is in place. Padma Shree Dr Abhay Bang and Rani Bang as well Ramon Magsaysay award winner Dr Prakash Amte have strongly opposed the government’s move to reconsider the prohibition after Wadettiwar had decided to institute a study panel to evaluate liquor ban in the two districts. Wadettiwar countered them claiming that tribals in Gadchiroli have all the right to brew and consume liquor as per law. He claimed that smuggling of spurious and duplicate liquor as well as drugs has increased and so have increased the crimes. “Police in Gadchiroli are busy fighting Naxalites and have no time to deal with liquor problem. Those dealing with implementation of liquor ban have reaped astounding benefits and have turned into touts,” he said, claiming that large scale liquor seizure during lockdown is a glaring example of failure of prohibition in the district,” the minister said. “They (social workers) all have a national aurora. Why don’t they seek liquor ban in the entire state?” he added. Emphasizing that liquor ban is not the solution to the problem, he asked social workers to instead focus on de-addiction. Wadettiwar asked why there should be liquor ban in the districts, while people in others are free to consume it. “Inflow of spurious and duplicate liquor has put the lives of innocent people at the risk in the dry district. The number of cancer patients and those with stomach ailments have risen manifold at such places. Those who don’t fight elections don’t understand the problem. They need to think practically,” he said. The minister claimed that many other people’s representatives agrees with him on the matter. He also listed out the names of states where prohibition was imposed and later revoked after failure. Society for Education, Action and Research in Community Health (SEARCH) headed by Dr Abhay Bang issued a statement claiming that 383 villages have passed a resolution supporting continuation of liquor ban in Gadchiroli and Chandrapur. The resolution passed and sent to the CM claims that villages have benefited from liquor ban in Gadchiroli. Hence, there should be no reconsideration of lifting the ban, instead anti-liquor movement should be strengthened, it stated. The resolution stated that prohibition in Chandrapur has helped in preventing the inflow of illicit liquor. There is discontent among the villagers over efforts of Wadettiwar to lift the ban, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/focus-on-de-addiction-instead-of-liquor-ban/articleshow/78647854.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||SHRC summons CP in Ankita assault case||Nagpur: State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has on Tuesday issued notice to commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar asking him to remain present in-person on October 27 in connection with the manhandling of activist-lawyer Ankita Shah and her husband Nilesh Makheja by the cops. Shah and Makheja had gone to Lakadganj police station on March 25 to report a matter when they were roughed up by the cops at the instance of senior PI Narendra Hiware. Their mobile phones too were snatched when Shah and Makheja were trying to collect evidence of the police high-handedness. Shah had suffered injuries in the melee. Opposition leader in state legislative assembly Devendra Fadnavis had raised the issue with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condemning the harassment meted out to Shah and her husband at the police station. District Bar Association had earlier met the commissioner of police seeking action against Hiware and others. Rizwan Siddiquee, who had represented actor Kangana Ranaut, had expressed solidarity with Shah and also showed keenness to fight her case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shrc-summons-cp-in-ankita-assault-case/articleshow/78647870.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 14, 2020||Nagpur||HC flays lawyer for refusing to be silent despite requests||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay HC slammed a lawyer for his refusal to remain silent despite repeated requests during an online hearing.While hearing a writ petition filed by Manish Mehta against Central Bank of India’s general manager, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said the lawyer’s refusal to stop arguments led to complete chaos, confusion and lot of din, and disturbance during hearing of the case.“We repeatedly made requests to counsel for respondents to keep silent, assuring him that he would be given an opportunity of hearing. But he refused to maintain silence in the matter. In these circumstances, we think it necessary to adjourn the hearing to the next date to enable parties to recover their balance, stability and serenity,” the judges tersely stated.Before deferring the hearing till October 15, the judges noted that the moment this matter came to be called out, petitioner’s and respondent’s counsels started speaking over each other, which interfered with their working and the result was that they could hear neither of them properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-flays-lawyer-for-refusing-to-be-silent-despite-requests/articleshow/78647894.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man framed for raping minor acquitted after 2 years in jail||MUMBAI: Iterating that false allegation of rape causes equal distress, humiliation and damage to the accused, a special Pocso court acquitted a 52-year-old man who has spent over two years in jail after his neighbour accused him of sexually assaulting her two minor children. The court found high probability in the defence of the accused that the woman, who was a close family friend, was afraid he would inform her husband, who was working abroad, about her proximity to another man. The accused, a “rakhi brother” to the woman, and his wife had advised her to distance herself from the man as rumours about their relationship were damaging her reputation. The court also said being an independent woman, she had a right to keep in contact with any one and she was not answerable to anyone. It said she was bound to be upset as the accused warned her instead of disbelieving rumours and she was afraid this could harm her marriage. Referring to statements made by the children in court, the judge said it was clear they were trotting out what the mother had told them. “She has used tactics of using hot spoon touch to control them. She also becomes hyper often. She has blood pressure problem and has scared the children by constant crying and spoiling her health. The children therefore, due to love for the mother are bound to act as per her say,” the court said. The court also said medical evidence did not corroborate the mother’s version. It said this was not a fit case to blindly believe the complainant and the minors. “The evidence is not reliable and trustworthy. In the present case, the principle that even if no injuries are found on the person of prosecutrix, yet the prosecutrix can be relied upon, is not applicable,” the court said. The accused, a father of two, was arrested on July 18, 2018. The woman had alleged the accused had sexually abused her minor children, a daughter aged nine and a son aged seven, between May and July 2018. The woman said they were neighbours for several years, and while she took tuitions, the children would go to the house of the accused to watch television. She said on July 17, 2018, her daughter came home crying and told her the accused had sexually abused her. When the girl’s statement was being recorded, her brother’s sexual abuse came to light. The accused denied the charges. The court found on the day of the alleged incident, the minor girl had refused to part with the television remote and the accused grabbed it while she was lying on it. “Little boy ‘Y’ and little girl ‘X’ (identities of minors are concealed by the court) were always pampered by family of the accused. The touch to her in this background is not sexual. The mother exaggerated the matter of taking away the remote. She already had anger against the accused who gave importance to rumours against her,” the court said, adding she concocted the rape charge to build a serious offence against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-framed-for-raping-minor-acquitted-after-2-years-in-jail/articleshow/78651150.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Man in Mumbai to meet son gets Covid, dies in hospital||MUMBAI: A 54-year-old engineer from Haryana who came to Mumbai to visit his son, became the second patient to die after being shifted out of Mulund’s Apex Hospital, where a generator caught fire. The deceased Virendra Singh’s son Suraj has now alleged that his father, who was on a non-invasive ventilator, was shifted without suitable life-support. Singh died of cardiac arrest following multi-organ failure at Fortis Hospital in Mulund on Tuesday. Fortis authorities said Singh was brought “in a critical condition without Bipap”, a type of non-invasive ventilator. Suraj’s ordeal began on Monday when he saw a big crowd at Fortis. Unaware of the fire at Apex, he inquired, only to realise that the tragedy was closer home. A list from Apex arrived at Fortis around 11pm but his father’s name was missing. “After hours of looking, I found out my father was in Fortis around 1am,” Suraj said. An error in a list where Virendra’s name was replaced by ‘Yeshwendra’ had caused the confusion. Suraj said his mother is inconsolable. Singh came to Mumbai on September 23 to spend time with Suraj. He showed symptoms on October 1 and was admitted to Apex on October 5. In treatment, Virendra developed anxiety and restlessness and had to be restrained. “His mental health took a beating but his condition was not critical,” said the son. Fortis said the patient brought with abnormally rapid and shallow breathing, was also restless, disoriented and hypoxic (low oxygen levels). “He had to be intubated and put on ventilatory support,” a spokesperson said. Suraj said he is now staring at a bill of Rs 1.5lakh at Fortis. “Who will pay that?” he said. Apex founder Dr Vrajesh Shah said with electricity gone for 16 hours, the hospital could do little. Dr Dilip Patil, ICU incharge at Apex, said the patient was shifted with high flow nasal cannula with oxygen support. “He was quite critical already,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-in-mumbai-to-meet-son-gets-covid-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/78651161.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Active Covid cases see drop for second day, recoveries rise to 88%||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active Covid cases dipped marginally for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with recoveries exceeding new cases. The state reported 554 recoveries and 408 new infections, reducing the active caseload to 4,315. With a total of 34,252 recoveries since March, the recovery rate increased to 88%. On Tuesday the state saw three Covid-related deaths, two at Goa Medical College (GMC) and one at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. The mortality count rose to 515. A 48-year-old man from Ponda, who presented with bilateral Covid pneumonia when hospitalised last week, died early Tuesday morning. He had hypertension and non-alcoholic liver cirrhosis. Two more men — a 53-year-old from Canca, Mapusa and a 58-year-old from Macazana — both of whom had bilateral Covid pneumonia and sepsis at the time of admission, died within twelve days of hospitalisation. The Macazana man had developed Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) shortly after he was admitted. Both had multiple comorbidities, including chronic kidney disease. Another common factor detected in all three men was that they were rushed to hospital when in an advanced stage of the disease. Last week, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that people must come to the hospital early because though plasma treatment and other medications help in recovery, treatment does not yield results if patients reach the hospital with advanced stage of the disease. On Tuesday, as many as 223 patients were home isolated and 77 were sent to various Covid hospitals. Every day, GMC admits 20 to 25 patients who are critical and cannot be managed at other Covid hospitals. “We keep only very critical patients and daily we see about 20 to 25 such admissions,” dean of the GMC, Dr S M Bandekar, said. Three days ago, the chief minister had said that mostly all want to be treated at the GMC and are unwilling to go elsewhere. Since GMC has limited beds, it is not possible to treat all here. People must understand this, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-cases-see-drop-for-2nd-day-recoveries-rise-to-88/articleshow/78648328.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Another monsoon is here, but are we ready for it?||Sekhar RaghavanNortheast monsoon is round the corner, so are flooded roads and, six months later, water scarcity. Every summer residents of Chennai go through the routine of rationing, counting the increasing water tanker bills. The year 2019 was especially bad for Chennai, which faced a severe water crisis. This, when the city is water starved but not rain starved. The only answer to the cycle is proper rainwater harvesting (RWH) systems, which will not only mitigate floods but also make Chennai water sufficient.The growing water crisis across the world shows that the familiar, but oft ignored concept of RWH, is neither an option nor an alternative, but the only way to sustain our surface and subsoil water sources. It also puts the responsibility of finding a solution both on the individual and the government. Instead of asking about the benefits of implementing an RWH, one should ask what will happen if I do not implement RWH? To answer this, taking a cue from last year — borewells yielding good quality water for two decades will go dry, residents had to buy tanker loads of water almost everyday spending lakhs of rupees every month, some came up with innovative economising techniques, while others had to just skimp on their water use. Most don’t realise that a bit of rainwater harvesting a few months ago could have saved the stress of the summer months. Essentially, anyone with an open well or a borewell in their house/apartment complex that is used to extract groundwater for their daily use, should necessarily harvest rainwater. Two most important activities of RWH are channelising rainwater and leading it to a structure, which could be a lake or a pond at the macro level or a masonry tank for immediate use or a recharge well for groundwater sustenance. The benefits are many: The level and quality of groundwater improves resulting in good yields in open and bore wells, flooding of the neighbourhood is reduced since water is harvested within the premises of each structure and no run-off is minimised.Looking back in time, collecting rainwater in water bodies has been the practice across the country for more than 2,000 years. Three reservoirs supplying water to Chennai — Red Hills, Sholavaram and Chembarambakkam are such traditional eris. A few decades Chennai and Tamil Nadu were role models for urban and rural RWH in the country. During 1991-96, former chief minister J Jayalalithaa made it mandatory to incorporate RWH structures in the plans of new building proposals. In October 2002, she made it compulsory for all buildings to have an RWH structure. During 2011-16, she wanted an audit to be carried out by an NGO on the Compliance and Impact of RWH in Chennai Metropolitan Area. This was carried out by Akash Ganga Trust during 2014-16. A few like-minded people created the Akash Ganga Trust in January 2002 and set up the first Rain Centre, a one-stop information and assistance centre for RWH systems in the country, which was inaugurated by Jayalalithaa. In March, the department of water resources, river development & ganga rejuvenation, ministry of Jal Shakti and National Water Mission launched a country-wide campaign titled Catch the rain along Chennai’s Rain Centre model. The government’s initiative in the 1990s led to a large majority of residents attempting to harvest, but not efficiently. Many only concentrated on the rain falling on rooftops, few tried to harvest the rain falling on the setback area (driveway), which still runs off to the street and gets wasted. There are ways to harvest it by intercepting the runoff near the gate(s) and leading it to recharge wells. Second, most RWH structures are not maintained. Basic desilting of the structure ahead of each monsoon can go a long way in ensuring the structures are effective. On the part of the government, strict implementation of mandatory RWH plans in buildings proposals need to be enforced. So that a working RWH is set up in all new constructions as per the guidelines mentioned in the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019. This is lacking at present. A recommendation was made by our trust, while carrying out an audit for the state that there should be third party monitoring at least 10% of all new projects. Apart from individual structures, the Greater Chennai Corporation is involved in construction of storm water drains all over the city. These drains collect the precious rainwater, but dumps it in the Bay of Bengal. Attempts should be made to harvest this urban runoff. Chennai has grown exponentially, and advantage needs to be taken of its size. In the extended areas, there are several traditional water bodies, which, instead of being used as garbage dumping yards and real estate, should be revived as sources of freshwater. Similarly, there are more than 3,000 irrigations tanks (traditional eris) in the neighbouring Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur, which could be converted into reservoirs.Rain is decentralised so is extraction of groundwater. Therefore, RWH will have to be decentralised too. Water management is not a bureaucratic or an academic exercise. It takes each one of us to catch the rain.(The writer is the director of Rain Centre)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/another-monsoon-is-here-but-are-we-ready-for-it/articleshow/78651174.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: After light rain on Tuesday, heavy rain predicted for Thursday & Friday||MUMBAI: Parts of the city and around received light showers accompanied with thunder and lightning on Tuesday evening. Based on the Indian Meteorological Department’s ‘yellow’ alert for the coming days, the state’s disaster management department has informed district collectors about the possibility of heavy rain and thunder, especially in coastal districts. The Met’s Santacruz observatory recorded 2.2 mm rain between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm on Tuesday. The Colaba observatory, indicative of the island city, recorded 1.2 mm rain in the same period. Most of the rain was received after 5.30 pm. Other parts of Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Thane and Navi Mumbai, reported up to 6 mm rainfall. The Met has issued ‘heavy to very heavy’ rain at isolated places for Mumbai on Thursday and Friday and only on Thursday for Thane and Palghar. For Wednesday and Saturday a ‘green’ alert – light to moderate rain – has been issued for the three districts. Raigad however is forecast to receive extremely heavy rain on Thursday. Meanwhile, the city’s Air Quality Index once again saw an increase to 121 on Tuesday from 87 on Monday, According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) an AQI between 101 and 200 is considered to be in the moderate category (101-200) which means very sensitive people should consider reducing heavy exertion and outdoor work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-after-light-rain-on-tuesday-heavy-rain-predicted-for-thursday-friday/articleshow/78651177.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: After light rain on Tuesday, heavy rain predicted for Thursday & Friday||MUMBAI: Parts of the city and around received light showers accompanied with thunder and lightning on Tuesday evening. Based on the Indian Meteorological Department’s ‘yellow’ alert for the coming days, the state’s disaster management department has informed district collectors about the possibility of heavy rain and thunder, especially in coastal districts. The Met’s Santacruz observatory recorded 2.2 mm rain between 8.30 am and 8.30 pm on Tuesday. The Colaba observatory, indicative of the island city, recorded 1.2 mm rain in the same period. Most of the rain was received after 5.30 pm. Other parts of Mumbai Metropolitan Region, like Thane and Navi Mumbai, reported up to 6 mm rainfall. The Met has issued ‘heavy to very heavy’ rain at isolated places for Mumbai on Thursday and Friday and only on Thursday for Thane and Palghar. For Wednesday and Saturday a ‘green’ alert – light to moderate rain – has been issued for the three districts. Raigad however is forecast to receive extremely heavy rain on Thursday. Meanwhile, the city’s Air Quality Index once again saw an increase to 121 on Tuesday from 87 on Monday, According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) an AQI between 101 and 200 is considered to be in the moderate category (101-200) which means very sensitive people should consider reducing heavy exertion and outdoor work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-after-light-rain-on-tuesday-heavy-rain-predicted-for-thursday-friday/articleshow/78651166.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Redeploy IRB cops to keep tourists in check: Lobo||Calangute: Minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo wants Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) policemen redeployed along the Calangute-Candolim beach stretch after tourism stakeholders complained that a large number of tourists are throwing Covid-19 precautions to the wind by not wearing masks or maintaining social distance “The IRB personnel was removed from the beach because of the lockdown. I’ve asked chief minister Pramod Sawant and the director general of police (DGP) to redeploy them on the beach to ensure tourists wear masks and maintain social distancing,” Lobo said on Monday. Calangute sarpanch Dinesh Simepuruskar said they are going to hold a meeting soon with Calangute police to discuss the matter. “We want the police to issue fines to tourists for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance,” he said. Stakeholders said that though tourists wear masks when in their vehicles, once they step on the beach the masks are taken off as there are no police on the beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/redeploy-irb-cops-to-keep-tourists-in-check-lobo/articleshow/78648378.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Chennai||Moral studies: Lesson that is needed, but not included in schools||M RavindranThe National Crime Records Bureau’s 2019 report says Tamil Nadu had the second highest number of suicides. Among the many causes, love affairs and failure in examinations caused 4.5% and 2% of the deaths, most of the victims being teenagers and youths. The numbers make one think about what may have gone so wrong for young minds to feel irreparable damage had been done and take the extreme step. Is it because we are not equipping young minds with values required to overcome emotional stress?In the past nearly seven months, schools have been shut, but online classes and exams are on. Teachers are hurrying through the syllabus, but children are having it tough keeping up with the new routine. At this time, when learning is limited to important career-oriented subjects, a subject that could have been a balm — moral education — is forgotten. In pre-Covid times, this was relegated to a few classes after school and limited to middle school for most institutions, but this is probably the one class providing lessons of perseverance, integrity, a set of beliefs and attitudes that can help young minds develop a sense of right and wrong. While several factors could be at play, one cause could be the changing family set-ups.With joint families making way for nuclear families and dual income households becoming the norm, time is sparse. Chores take over and family time takes a backseat. With so many gadgets, children are literally ported into a fantasy world. Nurturing, touch and verbal communication have been reduced. And there are no moral education classes.At Sethupathy High School in Madurai, where I studied from 1953 to 1957, one class a week was devoted to moral science. A teacher would narrate stories from history, epics like Thiruvilayadal Puranam, lives of saints and social reformers, with the end carrying a message about good values. Our young minds would be filled with tales of virtue of our ancient land. We were made to think about obstacles in life and how they could be overcome. These teachings subtly built a moral fibre that proved to be a life lesson. During my undergraduate course at American College, professors and lecturers of moral extensively quoted from the Bible, sometimes comparing it with that of the Gita. For the students,diversity, tolerance and acceptance were inculcated. We were taught to analyse events in our lives and to separate the good from the bad as one separates chaff from the grain.Despite its character-building qualities, moral studies doesn’t get the attention it deserves in most school curriculums. There is no consistency in administering of values. Often, when exam pressure peaks, this is the first class forgotten. This is ironical, becauseit probably and unconsciously establishes the priority that values and morals have in life. With no elders to narrate stories and no moral classes in schools, can we blame young minds for wavering when they are at a crossroads? Are we not abandoning them when we know that it’s in the teenage years that children need the mostemotional support?Parents should instil in the minds of their wards that if one avenue is shut, there are hundreds of other avenues open. Beyond everything, we need to be there for our children at every stage.(The writer is a senior advocate and former additional solicitor general of India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/moral-studies-lesson-that-is-needed-but-not-included-in-schools/articleshow/78651179.cms||---
October 14, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Covid pandemic weighs down floating jetties||PANAJI: The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the completion of the first phase of the floating jetties, with just one of the four floating jetties being commissioned till date. The pandemic and the subsequent austerity measures imposed by the state government have also brought construction of the captain of ports terminal to a halt, officials said. In the first phase, three more floating jetties – near Campal, at Old Goa and along Chapora village — were to be installed and commissioned by June. “In the first phase, four jetties were planned but because of the pandemic, things got delayed. We are trying to get the jetties commissioned in another four to five months,” a government official said. All four jetties, funded by Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI), were to be installed at Rs 10 crore by the contractor, REL Marintek Infra Pvt Ltd. The first concrete floating jetty, and the first in the country, was inaugurated by Union minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya in February. At that time, Mandaviya and state authorities said the remaining floating jetties would be installed in four months. The pandemic has had a severe impact on infrastructure projects in the state as most of the labourers left the state and returned home. The sharp fall in tax revenue also affected the state, forcing chief minister Pramod Sawant to bring in austerity measures. “Sanctioning of funds for the building is on hold for now. We had almost finished piling and if we had done 30% more, we could have started work on the structure,” the official said. The delay in completion of the terminal building will lead to a revision in the contract terms, particularly cost escalation. “A lot of things have come to a grinding halt because of the money issue,” the official said, pointing out that funds for maintenance dredging in river Sal had yet to be disbursed even though the tender has been floated and contractor selected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-pandemic-weighs-down-floating-jetties/articleshow/78648435.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 14, 2020||Goa||Monserrate demands hospital at Ribandar||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate on Tuesday called on chief minister Pramod Sawant and demanded a full-fledged hospital at Ribandar. Monserrate also urged the chief minister to speed up projects under the Smart City Mission in Panaji. Speaking to TOI, Monserrate said that he took up the hospital matter with health minister Vishwajit Rane before approaching the CM. Monserrate said Rane assured him of conducting an inspection at Ribandar with health department officials and Goa Medical College doctors. The Panaji MLA said that he told the chief minister that earlier the Panaji constituency had two hospitals, both of which have been shut. “If we start the Ribandar hospital, then it would cater to the people of Panaji,” he said, adding, “Sawant gave a positive reply.” Residents of Ribandar have been demanding a full-fledged hospital. Sawant on October 2 had said that he would consider setting up a primary healthcare centre at Ribandar. Speaking on Smart City, Monserrate said that he told Sawant that projects under the mission are moving very slowly and that there is need to speed them up. He said that during the last one year, the smart city mission board has not been reconstituted and that this has been brought to chief minister’s notice. Panaji constituency had two hospitals and both have been shut. If we start the Ribandar hospital, then it would cater to the people of Panaji||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monserrate-demands-hospital-at-ribandar/articleshow/78648457.cms||---
