October 15, 2020||Goa||NEUFC asst coach Jamil in hospital for Covid treatment||PANAJI: NorthEast United FC assistant coach Khalid Jamil has been moved to a hospital on the outskirts of the city for treatment of Covid-19. Jamil picked up the infection almost a week ago, but sources said his recovery has been far from satisfactory. Initially, the NorthEast assistant coach isolated himself in his hotel room in north Goa but with no signs of progress, he was moved to the hospital. “Jamil has been in hospital for the last two days,” a hospital source told TOI on Wednesday. Jamil is not the only one at NorthEast United who has been infected with the virus. Sources said there are at least three other players who have tested positive for Covid-19. Jamil, who won the I-League with Aizawl FC and has coached Kolkata giants Mohun Bagan and East Bengal, is an important figure at the club. He had taken charge of the club as their interim head coach for the final three matches of the Indian Super League (ISL) last season after Robert Jarni parted ways with the club. Jamil is now an assistant to Gerard Nus, besides head of youth development at NorthEast. According to ISL Health and Safety Guidelines 2020-21, for Covid-19 positive cases appropriate government mandated protocols are applicable. This includes a minimum of 14-day isolation at the accommodation facility/ treatment centres or hospitals, depending on the severity of the symptoms. “During the minimum 14-day isolation, the individual will undergo an RT-PCR test on Day 10, Day 12 and Day 14. Provided, both the test results from Day 12 and Day 14 are negative, and he does not have any symptoms for more than 24 hours, the individual will be permitted to re-enter the bio-secure environment,” the league rule states. A medical and cardiac screening in particular is required before return to play for all Covid-19 positive players irrespective of hospitalisation status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neufc-asst-coach-jamil-in-hospital-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/78667370.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 15, 2020||World||President Macron orders 9:00 pm-6:00 am curfew for Paris, eight other French cities||PARIS: President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday ordered a nighttime curfew for Paris and eight other French cities to contain the rising spread of Covid-19 in the country. In a televised interview, Macron said residents of those cities would not be allowed to be outdoors between 9:00 pm (1900 GMT) and 6:00 am (0400 GMT) from Saturday, for a duration of at least four weeks. "We have to act. We need to put a brake on the spread of the virus," Macron said, adding the measure would stop people visiting restaurants and private homes in the late evening and night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/president-macron-orders-900-pm-600-am-curfew-for-paris-eight-other-french-cities/articleshow/78669093.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||#CoronaImpact: With digital tickets, private screenings, re-releases, NCR cinemas get ready for the new normal||With cheaper tickets, three to four shows a day and re-releases, cinema halls in Delhi-NCR, which have been shut since mid-March due to the pandemic, are set to reopen on Friday. Exhibitors say that they will be following the standard operating protocols (SOPs) laid down by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the standard protocols which are being followed by the Global Cinema Federation, as they resume operation. ‘No entry inside the hall without masks and temperature checks’Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, says, “We are set to reopen in a phased manner. In the first phase, beginning October 16, we will focus on rebuilding the trust of customers, so that they are confident about stepping out of their homes.” Cinemas say that moviegoers will not be allowed to enter without masks and temperature checks. Those who are not wearing a mask can purchase it from the counters. Besides, PPE kits will also be sold, which will include a mask, a pair of gloves and a sanitiser. Cinemas have also put up pedal-operated touch-free hand sanitisers at several points. Apart from this, cashier shields have been put up at the counters to minimise contact. Moviegoers will be able to order food via their phones rather than going to the counter. From the F&B counters to the washrooms, social distancing will be strictly followed and all safety and hygiene precautions will be taken, say exhibitors in NCRGoing the digital wayAlok Tandon, CEO, INOX Leisure Ltd, says, “There will also be a lot of focus on digital tickets. Each guest will receive an SMS, which would have four different links – the first one will allow you to check-in with your QR code, the second one will show you the auditorium’s seat chart and the location of your seat, so that you don’t have to ask around. The third one will provide access to the F&B menu to place your order, and the fourth one will allow you to download your e-ticket with all the details.” There are also plans of private screenings. “We are also looking to organise private screenings, where families or smaller groups can book the entire auditorium and enjoy the content of their choice,” adds Tandon. For representational purposes only‘Planning to reopen cinemas with re-releases’Several old films will be released again at the theatres in the first week. Kunal Sawhney, Senior Vice President, Carnival Cinemas, says, “For the first week, we are planning to reopen cinemas with re-releases. It will be a mix of films like 'Mission Mangal', 'Chhichhore 'and some Punjabi movies. We have also kept ticket prices starting from `90, and are giving several discounts and free tickets to COVID warriors.” Watch NCR cinemas to open doors from October 16||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronaimpact-with-digital-tickets-private-screenings-re-releases-ncr-cinemas-get-ready-for-the-new-normal/articleshow/78661950.cms||Niharika Lal
October 15, 2020||Business||Infosys beats TCS, Wipro in Q2 revenue growth; to give pay hikes from January||BENGALURU: Infosys’s revenue growth in the second quarter came in way better than that of rivals TCS and Wipro, encouraging it to announce salary increases and promotions across all employee levels from January. India’s second largest software services company will also give 100% variable pay and a special incentive to junior employees for the second quarter. Salary increases are normally given with effect from April, but the pandemic and resulting business uncertainty forced the company, as also its peers, to freeze hikes and promotions. “The quantum of increase in salary will be identical to the previous year,” chief operating officer Pravin Rao said. The company had increased salaries by an average of 6% last year. Read AlsoInfosys to acquire Blue Acorn iCi for around Rs 915 croreIT services major Infosys on Thursday said it has inked a pact to acquire Blue Acorn iCi, a digital customer experience, commerce and analytics services provider, for up to $125 million (about Rs 915 crore).TCS too had said last week that all its employees would be given a salary increase from October. For the third straight quarter, Infosys’ growth rate was better than TCS’s. In constant currency, the growth was 2.2% compared to the same period last year. TCS and Wipro both saw revenue falling in Q2 - the former by 3% and the latter by 3.4%. On a reported basis, revenue was up 3.2% to $3.3 billion. Net profit was up 15% to $653 million. “The strength and resilience of Infosys was fully visible in Q2 with operating metrics witnessing a healthy increase, broad-based growth, highest ever large deal TCV at $3.1 billion and attrition reducing to single digits,” said Rao. Digital revenue, the company said, grew at 25% year-over-year and represents 47% of the topline. “We will cross the 50% mark soon,” said CEO Salil Parekh, who will complete three years in office in January. “We are seeing the benefits of the investments made in the last 2-3 years. While large deal wins are more volatile and not predictable every quarter, the overall deal pipeline is fairly good,” he said. Read AlsoSudha Murty to retire as Infosys Foundation chiefInfosys Foundation, the philanthropic and CSR arm of Infosys, said Sudha Murty will retire as chairperson on December 31, 2021, after a 25-year innings dedicated to social causes.That prompted the company to up its revenue guidance to 2-3% annual growth, from 0-2% predicted earlier. The company’s American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) were up 5.5% in morning trade on the New York Stock Exchange. While client discretionary spends continue to remain patchy, they are also focusing on leveraging the benefits of cloud migration to automate processes or workforce management that helps them scale and adapt to the new normal, Parekh added. ICICI Direct Research said Infosys reported another healthy quarter and registered healthy deal wins. “In addition, the company has consistently outperformed TCS in revenue terms over the past few quarters and is also narrowing the gap between its margins,” it said. Increasing focus on digital has helped Infosys improve margins. Last quarter it soared to 25.4%, 370 basis points higher than last year. It was also aided by increasing offshore work and less travel costs. Chief financial officer Nilanjan Roy cautioned that margins will come down in the coming quarters as the salary increase takes effect and travel resumes sometime next year. Among business verticals, financial services was the growth driver – up 2.9% in constant currency – with banking, mortgage process payment and lending performing well. Retail is showing signs of returning to normal, Rao said. Watch Infosys beats rivals TCS and Wipro in Q2 revenue growth, to roll out salary hikes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infosys-beats-tcs-wipro-in-q2-revenue-growth/articleshow/78670388.cms||Avik Das
October 15, 2020||India||Wife’s 498A complaint costs advocate husband judge post||Cruelty to a woman at her matrimonial home as per a complaint under Section 498A of IPC annulled her advocate husband’s selection as a district judge and the Supreme Court said the Madhya Pradesh high court committed no mistake in rescinding his selection on the ground of pendency of the criminal case. Limiting the applicability of the exalted judicial principle “innocent till proven guilty” to selection of judicial officers, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah said, “The decision of the examination-cum-selection and appointment committee for holding the appellant unsuitable was based on the relevant consideration, that is, a criminal case against the appellant under Section 498A/406/34 IPC was pending consideration which was registered on a complaint filed by the wife of the appellant.” Subsequent acquittal of the advocate ordered by the trial court in the case also did not come to his rescue as the SC bench said at the relevant time of selection and prior to appointment, the case was pending against the selected candidate. The clock can’t be turned back, the court said. Read AlsoNCRB Crime Data 2019: Cases registered up 1.6%; crimes against women rise 7.3%; cyber crimes jump 63.5%Crime rate registered per lakh population went up marginally to 385.5 in 2019 as compared to 383.5 in 2018. A total of 51.56 lakh cognizable crimes comprising 32.25 lakh Indian Penal Code (IPC) crimes and 19.30 lakh Special &amp; Local Laws (SLL) crimes were registered in 2019. This marks an increase ofWriting the judgment, Justice Bhushan said, “Such a decision of the committee was well within the jurisdiction and power of the committee and cannot be said to be unsustainable. The mere fact that subsequently, after more than a year, when the person whose candidature has been cancelled has been acquitted cannot be a ground to turn the clock backward. The fact that subsequently, the advocate was acquitted in the criminal case did not furnish sufficient ground for reconsidering the appellant for appointment on the post.” Senior advocate R Venkataramani, appearing for the advocate, argued that due to deletion of the appellant’s name from the selection list, a stigma was attached to him, and the SC must entertain his appeal against the HC order for removal of the stigma. He also said the advocate should not lose the opportunity to become a district judge as he had disclosed to the appointment committee about the pendency of FIR lodged by his wife against him, in which he was subsequently acquitted. The bench said, “The appellant having already been acquitted by the judgment dated September 18, 2019, the stigma of criminal case has already washed out and the criminal case having resulted in acquittal, no stigma is attached to the appellant’s name on the above ground. The apprehension of the counsel for the appellant that a stigma shall continue with the name of the appellant is misconceived, as stigma, if any, is already over by acquittal.” Watch Wife’s complaint costs husband post of judge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wifes-498a-complaint-costs-advocate-husband-judge-post/articleshow/78670531.cms||---
October 15, 2020||India||Heavy rainfall leaves 32 dead in Telangana; Hyd streets flooded||HYDERABAD: At least 23 people were killed in Telangana on Wednesday after a deep depression passed over the state, unleashing heavy rain and widespread destruction. Heavy rain was reported in Andhra Pradesh, north Karnataka and south Odisha. Telangana’s capital city Hyderabad bore the brunt of the heavy downpour with many streets, especially in the Old City, turning into virtual rivers. As the situation turned critical, the Army was called in to help in rescue and relief operations. The city reported at least 18 deaths, but government sources said the toll could rise given that there were a number of instances of people being washed away and not accounted for as yet. Officials said at least eight people got washed away in swirling waters and were missing till late Wednesday evening. In one incident, a person in Barkas area of Old City was caught on camera getting washed away in rain water at high speed on the city road. The video went viral and was later rescued by police with the help of locals. Read AlsoHyderabad records highest rainfall ever in 24 hoursHyderabad records its heaviest ever 24-hour rainHyderabad was cut off from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, with access becoming difficult on the national highways connecting Vijayawada and Bengaluru. Many parts of Hyderabad did not have electricity for 12-24 hours. This hit the city’s IT sector hard as nearly 20% of the techies lost broadband connections in the absence of power backup at home. Hyderabad’s IT sector has around 1,500 companies, employs nearly 6 lakh people and exports software worth over Rs 1.28 lakh crore. Nearly 95% employees of all IT companies in the city have been working from home since the pandemic started in March. Wednesday went down as the rainiest day in the history of Greater Hyderabad, as the city received a month’s rain on a single day, bringing life to a crippling halt. The city and its outskirts recorded 324.5 mm rainfall in just 24 hours, according to the Telangana State Development Planning Society. “Since the deep depression was centered over Hyderabad, it led to torrential rains. But it was unprecedented as our observatory has never witnessed such a high amount of rainfall in October,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). In Andhra Pradesh, heavy rains triggered by the deep depression left behind a trail of destruction in several coastal districts with scores of villages going under water. As many as 98 villages in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts remained under flood water for the second day. In north Karnataka, heavy rain over Monday and Tuesday flooded roads and fields, destroyed crops and damaged houses. A 70-year-old woman died in Gadag district on Wednesday as her house collapsed. Rain in Telangana also led to heavy discharge into Karnataka rivers, with all major dams in the Cauvery and Krishna basins brimming and their floodgates opened once again. Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Bidar were the worst hit, officials said. Heavy rain continued to batter south Odisha for the third consecutive day on Wednesday leading to water-logging in several areas, with Ganjam and Gajapati districts being the worst affected. IMD retained yellow warning (heavy rainfall) for nine districts till Friday. “The depression over Telangana has moved further west-northwards and has no direct impact over Odisha. However, due to an upper air trough and prevailing wind pattern, thunderstorm activity with isolated heavy rain in some districts is likely to occur till Friday,” an IMD bulletin said. (With inputs from Bengaluru and Bhubaneshwar) Watch Torrential rain triggers flashfloods in Andhra and Telangana, 30 killed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/heavy-rainfall-leaves-32-dead-in-telangana-hyd-streets-flooded/articleshow/78670603.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Business||Government to go ahead with Air India sale, may not retire debt||NEW DELHI: The government is moving ahead with Air India strategic sale and is expected to ask suitors to bid based on the combined equity and debt value, while turning down suggestions to either run the operations for next two-three years or shut down the national carrier. A panel of officers — which had been tasked to look into the options proposed by the transaction advisor, Ernst & Young — is also not in favour of reducing the debt by Rs 23,000 crore, sources told TOI. Some of the potential bidders had also sought clarifications on this. On September 18, TOI had reported on the options. Read AlsoWinding up Air India among 4 options suggested for sale by adviserThe transaction adviser for Air India’s divestment has suggested four options to the government regarding the struggling airline’s future that range from shutting it down to further reducing the debt of over Rs 23,000 crore that bidders need to take on and letting them choose a level they findWhile the final modalities have to be prepared by the core group on disinvestment headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, before a green-light from a ministerial panel, the groundwork is done by the inter-ministerial group (IMG). Top government sources indicated that the finance ministry is keen on department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) moving ahead with the disinvestment programme of public sector companies in line with the Cabinet decision. Fresh proposals are unlikely to be taken up immediately, they said. Winding up the airline was not an option, given that it has nearly 15,000 employees, apart from a vast infrastructure and assets and a closure will result in further value erosion. Aviation minister Hardeep Puri has several times said the choice “is between privatising and closing down” AI. The government has extended the deadline for submission of interest to October 30. According to sources, the IMG was of the view that the equity value had come down over the last one year due to Air India losing market share, with Covid-19 disruptions further impacting its profitability. At the same time, the debt burden had only mounted. As a result, the government expects that assigning a pre-fixed debt level may turn out to be detrimental and could further reduce competition. “Fewer the conditions, the better it is,” said an officer, adding that the government is keen to exit the national carrier, which has been a drain on the exchequer for several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-go-ahead-with-ai-sale-may-not-retire-debt/articleshow/78670635.cms||Sidhartha
October 15, 2020||India||Veterans write to Prez, seek action against fake news on social media about non-existent ‘Muslim Regiment’||NEW DELHI: A large number of military veterans have written to President Ram Nath Kovind requesting stern action against those spreading “fake news” on social media about a non-existent “Muslim Regiment” of the Indian Army refusing to fight in the 1965 war against Pakistan. India has never had any Muslim regiment and such “blatant falsehoods”, which began in May 2013, are still being insidiously spread on the social media at a time when the country is confronted with military tensions with both Pakistan and China, said the veterans. Signed by 120 veterans, including former Navy chief Admiral L Ramdas and 24 two and three-star generals from the armed forces, the letter refers to a blog written in TOI by Lt-General S A Hasnain (retd) that said the disinformation campaign was possibly part of “psy ops” unleashed by Pakistan’s Inter Services Public Relations wing. “We wish to point out that Muslims fighting as part of multi-class regiments in the Indian Army have proved their absolute commitment to the cause of our nation,” said the letter. It cited the examples of top gallantry medals being awarded to Havildar Abdul Hamid (Param Vir Chakra), Major (later Lt-General) Mohammad Zaki and Major Abdul Rafey Khan (Vir Chakras) in the 1965 war, among others. Even earlier, during the partition in 1947, Brigadier Mohammad Usman chose to remain in the Indian Army when his Baluch Regiment went to Pakistan despite being approached by Jinnah. “Brig Usman fought the Pakistani invasion in Kashmir and was the senior-most officer killed in action in July 1948. He was posthumously awarded Mahavir Chakra for his gallantry,” it added. Underlining the need to protect the apolitical and secular ethos of the Indian armed forces, the letter said there should be “firm and immediate action” in the matter, with a warning also being issued to social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter. “Issue immediate instructions also to all state governments that the generation of false and seditious messages in social media should be acted upon with alacrity so as to not jeopardie national security,” it said. “Social media posts like the ‘Muslim Regiment’ put in the public domain are an insidious attack on the morale of our armed forces. It generates doubt in the public mind that if Muslim soldiers cannot be trusted, then other Muslims too are no different. It exacerbates mistrust and hate between communities,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/veterans-write-to-prez-seek-action-against-fake-news-on-social-media-about-non-existent-muslim-regiment/articleshow/78670756.cms||---
October 15, 2020||India||Clear your stand on same-sex marriage: Delhi HC to Centre||NEW DELHI: Laws are gender neutral and government should try and interpret them in a beneficial way, Delhi high court remarked on Wednesday, while hearing separate petitions by two same sex couples unable to get legal recognition to their union. A bench of justices RS Endlaw and Asha Menon sought the stand of the Centre and Delhi government on a petition by two women seeking to get married under the Special Marriage Act (SMA), which does not provide for same sex marriages. On the second plea, the court issued notice to the Centre and the Consulate General of India in New York where two gay men married in the US but were denied registration of their marriage under the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA) and are unable to fly down to India. Hearing both petitions together, the bench raised doubts over maintainability, pointing out that in the Indian context, the concept of marriage emanates from the customary laws that do not recognise same sex marriages. It also said that marriage is not defined under SMA and FMA, and everyone interprets what a marriage is according to the customary laws, adding that if same sex marriages get recognised under customary laws, it would be followed by other statutes. The court also highlighted that statutes such as SMA were enacted as there were no customs for inter-faith and inter-caste marriages. In response, senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, appearing for both set of petitioners, submitted that the petitioners are not seeking relief under any customary or religious laws, but challenging the constitutional validity of some of the provisions in the civil laws — SMA and FMA — which are applicable to all kinds of couples, including inter-caste and inter-faith. “We would simply want to be recognised as full citizens” Guruswamy argued, noting that the Special Marriage Act prohibits who can’t get married but can’t define what “marriage” is.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/clear-your-stand-on-same-sex-marriage-delhi-hc-to-centre/articleshow/78670834.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 15, 2020||Business||SC welcomes relief on interest but wants it to be speeded up||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it was a “welcome move” on the Centre's part to waive compound interest on instalments of loans up to Rs 2 crore payable during the six-month moratorium period of March 1 to August 31 but frowned upon the over one-month time it sought to implement the decision. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah asked the government to speed up the process of implementation and said, "We welcome the Centre’s decision taken in the interest of the common man. We want it to be implemented expeditiously." Before arguments for the day were closed, Justice Shah said in a lighter vein, "Their (people's) Diwali is in your hands." In its October 2 affidavit, the government had informed the court about waiver of interest on interest for instalments during the moratorium period for loans up to Rs 2 crore availed of by MSMEs and small borrowers. It had said that keeping in mind the varying terms and interest rates for different types of loans in this category, necessary mechanisms for implementation of the decision would be notified "on or before November 15". The bench repeatedly questioned the Centre on Wednesday on why it needed a one month-window to implement the move when it could be executed by simply issuing a directive to banks. "You just have to issue a direction to banks to implement the decision. See the plight of common people. They have welcomed the decision. But they want formal orders for concrete implementation of the decision. It is such a small decision. Why would you require more than a month to implement?" it asked. Read AlsoBring something concrete, common man's Diwali in government's hand: SC on loan reliefThe Supreme Court on Wednesday denied the Central government's request seeking one month's time to implement the interest waiver on loans of up to Rs 2 crore and observed that it is not fair on the government's part to delay the implementation of its decision.However, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, while emphasising that the Centre had decided to waive compound interest keeping the plight of common people in sight, suggested that the task was far more complex. “When the Centre says in an affidavit that it will be done, there should be no doubt about implementation of the decision in letter and spirit. This entails a huge financial burden on the government as it has to reimburse banks the compound interest that is waived off. Individual borrowers who had not availed the moratorium would have to be paid back. But the loans are of different kinds. Credit card loans, consumer durable purchase loans, bank loans for different purposes have varying interest rates and require complex calculations," he said. “We are bound to implement the decision and will not benefit by delaying implementation. The notification will come on or before November 15,” he said. The bench sought information about progress in implementation of the decision by November 2, the next date of hearing. Appearing for the Indian Banks Association, senior advocate Harish Salve told the bench that once the government has taken a policy decision, it will be implemented. “But the number of beneficiaries falling in the Rs 2-crore category loan is very large. We (banks) cannot act on the policy decision without the Reserve Bank of India issuing a circular/notification and providing the mechanism for implementation of the policy decision,” he said. In its October 2 affidavit, the Centre had said compound interest waiver relief would be available to all small borrowers irrespective of whether or not they had availed the moratorium on repayment during the six-month period. This means those who kept paying instalments during the moratorium period will also benefit in the same way from the decision on waiver of compound interest as will now be available to those who did not pay instalments for loan servicing during the six-month period. “This category of borrowers, in whose case the compound interest will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans up to Rs 2 crore of the following categories — MSME loans, educational loans, housing loans, consumer durable loans, credit card dues, auto loans, personal loans to professionals and consumption loans,” the finance ministry had said. Watch Loan moratorium: SC welcomes relief on interest but wants it to be speeded up||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sc-welcomes-relief-on-interest-but-wants-it-to-be-speeded-up/articleshow/78670926.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||#DurgaPuja2020: Clubs set new rules for sindoor khela||The pandemic has changed the entire course of Durga Puja in Kolkata. From bodhon to immersion of idols — every ritual will be done differently this year. Likewise, the traditional sindoor khela will also take a different path. Until recently, when organising Durga Puja itself was uncertain, clubs and organisers had discarded the idea of this age-old tradition. “Sindoor khela is not possible without two women coming in close proximity to apply sindoor on each other. In the present situation, it was unthinkable,” said Abhinaba Dey from Beliaghata 33 No Pallibashi Brindo. But now, Puja organisers have come up with different ways to celebrate the ritual in a safe manner. Being creative is the only way outThere is one very old tradition followed in aristocratic households. On Shashthi, the entire family of a local barber would go to the mandap and start the Puja. The barber’s wife would apply aalta on the feet of women of the family, while the barber would offer prasad (naibedya) to Ma Durga. SB Park Durga Puja, has made some minor changes and is all set to celebrate the same ritual on the last day of Puja. “This will be our Sindoor Khela. No one will smear sindoor on each other and there will be no physical touching and all of us would wear gloves and masks,” said Ajay Majumder from the club. “When the Puja is happening, there is no reason to do it half-heartedly. If we maintain precautions and proper hygiene, I am sure things will be safe,” Ajay said, adding that being creative with rituals might save the day. No physical proximityBehala Nutan Sangha is taking more precautions. According to Debroop Chatterjee, they have planned for a ‘No Touch Sindoor Khela’. The plan goes like this: The participants (a small number), after sanitization, would gather at the mandap and pour sindoor into a big earthen pot. One of the women would apply sindoor on Ma Durga and complete the bodhon ceremony. Finally, individuals would apply sindoor on themselves from that same pot. “This way, there will be no touching and the social distancing would also be maintained,” said Debroop. Sindoor khela in batchesImplementing strict rules is another way for a safe sindoor khela. Pujas like 33 Palli and Behala Club have planned to organise their sindoor khela strictly within their core members and each time there will be no more than five to seven people completing the ritual. “We have already started scheduling time for each member. The participants will have to enlist their names and time beforehand,” said Abhinava, adding that temperature check, mask and sanitisers will be mandatory. No sharing sweetsSweets have been an inseparable part of the entire sindoor khela ritual. Sharing rosogollas from the same earthen pot is how the ceremony ends. While the Puja organisers are still thinking of new ways of celebrating the ritual, there will be no sharing of sweets this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/durgapuja2020-clubs-set-new-rules-for-sindoor-khela/articleshow/78666414.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
October 15, 2020||Business||Banks can rejig realty loans based on project, not realtor||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has permitted banks to restructure loans to real estate companies on the basis of the project rather than the developer. It has also indicated that banks can restructure loans drawn by a borrower during the current fiscal, provided the account was classified as ‘standard’ (not overdue for more than 30 days) as on March 1, 2020. These clarifications were issued by the central bank in a set of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the resolution framework for Covid-related stress announced last month. On real estate, the RBI said, “Only in respect of borrowers belonging to real estate sector, and have both residential and commercial real estate business, the prescribed thresholds for the financial parameters may be applied at the project level.” The RBI also cleared the confusion on whether only that loan which was outstanding as on March 1, 2020 is available for resolution. It said the March 1 deadline is for determining eligibility, whereas the actual loan that may be considered for resolution will be the one that is outstanding as on the date of invocation of the resolution framework. This is a very significant development as many real estate projects have got stuck at the last stage for want of funds because of a default at the corporate level. As a result of this default, lenders have not been able to extend funds to projects even if it is in their best financial interest to ensure completion. In its clarification, the RBI said that a basic requirement of its prescriptions for loan restructuring, issued in June 2019, was that there should be an inter-creditor agreement among all lenders. It added that this framework provides banks with enough flexibility to restructure loans on a project basis. That’s because the projects are considered separate legal entities and therefore there is no bar on creating separate escrow accounts. On micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), the RBI said that although the government had changed their definition on June 26, 2020 for the purpose of eligibility for resolution, the definition of MSME that would be applicable is the one that existed on March 1, 2020. Another clarification by the RBI is that for borrowers who have taken loans against personal property or an individual taken as co-borrower to supplement the income of the company, the loan would not be considered a personal loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-can-rejig-realty-loans-based-on-project-not-realtor/articleshow/78670985.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||FC Goa rope in young midfielder Nemil||Panaji:FC Goa have signed talented midfielder Muhammed Nemil from the first graduating batch of the Reliance Foundation Young Champs (RFYC) academy in Mumbai. The 18-year-old from Kerala has signed a three-year contract but will have to wait to don the colours of the club. He has spent a year in Spain’s Fundación Marcet academy and will continue to do so for another year. “He (Nemil) has been in Spain for the last one year and we are trying for him to continue there for another year and after that we will see,” FC Goa’s director of football Ravi Puskur told TOI on Wednesday. Nemil is one of the nine players who have signed professional contracts with leading ISL clubs. Players have spent the last five years at RFYC which was founded in 2015 after the inception of ISL. “His been a player we have been looking for the past 1-2 years in a couple of tournaments, including I-League U-18. When there was an opportunity to speak to the players in the academy, we wanted to bring him on board,” said Ravi. The RFYC is one of the best academies in the country and was conferred two-star academy status by the Asian Football Confederation (AFC), the first for a residential academy. It also became the first academy in India to be granted a five-star rating by the AIFF Academy Accreditation process in 2019. “The difference is that here there are good players which makes everything more intense. I’ve started living in football at Marcet and I’ve started to understand what real football is,” Nemil had said after he arrived at the Marcet Academy last year. FC Goa’s Spanish influence is well known after the arrival of former Spanish coach Sergio Lobera three seasons ago. Their new coach Juan Ferrando is also from Spain and admires the club’s philosophy of attacking style of play. FC Goa have five Spanish players this season. They have also signed Bengaluru-based Ishan Pandita who spent six years in Spain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-rope-in-young-midfielder-nemil/articleshow/78671086.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 15, 2020||India||Chardham panel chief's letter to SC puts road ministry and Uttarakhand govt in a fix||NEW DELHI: The chairman of the Supreme Court appointed high powered committee (HPC) for the Chardham road project has written a fresh letter to the apex court alleging violation of the SC order and reiterating that the road ministry must build only an intermediate lane (5.5 metre) throughout the stretch. This fresh letter from the panel chairman, Ravi Chopra to the Supreme Court secretary general on October 5 has put the Centre and Uttarakhand governments in a fix as both the governments are working to complete the project to provide smooth connectivity to the four holy places of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. Chopra in recent months has written a few letters to the road transport and environment ministries and the Uttarakhand government alleging fresh hill cutting on the Chardham corridor project. Chopra has said “intermediate lane of 5.5 metre alone should be followed” throughout the Chardham route and where excess hill cutting has been done mitigation measures like planting trees be done to protect the Himalayan terrain and a footpath be provided for the “padyatris” and the local people as recommended by the HPC. The HPC chairman has also written that the road transport ministry has informed him that suspending hill cutting for the stretch for which works has been awarded could lead to contractual disputes “in the absence of direction from a fully functional HPC”. Sources said the HPC directions have been coming from its chairman and not from the committee after consulting its members. They added that the ministry is committed to maintain 5.5 metre width on 13 stretches for which works have not been sanctioned and awarded. Since bituminous work has been carried out on substantial stretch of the corridor, hence removing the tarred portion to reduce width won’t be a good proposition, sources added. Chopra has referred to the road ministry’s notification to acquire land for setting toll plazas. He has said since the tolling can start only on stretches of two-lane with paved shoulders (10 metres), it was evident that the government was going ahead with its earlier plan of wider roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chardham-panel-chiefs-letter-to-sc-puts-road-ministry-and-uttarakhand-govt-in-a-fix/articleshow/78671165.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 15, 2020||India||US poll results, economic recovery could shape outcome of LAC row||NEW DELHI: As India and China remain deadlocked on disengagement in Ladakh, New Delhi is acutely aware that it is playing a game of endurance and nerves with China on the icy heights, the outcome of which may be influenced not just by the two sides but also global developments, including results of the US election. India and China have hunkered down for the winter, and the apparent lack of forward movement on an agreement for disengagement clearly means that neither side is willing to give up what it considers “gains” in the past few months. China has asked India to vacate the ridges on the southern bank of Pangong Tso, while India has asked China to initiate disengagement all along the LAC before Indian troops follow suit. Since Chinese troops didn’t just stray across the LAC in April, and came with a specific intent, India expects Beijing to follow through, and has planned accordingly. President Xi Jinping’s address to Chinese marine corps on Tuesday seems to suggest China is nowhere close to disengagement. Official media quoted him telling the troops to “fully focus on combat readiness and always remain on high alert”. Read AlsoCentre to carry out review of military talks with China on border standoffNEW DELHI: The China Study Group (CSG) is expected to carry out a comprehensive review of the military talks between India and China on the over five-month-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh, government sources said on Wednesday, as a breakthrough for speedy disengagement of troops remainedInterestingly, the US elections could be a factor in China’s decision on sustaining tensions with India and others in the east and south of China. Many analysts have predicted a moderation of US approaches to China by a potential Joe Biden administration, while a returned Trump may continue his hard line. The truth is probably that the US is unlikely to ever engage China in the manner of the past, given the growing unease in Washington about Beijing. However, the possibility of resumption of deeper economic activity between US and China could affect the attitude of both countries to India and the current conflict. In this, Xi Jinping is also buoyed by the apparent revival of the Chinese economy. The US revival could be helped along by resuming economic engagement with China. India’s harder climbed out of the Covid trough is likely to be another factor for China as it seeks to push India further. LAC face-off: Full coverageThe process has become a little more difficult for China as India has reversed a number of disadvantages on the Ladakh heights and is in a tactically improved position. What would also work for India is the growing global distaste for Chinese pressure tactics — which has had even the Democrat leadership in the US weighing in India’s support. Planners here say India has factored in full winter deployment as in Siachen. China has, according to reports, followed suit. But as temperatures dip alarmingly and the windchill factor worsens, the challenge will be to keep troops well resourced and their morale up. With long experience in Siachen, India believes it can outlast China. Watch India-China stand-off: US poll results, economic recovery could shape outcome of LAC row||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-poll-results-economic-recovery-could-shape-outcome-of-lac-row/articleshow/78671253.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 15, 2020||World||Trump's teen son caught coronavirus, first lady reveals||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump's teenage son Barron contracted the coronavirus, First Lady Melania Trump revealed Wednesday in a shocking piece of news underlining how much the Republican president is struggling to divert attention away from the coronavirus pandemic in the final stages of his reelection fight. Melania Trump wrote in a statement that after she and the president tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago, "Naturally my mind went immediately to our son." She said the 14-year-old, who goes to a private school near Washington, did not experience symptoms and has since tested negative. However the news, which had been kept under wraps despite global attention on Trump's own health, thrust public attention firmly back on the pandemic and in particular on an outbreak within the supposedly highly secure White House over the last two weeks. Read AlsoChina allowed Covid-19 to spread around world, says TrumpTerming the Covid-19 outbreak as a 'horrible situation', President Donald Trump hit out at China for allowing Covid-19 to spread outside Beijing while preventing the spread in its own country.Trump, who spent three nights in hospital but returned to a punishing schedule of pre-election rallies on Monday, has been trying to move voters away from the subject in the closing 20 days of his campaign against Democratic frontrunner Joe Biden. "Barron's fine," Trump told reporters at the White House as he left for another rally in Iowa, abruptly switching to his preferred subject of the expected confirmation by Senate Republicans of his conservative nominee for the Supreme Court, Amy Coney Barrett. On Thursday, Trump and Biden will duel in an unusual manner when they hold separate but simultaneous town hall events on major TV networks. The competing primetime appearances were organized after a head-to-head debate between Trump and Biden due to be held Thursday was scrapped in the aftermath of Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis. Trump negotiated to go on NBC at an outdoor setting in Miami after Biden had arranged his own event on ABC in Philadelphia. In the past, Trump has appeared uncomfortable in town hall settings where ordinary voters ask questions. But as a former reality TV show star and a keen follower of viewing figures, the president will at least be keen to attract a bigger audience than Biden. The two were meant to have met on stage for their second debate on Thursday in a town hall format where the two candidates would have fielded questions from voters. However, in an unprecedented decision, debate organizers said they wanted to switch to a virtual format for safety reasons after Trump contracted the coronavirus. When he rejected the new conditions, the debate was called off. NBC said it had received a statement from the clinical director at the National Institutes of Health, Anthony Fauci, that there was "a high degree of confidence" that Trump is now "not shedding infectious virus." Trump and the NBC host will be socially distanced at the outdoor venue and the audience will wear masks, NBC added. Biden has been frequently testing for coronavirus and reporting negative results since Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis on October 1. The first of three scheduled presidential debates was widely criticized for descending into an angry shouting match as Trump attempted to inflict a late wound to Biden's campaign. At a rally in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, Trump accused Biden of "choking like a dog" during the debate, and unleashed a tirade of lurid insults at his challenger, calling him mentally "shot." "He can't stand up to the lunatics running his party," Trump told the large, raucous crowd in Johnstown. Furthering his long-running narrative that 77-year-old Biden is too frail for the presidency, Trump, 74, tweeted a crudely faked picture purporting to show Biden in a wheelchair. The attack came as Biden stepped up his own courting of the important elderly vote, telling an event at a retirement center in Florida on Tuesday that Trump has "never been focused on you." "His handling of this pandemic has been erratic, just like his presidency has been," he said. The coronavirus has claimed more than 215,000 lives in America and Trump's handling of the crisis meets with disapproval from more than two-thirds of people polled. A RealClearPolitics average of national polls has Biden up by 9.8 points, with the Democrat leading Trump by substantial margins in half a dozen key battleground states. Watch 'Barron Trump is 'free' of coronavirus'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trumps-teen-son-caught-coronavirus-first-lady-reveals/articleshow/78671303.cms||---
October 15, 2020||World||Trump's teen son caught coronavirus, first lady reveals||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump's teenage son Barron contracted the coronavirus, First Lady Melania Trump revealed Wednesday in a shocking piece of news underlining how much the Republican president is struggling to divert attention away from the coronavirus pandemic in the final stages of his reelection fight. Melania Trump wrote in a statement that after she and the president tested positive for Covid-19 two weeks ago, "Naturally my mind went immediately to our son." She said the 14-year-old, who goes to a private school near Washington, did not experience symptoms and has since tested negative. However the news, which had been kept under wraps despite global attention on Trump's own health, thrust public attention firmly back on the pandemic and in particular on an outbreak within the supposedly highly secure White House over the last two weeks. Read AlsoChina allowed Covid-19 to spread around world, says TrumpTerming the Covid-19 outbreak as a 'horrible situation', President Donald Trump hit out at China for allowing Covid-19 to spread outside Beijing while preventing the spread in its own country.Trump, who spent three nights in hospital but returned to a punishing schedule of pre-election rallies on Monday, has been trying to move voters away from the subject in the closing 20 days of his campaign against Democratic frontrunner Joe Biden. "Barron's fine," Trump told reporters at the White House as he left for another rally in Iowa, abruptly switching to his preferred subject of the expected confirmation by Senate Republicans of his conservative nominee for the Supreme Court, Amy Coney Barrett. On Thursday, Trump and Biden will duel in an unusual manner when they hold separate but simultaneous town hall events on major TV networks. The competing primetime appearances were organized after a head-to-head debate between Trump and Biden due to be held Thursday was scrapped in the aftermath of Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis. Trump negotiated to go on NBC at an outdoor setting in Miami after Biden had arranged his own event on ABC in Philadelphia. In the past, Trump has appeared uncomfortable in town hall settings where ordinary voters ask questions. But as a former reality TV show star and a keen follower of viewing figures, the president will at least be keen to attract a bigger audience than Biden. The two were meant to have met on stage for their second debate on Thursday in a town hall format where the two candidates would have fielded questions from voters. However, in an unprecedented decision, debate organizers said they wanted to switch to a virtual format for safety reasons after Trump contracted the coronavirus. When he rejected the new conditions, the debate was called off. NBC said it had received a statement from the clinical director at the National Institutes of Health, Anthony Fauci, that there was "a high degree of confidence" that Trump is now "not shedding infectious virus." Trump and the NBC host will be socially distanced at the outdoor venue and the audience will wear masks, NBC added. Biden has been frequently testing for coronavirus and reporting negative results since Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis on October 1. The first of three scheduled presidential debates was widely criticized for descending into an angry shouting match as Trump attempted to inflict a late wound to Biden's campaign. At a rally in Pennsylvania on Tuesday, Trump accused Biden of "choking like a dog" during the debate, and unleashed a tirade of lurid insults at his challenger, calling him mentally "shot." "He can't stand up to the lunatics running his party," Trump told the large, raucous crowd in Johnstown. Furthering his long-running narrative that 77-year-old Biden is too frail for the presidency, Trump, 74, tweeted a crudely faked picture purporting to show Biden in a wheelchair. The attack came as Biden stepped up his own courting of the important elderly vote, telling an event at a retirement center in Florida on Tuesday that Trump has "never been focused on you." "His handling of this pandemic has been erratic, just like his presidency has been," he said. The coronavirus has claimed more than 215,000 lives in America and Trump's handling of the crisis meets with disapproval from more than two-thirds of people polled. A RealClearPolitics average of national polls has Biden up by 9.8 points, with the Democrat leading Trump by substantial margins in half a dozen key battleground states. Watch 'Barron Trump is 'free' of coronavirus'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trumps-teen-son-caught-coronavirus-first-lady-reveals/articleshow/78671302.cms||---
October 15, 2020||India||Satellite network major to provide fast Net to 5,000 panchayats in 15 states, Galwan Valley||NEW DELHI: Bharat Broadband Nigam Ltd (BBNL) and Telecommunications Consultants India Ltd (TCIL) have selected broadband satellite network major Hughes Communications India to provide high-speed satellite connectivity to 5,000 remote gram panchayats in over 15 states and UTs in places that lack terrestrial internet connectivity like fiber or cable. Significantly, the project will also cover the strategic Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, where the standoff with Chinese troops has been going on since May, and border NE states. The 5,000-panchayat sat link project, which Hughes India announced on Wednesday, is part of the government’s flagship BharatNet Programme to provide broadband connectivity to all 2.5 lakh gram panchayats throughout the country. Hughes India, a majority-owned subsidiary of US-based Hughes Network Systems, will provide internet service to each panchayat using capacity from Isro’s Gsat-19 and Gsat-11 satellites with the Hughes JUPITER system, the de facto standard for satellite broadband implementations, in use in more than 40 satellites worldwide, a statement said. BBNL CMD Sarvesh Singh said: “BharatNet is the backbone of Digital India, being created to achieve the objectives of the PM’s Digital India Mission. The BharatNet network is being created to provide affordable high-speed broadband access to rural citizens and institutions of all the gram panchayats. We are very happy to be partnering with TCIL and Hughes to leverage satellite broadband to connect gram panchayats that are remote or located in difficult terrain.” Partho Banerjee, president & MD, Hughes India, said: “The most widely deployed satellite ground platform in the world, the JUPITER System will deliver reliable and highly efficient service, introducing more people across rural India to high-speed internet connectivity, enabling significant economic participation and social inclusion.” “The approximate cost of the project awarded to Hughes is Rs 100 crore,” Shivaji Chatterjee, SVP & business head, Hughes India, told TOI. In the Budget 2020, FM Nirmala Sitharaman had proposed Rs 6,000 crore to BharatNet, which would be implemented in three phases. While phase-1 covered 1 lakh panchayats, phase-2 is targeting 1.5 lakh and phase-3 will focus on upgrading existing infrastructure. The project will cover gram panchayats in the hilly north-eastern states like Mizoram, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh, forested states like Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand and islands such as Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/satellite-network-major-to-provide-fast-net-to-5000-panchayats-in-15-states-galwan-valley/articleshow/78671265.cms||Surendra Singh
October 15, 2020||India||Bihar assembly elections: ‘Don’ to face wife of neta he allegedly shot||PATNA: About 17 years ago, don-turned politician Ritlal Yadav had allegedly gunned down the husband of BJP’s Danapur MLA Asha Devi Sinha in broad daylight. Now, he will face her in the state assembly polls as RJD has fielded him from Danapur constituency in Patna district. Ritlal is one of the main accused in the murder of Asha’s husband Satyanarayan Sinha, who had unsuccessfully contested bypolls from Danapur in 2002 on a BJP ticket. He was killed on April 30, 2003, the day on which RJD had organised a lathi rally. Asha, a four-term MLA, criticised the decision to give ticket to Ritlal, who has 33 criminal cases against him, including murder charges. “What sort of change RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wants to bring about in Bihar by allotting tickets to people like Ritlal?” she asked. Rital, who was released from jail in a money laundering case on August 18, filed his nomination papers on Tuesday. A former mukhiya of Kothwa panchayat under Danapur sub-division, he was earlier elected as an MLC as an independent from behind the bars in 2015. Ritlal had unsuccessfully contested against Asha in 2010 assembly polls as an independent when he was lodged in jail in the Satyanarayan Sinha murder case. The trial in the case is still pending. “We are hopeful of his victory this time,” said Guddu Rai, a supporter of Ritlal. Ritlal had hogged the limelight when he was appointed general secretary of RJD by Lalu Prasad to dissuade him from contesting the 2014 parliamentary polls from Patliputra, where his (Lalu’s) eldest daughter Misa Bharti was in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/don-to-face-wife-of-neta-he-allegedly-shot/articleshow/78671353.cms||Ramashankar
October 15, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: ‘Don’ to face wife of neta he allegedly shot||PATNA: About 17 years ago, don-turned politician Ritlal Yadav had allegedly gunned down the husband of BJP’s Danapur MLA Asha Devi Sinha in broad daylight. Now, he will face her in the state assembly polls as RJD has fielded him from Danapur constituency in Patna district. Ritlal is one of the main accused in the murder of Asha’s husband Satyanarayan Sinha, who had unsuccessfully contested bypolls from Danapur in 2002 on a BJP ticket. He was killed on April 30, 2003, the day on which RJD had organised a lathi rally. Asha, a four-term MLA, criticised the decision to give ticket to Ritlal, who has 33 criminal cases against him, including murder charges. “What sort of change RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav wants to bring about in Bihar by allotting tickets to people like Ritlal?” she asked. Rital, who was released from jail in a money laundering case on August 18, filed his nomination papers on Tuesday. A former mukhiya of Kothwa panchayat under Danapur sub-division, he was earlier elected as an MLC as an independent from behind the bars in 2015. Ritlal had unsuccessfully contested against Asha in 2010 assembly polls as an independent when he was lodged in jail in the Satyanarayan Sinha murder case. The trial in the case is still pending. “We are hopeful of his victory this time,” said Guddu Rai, a supporter of Ritlal. Ritlal had hogged the limelight when he was appointed general secretary of RJD by Lalu Prasad to dissuade him from contesting the 2014 parliamentary polls from Patliputra, where his (Lalu’s) eldest daughter Misa Bharti was in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/don-to-face-wife-of-neta-he-allegedly-shot/articleshow/78671347.cms||Ramashankar
October 15, 2020||---||Chirag takes swipe at Nitish over migrants’ issue||NEW DELHI: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Wednesday took another swipe at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over the migrants issue, saying he can’t work with those who tried to stop migrant workers from returning home during the pandemic-triggered lockdown. Addressing party candidates through video-conference, Chirag said the Bihar CM needs to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo while his thoughts and ideas match with those of the PM. “Chirag told the party nominees that the PM supported him like a father... He (Modi) is in his heart,” an LJP leader said. He said Chirag has asked all the candidates to seek votes to make Bihar the best and not on the lines of caste or religion. “Our party has adopted the objective of ‘Bihar First and Bihari First’. That’s our motto and we will take the roadmap to people to seek their support,” said another LJP functionary. Chirag, who has been in mourning since his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan passed away last week, has been interacting with party workers through video-conferences. The party has constituted a 15-member election campaign committee which includes some of the recent entrants from BJP such as Rajendra Singh, Rameshwar Chaurasiya and Usha Vidyarthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/chirag-takes-swipe-at-nitish-over-migrants-issue/articleshow/78671369.cms||---
October 15, 2020||India||Chirag takes swipe at Nitish over migrants’ issue||NEW DELHI: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Wednesday took another swipe at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar over the migrants issue, saying he can’t work with those who tried to stop migrant workers from returning home during the pandemic-triggered lockdown. Addressing party candidates through video-conference, Chirag said the Bihar CM needs to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo while his thoughts and ideas match with those of the PM. “Chirag told the party nominees that the PM supported him like a father... He (Modi) is in his heart,” an LJP leader said. He said Chirag has asked all the candidates to seek votes to make Bihar the best and not on the lines of caste or religion. “Our party has adopted the objective of ‘Bihar First and Bihari First’. That’s our motto and we will take the roadmap to people to seek their support,” said another LJP functionary. Chirag, who has been in mourning since his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan passed away last week, has been interacting with party workers through video-conferences. The party has constituted a 15-member election campaign committee which includes some of the recent entrants from BJP such as Rajendra Singh, Rameshwar Chaurasiya and Usha Vidyarthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chirag-takes-swipe-at-nitish-over-migrants-issue/articleshow/78671370.cms||---
October 15, 2020||---||Congress set to field Shatru’s son, Sharad’s daughter||Congress is likely to field the children of two political stalwarts in the upcoming Bihar polls. While Subhashini Raj Rao, daughter of veteran politician Sharad Yadav, joined the party on Wednesday and is likely to contest the elections, Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha is likely to be its candidate from Bankipur or Patna Sahib. Agency reports said that Shatrughan Sinha had been in touch with the Congress high command about his son’s potential candidature, after which the screening committee added his name to the list of contenders for tickets. Subhashini joined Congress at the party headquarters in the presence of Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha. Her father Yadav had launched Loktantrik Janata Dal after breaking away from JD(U). However, he is unable to campaign in the polls because of poor health. “My father is not keeping well these days and he cannot actively participate in politics. But he has always supported Mahagatbandhan. It is my moral responsibility to carry forward his legacy,” she said. Last week, late parliamentarian Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s son Satya Prakash had joined JD(U). He criticised RJD for not treating his father well and ignoring his advice. Raghuvansh was a close aide of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and was the party’s vice-president. However, he resigned from the party before his death. Earlier, LJP MP Chaudhary Mehboob Ali Qaiser’s son Yusuf Salauddin joined the RJD and is contesting from Simri Bakhtiyarpur. Former Union minister Digvijay Singh’s daughter Shreyasi Singh is contesting on a BJP ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/congress-set-to-field-shatrus-son-sharads-daughter/articleshow/78671380.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Business||EarlySalary partners RuPay for credit on contactless card||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Fintech is blurring the boundaries of payment instruments. EarlySalary has partnered RuPay to launch a digital contactless ‘salary card’, which mimics a credit card as it is accepted on networks and extends instant credit. At the same time, it provides the flexibility of a loan, allowing the borrower to decide the credit limit and repayment duration. The virtual card is stored in a mobile app, which makes it possible to make contactless payments in stores. This also works in transit like Metros that allow tap-and-pay cards from payment networks. Speaking on the tie-up, NPCI CEO Dilip Asbe said that the corporation is finding innovative ways to extend digital credit to consumers through partners. “Today in Covid times, contactless cards are preferred by customers and RuPay cards are a preferred mode of payment,” Asbe said. He added that EarlySalary has made the end-to-end process for on-boarding customers, a zero-touch format. While the offering is a credit product, the instrument is a pre-paid card that has been virtualised inside the app. It functions like a credit card because EarlySalary uses advanced machine learning (ML) technologies and risk-oriented decision-making mechanisms to provide credit. As a result, a customer can activate the salary card within seconds by accessing the EarlySalary mobile app. Founded by Akshay Mehrotra and Ashish Goyal, EarlySalary is a mobile app that partners with employers to allow salaried individuals avail financial assistance. The company offers salary advances, instant loans, interest-free EMI options and a line of credit to shop. According to Mehrotra, a large number of EarlySalary users are young and just starting their careers and, therefore, do not have much of a credit history. He said that besides extending credit facility, it also enabled the company to tie up with vendors who were willing to do an interest subvention (bear the interest) to promote sales. Earlier this month, EarlySalary also introduced the EarlySalary Credit Suite, which is designed to provide a one-stop credit solution to serve all credit requirements of a salaried individual. The company offers a bouquet of products, including salary advances, instant loans, interest-free EMI options and a line of credit to shop. The fintech had raised Rs 100 crore in January 2018 led by Eight Roads Ventures (Fidelity).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/earlysalary-partners-rupay-for-credit-on-contactless-card/articleshow/78668876.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 15, 2020||Business||Tractor companies get back to capacity additions||Chennai: Tractor is the only segment of the automotive market that has seen double digit sales growth since July, with September retails up 80% year-on-year. As a result, tractor companies are ramping up production capacity hoping that this sales spike will continue beyond the festival and harvest season.While there are no indications about setting up new factories just yet, companies like Mahindra, Escorts and Sonalika are increasing shifts and clearing supply chain snags to hit 100% utilisation both for domestic and export sales.“For 18 months, tractor factories were working on a single or 1.5 shifts at best because of demand slowdown. With the numbers picking up, factories are moving to two or three shifts to hit 100% capacity utilisation. The tractor capacity in India is currently 9.5 lakh units on a two-shift basis but we can also go to three shifts if the demand holds up,” said Tractor Manufacturers Association president T R Kesavan. A survey by rating agency ICRA showed that just 10-12% of those who purchased tractors opted for the loan moratorium as opposed to 75% truck and bus buyers. Backing the demand, tractor financing has also picked up because financiers are wary of truck and bus loans and look at tractors as a better option, said ICRA VP Shamsher Dewan. “Capacity utilisation in the industry has risen from 66% in FY17 to 65% in FY18 and 74% in FY19,” he added. Tractor majors are coming off a capex peak in terms of plant and product. Market leader Mahindra is investing in the K2 project of developing a new tractor platform with Mitsubishi. “Increasing capacities is a long-term process and cannot be done in the short term to take advantage of an immediate strong demand. We are currently working at 100% capacity across our plants given the buoyant demand. We are further enhancing the efficiency of our current system and process through line balancing and outsourcing. With supply chains getting stabilised since mid-August, we are working towards higher production in October,” said Hemant Sikka, president (farm equipment sector) at Mahindra & Mahindra.The supply chain disruption is still a worry for the industry, which is now racing to hit 100% production. “Capacity extension within our current facilities is a continuous process.Also, we have additional capacity available through our JV with Kubota. However, the issue right now is more to do with volatility in the supply chain because of Covid,” said Shenu Agarwal, CEO (agri machinery & emerging business) at Escorts. Tractor makers also say that the next round of investments will be dictated by regulatory requirements in export markets. “We had reached 80% utilisation in the 4th week of May itself and are now at 100% levels on two-shift basis. However, capacity tweak investments are an ongoing process and the company would continue to invest in strengthening technology to meet various regulatory policy changes and customer needs across the globe,” said Raman Mittal, executive director, Sonalika Group, speaking about the company’s integrated plant at Hoshiarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tractor-companies-get-back-to-capacity-additions/articleshow/78668507.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 15, 2020||Business||E-tailers demand for warehouses pushes rental cost by up to 30%||Chennai: Rising demand from e-commerce companies for storage has driven lease rentals northwards by 20%-30% between June and September, 2020, compared to pre-Covid levels. The surge in demand for warehouses closer to the city is seen after e-tailers entered into sale of groceries and perishables during the lockdown. Vivek Tiwari, chief operating officer (COO) of Godamwale Trading & Logistics, which provides warehousing services and cold chain logistics, said, “We have seen an average price rise on rentals between 20%-30% metro cities in Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai, and a 10%-15% increase in Delhi NCR and Mumbai. This is primarily driven by a spike in demand by 20% in bookings under the consumer segment business driven by e-commerce companies, unlike the industrial segment comprising manufacturing companies which has seen a negative growth.” In Chennai, the rental cost of storage space has increased from Rs 20 per sq feet to Rs 25, from Rs 12-Rs 13 to Rs 15 in Bengaluru and Hyderabad and from Rs 13-Rs 15 to Rs 17-Rs 18 per sq feet in Delhi NCR and Mumbai. Vinoth Raja, chief executive officer (CEO) of Stockarea — a warehousing startup, said, “Rental cost has gone up by 10%-15% as there is a supply demand gap in the last three months, especially after demand for warehouse space located in the outskirts of cities shot up by 30%. This is primarily due to e-commerce platforms’ entry into home delivery of essential items — especially perishables.” Rental prices are negotiable based on the volume and tenure of storage. Higher the volume and longer the commitment, warehouse space can be availed at cheaper rates. At present, lease rental cost now ranges between Rs 15 and Rs 25 per square feet, which has seen a 10%-15% spike since the lockdown is lifted.” Warehouse service providers say requests to add more dock areas, where goods are unloaded or stocked up, from e-commerce companies have gone up. “This is primarily due to e-commerce platforms’ plan to add more vehicles with significant rise in online shopping since lockdown. Bookings have gone up by 20%-30% since June, 2020,” Raja added. Global warehouse infrastructure company ERS (India) said it has seen 10%-12% increase in rental price quoted for e-commerce companies under the consumer segment business. Abhijit Malkani, country head, ESR India said, “Besides higher demand for Grade A spaces from e-tailers, we see adoption of automation and digitisation of facilities is also a key driver. Companies are ready to spend on infrastructure costs to increase efficiency and optimise their overall costs.” ERS India is aggressively pursuing opportunities to add 5-7 locations in and around Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Bangalore to further increase its footprint in tier 1 markets in the next 12-24 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-demand-for-warehouses-pushes-rental-cost-by-up-to-30/articleshow/78668441.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Soumitra Chatterjee tests negative for Covid, no fever in 24 hours||KOLKATA: Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee tested negative for Covid on Wednesday, according to sources in Belle Vue Clinic where the 85-year-old has been admitted since last week. According to sources, the actor is “haemodynamically stable”. The actor’s condition has improved compared to the last 48 hours and he is now responding to verbal commands and opening his eyes spontaneously at times. However, the involuntary movements and jitteriness are still present. The liver and kidney functions, as well as the other infective markers, are all almost normal. The urine output, cardiac function and blood pressure are also better. No structural neurological abnormality has been detected in NCCT Brain either. “My father is slightly more stable and is 1% better than yesterday. I’m happy with that,” Chatterjee’s daughter Poulami posted on social media. Meanwhile, a Belle Vue source said, “We have administered a little bit of oxygen support and, at times, intermittent bipap support, but those were more a precautionary step rather than requirement. We have done a detailed cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis and are waiting for the report. We have started two new treatments — thymosin alpha and intravenous immunoglobulin. Hopefully, he will respond to that. There has been no fever in the last 24 hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-tests-negative-for-covid-no-fever-in-24-hours/articleshow/78668863.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Patna||Patna Law College student commits suicide||A first year student of Patna Law College allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his hostel room located under the Sultanganj police station area in Patna City on Wednesday morning. SHO Sher Singh Yadav said the deceased was identified as Arvind Kumar alias Suraj (26), a native of Khoparia village under the Chausa police station area of Madhepura district. The SHO said, “Arvind was spotted by his friends last time at around 8am after which he went inside the room again and hanged himself by using a towel from the ceiling. He said no suicide note has been recovered and the reason behind the incident is still not clear. Head clerk arrested: A team of vigilance investigation bureau arrested Bettiah civil surgeon office head clerk Kumar Shambhusharan Singh while he was accepting a bribe of Rs 49,500 at his office on Wednesday. Vigilance sources said he was caught accepting the bribe from one Samir Sanyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/law-college-student-commits-suicide-in-patna/articleshow/78669190.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Independents may play spoilsport for Cong, BJP||Jaipur: After the number of wards were increased to 250 in the city, independent candidates and smaller parties with limited presence in the city are planning to contest in the civic polls. Parties such as the People’s Green Party, Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), Welfare Party of India and independent candidates can give the major parties a run for their money. A former office bearer of Congress said, “More wards has ignited hopes of many aspirants to contest the municipal polls. On a daily basis, we are receiving more than 200 applications from aspirants. The disappointed one’s will either contest under a smaller banner or as independents.” With the election campaign for the civic body polls in the city ready to kick-off, candidates of these small parties and even independents have intensified their campaigning. People’s Green Party’s national general secretary said “Our candidates are prepared to contest on all the seats. As majority of the voters are disappointed with corruption in Jaipur Municipal Corporation for past many years, possibilities of winning a new face from smaller party is high.” SDPI, which already has strong presence in Kota, is gearing up to contest the election in state capital and Jodhpur. State president Rizwan Khan said, “People in poll bound municipalities are looking for a change. They neither rely on the Congress nor the BJP and are looking for a viable third option. In Jaipur, we will contest in 20 seats. We will play a deciding role in these cities to form the board.” It is believed that many aspirants who are returning with a long face from their respective MLA’s office could change the scenario in the last as among them there are few who have hold in the areas. “Every vote will count in these elections. Many aspirants’ families have good hold in the small region or among people of their caste. If these candidates are denied tickets, they can go against,” said an office bearer at BJP. In a big political move, the state government last year decided that Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota will each have two municipal corporations and two mayors. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal said the decision was taken as these three cities have a population of over 10 lakh each. The move was believed to weaken the BJP stronghold in cities, however, this could also benefit smaller outfits and independents in a major way.“The size of wards have been reduced and average population of each is between 10,000 and 12,000. This will increase the possibility of independent candidates who are associated with people of their wards and carrying out their work. Party tickets will not matter much in these polls,” said Sushil Sharma, a ex- independent candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/independents-may-play-spoilsport-for-cong-bjp/articleshow/78670302.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Raj univ faculty on probation stir over permanent posts||Jaipur: One hundred forty seven faculty members of Rajasthan University (RU), who have completed their probation five months ago, are yet to be made permanent. On Wednesday, some teachers and a few university administration officials had verbal spat on the issue. Heated arguments led to minor scufle beween a teacher and an official of university. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media.On Tuesday, teachers on probation, including some of the university permanent faculty, entered into vice-chancellor’s office and shouted slogans against him. These members were recruited in 2018 and completed probation five months ago. But, they are yet to be made permanent. A syndicate member had recently proposed to extend the probation period by six months and re-check the qualifications and documents of the teachers. This has angered the faculty members who state it to be unjustified.Associate professor Chandrani Sen said that the university is planning to set up an investigating committee to look into their documents and degrees validity. “When we were recruited, at that time all our degrees and certificates were looked into by the administration. After two years, they again want to re-check it and extend the probation period. This is sheer injustice,” said Sen. TOI tried to contact university administration, but no was reachable. Some university officials said that they will take up the issue in the next syndicate meeting, but nothing has been finalised as of yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-univ-faculty-on-probation-stir-over-permanent-posts/articleshow/78670295.cms||---
October 15, 2020||---||Bihar elections: ‘LJP unlikely to get Rajya Sabha seat of Ram Vilas Paswan’||PATNA: It is a week since Union minister and LJP patron Ram Vilas Paswan died on October 8. Now the question has started doing the round as to which politician with what political affiliation will fill the Rajya Sabha seat falling vacant after Paswan’s demise. The election for the lone Rajya Sabha seat could be held within a few weeks after the assembly elections are over and the new government is in saddle. Ram Vilas was elected to the Rajya Sabha within a month after the parliamentary elections last year. His son and LJP president Chirag Paswan told this newspaper that it will depend on BJP. “There are too many things going on right now on personal as well as political front and I am not actually thinking about either RS seat or central ministry. Nonetheless, it will depend on BJP to take a call,” Chirag said. Those from the BJP circles from the NDA side -- even if the question appeared tantalizing to respond -- said they were “too busy with the assembly election to think over it at the moment.” “The Rajya Sabha seat that has now fallen vacant was of BJP quota. It fell vacant last year on the eve of the parliamentary elections, when Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad resigned to contest the Patna Saheb Lok Sabha seat,” a senior JD(U) leader said. “But one thing is clear, that LJP will not get the Rajya Sabha seat. And which party will actually get it will become clear on the day the assembly elections are over,” the JD(U) leader said. The Rajya Sabha election was held one month after the parliamentary elections on June 28. “At the time, the LJP had only two MLAs and, therefore, the BJP and JD(U) decided to adjust Ram Vilas ji, as he was Union minister and did not contest the 2019 parliamentary election. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha unopposed,” the JD(U) leader said. “In the new situation, after the assembly elections are over, the BJP and JD(U) will again decide as to who to send and from which party,” he added. Today, the NDA has four constituents – JD(U), BJP, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) headed by Mukesh Sahani and Hindustani Awam Morcha (secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Of them, JD(U) is contesting 122 assembly seats, BJP 110, VIP 11 (with the BJP leaders as candidates on some of the seats) and the HAM(S) seven. The NDA constituents and the grand alliance comprising the RJD, Congress and three major Left parties are on course. But the grand democratic secular front (GDSF) formed, among others, by the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha and AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, along with LJP chief Chirag Paswan, whose party is contesting 143 seats, including against the JD(U) on most of them and against the BJP on some, have rendered the poll scenario and post-poll situation utterly confusing. When asked as to what would happen if the NDA constituents were not in position to stake claim for the government formation, the bitterness of the JD(U) leader became manifest. “This young man (read Chirag) in a hurry has spoilt his own future,” he said, adding that if he had remained with the NDA and agreed to contest 30 assembly seats, then his party could have won at least around 20 and would also have been in a position to stake claim for the vacant Rajya Sabha seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-unlikely-to-get-rs-seat-of-paswan/articleshow/78669122.cms||Abhay Singh
October 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: ‘LJP unlikely to get Rajya Sabha seat of Ram Vilas Paswan’||PATNA: It is a week since Union minister and LJP patron Ram Vilas Paswan died on October 8. Now the question has started doing the round as to which politician with what political affiliation will fill the Rajya Sabha seat falling vacant after Paswan’s demise. The election for the lone Rajya Sabha seat could be held within a few weeks after the assembly elections are over and the new government is in saddle. Ram Vilas was elected to the Rajya Sabha within a month after the parliamentary elections last year. His son and LJP president Chirag Paswan told this newspaper that it will depend on BJP. “There are too many things going on right now on personal as well as political front and I am not actually thinking about either RS seat or central ministry. Nonetheless, it will depend on BJP to take a call,” Chirag said. Those from the BJP circles from the NDA side -- even if the question appeared tantalizing to respond -- said they were “too busy with the assembly election to think over it at the moment.” “The Rajya Sabha seat that has now fallen vacant was of BJP quota. It fell vacant last year on the eve of the parliamentary elections, when Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad resigned to contest the Patna Saheb Lok Sabha seat,” a senior JD(U) leader said. “But one thing is clear, that LJP will not get the Rajya Sabha seat. And which party will actually get it will become clear on the day the assembly elections are over,” the JD(U) leader said. The Rajya Sabha election was held one month after the parliamentary elections on June 28. “At the time, the LJP had only two MLAs and, therefore, the BJP and JD(U) decided to adjust Ram Vilas ji, as he was Union minister and did not contest the 2019 parliamentary election. He was elected to the Rajya Sabha unopposed,” the JD(U) leader said. “In the new situation, after the assembly elections are over, the BJP and JD(U) will again decide as to who to send and from which party,” he added. Today, the NDA has four constituents – JD(U), BJP, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) headed by Mukesh Sahani and Hindustani Awam Morcha (secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Of them, JD(U) is contesting 122 assembly seats, BJP 110, VIP 11 (with the BJP leaders as candidates on some of the seats) and the HAM(S) seven. The NDA constituents and the grand alliance comprising the RJD, Congress and three major Left parties are on course. But the grand democratic secular front (GDSF) formed, among others, by the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha and AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, along with LJP chief Chirag Paswan, whose party is contesting 143 seats, including against the JD(U) on most of them and against the BJP on some, have rendered the poll scenario and post-poll situation utterly confusing. When asked as to what would happen if the NDA constituents were not in position to stake claim for the government formation, the bitterness of the JD(U) leader became manifest. “This young man (read Chirag) in a hurry has spoilt his own future,” he said, adding that if he had remained with the NDA and agreed to contest 30 assembly seats, then his party could have won at least around 20 and would also have been in a position to stake claim for the vacant Rajya Sabha seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-unlikely-to-get-rs-seat-of-paswan/articleshow/78672650.cms||Abhay Singh
October 15, 2020||Business||Banks can rejig realty loans based on project, not realtor||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has permitted banks to restructure loans to real estate companies on the basis of the project rather than the developer. It has also indicated that banks can restructure loans drawn by a borrower during the current fiscal, provided the account was classified as ‘standard’ (not overdue for more than 30 days) as on March 1, 2020. These clarifications were issued by the central bank in a set of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the resolution framework for Covid-related stress announced last month. On real estate, the RBI said, “Only in respect of borrowers belonging to real estate sector, and have both residential and commercial real estate business, the prescribed thresholds for the financial parameters may be applied at the project level.” The RBI also cleared the confusion on whether only that loan which was outstanding as on March 1, 2020 is available for resolution. It said the March 1 deadline is for determining eligibility, whereas the actual loan that may be considered for resolution will be the one that is outstanding as on the date of invocation of the resolution framework. This is a very significant development as many real estate projects have got stuck at the last stage for want of funds because of a default at the corporate level. As a result of this default, lenders have not been able to extend funds to projects even if it is in their best financial interest to ensure completion. In its clarification, the RBI said that a basic requirement of its prescriptions for loan restructuring, issued in June 2019, was that there should be an inter-creditor agreement among all lenders. It added that this framework provides banks with enough flexibility to restructure loans on a project basis. That’s because the projects are considered separate legal entities and therefore there is no bar on creating separate escrow accounts. On micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), the RBI said that although the government had changed their definition on June 26, 2020 for the purpose of eligibility for resolution, the definition of MSME that would be applicable is the one that existed on March 1, 2020. Another clarification by the RBI is that for borrowers who have taken loans against personal property or an individual taken as co-borrower to supplement the income of the company, the loan would not be considered a personal loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-can-rejig-realty-loans-based-on-project-not-realtor/articleshow/78669847.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Allahabad||Reeling under poverty, mom kills 6-year-old girl in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A woman was arrested on Tuesday night for allegedly killing her six-year-old daughter in Bheski village under Handia police station in trans Ganga area. The accused, identified as Usha Devi, is a resident of Bheski. As per details given by the police, the family was reeling under extreme economic crisis, and fearing the bleak future of her six-year-old daughter and the struggles ahead in grooming her and getting her married, the woman decided to end her daughter’s life. Police also said that Usha was not mentally sound. SP (trans Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal told TOI that the Usha’s husband Ratnesh Tiwari had been working as a labourer until two years ago when he became critically injured in an accident. Since then, he wasn’t able to work as much as he did before, and Usha started contributing to the family’s earnings by working as a house help. The couple had two sons and a daughter. The family’s income wasn’t enough to even manage two square meals a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/reeling-under-poverty-mom-kills-6-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78666817.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal positivity rate back to 8% after 18 days; experts blame shopping, political gatherings||KOLKATA: After staying low for 18 days, Bengal’s positivity rate has again risen to 8%. It had slipped below the 8% mark on September 26 for the first time in eight weeks. Since August 1, there had been a persistent rise in the positivity rate that came close to 9% on September 21 before it started climbing down. Experts believe the current spike in the positivity rate is linked to increased movement of people. “The number of positive cases is rising again as a lot of people have started going out for their Puja shopping and pre-Puja arrangements. This escalation in number of cases may continue till after Diwali,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. “The pre-Puja shopping and political gatherings are to blame for this rising positivity graph. These are super-spreading events as far as the virus is concerned,” said Deb Kishore Gupta, infectious disease control specialist at CMRI. On Tuesday, when the positivity rate hit the 8% mark once again, 42,237 people had been tested. On September 25, when the positivity rate was 8%, 43,815 people had been tested. But back then, the state’s Covid case load stood at 2.4 lakh. On Tuesday, it scaled the 3-lakh mark for the first time. Bengal has been reporting a daily spike in the number of cases in October. On Tuesday, it reported the single-day highest spike of 3,631 cases. Experts feel this is worrying in the festival month. “In Bengal, people have become casual about the virus, thronging malls and market places in the run-up to the Puja. Citizens should also be responsible and take preventive steps. Otherwise the positivity rate is going to witness a continuous rise,” said Sumon Poddar, associate professor and the unit in-charge of the microbiology laboratory at Institute of Child Health. With 37.7 lakh samples tested in Bengal till Tuesday, the state’s tests per million population is now at 41,954. Among them, 14.2 lakh tests were done using rapid antigen test (RAT) kits. NICED, Kolkata, however, threw up a positivity rate of around 22.6% on Tuesday, with 64 of the 283 samples testing positive. NICED has reported a higher overall positivity rate of 12.1% compared to the state’s cumulative positivity rate of around 7.9%. The national cumulative positivity rate is also 8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-positivity-rate-back-to-8-after-18-days-experts-blame-shopping-political-gatherings/articleshow/78668871.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Local bodies can now approve 8-unit, 10k sqft housing projects||Coimbatore: Civil engineers and building developers in the district have welcomed the state government’s decision to give more powers to local bodies to grant approval for residential buildings based on the town and country planning director’s proposal. The move is expected to simplify the process of obtaining planning permission for smaller residential buildings. In a government order dated October 13, the state had allowed the local bodies (except in Chennai) to grant planning permission to the residential buildings up to a height of 12 metres and a built-up area of 10,000sqft with a maximum of eight dwelling units spread over stilt plus three floors or ground plus two floors. Until recently, the local bodies (except in Chennai) could grant approval for only residential buildings up to a height of 12 meters and a built-up area of 7,000sqft with a maximum of eight dwelling units spread over stilt plus three floors or ground plus two floors. As per the government order, the local bodies (except in Chennai) could continue to grant permission to the commercial buildings with a built-up area up to 2,000sqft, if they are up to stilt plus two floors or ground plus one floor. Public will have to approach the Local Planning Authority (LPA) for buildings exceeding the given limit, according to sources. Welcoming the move, S Jagatheeswaran, public relations officer, Coimbatore Civil Engineers’ Association, said the move would reduce the time taken to get the planning approval by at least 50%. “We had to approach the LPA officials to obtain permission for all the residential buildings that were above 7,000sqft so far. After getting their green signal, we had to approach the local body to get the clearance. It used to take a few months to obtain all the necessary approvals. By that time, the cost of rate materials and labourers’ wage would have increased, forcing us to revise the project cost,” he said. He said the government should have considered increasing the limit for commercial buildings to at least 8,000sqft. S Kanagasundaram, president, Association of Registered Professional Engineers, said the government had to clarify certain points to ensure that the public enjoy the full benefits of the move. “In the government order, the word built-up area – complete dimensions of the buildings including the thickness of the wall – is used, but in all other related orders and norms they have used the term floor space – usable space in a building. There is a difference between the both and the government should clarify the same.” He said presently a combination of online and manual method was used to accord the planning permission. “If it is made completely online, it would further benefit the public.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/local-bodies-can-now-approve-8-unit-10k-sqft-housing-projects/articleshow/78670314.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 15, 2020||Patna||HC: Marrying an Indian not enough to be country’s citizen||PATNA: In an important ruling, the Patna high court has observed that marrying an Indian does not qualify anyone to be the citizen of the country. It hardly matters if the person possesses voter ID card, PAN card or Aadhaar card as these are not proof of Indian citizenship unless the foreign national approaches the competent authority and apply for Indian citizenship, as per the Constitution and the Indian Citizenship Act, 1955, it ruled. The high court also observed that mere relinquishing the citizenship of another country doesn’t confer any right of Indian citizenship upon anyone. The 33-page judgement of the division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was delivered on an LPA filed by one Kiran Devi, who was elected as mukhiya of Manichowk panchayat in Sitamarhi in 2018. The state election commission had set her election aside on August 30 last year on grounds that she had Nepalese citizenship and didn’t acquire the Indian citizenship. One Ranjit Kumar Rai had challenged her election. The petitioner had failed to get any relief from the single bench of the Patna high court, which dismissed her petition on January 21 this year observing that she had voluntarily relinquished her Nepalese citizenship and entailed disqualification under sub-section (1)(a) of Section 136 Bihar Panchayat Act, 2006 as she was not an Indian citizen. The division bench observed that the commission was empowered to disqualify the petitioner on the citizenship grounds. The woman, born and brought up in Nepal, had married an Indian named Ashok Prasad Gupta on June 18, 2003 after which she started living with him in India and got her name entered into the voter list in 2008. She also has a bank account, PAN card, Aadhaar card, names of her children registered in India under the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969 and pursued her higher education in India. The petitioner also purchased immovable property in India on December 12, 2017 before relinquishing her Nepalese citizenship on February 24, 2016. The division bench, which upheld single bench’s judgement, observed that only the central government is empowered to confer citizenship upon foreign nationals as per the Citizenship Act and the 7th Schedule of the Constitution. It also observed that the petitioner’s acquisition of Indian citizenship is governed by the provisions of Section 5 of Citizenship Act as she is married to an Indian and residing in India for the last seven years. The high court directed the appropriate authority to consider her application expeditiously if filed, keeping in mind the complication that has arisen in the appellant’s case as she is neither an Indian citizen nor the Nepalese one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-marrying-an-indian-not-enough-to-be-countrys-citizen/articleshow/78669170.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 15, 2020||Agra||CCTV footage from hospital where Hathras victim was first taken is ‘lost’||AGRA: The CBI team investigating the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras reached the district hospital, where she had been first taken, and found that crucial evidence they were looking for was not there. The CCTV footage from September 14, the day the girl was brought in, was not backed up. “The district administration and police had not asked for the footage at the time. Now, after a month, we can’t provide it,” chief medical superintendent of the hospital, Indra Veer Singh, said. He added that the hospital would have saved it had someone asked them to. “Previous footage gets deleted every seven days and new footage gets recorded over it.” Read AlsoHathras victim's cremation without family's consent violation of human rights, observes HCNEW DELHI: The Allahabad high court has pulled up the Uttar Pradesh government over the midnight cremation of the Hathras gang-rape victim without her family's consent and said that the action amounts to "infringement of human rights". The high court also asked the Uttar Pradesh government toThe CBI team had visited the hospital to record statements of doctors and examine evidence. The first day’s footage would be crucial, a police officer said. A source added that the CBI team wanted to go over the footage and ascertain when the victim was brought in, when she was moved out, who attended to her and who spoke to her when she was there. Read AlsoCBI recreates Hathras crime scene, quizzes girl’s brotherThe CBI began its field investigation into the Hathras case on Tuesday by reconstructing the crime scene where the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted by four upper-caste men from the village a month ago. After speaking with the girl’s family and local police, the victim’sAsked why the police and administration had not sought the footage earlier, a police officer said the hospital has “nothing to do” with the crime-related investigation. “Unless a crime took place in the hospital or negligence was reported, this has no bearing on the criminal investigation. These are unrelated things. That is why CCTV footage was not taken into account.” The victim’s brothers and father, meanwhile, were questioned by the CBI again on Wednesday for about seven hours, starting at 11.30am. They were dropped home later by the local police. Read AlsoCBI files gang-rape, murder FIR, reaches Hathras for case fileA week after UP CM Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI probe into the Hathras case, the central agency on Sunday registered an FIR under sections 376D (gang rape), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act (offences of atrocities). CBI would also inquire intoEarlier in the day, the victim’s family had demanded that the four accused in the case be moved out of Aligarh jail, where they are said to have a lot of “local support.” Hathras sub-divisional magistrate Anjali Gangwar said the request would be considered “by senior officials.” Watch Hathras rape case: CCTV footage lost from hospital where victim was first taken||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cctv-footage-from-hospital-where-hathras-victim-was-first-taken-is-lost/articleshow/78667291.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 15, 2020||Business||Sebi bars 3 Kirloskars from markets for up to 6 months||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has barred three Kirloskar brothers from dealing in the securities market for up to six months as it found them guilty of violating insider trading rules. The regulator has also fined the siblings for making ill-gotten gains from certain transactions in the publicly listed Kirloskar Brothers between March 2010 and April 2011. Sebi, in three separate orders, has banned Atul and Rahul Kirloskar, promoters of Kirloskar Industries, from tapping the capital market for six months, while Sanjay Kirloskar, promoter of Kirloskar Brothers, has been barred for three months. The brothers, their family members as well as their companies have been asked by Sebi to cough up nearly Rs 57 crore. The three siblings have been in a legal battle since 2018 after Atul and Rahul complained about mismanagement in Kirloskar Brothers. Following the Sebi order, a spokesperson for Atul and Rahul rejected any wrongdoing in the sale of Kirloskar Brothers shares, maintaining that the transactions reflected appropriate stock exchange disclosures and necessary regulatory pre-clearances at that time. “We are currently reviewing Sebi’s order and seeking appropriate legal advice. We remain confident of our position and plan to appeal the ruling shortly,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-bars-3-kirloskars-from-mkts-for-up-to-6-mths/articleshow/78797060.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Business||Startup funding, jobs to touch pre-Covid level by Dec: Study||Bengaluru: Indian startups are seeing a faster recovery in funding and job creation than expected, with both expected to match and surpass pre-Covid numbers by the end of 2020, according to a report from TiE (Delhi-NCR chapter) and management consultancy Zinnov. Local startups are estimated to create around 25,000 direct jobs this year to negate the impact of the virus outbreak, which initially cost an equal number of jobs from many startups across sectors. This is aided by several sectors seeing a two to five times growth in revenue or GMV due to pandemic-induced demand. These include online insurance, education and tele-consultation apart from e-payments, grocery and online stock brokerage that have also surpassed pre-Covid sales. According to the report, equity funding in July-September hit nearly $2.79 billion, coming close to the January-March figure of $2.84 billion in funding. This had dropped to $1.3 billion in April-June. While seed and late-stage investments have shown better recovery, early stage deals are still seeing a gradual recovery. Total funding for startups in 2019 was $14.5 billion. In terms of job creation, a total of around 1.6 million direct jobs are being estimated to be created by 2025 by Indian startups — nearly double of current numbers for 2020. “In terms of indirect jobs, they were impacted as many companies had to take dramatic moves in spaces like ride-hailing and hospitality. So, indirect jobs will only get to 75-80% of pre-Covid levels by the end of 2020, but that again is not bad,” said TiE (Delhi-NCR) president Rajan Anandan. He is also MD at Sequoia Capital India, the country’s biggest venture capital firm in terms of assets under management.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); While the fund flow is encouraging for startups, the additional job creation will come from the steady rate of startups being formed in India — around 4,000 per year. India currently has 40,000 startups and the count is expected to hit the 60,000 mark by 2025. In terms of startups valued at $1 billion or more, known as unicorns, the report said India is on track to have 100 unicorns by 2025 compared to 33 currently, despite Covid-19. Startups, across scale, were also hit by the pandemic as 15% of them had to halt their operations, while 41% have seen a negative impact. The sectors mentioned earlier have seen the positive impact of Covid, but mobility, automotive, travel & hospitality, fitness and wellness are among the sectors reeling under pressure who need policy support for recovery. “Covid-19 has done wonders to the digital ecosystem at large. In a period of eight weeks, we might have achieved what we would normally achieve in several years — some can say 2, some can say 5 years,” said MakeMyTrip executive chairman Deep Kalra. He acknowledged the impact was worst for the travel & tourism sector. But overall, he estimated 100 million new users might have transacted online for the first time due to Covid-19, across use cases, who were primarily doing those transactions offline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startup-funding-jobs-to-touch-pre-covid-level-by-dec-study/articleshow/78669613.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 15, 2020||Patna||Patna: Hospitals witness rise in water-borne disease cases||PATNA: Hospitals across the city have reported a rise in cases of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea and acute gastroenteritis, apart from cold and upper respiratory tract infections during the last few weeks.  Another common complaint made by people was feeling of lump in throat though there were no symptoms of cough and fever. “Almost 40% cases reported from different parts of the state to the telemedicine department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences- Patna ( AIIMS-P) were related to uneasy feeling in throat of some lump or something sticking,” said telemedicine head Dr Anil Kumar. The symptom is known as ‘Globus Hystericus’. Now a days it is often caused due to fear of Covid-19 and people experiencing this feeling often refer to a feeling of lump in their throat. Some others describe the sensation as scratchy, throbbing, tense, or like they have a pill stuck in their throat. The sensation is not painful, but it can be annoying. Normally such patients were asked to gargle with hot saline water and take some anti-allergic medicines which helped them to recover soon. “Sinusitis and tonsillitis were also reported as common problems in this pandemic age,” added Dr Anil. “PMCH is also treating many patients suffering from breathing problems, throat problems, allergy, skin ailments and rise in blood sugar level,” said principal Dr VP Choudhary. “Since the skin becomes dry in this season, there are many complaints of eczema and fungal infections. However, the 30-bed dengue ward has no patient,” Dr Choudhary added However, two dengue cases have been reported from Patna, said Dr Subhash Chandra, director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Rajvanshinagar. The Union ministry of health and family welfare has already issued guidelines for management of co-infections of Covid 19 with other diseases like dengue, chikanguniya and malaria. Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent, Nalanda Medical College & Hospital (NMCH) also confirmed rise in cases of diarrhoea, pneumonia and respiratory tract infections. “ One case of dengue was reported from our OPD on Monday,”he said. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said no dengue case has been officially reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hospitals-witness-rise-in-water-borne-disease-cases/articleshow/78647853.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mangaluru||State’s medical education hub set for regional centre of RGUHS||Mangaluru: Work on the third of four proposed regional centres mooted by Bengaluru-based Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) got under way at Mangaluru on Wednesday. Kalaburagi regional centre of RGUHS is ready for inauguration. Preliminary work on Davangere regional centre has been initiated and the regional centre here will be the third with one more mooted at Belagavi. Dr Y Bharath Shetty, national vice-president, Indian Dental Council and Mangaluru City North MLA who cut the first sod of earth for the regional centre here said the centre will be useful as the district has the maximum number of health and allied sciences institutions. The regional centre will have a digital evaluation, simulation, physiotherapy research and dental research centres, digital library and an auditorium. “I have urged Dr S Sacchidanand, the vice-chancellor to set up a sports complex,” the MLA said. Dr Shivacharan Shetty, syndicate member, RGUHS said the centre will have an affiliation centre, finance and admission sections and student welfare department. Deputy registrar assisted by an assistant registrar will head the centre, he said. The dental research centre will be the first of its kind in India, he added. The physiotherapy research centre mooted will be a state of the art facility. Plans are afoot to start a seminar complex at Davangere regional centre. Likewise, the other regional centres too will get some such unique features, he said. With the syndicate members not too happy about the location of the proposed regional centre at Belagavi, this could be relocated to Hubballi at a land available with the APMC there. Plans are also afoot to set up a regional centre in Mysuru if suitable land is made available there, Kapashi noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/states-medical-education-hub-set-for-regional-centre-of-rguhs/articleshow/78668992.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Business||Magicbricks ropes in 13 home loan cos||Mumbai: Property site Magicbricks has entered the home loan services business, partnering 13 lenders including SBI, HDFC and ICICI Bank. Through this service, home buyers can also avail pre-approved loans that would enable them to negotiate better with the seller. The tie-up will enable users of Magicbricks avail services in an integrated manner, from discovery to the transaction phase. Loan seekers can compare the best available offers and rates and get both online and offline assistance during the application process. They can also do balance transfers of existing home loans and raise a loan against property. According to Magicbricks CEO Sudhir Pai, consumer preference is increasingly shifting toward affordability as around 50% of home buyers are now looking for properties within the Rs 20-50 lakh range. The property site sees monthly traffic of over 2 crore visits with over 14 lakh listings. Magicbricks is part of the Times Group which publishes this newspaper. “This service is aimed at offering a seamless experience to the home buyer in identifying and availing the best loan for the dream home. With interest rates now at an all-time low, our home loans service will help home buyers simplify this complex process and manage budgets smartly. We will be adding more services to our property services marketplace as we move ahead in our journey of becoming India’s first full-stack service provider in the real estate space,” he said. The other lenders that are part of the tie-up are PNB Housing Finance, Bank of Baroda, Cholamandalam, Hero FinCorp, Sundaram Home Finance, L&T Housing Finance, IIFL, IDFC First, Bajaj Finserv and Federal Bank. Magicbricks associates will provide loan seekers with free expert advice based on the information provided online. They will also provide doorstep pickup of supporting documents and submission to the banks. Magicbricks will then coordinate with the banks and assist in loan disbursal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/magicbricks-ropes-in-13-home-loan-cos/articleshow/78669665.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||Conductor ‘assaulted’ at Nadra bus stand||Bhopal: Four accused allegedly pointed a country-made pistol at a bus conductor when he was asking the passengers to board the bus at Nadra bus stand in Hanumanganj on Tuesday. They allegedly demanded that he pay Rs 5,000 per week as agent commission. When the bus conductor protested, the accused assaulted him. The bus conductor’s friends intervened and he took out a knife from the bus and attacked the extortionists. Hanumanganj police reached the spot on getting information and registered counter cases against both parties. Police said that the complainant Sahil Khan, 20, a resident of Ashoka Garden, works as a bus conductor in a private travel agency. He told police that on Tuesday, around 10.30 am, when he was calling the passengers to board the bus at Nadra bus stand, the four accused — Tikku Bhawani, Sourabh Khatik, Akash Gour and Atul — accosted him and pointed a country-made pistol at him. They threatened that they would not let him take passengers from the bus stand unless he pay them an agent commission of Rs 5,000 per week. When Sahil protested, the accused assaulted him. Meanwhile, in a counter complaint filed by Sourabh Khatik, 21, a resident of Aishbagh, he alleged that he along with his friend Tikku, Akash Gour and Atul reached the bus stop where the accused Sahil started arguing with Tikku over some issue and attacked him with a stick. When he and his friends intervened, Sahil took out a knife and stabbed Tikku’s hand. Police reached the spot on getting information of the ruckus and rounded up all the accused. Police registered counter cases against both the parties on their complaints under relevant sections and started investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/conductor-assaulted-at-nadra-bus-stand/articleshow/78668905.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||History-sheeter murdered inside Vadodara jail||VADODARA: In the first such incident inside the the high-security Vadodara Central Jail, notorious criminal Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo was murdered by a chain-snatcher who slit his throat with a sharp-edged piece of tin, on Wednesday morning. Kaniyo, who was lodged in the jail for over a month after being on run for 65 days, had a verbal spat with the assailant Sunil alias Sahil Parmar, who had been harbouring a bitter grudge over his bossy and intimidating behaviour. “Parmar admitted that he was angry with Kaniyo because of his bossy attitude. Kaniyo had told him to keep his gaze grounded to the floor while roaming around in yard 12 where they were lodged and had abused him a couple of times,” said inspector V N Mahida of Raopura police station. Parmar was booked for robbery and later murder charges were also invoked against him after the person whose chain he snatched died in the melee two years ago. He was booked by Panigate police station. According to police, Kaniyo and Parmar had a brief altercation outside his barrack in yard 12 on October 12. However, things did not reach a flash point then as another inmate named Shiva Mahalingam Pillai alias Aftab asked Parmar not to escalate the matter. However, on Wednesday morning, Parmar and another prisoner Kiran Solanki alias Bodiyo attacked Kaniyo and Mohsin Khan Pathan, an undertrial from Surat. Pathan, who is the complainant in this case, told police that he and Kaniyo had gone to make a phone call at the jail’s phone booth, but as there was a long queue of the prisoners, they were returning to their barracks. While passing by barrack 4, Parmar attacked Kaniyo from behind and a scuffle ensued. Parmar slit Kaniyo’s throat with a piece of tin and Pathan too was attacked in a similar way by Bodiyo. Hearing the ruckus, the jail sepoys rushed to intervene and some of them too sustained minor injuries. Kaniyo and Pathan were taken to jail’s dispensary but as the former’s wound was deeper, he was rushed to SSG Hospital where he succumbed. Pathan suffered injuries on his hand and head, but they were not very serious. Pathan has been lodged in the jail for the past five years after being charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency in the sensational Bharuch double murder case of Shirish Bangali, a former BJP president for Bharuch and Pragnesh Mistry, general secretary of the Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha, in 2016. TOI tried contacting the additional director general of police (Prisons) Dr KLN Rao as well as the jail superintendent of Vadodara Central Jail, but neither of them answered the calls nor replied to the text message. Aftab’s role has not been known in the Kaniyo’s murder and he is yet to be questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/history-sheeter-ajju-kaniyo-murdered-inside-jail/articleshow/78667239.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal asks private hospitals to get help from non-Covid specialists for crisis period||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory commission (WBCERC) has appealed to private hospitals to draw up lists of specialists, like eye, ENT, skin and surgery, who are normally not involved in treatment of Covid patients. These doctors, the commission felt, can help hospitals tide over the manpower crisis in the event of exigencies during Dura Puja. “It is mainly doctors from specialties, like medicine, pulmonology and critical care, who are tending to Covid patients. Private hospitals can draw up lists of their doctors from other specialties who are not engaged in Covid treatment. If required, these doctors can supplement the manpower in Covid wards of their respective hospitals in case of a crisis during the festival,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman of the panel. In addition to medicine, pulmonary and critical care specialists, hospitals said that nephrologists, cardiologists and neurologists, too, were involved in treatment of critical Covid patients. “This is a justified decision. In fact, we have already drawn up a list of doctors from specialities apart from the six currently involved in Covid treatment. This decision by the honourable chairperson will strengthen our hand further,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. In anticipation of the rising Covid graph, the Peerless managing director came out with a circular asking doctors not to take any leave till the end of October. “While a section of doctors is overburdened with work taking care of Covid patients, another section are still resorting to only online consultation. The move by the health commission is a very good one. If the commission issues an advisory, it will help hospital administrators to implement it with ease,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic, which is currently running 160 Covid beds with full occupancy. “Since ours is a multispecialty hospital, we have a good number of doctors from all specialties. We will definitely look into preparing a list of those doctors who are not involved in Covid treatment at present,” said a source at CMRI. The commission also wants to prepare a data bank of recovered Covid patients who are fit and healthy. “While such patients can help if the need for plasma donation arises, the hospitals can request them for voluntary services during the festival for work suited for them,” added justice Banerjee. The health panel on Wednesday penalized CMRI Rs 25,000 after a complaint of burn mark on the leg of patient who underwent fracture surgery, which was successful. The commission also asked AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake to pay Rs 91,000 to a patient who had two surgeries, the latter being a correctional one for a post-surgery infection. Both hospitals said they are yet to get a written communication of the directive and they will respond once they get a copy of the order. The commission also asked Majumdar Millennium Nursing Home in Kalyani to refund Rs 8,000 as discount to a patient’s family, imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on Health World Hospital in Durgapur for furnishing the report of a different patient while the complaint against the hospital was by the family of another patient. Shree Jain hospital has been asked to withdraw a police complaint of hospital ransacking lodged against the family of a patient who died there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-asks-pvt-hosps-to-get-help-from-non-cov-specialists-for-crisis-period/articleshow/78668808.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Chit fund firm dupes woman, case booked||Coimbatore: The city police have booked the managing directors and manager of a private chit fund company for allegedly duping an investor. They were booked based on a complaint lodged by Revathi, 31, of Ganapathy, who had deposited Rs 2.68 lakh in the firm from June 2017 to June 2019. “The company had issued her a cheque, which bounced because of insufficient funds. The company management later didn’t respond to her queries,” a police officer said. Subsequently, she had lodged a complaint with the Kattoor police, who registered a case under Sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code. The preliminary investigation revealed that the company, which has its branch at Ram Nagar, had not returned money to many investors. Police have summoned the managing directors of the company for an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chit-fund-firm-dupes-woman-case-booked/articleshow/78670323.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Woman’s live-in partner held for murder||JAIPUR: Cops arrested the main accused in the murder of a woman whose body was found in her rented house in Sanganer Sadar on Monday. The accused was her live-in partner and the duo had been staying together for last two years. The victim was identified as 28-year-old Sangeeta Meena who hailed from Sawai Madhopur while the accused was identified as 30-year-old Narsi Meena who was arrested from Dausa’s Lalsot. “The accused instead of reporting the death, fled from the scene which was enough to make us suspect him. During questioning, the accused claimed that the duo had an argument following which he killed her,” said an official. She was last seen on Sunday evening and there were visible injury marks on her body. Her body was found in the house by the landlord around 7 am. According to officials, the woman was staying with her partner against her parents’ wishes for the past two years. Her body was handed over to the family after autopsy on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/womans-live-in-partner-held-for-murder/articleshow/78670322.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Gondia criminal held in Bhandup||MUMBAI: A notorious criminal from Gondia, who fled when police started looking for him and landed here, was arrested by Bhandup police on Tuesday. Vijaykumar Dubey alias Raju (51) has more than 12 serious cases, including murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping and extortion, against him. Sub-inspector Ravindra Rane and staff were patrolling Khadimachine in Bhandup (W) when they found Dubey. “Seeing policemen, he ran, which raised suspicion, so he was chased and caught. He was taken to the police station for questioning.’’ said deputy commissioner of police (zone VII) Prashant Kadam. He told police he was from Gondia and had come for work but when police called up their counterparts in Gondia, they learned he was a hardened criminal on the run. Gondia police said he had threatened a businessman on October 10. “He was given life sentence for the murder of a cop in Gondia in 1997. He was released in 2017 but continues to indulge in crime,’’ said senior inspector Shyam Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gondia-criminal-held-in-bhandup/articleshow/78669072.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro to resume for all from Monday, shops open till 9pm||MUMBAI: As part of its fresh ‘unlock’ guidelines, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday allowed re-starting of Metro rail in the state from Thursday, October 15, in a graded manner. However, Mumbai Metro said it will start its services from Monday, while monorail services in the city will resume from Sunday. Metro rail services will be open for all and not just essential services workers. Mumbai Metro authorities said details on seating in keeping with Covid-19 protocols and on train frequency would be finalized by Thursday. Before Covid struck, the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar Metro 1 line carried 4.5 lakh passengers per day on 400 services. According to the notification issued by the MVA government unlocking further sectors under its Mission Begin Again initiative, passengers at airports and railway stations will no longer be stamped with indelible ink to indicate their 14-day home quarantine period, and screening too will no longer be done at railway stations. The notification allowed B2B exhibitions outside containment zones. While shops will be allowed to remain open for an additional two hours (9 am to 9 pm) starting Thursday, weekly markets (including animal markets) are also allowed, with SOPs to be issued by local bodies. There was no mention, however, of reopening religious shrines, an issue over which Governor B S Koshyari and CM Uddhav Thackeray had a verbal spat on Tuesday after Koshyari asked the CM to reopen places of worship “forthwith.” Gyms and theatres will remain closed in the state though the Centre has allowed them to re-open. The fresh guidelines allow 50% of teaching and non-teaching school staff to go to school for online teaching, tele-counselling or related work. However, the state has made it clear that regular schools, colleges and coaching classes will remain closed for students and regular class activities till October 31. Also, in a major relief to several students, the state has allowed opening up of government and private libraries. “There was a demand from many student bodies to open up libraries as many students who live in small and congested homes or are preparing for competitive exams are dependent on these study areas,” a senior official said. The notification has permitted skilling and entrepreneurship training at industrial training institutes, short-term training institutes and any other skill training institute registered under the National Skill Development Corporation. Besides, research scholars and PhD students from the science and technology streams who require access to labs for their work can visit their respective campuses. Detailed guidelines will be issued by the department of higher and technical education in this regard. Viren Shah of the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association welcomed the government’s new guidelines. “Right now business is 30%, but with this announcement it will increase to 50%,” he said. The association has demanded that the state permit access to local trains as it will not only boost businesses but make commute easy. On the decision not to screen train passengers, a senior official said, “With the Centre and state largely opening up travel, it will not be feasible for staffers at railway stations to screen each passenger, so this has been done away with. But passengers will be urged to follow all Covid-19 protocols,” the official said. In keeping with previous guidelines, only 50 people would still be allowed at a wedding ceremony or a family function and 20 would be allowed for a funeral. Watch Mumbai: Metro services to resume from Monday, shops open till 9 pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/metro-to-resume-for-all-from-monday-shops-open-till-9pm/articleshow/78670922.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai cops visit petitioners to solve cases faster||Madurai: The Madurai district police has in the past 10 days conducted investigations into nearly 300 cases by visiting the houses of petitioners and disposing of most of them. The move is aimed at relieving the petitioners from the painstaking travel between their houses and police stations. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said that often petitioners travel multiple times as investigation officer of the particular case may not be available in stations due to other official work. The new method will help dispose of petitions early in a hassle-free manner.Similarly, mass grievance days will be conducted periodically to solve the piling petitions. Deputy superintendents of police are visiting police stations under their control regularly and taking measures to improve their skills. He said that both law and order and crime incidents are under control in Madurai district due to strict action being taken against criminals. So far, 54 murder cases have been recorded this year. Last year, 56 murder cases were recorded in the corresponding period. Most of the murders are due to property dispute, extra-marital affairs, family dispute and previous enmity.So far, 20 people have been detained under Goondas Act. When asked about a recent audio, which went viral on social media, claiming robbery attempts near Chittampatti toll gate, the SP said no complaint has been filed so far. However, two-wheeler and highway patrol has been intensified in the said areas to improve safety. He said that 105 police personnel, including four ministerial staff have been infected by Covid-19 of which only three are under treatment now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cops-visit-petitioners-to-solve-cases-faster/articleshow/78670920.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Traders seek relief on UD tax this year||Jaipur: Traders in Jaipur are demanding a relaxation in urban development tax this year. Due to the lockdown and ongoing pandemic, traders are facing huge economic losses, which has forced them to seek relaxations from the state government. A letter has been sent to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting some concession in urban development tax this year. In the three-month lockdown, many people have lost their businesses and many shops have been shut. Even after the relaxations in the lockdown rules, footfall in the market is still low and many shopkeepers are barely making any sale. President of Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh, Subhash Goyal said, "We have faced enormous losses in the lockdown. People are not getting customers in their shops due to the rising number of coronavirus cases. We have made rules to close down the market early in the evening, which has impacted the business as well. These are tough times and we want some government support."Sushil Saini, a businessman in Raja Park, said he shut down his one branch of restaurant because of acumulating losses. "I had three branches, but I shut down one because of the losses. All the traders in the market are hopeful that the government will decide something in favour of us as it will take some time to recover the losses," Saini said. JMC officials, however, are opposing this move. Officials states that already JMC is not generating revenue and any further relaxation in urban development tax will increase financial burden on them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/traders-seek-relief-on-ud-tax-this-year/articleshow/78670318.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: SSP suspends 10 cops for quarrelling over money||BAREILLY: Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan has suspended 10 policemen - two sub-inspectors and eight constables - and has ordered to register an FIR against all of them under section 7/13 of Prevention of Corruption Act after they were found guilty of accepting bribe in a criminal case. A departmental inquiry has been ordered. A purported old video of the policemen, deployed at the crime branch, had surfaced on social media on October 12 in which they could be seen quarrelling over the distribution of money bribed by someone in a criminal case. Sajwan had immediately ordered a probe. “The video was shot either in April or May. The policemen were found guilty of accepting bribes after initial investigation. They all have been suspended. A few of them have been transferred to other districts and the order will be shared with their respective officers. We will also check if anyone else from the department was involved," Sajwan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ssp-suspends-10-cops-for-quarrelling-over-money/articleshow/78664322.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan civic polls: Two candidates file nomination papers on Day 1||JAIPUR: As the notification for the elections to six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota was issued on Wednesday, three nominations were filed by two candidates for the posts of councillors on the first day of filing nomination papers. Chief electoral officer Shyam Singh Rajpurohit informed that both the candidates were from Jaipur. While one candidate from Jaipur Heritage (Ward 34) filed two nominations, the other from Jaipur Greater (Ward 43) filed one nomination. No nominations were filed in Jodhpur and Kota on the first day. He also informed that nomination papers will not be accepted on October 18 as it is Sunday. The last date for filing of nomination papers is October 19. The elections to the posts of councillors will be held in two phases - October 29 and November 1. The counting of votes will be held on November 3. The elections to the posts of Mayors will be held on November 10 (from 10 am to 2 pm) and to the posts of deputy mayors will take place on November 11. State election commissioner P S Mehra on Wednesday held a meeting with the district election officers, police and health officials of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota through video conference. He directed them to conduct the polls in these districts by strictly adhering to the Covid guidelines issued by the Centre and state. He further said, no bike/vehicle rallies and crowding of the area should be allowed at the time of filing nomination papers. “Legal action will be taken against those who flout rules,” he said. He also asked them to ensure safe and peaceful elections in these districts. Mehra directed them to ensure nobody embraces anyone, touches one’s feet and shake hands during the election campaign. He said protocol should be maintained if any Covid positive persons were willing to cast their votes during the elections. He enquired about the availability of police personnel for the election days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-polls-2-candidates-file-nomination-papers-on-day-1/articleshow/78670329.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Agra||57 more test Covid +ve in Agra, active cases now 530||AGRA: At least 57 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday, taking the district tally to 6,526. Of these 88.7% have been declared as "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has reduced from 562 on Tuesday to 530 on Wednesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,892 people have recovered.” Moreover, a 65-year-old man passed away during treatment at a private hospital in Agra. The resident of New Agra locality had operated for brain tumour a few years ago and was suffering from cardiac problems. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 134 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/57-more-test-covid-ve-in-agra-active-cases-now-530/articleshow/78667322.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Special prayers for Covid victims at Aala-Hazrat Urs||BAREILLY: Special prayers were offered by Sajjadanasheen Mufti Ehsan Miyan for Covid-19 victims and survivors across the country on the concluding day of Aala-Hazrat Urs in Bareilly. Organisers said that the prayers were offered while following Covid guidelines and most of the rituals were performed online. Tens of thousands of followers observed the Urs through social media and audio-casting. Additional police force was deployed in the area. On Wednesday, spokesperson Nasir Qureshi told TOI, “Around 25 lakh people followed the Urs through various platforms and listened to the prayers offered by sajjadanasheen. Mufti Saleem Noori urged the Muslims not to blindly believe in posts shared on social media and ignore messages that spread hatred or violence." Qureshi added, "Dargah chief Subhan Raza Khan ensured successful completion of the Urs. This is the first occasion - in 102 years - when people from abroad could not join the blessed occasion, in person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/special-prayers-for-covid-victims-at-aala-hazrat-urs/articleshow/78664345.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Five held for kidnapping Mumbai's Dindoshi businessman||MUMBAI: Crime branch arrested five persons who kidnapped a Dindoshi businessman after a fallout of a financial dispute, took him to Nashik and assaulted him before leaving him on Sunday. The victim and accused have cheating and extortion cases against them in Mumbai and Thane. Rakesh Pandey (45) has cases of cheating and extortion in Thane and Nashik, while main accused, Pradeep Sarodaye (34), from Nashik, had in 2017 stood for elections from Shirdi parliamentary constituency but lost, and is part of the sand mafia, with offences under Arms Act, and murder, attempt to murder and cheating cases against him. Pandey who is into second-hand cars, told Dindoshi police that on Sunday, around 7pm, some men overtook his Mercedes near Dindoshi bus depot, as three to four men wearing masks, pulled him out, bundled him into another car and drove away. Residents immediately alerted police control room. With the help of the registration number of the car, police retrieved Pandey’s mobile number and contacted his estranged wife, who was not of much help. With technical help police traced Pandey’s location to Nashik. “During examination of CCTV footage of the spot and toll naka police identified Pradeep as a notorious criminal from the sand mafia in Nashik. The gang, after assaulting the victim, left him the next day in Nashik,’’ said senior inspector (unit XII) Mahesh Tawde. Pandey later filed a complaint of kidnapping. “Our team got information that the accused took shelter in Palghar district. First we picked up three of them, and during interrogation, they led us to another two,’’ said DCP (crime detection) Akbar Pathan. The others arrested, Arif Shaikh, Suryakant Jadhav, Suraj Venkat Suryavanshi and Mahesh Kamble, were handed them over to Dindoshi police for further investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-held-for-kidnapping-dindoshi-bizman/articleshow/78669077.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Co-optex to begin festive special sales in dist today||Coimbatore: Ahead of the Diwali, the Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society, which is popularly known as Co-optex, is all set to begin special sales from Thursday. All the handloom products would be sold at a discounted price.An official with the Co-optex said they would offer 30% discount on all the products for almost a month and that they were hopeful of exceeding the past year’s sales.This year, the society has set a sales target of as Rs 6.78 crore from the district, against Rs 5.5 crore last year. They are expecting Rs 4 crore sales from Marutham Co-optex, its largest outlet in the district, alone. The district has about six Co-optex outlets.The official said there was always a high demand for soft silk saris, Kancheepuram saris, cotton saris and bed sheets ahead of Diwali and Pongal.He said the outlets have been seeing more footfall in the past few weeks. “We have started seeing about 75% of the usual business activities. The business volume would increase in the coming days.”Unlike the previous years, the official said, this year they could not go to any government offices or educational institutions to sell the products. “We have to close our outlets by 8pm. If restrictions were not in place, we could have clocked more business.”The special sales will also start in neighbouring Tirupur on Thursday. In that district, their sales target is Rs 1.63 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/co-optex-to-begin-festive-special-sales-in-dist-today/articleshow/78670338.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Mastermind behind woman’s murder surrenders in court||Coimbatore: A day after the city police arrested five people for murdering an elderly woman at her house at Kempatti Colony in the city to steal her gold ornaments, the mastermind behind the crime surrendered before a magistrate court at George Town in Chennai on Wednesday.Police identified the accused as Thilak Raj, of Kempatti Colony. The city police are expected to move the court, seeking his custody.The Big Bazaar Street (crime) police had on Tuesday arrested Thilak’s sisters Latha alias Latha Rani, 47 and Mala alias Revathi Rani, 43, and their accomplices Manoj alias Manojkumar, Siva alias Selvam and Sathy alias Sathyaseelan, all residents of Peelamedu.According to police, Latha had befriended the victim, 62-year-old Dhanalakshmi, at a grocery shop, where they used to visit often. When Latha started visiting her house, she learned that the woman was in possession of lots of gold ornaments and she would be alone at house during the day. Latha shared the information with her brother, who along with others, hatched the plan to rob the woman of her gold.After their first attempt went in vain, they murdered the woman on September 30 and took away gold ornaments weighing 30 sovereigns, which police have recovered from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mastermind-behind-womans-murder-surrenders-in-court/articleshow/78670331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Agra||Satellite spots burning of bushes in Agra, agriculture department to register FIR||AGRA: Agriculture department in Agra is looking into a case of a bush fire started by some people in Vidholi village. The pictures of flames were captured by satellite Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (S-NPP). Based on the satellite report forwarded by the state headquarters, officers of the agriculture department and sub-division are investigating the matter. Track the pollution level in your cityThe department is going to register an FIR in the matter under IPC section 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and section 26 of the National Green Tribunal Act. District agriculture officer Rampravesh Verma said, “On October 11, a few people in village Vidholi had set bushes on fire at two different locations. The pictures of the incident were captured by satellite at around 1:42pm.” “Burning of bushes, crop residue causes release of sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and nitrogen dioxide, increasing the level of air pollution. Besides being harmful for human health, burning field waste kills beneficial microorganisms in the soil. We are spreading awareness among farmers in this regard. Alternate methods to dispose of field waste are being told to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/satellite-spots-burning-of-bushes-in-agra-agriculture-department-to-register-fir/articleshow/78667348.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||CM peddling dubious achievements: Stalin||Coimbatore: Hitting out at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for claiming `false’ credits, DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday made a fervent attempt to woo the people of Coimbatore, listing out the projects implemented by DMK in the region.Addressing the cadres through video conferencing from Chennai to mark Mupperum Vizha organised to celebrate the birth anniversaries of DK founder Periyar (E V Ramasamy) and DMK founder C N Annadurai on September 15 and 17 and the founding of DMK, Stalin said that it was DMK which brought the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Avinashi Road flyover, Cross Cut Road flyover, Siruvani combined drinking water project, 105 crore Coimbatore bypass road, Rs 128 crore Pillur II drinking water scheme, Vadavalli – Kavundampalayam and Kurichi – Kuniyamuthur drinking water scheme. This apart, the Tidel Park in Coimbatore and a multi-crore transmission company in Palladam were inaugurated during the DMK regime, Stalin said. “It was DMK which included the Gounder community in the backward class list and gave three per cent reservation for Arunthathiyars.”Recalling the association his late father M Karunanidhi had with Coimbatore, Stalin said the district had an important place in the lives of EVR Periyar and DMK founder C N Annadurai also. “Kalaignar chose Coimbatore for the World Tamil Conference and brought several infrastructure developments to the city during the conference,” he said. “On the other hand, the present regime of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has plunged the thriving industrial sector in Coimbatore into abyss.”“The AIADMK dispensation drafts schemes only for their welfare. Hence there is no industrial growth,” he said. “For industrial growth, the government should be strong, focussed and far-sighted.”Above all, the chief minister should have the confidence of people, Stalin charged and said that EPS was claiming false credits on various accounts. “He claims to have brought AIIMS to Madurai. Only a name board has been installed and nothing has materialised. EPS claims to have brought Rs 3 lakh-crore investment after a Global Investors Meet. That’s the second lie. The third one is about winning TN’s right over river Cauvery, which is false since Karnataka is going ahead with the Mekedatu dam project.”Stalin also dismissed the claims of EPS about TN having surplus electricity and bringing Avinashi – Athikadavu water schemes. “His claim of being the farmer’s friend is yet another lie because he supported the three new farm bills brought by the Centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-peddling-dubious-achievements-stalin/articleshow/78670345.cms||Mayilvaganan
October 15, 2020||Delhi||8 months on, father of dead 2-year-old in Delhi fights for records||NEW DELHI: The law says a patient has to be given complete medical records and a detailed bill within 72 hours of discharge. However, it has taken a father, who lost his two-year-old son, more than eight months to get the bulk of the medical records of the boy’s treatment from Max hospitals in Shalimar Bagh and Saket. The records are still incomplete, and regulatory authorities have not yet taken any action against the hospital or even managed to ensure that a complete set of records is provided. Parv Singhal, aged two years and three months, was admitted to Max Shalimar Bagh for dysentery on February 5. His condition deteriorated and he had to be transferred to Max Saket for a liver transplant. However, he died on February 9 before the transplant. His father, Himanshu Singhal, was given only the case summary and some of the test reports when he took his son’s body. On February 13, Singhal complained to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) alleging negligence in treatment and non-supply of medical records. The PMO forwarded his complaint to Dr R N Das, who heads Delhi government’s Nursing Home Registration Cell that deals with grievances against hospitals. Since then Singhal has been running around, to both government authorities and the hospitals, as he filed one application after another, sent legal notices, and several reminders to authorities, each time demanding “a complete set of medical records”. At various stages, he was given some more medical records and made to put it down in writing that he had received the complete medical records, only to realise later that they were incomplete. “Though Dr Das and Delhi Medical Council (DMC) are fully aware that the law stipulates that a patient should be given complete medical records within 72 hours, they have merely sent letters to the hospital asking that they be submitted within three days. No action was taken against the hospital for not doing so and for breaking the law,” said Singhal. While Dr Das did not respond to queries from TOI, the council said the matter was under consideration. The hospital had responded to Dr Das by claiming that they were unable to reply “due to the nationwide lockdown and extreme stress on hospital”. This response was accepted despite the fact that two-year-old Parv had died three weeks before the first Covid case was detected in the capital on March 2. In its detailed reply, the hospital claimed that it had provided the medical records several times and was being harassed by Singhal. “I am not even following up the case of negligence. That is secondary. I first need a complete set of medical records. That is my basic right as the parent,” said Singhal. “They use delaying tactics with most patients, expecting them to give up. That is not going to work,” he asserted. In response to TOI’s queries, a Max Hospital spokesperson said, “All information has been shared by the hospital. The matter is with DMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/8-mths-on-father-of-dead-2-yr-old-fights-for-records/articleshow/78669006.cms||Rema Nagarajan
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhind cops plan to take on gun violence via QR codes||BHOPAL: Police in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh have initiated a program to trace a bullet back to a specific firearm, something that has never been tried before anywhere in the country. The plan is to put a QR code on bullet casings, said SP Manoj Kumar Singh. Codenamed ‘the traceability of bullet’, the coding for it would be done by the police. “I had been working on this project for over two years. Idea is to control firearm related crimes in the region. This technique may become a valuable forensic tool during a criminal investigation. We are concentrating on vulnerable areas now,” Singh told TOI. He added, “It’s a small start with limited budget available. If this takes off, we would make a proposal to extend it in other areas as well.” Currently, there are more than 63,000 licensed firearms in the Chambal region, including 22,000 in Bhind, 23,000 in Morena, 8000 in Datia and 3,000 in Sheopur. People consider guns as their pride and loss of a gun is considered as loss of respect in this region, where officials believe, illegal weapons are double the number of licensed weapons. Government had even tried to cash in on public sentiment about possessing firearms in this region by asking people to pay up outstanding loans. Bhind police would be collecting ammunitions from the licence weapon holders in poll bound Mehgaon and Gohad to be returned with QR codes printed on them. Although licensed weapons are with the district administration for the polling period, possession of illegal weapons like ‘katta’ (country-made gun) remains a challenge for law enforcement agencies in these districts. If the bullet casing with QR code is scanned, the investigator would get details of the owner including UIN number, police station, license number, and validity, address, serial number of the weapon and contact numbers. “Information of the QR coding would be uploaded on the portals of home ministry making it earlier for the investigators to trace the gun and its owner,” he said. Some senior officials are doubting feasibility of this project. “In majority of the cases that have come on record, crimes were not committed with licensed weapons. So coding a casing won’t be as useful. It will be a herculean task,” said an IG rank officer wishing not to be quoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhind-cops-plan-to-take-on-gun-violence-via-qr-codes/articleshow/78668997.cms||P Naveen
October 15, 2020||Allahabad||HC to UP: Set up JJBs expeditiously||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the state government to take steps for constitution of the Juvenile Justice Boards expeditiously. The Boards are constituted in every district of the state to take appropriate measures, including in respect of children who are accused of violating any penal laws. Besides, the court also directed the state government to ensure that the vacancies of the Board are expeditiously filled and steps for filling the vacancies be taken at least six months prior to the date of the vacancy falling due. Disposing of a writ petition filed by one Ishwari Prasad Tiwari, Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “This court once again reiterates that non-function of the Board is clearly against the mandate of Article 15(3) of the Constitution, which provides that state shall make special provision for women and children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-to-up-set-up-jjbs-expeditiously/articleshow/78666836.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Anna University staff protest cancellation of medical leaves||Coimbatore: Teaching and non-teaching staff members of the Anna University Regional Campus at Navavoor near the city on Wednesday staged a sit-in on the campus, condemning cancellation of their medical leaves, earned leaves and special casual leaves.As many as 60 people staged a sit-in on the campus, wearing black badges. The campus was merged with Anna University in 2011 and late chief minister J Jayalalithaa said the state will take in the staff members into the fold of Anna University, a protester said. “In 2012, the state subsumed staff members here in parts. Around 15 were taken in. But around 60 are yet to be absorbed. The move is still pending. We are now identified as unabsorbed staff.”The Anna University sent a circular on October 9, saying their medical leaves, earned leaves and special casual leaves have been cancelled. It should be revoked and they be allowed leaves as usual, the protesters said. They dispersed and resumed work after the campus’ dean held talks with them and assured that the issue would be brought to the notice of higher authorities.Dean K Ravichandran refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/anna-university-staff-protest-cancellation-of-medical-leaves/articleshow/78670343.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Actors settle dispute in Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Actors Richa Chadda and Payal Ghosh on Wednesday settled their dispute in Bombay high court after the latter undertook to withdraw and delete her statements and defamatory posts and tendered an unconditional apology. Both agreed to not file any case against each other before any court related to their dispute and not seek compensation. Chhada’s counsel Virendra Tulzapurkar and Saveena Bedi Sachar and Ghosh’s counsel Nitin Satpute were heard, and both sides informed HC their consent terms were finalized. Justice Anil Menon of Bombay high court, who heard the matter via video-conferencing, accepted the undertaking and disposed of the defamation suit against Ghosh. Chadda had on October 5 led a defamation suit for Rs 1.1 crore in damages from Ghosh and others, including a TV channel, Kamal Khan and others over “defamatory statements’’ against her in an interview to a news channel. She sought a restrain against republishing and sought their withdrawal too from online platforms. The suit will continue against the channel, Khan and John Doe (unknown people). The HC gave four weeks for filing replies. Khan’s counsel Manoj Gadkari iterated his client had no intention of repeating his posts, and will not make similar remarks about Chadda. Chadda sought interim and permanent relief against Ghosh and others, including the channel, from publishing allegedly defamatory content against her or “using her name in any defamatory manner whatsoever, in relation to any disputes between Ghosh and film-maker Anurag Kashyap’’. She had sought that online content be withdrawn immediately and an apology be tendered by Payal and others. Interim order passed by HC earlier against the channel and unknown persons not to repeat any post will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actors-settle-dispute-in-bombay-hc/articleshow/78669081.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 15, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Anand Bhawan to open after 7 months||PRAYAGRAJ: After remaining closed for usual visitors, one of the prominent tourist attraction places in the city, Anand Bhawan, is ready to welcome the common public from October 15, much to the delight of local business people and shopkeepers. Anand Bhavan is the ancestral home of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. The premises of this two-storey building was closed for the last seven months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, shows will also be conducted in Jawahar planetarium, another tourist attraction within the premises. According to Anand Bhawan director, Y Ravi Kiran, Anand Bhavan would be opened for visitors from 10am to 6pm. “Wearing facemasks has been made mandatory for all viewers and access will be given only after thermal scanning at the entrance gate”, said the official. There will also be a facility for visitors to get tickets through QR code. Home to five generations of the Nehru family and the centre of major Congress activities to overthrow the British rule during the freedom struggle, this building houses the artefacts and personal belongings of the Nehru’s. Visitors get to catch a glimpse of the place where India’s first woman Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, was born. Also, it was that here that her marriage ceremony was held. Jawaharlal Nehru’s bedroom, his study, and Mahatma Gandhi’s room are other tourist attractions. The outhouse of the estate also has a picture gallery, depicting the life of Jawaharlal Nehru. Besides, Jawahar Planetarium will also be opened along with Anand Bhawan from Thursday. However, only 50% occupancy of the visitors would be allowed. There are 96 seats in the planetarium which means the authorities would sell only 48 tickets in each of the four shows—running from 11am to 4:30pm. “We would be making the audience aware about the norms that one should follow to keep themselves safe from Covid-19 virus and announcements would also be made on regular intervals, instructing the visitors to follow safety norms”, said the director. The decision has brought some cheer for the vendors and the other businessmen in the area who used to earn their bread and butter by selling goods and serving visitors coming to visit Anand Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/anand-bhawan-to-open-after-7-months/articleshow/78666849.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Drive launched to issue certificates to small and marginal farmers||Coimbatore: The agriculture department and the revenue department have launched a drive to provide small and marginal farmers certificates that are mandatory to avail benefits of state and central schemes.As many as 2,433 documents including certificates and chittas were issued on Tuesday at the camps held at the offices of revenue inspectors in the district’s 12 blocks. The drive will be conducted again on October 20 to cover the farmers who are yet to get the certificates. Agriculture officials said the certificates and other documents will prevent irregularities in the implementation of schemes. Often, small and marginal farmers find it difficult to get the certificates, which leads to involvement of middlemen and also occurrence of irregularities, said an agriculture official. “In order to eliminate these, we have taken the initiative along with the revenue department, under the direction of the district collector and joint director of agriculture.”A small farmer is classified as one who holds up to five acres of land. A marginal farmer is one who holds up to 2.5 acres. Other farmers, who hold more than five acres of land, don’t need certificates to avail benefits.The drive aims to enable small and marginal farmers avail subsidy benefits of the micro irrigation scheme and also supplementary water management activities. The state government aims to bring borewell and open well irrigated area in the state under micro irrigation by 2023-2024 and cover an additional 2.5 lakh-hectare by creating new water sources under supplementary water management activities. The district has been allocated Rs 45 crore to implement micro irrigation scheme across 5,100 hectares. Small and marginal farmers will get 100% subsidy and other farmers, 75%. In addition, Rs 6.88 crore has been allocated for supplementary water management activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drive-launched-to-issue-certificates-to-small-and-marginal-farmers/articleshow/78670356.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases cross 38,000-mark in dist||Coimbatore: After five days of fresh Covid-19 cases hovering between 390 and 400, the number of cases on Wednesday dropped below 389.However, it took the total number of cases past the 38,000 mark to 38,315. The district added 1,000 cases in the slowest pace of four days, compared to three weeks back when it was adding 1,000 cases in less than 48 hours.As many as 452 patients were discharged, taking the total number of active cases to 4,703. The number of people recovered rose to 33,10,5 further increasing the recovery rate to 86.4%. The district also recorded five more deaths taking the toll to 507.The deaths include two 77-year-old men with diabetes, hypertension and asthma who died of the virus on Tuesday. An 82-year-old man with the same comorbidities died after 10 days of hospitalization on the same day. The fourth person was a 67-year-old man with coronary artery diseases and diabetes who died on Monday and a 55-year-old woman who died on Monday, just over 24 hours of hospitalization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-cross-38000-mark-in-dist/articleshow/78670347.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Agra||In violation of TTZ norms, 22 hot mix plants ‘causing pollution’ in Agra city||AGRA: At least 22 hot mix plants are "causing pollution" in Agra city, which comes under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ). A majority of these plants have been operating for the past four years, but the authorities failed to act against them. According to TTZ norms, hot mix plants involved high-temperature processing of material for road construction, and thus, are prohibited in the TTZ area. Track the pollution level in your cityThe TTZ is defined as an area of 10,400 sq km around the Taj Mahal to protect the monument from pollution. The Supreme Court had delivered a ruling on December 30, 1996, regarding industries covered under the TTZ in response to a PIL seeking to protect the monument from environmental pollution. According to sources, out of the total 22 hot mix plants in Agra district, 16 are operating in the city areas. At least five of these plants are operational for the past five to 10 years, while three new plants have come up in the past two months. City-based doctor and environmentalist Dr Sharad Gupta said, “Following the apex court order, hot mix plant cannot operate in the TTZ. But in connivance with officials, at least 22 hot mix plants are operating and causing high pollution in Agra district. The state government needs to take serious cognisance of the matter and should ensure a time-bound action in the matter.” "These plants mainly cater to the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC), Agra Development Authority (ADA), Jal Nigam and National High Authority of India (NHAI) in development of infrastructure," said Dr Gupta. Confirming that several complaints have been received in this connection, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “I have sought a report from the pollution control board in the matter.” Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) regional manager Bhuvan Prakash Yadav, meanwhile, said they were working to ensure that not a single hot mix plant was functional in the TTZ area. “AMC, ADA, Jal Nigam, NHAI and other agencies have been asked to cancel their contract with illegal hot mix plants. We will conduct spot inspections in the TTZ area and if hot mix plants are found to be operating, legal action will be taken against them,” added Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-violation-of-ttz-norms-22-hot-mix-plants-causing-pollution-in-agra-city/articleshow/78667374.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: AIKSCC convener to file contempt against state for procurement outside APMCs||PILIBHIT: Irked over the messy procurement of paddy and flagrant violation of Allahabad high court’s November 2000 order for procurement of agricultural produce of farmers in UP at a rate not below the minimum support price (MSP), the national convener of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), V M Singh, announced on Wednesday that he will file a contempt petition against the state government at the high court. Singh was talking to media at the PWD guest house during his one-day tour of Pilibhit. He said the state government had been fixing annual procurement targets every year, while based on his petitions, the high court in 2003-04 had ordered the state government to procure the entire produce of farmers through the network of agriculture produce marketing committees (APMC). “The target-based procurement policy has been depriving over 70% of farmers from selling their crop at MSP via APMCs, as the target assigned by the government each year is merely 25-30% of the total crop,” Singh said. He added the Union government, by virtue of an ordinance, had recently permitted the procurement of agricultural produce outside APMCs. This exemption is equally applicable to the state of UP, although the high court, on November 11, 2000, had ordered the UP government to ensure the procurement of the entire agricultural produce strictly via APMCs. In such a situation, the Union government was expected to seek permission of the high court before giving final shape to the ordinance that allowed procurement outside the APMC network. This issue would also be made an integral part of the contempt petition, he said. He further said the high court had made district magistrates liable for disciplinary action, in case of any report that agricultural produce has been procured at a rate below MSP. “Paddy in almost all regions of UP is being procured at rates between Rs 1,100 and Rs 1,300, whereas the MSP is Rs 1,868. I will see to it that all DMs in the state are brought under the ambit of legal proceedings at high court, for negligence and contempt of court,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/aikscc-convener-to-file-contempt-against-state-for-procurement-outside-apmcs/articleshow/78664382.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru civic body told to issue fresh public notice for paying compensation||Bengaluru: The high court on Wednesday directed the Mangalore city corporation (MCC) to issue a fresh public notice calling upon people affected by last year’s Pachchnadi disaster to submit their claims for compensation. The court noted that the affected have not been suitably compensated with regards to loss of livelihood and loss of shelter among others. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka pointed out that the incident happened due to gross negligence on the part of MCC and that the civic body has to find ways and means to raise funds to compensate the affected persons. The court added that the state government cannot remain a silent spectator in situations where a local authority appears to have caused loss to the citizens and can permit it to borrow money or mortgage its property to raise funds. The MCC commissioner has been told to submit an affidavit in this regard apart from being personally present through video conferencing on the next date of hearing. The court also sought explanation from KSPCB as to why a criminal case was not lodged against MCC for failure to implement SWM rules. In August last year, owing to extensive rain, approximately 9 lakh metric tonnes of garbage slided down a landfill, flooding more than 24 houses and 2 small temples and damaging commercial crops like arecanut and coconut. The court was hearing a PIL filed by Karnataka State Legal Services Authority citing that despite an assessment of Rs 22 crore damage, so far only about Rs 8 crore has been released. The MCC, in its statement claimed that 35 identified persons were compensated for crop loss and the engulfed land is sought to be acquired. An amount of Rs 3.5 crore is required for the same and they have no funds, it added. The state government submitted an affidavit stating that they have already given Rs 8 crore to MCC for implementing SWM rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-civic-body-told-to-issue-fresh-public-notice-for-paying-compensation/articleshow/78668553.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Case registered against brother of 73-yr-old man kept in freezer||A day after 73-year-old man was rescued at Old Housing Board at Kandhampatty in Salem city, the Suramangalam police on Wednesday registered a case against the man’s younger brother for keeping him in the freezer presuming that he was dead. However, police did not arrest Saravanan, 70. Balasubramaniya Kumar, 73, was rescued by police and health officials after they found him alive but kept in a freezer by his brother at their residence on Tuesday. According to the Suramangalam police, Balasubramaniya Kumar was working in a private company and was retired 15 years ago. His wife Usha died of age related ailments two years ago. He doesn't have any children and he moved to his brother Saravanan’s house. “Saravanan has been living with his sister’s daughters including Jayasri and Sudha,” a police officer said.Saravanan was mentally ill and a bachelor. Similarly, his sister’s daughters Jayasri and Sudha were spinsters. Two days ago, Sudha went to Coimbatore for her treatment and she got admitted in a private hospital while the other three were in the house. The Suramangalam police registered a case against Saravanan under sections of IPC including 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others). “We will take necessary action against Saravanan after inquiry,” the police officer added. Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital dean Dr R Balajnathan said condition of Balasubramaniya is stable. “He's responding to treatment and cooperating,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/case-registered-against-brother-of-73-yr-old-man-kept-in-freezer/articleshow/78670359.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi to launch 3 projects in Gujarat via video||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate three major projects of the state government on October 24 via video conferencing. The PM will inaugurate the Dinakar scheme to provide daytime electricity supply for farmers, he will dedicate the newly constructed UN Mehta Heart Hospital building and will also dedicate the Girnar ropeway project in Junagadh district. All the three projects are directly connected to welfare of the people. Lakhs of farmers will get electricity during the day hours for farming. This was a long-standing demand, as farmers faced problems of irrigating their fields during the night hours. The state government has made an allocation of around Rs 3,500 crore to be spent on the project over the next three years. The UN Mehta hospital project has been developed at the cost of around Rs 300 crore to provide medical services for heart-related illnesses. The Girnar ropeway project has cost over Rs 100 crore. Every year, thousands of devotees visit Junagadh and many of them cannot climb the Girnar mountain. With the ropeway in place, people can now reach the pilgrimage spot. The state government has planned token events for all three projects with social distancing norms. PM Modi has also planned to visit Gujarat on October 31. He will visit Ahmedabad and Kevadiya. He will inaugurate the seaplane project between Ahmedabad and Kevadiya, the site of the Statue of Unity, and will also dedicate a number of new facilities for tourists at the SoU site. The PM will also address probationer civil servants on National Unity Day to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The state BJP expects that inauguration of a slew of projects at the hands of the PM will reap election benefits in the upcoming assembly b-polls and the local body polls to be held in a few months. While the Dinakar scheme will help farmers, and the UN Mehta hospital will be beneficial for patients not just from Gujarat, but from neighbouring Rajasthan and MP as well. The Girnar ropeway has been a long standing demand of pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-to-launch-3-projects-in-state-via-video/articleshow/78670709.cms||Kapil Dave
October 15, 2020||Delhi||‘Mass movement needed to make Delhi solar capital’||NEW DELHI: Stating that Delhi could become the “solar capital of India,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday inaugurated a 218kW solar power plant at Lady Irwin College. The power plant will generate over 3 lakh units of power each year resulting in a reduction in CO2 emission of 274 tonnes annually. Kejriwal said that to strengthen the solar power usage in Delhi, a mass movement was required. “Delhi government has formulated major policies, such as Mukhyamantri Solar Power Yojana that includes incentivising the installation of solar power plants for residential and commercial properties, and Mukhyamantri Kisan Aay Badhotri Solar Yojana that includes increasing the income of farmers by three to four times. Delhi may soon become the solar capital of India through such initiatives,” he added. “The solar power journey of Delhi has just begun, and we do not have many achievements in this space. Considering that, when institutes like Lady Irwin College take such initiatives, they turn into an example for other institutes and organisations.” Discussing the government’s solar policies, the CM said, under one of them, Delhiites only had to give their rooftops. The residents, RWAs, or any entity installing the solar power panel do not have to spend any capital cost and they will save money on power consumption as well. “The second policy is for farmers who can install solar power panels at some height. They will receive rent and can continue cultivating their farmlands. This increases their income by three to four times,” he added. “In the last four years, solar power generation in Delhi has increased from about 7 MW to 177 MW,” said Kejriwal. “Our recent EV policy has been applauded. We have shut down both the thermal power plants, while there are 11 thermal power plants around Delhi,” said the CM further. Lady Irwin College director Anupa Siddhu, on the occasion, said that “taking into consideration the effect of global warming, we felt it was time to shift our dependency from fossil fuels to renewable sources of energy. The addition of this solar plant will not only fulfil our electricity needs but also help us reduce our electricity cost.” “The solar rooftop project was conceptualised about two years back. The plant has been put up on three major buildings of the college and will generate about 3 lakh units of power each year,” added Meenakshi Mital, convener of the solar project at the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mass-movement-needed-to-make-delhi-solar-capital/articleshow/78669032.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||My political life is clean, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: With BJP levelling allegations of corruption during the 15-month Congress government in the state, former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday said his entire political career has been clean and untarnished. “The chief minister of the state is levelling false allegations against me,” PCC chief Nath said while addressing a public meeting in Sumawali assembly constituency in Morena district. “Let chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan know that no one has been able to point a finger at me till now. My political life is spotless, neither has my name been mentioned in a dumper scam nor Vyapam scam or e-tendering scam,” Nath said. The senior Congress leader said that he expected after being out of power, Chouhan should have changed his ways and stop indulging in lies. “But he continues to tell lies. He is making false allegations against me and for this he should come on the dais and apologise to me here,” Nath said. Nath said lies will no longer work in Madhya Pradesh and those who indulged in false propaganda were sent home in the last assembly elections. Nath was campaigning for Congress candidate Ajab Singh Kushwaha who has been fielded from Sumawali seat against BJP minister Aidal Singh Kansana. Speaking at the public meeting, Nath said, “I congratulate the people of the Chambal region who have freed themselves from the maharajas. Now the time has come to free themselves from the clutches of the mafia.” Taking on Kansana, the veteran leader said his government started a campaign against the mafia and everyone knew that the name of the BJP candidate from here was also going to be exposed. “It was known to all that Kamal Nath cannot be suppressed and cannot be manipulated. That is why people like Kansana have left Congress and bargained to enter BJP,” Nath said. Nath further said that in 15 years of BJP rule, the state got no investments, no industries, no compensation for farmers and no jobs for the youths. He said that former chief minister Arjun Singh had started an industrial zone in Malanpur but today it is bereft of any industry. “In 15 years, the only industry that started in MP is of alcohol,” Nath said. He said industry did not come to the state because it came to be identified with mafia, adulteration and corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/my-political-life-is-clean-says-nath/articleshow/78669008.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Meteoric rise in city’s ‘crimedom’||Vadodara: Starting with petty crimes like assault and intimidation, Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo, had gained notoriety for extortion and forcibly vacating disputed properties in Wadi and other old city areas over the last seven years. Policemen tracking Ajju’s rise in the city’s criminal circuit said that he used to earlier hang out with history-sheeters like Lalu Ando and Munna Tarbuch, who was an accomplice of another dreaded criminal and extortionist Aslam Bodiyo. Ando and Tarbuch are accused in offences like extortion and murder. Ajju had 41 offences registered against him including that of attempt to murder, communal rioting, extortion, loot and assault. Ajju was also detained under PASA six times. The first complaint lodged against him was that of assault and threat in Wadi police station in 2013. After quitting studies after Class VII, Ajju did nothing except for odd jobs sometimes, but spent most of his time loitering around or hanging out with friends. “He began by threatening small traders in his area to extort money. Later, he formed a gang of some five or six friends and began taking contracts from builders for vacating disputed properties,” said officials. In 2017, he along with Ando, was booked for plotting and fomenting communal riots during the Ganesha procession in the old city. Four policemen and five civilians were injured during the riots on the Mandvi-Panigate Road. In 2018, cops paraded him paraded publicly in his area to ensure that people don’t fear him. But that didn’t deter him much as he continued with his extortion business. Along with vacating properties, it is suspected that he had some share in some of them. Police are planning to inquire if Ajju, who had connections with some builders, owned any property directly or indirectly in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/meteoric-rise-in-citys-crimedom/articleshow/78667280.cms||Tushar Tere
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Meteoric rise in city’s ‘crimedom’||Vadodara: Starting with petty crimes like assault and intimidation, Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo, had gained notoriety for extortion and forcibly vacating disputed properties in Wadi and other old city areas over the last seven years. Policemen tracking Ajju’s rise in the city’s criminal circuit said that he used to earlier hang out with history-sheeters like Lalu Ando and Munna Tarbuch, who was an accomplice of another dreaded criminal and extortionist Aslam Bodiyo. Ando and Tarbuch are accused in offences like extortion and murder. Ajju had 41 offences registered against him including that of attempt to murder, communal rioting, extortion, loot and assault. Ajju was also detained under PASA six times. The first complaint lodged against him was that of assault and threat in Wadi police station in 2013. After quitting studies after Class VII, Ajju did nothing except for odd jobs sometimes, but spent most of his time loitering around or hanging out with friends. “He began by threatening small traders in his area to extort money. Later, he formed a gang of some five or six friends and began taking contracts from builders for vacating disputed properties,” said officials. In 2017, he along with Ando, was booked for plotting and fomenting communal riots during the Ganesha procession in the old city. Four policemen and five civilians were injured during the riots on the Mandvi-Panigate Road. In 2018, cops paraded him paraded publicly in his area to ensure that people don’t fear him. But that didn’t deter him much as he continued with his extortion business. Along with vacating properties, it is suspected that he had some share in some of them. Police are planning to inquire if Ajju, who had connections with some builders, owned any property directly or indirectly in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/meteoric-rise-in-citys-crimedom/articleshow/78667259.cms||Tushar Tere
October 15, 2020||Varanasi||Cop in Varanasi helps HIV positive pregnant woman||VARANASI: The Kabirchaura outpost in-charge Preetam Tiwari came as a saviour for an HIV infected pregnant woman. The woman was in labour pain when Tiwari noticed her during night patrol on Monday. He got her admitted to the women’s hospital where she gave birth to a baby girl after some time. According to the reports, the woman, a resident of Mau district, was found in labour pain near the divisional hospital. She was alone and needed help for the delivery of the child. Taking a prompt action, Tiwari, who was on night patrol, got the woman admitted to the hospital, where she delivered a girl after some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cop-helps-hiv-ve-pregnant-woman/articleshow/78669963.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC floats Twitter survey on cycling experience||Mangaluru: After a handlebar survey that deputy commissioner K V Rajendra and Mangaluru City Corporation commissioner Akshy Sridhar conducted with cycling enthusiasts on Monday, the civic body has since floated an online Twitter survey seeking a response from the stakeholders, on what they would like the MCC to do to promote cycling. Authorities undertook the handlebar survey as part of the proposed cycling track for the city. Directorate of urban land transport (DULT), a state government department under the urban development department that is working on sustainable mobility for cities in Karnataka, has sought citizen feedback on the challenge. DULT has made citizen feedback mandatory for the pilot on the cycling route, Sridhar told TOI. The route that is approximately 18 km long passes through the city’s bylanes, along the river front, schools and even some of the city’s thoroughfares. “Plans are afoot to host this online survey on the civic body’s Facebook page as well,” Akshy said. A backgrounder to the survey on MCCs twitter handle @mangalurucorp states: “Mangaluru Smart City is participating in the India Cycle4Change Challenge in its pursuit to become a cycling-friendly city. We would want the enthusiastic citizens of Mangaluru to help us in this challenge by filling up the survey form, #Cycle4Change Survey.” “Let us know the priorities and issues faced by the public. Please share this survey widely,” the thread states. The survey can be accessed on https://forms.gle/nxaUxqFAGi1uDWui9. The questionnaire covers all age groups of people likely to use a bicycle, be it for recreation, physical fitness or even as a means of commute to and from their workplace, Sridhar said. The specific questions on cycling after posers on customary personal information seeks to understand if a person knows to ride a bicycle, the periodicity of this activity, need for it, if one feels safe and convenient to do so, and impediments to cycling in the city. It also strives to find answers on areas that are not safe for cycling, apart from seeking opinions on the importance on factors on a scale of 1 to 7, that influences one to ride a bicycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-floats-twitter-survey-on-cycling-experience/articleshow/78666289.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 15, 2020||Madurai||3 Tangedco officials penalised Rs 22,777 for deficiency in service||Tirunelveli: The district consumer grievances redressal forum in Tirunelveli district has imposed a fine of 22,277 on a superintending engineer, an executive engineer and an assistant engineer of Tangedco for deficiency in service that resulted in a consumer paying 2,277 more than what he had to pay for his electricity consumption at home. The trouble began with Tangedco staff replacing the meter in the rented house of the consumer, R Abubacker Siddique, 32, at Kodeeswaran Nagar in Tirunelveli city in March 2019. His counsel, A Brammanayagam, said in the first reading taken on May 27, the assessing staff mentioned 1,358 units instead of 358. The consumer took it to the notice of the assistant engineer at Pettai who admitted the error and assured to fix it. However, the issue was not resolved despite Siddique taking it to the notice of the Tangedco urban executive engineer and to the superintendent of engineer of Tirunelveli on various occasions over the next five months. Finally, the consumer was asked to pay 3,496 before October 17, 2019. He was left with no option but to pay. He sent a legal notice to Tangedco officials, for which they responded that they would check if the meter was faulty and adjust the amount. As the issue was not resolved, Siddique approached the forum. The case was heard with 11 documents supporting his claim. Since Tangedco officials did not appear before the forum, orders were passed in favour of the consumer. The forum directed the three officials to pay 22,277 compensation to the consumer. It includes excess charge of 2,277 collected from him, 15,000 as compensation and 5,000 towards the legal expenses incurred by the consumer for fighting the case. Failure to make the payment to the consumer within a month will attract an interest of 6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-tangedco-officials-penalised-rs-22777-for-deficiency-in-service/articleshow/78670947.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Pune||Weather system moves to Pune, heavy rain today too||PUNE: Like Wednesday’s deluge, brace for more rain on Thursday too as the wet weather system is likely to move via south Pune. It will bring moderate rain with isolated heavy spells, along with thundery activity and lightning. There is a possibility of isolated heavy to very heavy rain in the ghat areas of Pune district too. India Meteorological Department officials said the system and its movement will cause heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls (over 200mm per day) at isolated places over Konkan and Goa, and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places over Madhya Maharashtra on Thursday. The three hours of heavy rain in the city on Wednesday night from 8.30pm left several areas reeling with roads and apartment parkings flooded with water. Citizens said it reminded them of last year’s deluge in September that wreaked havoc when nullahs flooded and the rising water caused damage to life and property. Water entered the Chandannagar police station. Some policemen rushed outside while others executed their duties sitting on the tables inside the police station. The vehicles parked in the basement of a few societies in Bund Garden road area were submerged after water levels increased late at night. Many residents had to come out late at night in Taljai area after water entered their houses. According to the fire brigade officials, water rushed downhill and entered the societies and houses. Residents used utensils and buckets to throw out the water. A few housing societies in Dahanukar Colony were flooded and vehicles were submerged. A huge tree in Rahulnagar area of Warje fell blocking vehicular movement for an hour. Fire brigade officials removed the tree from the site. The road in the low-lying area near Mhatre bridge was submerged and motorists were not allowed to use this section. A Chennai-Pune flight was diverted to Hyderabad, and eight more inbound and outbound planes, were delayed. More flights could be diverted if the inclement weather continued, a source at the airport said. The rain’s intensity increased over Pune on Wednesday night as the well marked low pressure system neared Baramati. There were intense spells of rain after 8.30pm on Wednesday. Shivajinagar had received 19.8mm rain from 8.30am till 8.30pm on Wednesday. Satark, a centre for citizens science project in Pune, said on Wednesday night huge rain clouds were forming over Pune, Ahmednagar, Satara, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane, Mumbai and Palghar districts, and heavy to very heavy rain was expected in some places along with continuous rain. Skymet Weather Services on Wednesday evening tweeted that it expected moderate to heavy rain & thundershower over Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Bhandara, Beed, Kolhapur, Mumbai & suburbs, Nagpur, Nashik, Osmanabad, Palghar, Pune, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Satara, Solapur, Thane, Washim districts during the next 6 to 8 hours. Meanwhile, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh suspended home surveys under “Mazhe Kutumb Mazhi Jawabdari” for Thursday because of predictions of heavy rains. All field officials were directed to be in the headquarters and on high alert. The rest of the state recorded moderate to heavy rain on Wednesday due to the approaching weather system which affected parts of Maharashtra. Locations that received the maximum rain on Wednesday included Solapur, Mahabaleshwar and Ratnagiri. Solapur received heavy rains which translated to 79mm from 8.30am till 5.30pm on Wednesday, while Mahabaleshwar and Ratnagiri each received 49mm and 42mm, respectively during this period. Shivajinagar in Pune recorded 4mm rain during this period while Lohegaon had 8mm. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune told TOI that the rains were a result of moisture incursion from the depression over north interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra and Telangana. Kashyapi said the rainfall intensity will begin reducing in parts of Maharashtra from Friday, with a possibility of heavy rains in isolated locations on the day. From October 17, rainfall is likely to reduce further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weather-system-moves-to-pune-heavy-rain-today-too/articleshow/78670362.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kanpur||CSJM professors make hepa filtermask to combat coronavirus||KANPUR: Two assistant professors of Chatrapati Shahuji Maharaj University (CSJM) have successfully developed ‘hepa filter’ for prevention from contracting coronavirus. The two professors took about a month to develop this filter. Assistant professors Dr Shashwat Katiyar and Dr Saurabh Mishra developed this mask with face shield keeping in view the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the city. The product developed has been lab tested and a prototype of the same has been collected by a Lucknow-based company for mass manufacturing. The mask and face shield will protect eyes, nose and mouth from contracting any virus, including coronavirus. Talking to TOI, Dr Mishra said, “Hepa filter is much better in preventing coronavirus infection than KN-95 masks. While KN-95 masks can hold particles or micro-organisms upto 0.3 microns, whereas hepa filter mask is able to hold 99 percent of particles of micro-organisms of same size. This gives hepa filter masks an edge over KN-95 masks.” He also informed TOI that this filter mask can be folded and can be taken along anywhere. This hepa filter has been developed especially for children as schools are set to open from October 19. Also, this mask can be worn by people of all ages. He further informed that there are two layers of soft poly fabric in the mask and white hepa filter is applied between the two layers. Dr Katiyar who is also the director of the Institute of Biotechnology and Biosciences at CSJM University, informed that this mask will give protection to children at a time when schools are set to open. Also, this mask if worn by passenger in train or in crowded places, it can give them protection from contracting coronavirus. He informed TOI that the lab testing of hepa filter mask has been done and the product is now being developed by a Lucknow based company for public use. Hepa filter mask will be available online for anywhere between Rs 100-150, said Dr Katiyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/csjm-profs-make-hepa-filtermask-to-combat-coronavirus/articleshow/78670335.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
October 15, 2020||Kanpur||October sees a down trend in Covid cases in Jhansi||JHANSI: With continuous drop in fresh positive cases and increase in recovery rate, Jhansi witnesses a down trend in the impact of Covid-19 in the first fortnight of October, bringing relief to doctors, administration and the residents after a long period of time. The recovery rate of the district is 92.18%. On Wednesday, 38 new cases were found to be positive after testing 3,282 people. On Tuesday, number of new positive cases were 53 out of 3,999 people tested, while on Monday, 53 out of 4,300 people tested positive with no death reported in past four days. Moreover, the district has crossed the two lakh mark in Covid testing. As per the medical bulletin released by Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi on Wednesday, total positive cases in the district are 7,932, of which 6,240 have been discharged till now, including 44 discharged on Wednesday. The recovery rate of Jhansi is 92.18%. Presently, active positive cases are 459. Of these, 93 are symptomatic—13 severe, 35 moderate and 45 mild in nature. The total number of Covid deaths in the district is 161, having a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.0. Presently, 1,072 patients are in home isolation in the district. As per the data shared by the district administration, with a brief downward trend in June and July, the recovery rate has shown a continuous growth throughout the period. Similarly, the case fatality rate (CFR) which had shot up at an alarming rate of 13.3 in June, has reduced to 2.0. However, the CFR is still on higher than the state and national average of 1.5. Similarly, the positivity rate that had peaked to 7, has come down to 4. Active positive cases have dipped from the highest 892 in August to 459 at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/october-sees-a-down-trend-in-covid-cases-in-jhansi/articleshow/78670523.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Varanasi||Dhananjay Singh files papers as independent candidate||VARANASI: The muscleman politician Dhananjay Singh filed his nomination as an independent candidate for the bypoll at Malhani Assembly constituency in Jaunpur district on Wednesday. Besides, the Samajwadi Party nominee Lucky Yadav and Voters Party International candidate Naveen Kumar also filed their nominations. The returning officer and SDM (Sadar) Nitish Kumar said that all the required arrangements in view of Covid-19 pandemic have been made for the nomination process, which began on October 12. The Bahujan Samaj Party nominee JP Dubey had filed his nomination on the first day. The nomination process will continue till October 16. Meanwhile, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party have also announced their candidates for the seat on Tuesday. The Congress is going to field Rakesh Mishra, while BJP’s nominee is Manij Singh. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and IG Varanasi range VS Mina had also visited Jaunpur on Monday to review the preparations. They also held a meeting with district magistrate DK Singh and SP Rajkaran Nayyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dhananjay-singh-files-papers-as-independent-candidate/articleshow/78669993.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Crooks increasingly turn to robbery via UPI transfers||PUNE: The city police have over the past 10 days recorded at least three instances of robbers forcing their victims to transfer money through UPI applications.  In all three cases, the robbers forced their victims to transfer money via UPI after it was found they were not carrying cash. The silver lining is that the robbers in all three cases landed in police net as they were easily traced using the bank account to which the money was transferred. “It was easy to trace and arrest the culprits after securing details of the UPI-linked bank account to which money was transferred,” assistant inspector Satish Umare from the Sinhagad Road police, who arrested three men in one such robbery case, said. “The culprits appear to be not even thinking about the high chance of their getting caught,” assistant commissioner of police (cyber and economic offences) Shivaji Pawar told TOI. Cyber law expert Gaurav Jachak pointed out that it would be more difficult once robbers get smarter, “particularly in cases where the culprits link their UPI apps with bank accounts opened by submitting fake documents.” “The number of people using UPI applications has grown rapidly and people should have separate screen passcodes locks and PIN for the UPI app,” said cybercrime expert Rohan Nyayadhish. “Lockdown rendered many jobless ... those desperate for money resort to such crimes,” Ameya Dange, a lawyer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crooks-increasingly-turn-to-robbery-via-upi-transfers/articleshow/78670386.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Trains see occupancy double in a month||Coimbatore: Things seem to be looking up for the railways. With the initial hesitation to travel on trains during the pandemic alleviating, trains have been seeing more patronage of late. When the train services were resumed on June 1 after a gap of 68 days, hardly 20% occupancy was recorded. And the services were stopped abruptly as the Covid-19 cases started soring. However, the situation has changed a lot now. All the five trains that resumed operations from September 7 have been seeing an increase in patronage. While the occupancy on day trains such as Kovai Express has doubled in the past one-month, the patronage for the Intercity Express has almost tripled. The train to Mayiladuthurai has, meanwhile, started seeing an occupancy rate close to that of the pre-Covid times. Yet, at less than 10,000, the daily footfall at the city railway junction is far fewer than the 28,500 in the pre-Covid times. According to officials, people seem to prefer day trains to night trains. They say there are also many takers for air-conditioned coaches, despite the warnings against using closed air-conditioned spaces during the contagion. As per the data available with the railways, the Intercity Express is running at an occupancy rate of 85% and Kovai Express 65%. Sathish Saravanan, station director, Coimbatore Junction, says, “When they were introduced on September 7, there was only 30% occupancy. In fact, the Intercity Express, which departs from the city at 6.15am and reaches Chennai in the afternoon, is running packed on some Sundays. And this means the AC chair car coaches are also full.” Things aren’t any different with Jan Shatabdi to Mayiladuthurai either. The train has improved its patronage to 65% on an average from less than 30%. The official says the train had logged 98% occupancy last Sunday and 100% on October 4. “This was the passenger traffic the train used to see before the pandemic.” The night trains - Cheran Express and Nilgiris Express – too are seeing better patronage. In the case of Nilgiris Express, the occupancy has increased to 52% from 40% and for Cheran Express it has gone up to 69% from 36%. Subba Rao, Salem divisional railway manager, says, “This is much lower than the 95% occupancy that they used to enjoy in the past.” Only five trains have resumed operations so far, compared to 20 pairing trains that were operated from the district to other districts in the state and states such as Mumbai, New Delhi and Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trains-see-occupancy-double-in-a-month/articleshow/78670391.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Astronomers find answer to star formation slowdown||PUNE: The upgraded Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) helped a team of astronomers measure the atomic hydrogen content of galaxies as they were eight billion years ago to understand why star formation in the universe decreased steadily after peaking around that time. The astronomers are from the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics in Pune, and the Raman Research Institute, Bengaluru. The research paper that will be published on Thursday in Nature established that the the galaxies in their high star formation activity rapidly used up atomic hydrogen, the basic fuel for star formation. The hydrogen then would have lasted only for the next 1-2 billion years, leading to a steady decrease in star formation later. A study of both hydrogen gas and the stars is necessary to understand a galaxy. Studies have shown that star formation in galaxies was ten times higher eight billion years ago when compared to present times. Aditya Chowdhury, a doctoral student at NCRA-TIFR, and the lead author of the study, said unlike the stars, which emit light strongly at optical wavelengths, the atomic hydrogen signal lies in the radio wavelength of 21cm, and can only be detected by radio telescopes. “This 21cm signal is very weak, and difficult to detect from distant individual galaxies even with powerful telescopes like the upgraded GMRT. We overcome this limitation by using a technique called “stacking”. It combines the 21cm signals of nearly 8,000 galaxies identified earlier with optical telescopes. This method measures the average gas content of these galaxies,” he said. It is known that star formation was intense in the early stages of the universe. The atomic gas in and around the galaxies would be consumed by star formation in just one or two billion years, he added. “If galaxies cannot acquire more hydrogen from their surroundings, the star formation activity would decline, and finally, cease in these galaxies. Through our study, using the 21cm signal, we measured the mass of the atomic hydrogen in these galaxies and showed that the amount of hydrogen is enough to sustain star formation for only 1-2 billion years,” Chowdhury added. The team used 90 hours of GMRT time for observation, but around six months to analysis the vast data. The scientists involved in the study said the discovery is a tribute to Govind Swarup, father of radio astronomy in India, who set up GMRT. He passed away in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/astronomers-find-answer-to-star-formation-slowdown/articleshow/78670379.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||‘Bhojpuri films gave vulgar tag to Bhojpuri lit’||Bhopal: During the unlock, various cultural bodies of Madhya Pradesh are organising events to give a breather to people during the Covid-19 pandemic. As a part of this endeavour, an online lecture on ‘National awakening in Bhojpuri literature’ was organised by Bhojpuri Sahitya Academy, Bhopal, on Wednesday, in which expert of Bhojpuri language Dr Arjun Tiwari addressed the audience live on social media. The man, who has written several books on the history of Bhojpuri language and is considered one of the biggest experts on the language today, lamented, “There is so much good work that is happening in this language, but the sad part is that Bhojpuri films have given a tag of vulgarity to Bhojpuri literature; this must change. This language was endorsed by Kabir, Gokulnath, Dr Rajendra Prasad and Jaiprakash Narayan at one time. It played a major role in national awakening during the freedom struggle and at every step later whenever the country faced a crisis.” Banaras-based octogenarian also rued the fact that Bhojpuri is not being nurtured in some of the core Hindi speaking belts. “Today there is zero work being done in UP and Bihar to promote Bhojpuri literature. In Bihar, Bhojpuri Sahitya Academy is run from a small room and has no activities to its credit. MP, on the other hand, has kept the language alive along with memory of Rajendra babu, which is praiseworthy,” Tiwari said. Radhika Satpute, who is pursuing her masters in Hindi literature, said, “There are so many myths associated with Bhojpuri literature. It was nice to see an expert like Tiwari clear the air on those.” Another student, Atul Goenka said, “When the new education policy promotes regional languages, there is an urgent need to instill pride in these languages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhojpuri-films-gave-vulgar-tag-to-bhojpuri-lit/articleshow/78669029.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Here come dragonflies, harbingers of hope||Coimbatore: Fluttering dragonflies, seen as a prelude to the commencement of the northeast monsoon, have put a smile on faces of farmers and entomologists.There have been several sightings of dragonflies in places like Puliakulam, Singanallur and Seeranaickenpalayam in the city. “Dragonflies are most active just before the northeast monsoon season begins. They can be seen flying clearly when it is sunny. Rain is expected in the evening or in the next few days,” said N Muthukrishnan, agricultural entomologist and professor at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. “They hover above paddy fields and graminaceous plant farms like maize and sorghum,” he told TOI.Seeranaickenpalayam and R S Puram are close to the paddy breeding station.The reason the aerial predatory insects, locally known as thattaan, hang around crops like rice, maize and sorghum is because they attract caterpillars. Dragonflies pluck caterpillars and other insects with their basket-like legs and put them into their mouth as they fly away.“Dragonfly sightings signify rain, especially when they fly a few metres above ground. We also find them useful because they eat the dreaded white fly,” said Karthik Krishnakumar, a Pollachi-based coconut farmer. “Besides chemical treatment, dragonflies can reduce white fly infestation by 5% to 10%.”The winged beauties are usually sighted in October and stay here till mid-December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/here-come-dragonflies-harbingers-of-hope/articleshow/78670385.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||13-day-old baby found buried at an isolated spot in Pune||PUNE: The Sinhagad Road police on Wednesday afternoon detained a 34-year-old man and his wife (21), residents of Vadgaon Budruk, for questioning on the suspicion that they killed and buried their 13-day-old baby boy at an isolated spot near Sinhgad college. “We are verifying the claims that the baby was born with some mental health issue,” a police officer said. Senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke of Sinhagad Road police said, “On Wednesday, morning walkers spotted something amiss at the place where the baby was buried and alerted the police. Our team visited the spot in the woods behind the college. We also called revenue officials to the site and exhumed the body.” Shelke cited preliminary investigation and said, “The woman delivered the baby at Sassoon General Hospital 13 days ago. The couple told the police they took the baby to two different hospitals and doctors told them the baby was not mentally healthy. The doctors also told them the boy would face hardship in future because of it. We suspect the couple may have smothered the baby and buried the body at the isolated spot on October 12.” Shelke said, “The couple approached a few people for adopting the baby after learning he was mentally weak, but in vain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-day-old-baby-found-buried-at-an-isolated-spot/articleshow/78670389.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Madurai||SR earned Rs 66cr transporting 7.3 lakh migrant workers||Madurai: From the first train from Ernakulam to Bhubaneswar in Odisha on May 1 to the last train from Chennai Central to Danapur in Bihar on August 11, Southern Railway (SR) operated a total of 507 Shramik special trains from the three southern states and one Union territory. The SR earned Rs 66.3 crore by helping 7,35,418 guest workers travel in these trains.The SR provided this data to activist R Pandiaraja of Tenkasi who had filed an RTI application. It stated that 3,54,150 workers had travelled from Tamil Nadu. The state government had paid Rs 34.61 crore towards ticket fares for the workers.As many as 265 of trains were operated from 26 railways stations in Tamil Nadu of which 92 were operated from Chennai. They include 77 trains from Chennai Central -- the highest in the region. As many as 15 trains were operated from Chennai Egmore. Thirty-seven trains were operated from Coimbatore district (34 from Coimbatore Junction and three from Mettupalayam). Thirty-four trains originated from Tirupur.Tiruvallur was the originating point for 22 trains, followed by 11 from Madurai, 10 from Erode, nine from Katpadi and eight from Chengalpet. Six trains originated from Salem and Trichy, five from Tirunelveli, four from Tanjavur, three from Kanyakumari and Nagercoil, two each from Tuticorin, Ramanathapuram, Karur, Dindigul and Kancheepuram and one each from Namakkal, Villupuram, Virudhunagar, Arakkonam and Jolarpet.The second highest number of Shramik specials in the region were operated from Kerala (218), followed by Karnataka (21) and Puducherry (3). Of the 507 trains, the fares for 337 trains were paid by the states of origin. The Tamil Nadu government paid the fare for labourers who travelled in 264 of the 265 trains, followed by Kerala (53), Karnataka 19 and by Puducherry (one).“Purpose of the RTI petition was to know the volume of passengers travelling from various parts of India to Tamil Nadu and the southern region in general. Those who travelled to their home states are apart from the lakhs of workers who preferred to stay back here during the pandemic. Keeping this in mind the railways should operate more trains regularly to the regions from where more workers had returned to other states,” Pandiaraja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sr-earned-rs-66cr-transporting-7-3-lakh-migrant-workers/articleshow/78670979.cms||M K Ananth
October 15, 2020||Pune||Trio held on charge of carjacking||Pune: The Wakad police on Tuesday arrested three youths on the run following a carjacking incident on Dehu Road late on Monday night. A police team led by sub-inspector Pranil Chaugale recovered the car, which the trio was in the process of despatching to Karnataka after changing its registration number. Suspects Akash Kharat (18), Rahul Lashkare (19) and Sunil Pawar (26), all from Kalakhadak, have cases of robberies registered against them, Chaugale said. Cab driver Shashikant Chobe lodged an FIR with the Dehu Road police. Chaugale said that Chobe, a cab driver, was waiting for a passenger on Dehu Road when three men beat him up, snatched his cellphone worth Rs9,000, and drove away in his vehicle. “We laid a trap and nabbed all the three,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-held-on-charge-of-carjacking/articleshow/78670392.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Varanasi||Inspector suspended for laxity in double murder in Azamgarh||VARANASI: The inspector of Nizamabad police station in Azamgarh district was suspended on Wednesday after a WhatsApp chat between him and a murder accused went viral on social media. According to reports, a local resident, Arif alias Munna, is one of the accused of the double murder thak took place on Monday. Two persons, Asamar and Kazim, were killed while one Munir was injured in the attack by the assailants. Seven persons, including Arif, were booked in this case. There was some dispute between Arif and Asmar. Asmar had also given an application to the police fearing life threat from Arif, and sought police protection. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said, “Nizamabad Inspector Anwar Ali has been suspended with immediate effect for not taking action in the case. Further investigation is underway in his alleged chat with the one of the accused.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/inspector-suspended-for-laxity-in-double-murder/articleshow/78670024.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Govt labs ordered to stop using faulty RT-PCR kits||NAGPUR: Government labs in the regions were on Wednesday asked not to use RT-PCR kits manufactured by West Bengal-based GCC Biotech Ltd following state public health minister Rajesh Tope’s sensational revelation that entire batch of about 12.5 lakh kits made by the private firm were faulty. Much before this, the public labs in city had found them unreliable and stopped using them since September when they were procured by state govt. Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) head Dr TP Lahane told TOI that none of the public labs including the Vidarbha region used these kits. “The kits were supplied all over the state. Where ever we felt necessary, repeat tests were done,” he said. Nagpur district civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar said he didn’t have details on how many such kits were supplied, if at all. “We are trying to find it out. We shall confirm with medical colleges and other labs how many such kits they received,” he said. He added that there was no official notification on stopping the use of GCC-made kits. Yet, lab officials confirmed to TOI that the DMER in its morning video conferencing asked in-charges to not to use these kits until further order. Contrary to Lahane’s claim, lab officials in the city claimed that some of the “faulty kits” were used but repeat test were done on such samples. AIIMS Nagpur spokesperson said they had used the kits initially but noticed issues. “We conducted validation and tests and repeated tests in such cases using kits from Meryl and NIV which were procured by the institute,” the spokesperson said. IGGMCH lab officials said no faulty kit was used by them for testing city samples. IGGMCH labs said the GCC kits are yet to be opened while they had been banking on ICMR’s Bhopal depot for their testing requirements. As per medical colleges, the deputy director of health services (DDHS) distributes it to labs as per requirement put up by them based on their per day testing capacity. Labs, both public and private, in the region are depending on the ICMR’s Bhopal depot which are supplying RT-PCR kits approved by the apex body. Govt labs claim they have a buffer stock of around 10,000 kits each coming in from Bhopal. Besides Bhopal, kits are sourced from multiple agencies like DMER through Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd and NIV Pune. The private labs buy it from distributors based on performance and only after validation. As on date, Nagpur district has performed 2,88,539 RT-PCR tests, of which 3,075 have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-labs-ordered-to-stop-using-faulty-rt-pcr-kits/articleshow/78669041.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 15, 2020||Kanpur||Aadhaar card helps police find ‘murdered’ woman in Maharashtra||KANPUR: Aadhaar card has helped police trace a woman, declared dead two-and-a-half years ago in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district, from Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar. The police had booked her neighbour for ‘murdering’ her following a complaint lodged by her husband. The woman, identified as Shraddha Awasthi, 28, had been missing for two-and-a-half years from her home in Sherpur Kalan village under Aseewan police station of Unnao. According to police, the woman went missing on March 8, 2018. Subsequently, a missing complaint was lodged at Aseewan police station. About a month later, on April 2 body of an unidentified woman was found in Sherpur Kalan area of the district. The woman’s husband, Yogendra Awasthi, then identified the body as that of his missing wife Shraddha, and registered a complaint with Aseewan police accusing a local, Pramod Kumar, of kidnapping and burning her to death. The police arrested Pramod after lodging a case under Section 302 of IPC and sent him to jail. The police’s forensic team later procured DNA samples from the recovered body and Shraddha’s daughter Gauri, and sent the samples for forensic tests. The DNA samples, however, didn’t match following which police launched further investigation to trace the missing woman. The case took an interesting turn when Shraddha, who had gone to Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar without telling anybody, used her Aadhaar card to apply for an ATM card at a private bank there. “The breakthrough came after the bank dispatched her ATM card to her native address mentioned in the Aadhaar card. Subsequently, her husband informed the Aseewan police about the development. After procuring details from the bank, a special police team recovered her from Ahmednagar. She was brought to Unnao on Tuesday,” said SP Unnao Sureshrao A Kulkarni on Wednesday. “The woman, Shraddha, will be produced before a court where her statement will be recorded,” the SP added. He further informed TOI that the woman was found to be working there as a nurse in a private hospital. During preliminary questioning, Shraddha told the investigators that she had left her home owing to constant harassment by her husband. The SP told TOI that murder charges against the accused will now be dropped. Further probe will be launched into the case of the burnt body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/aadhaar-card-helps-police-find-murdered-woman-in-mrashtra/articleshow/78670351.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||32 dead in Telangana; Hyderabad Cut Off From K’taka, AP; Army Called For Help||HYDERABAD: At least 23 people were killed in Telangana on Wednesday after a deep depression passed over the state, unleashing heavy rain and widespread destruction. With nine people dying on Tuesday in a wall collapse, the toll has now reached 32. The city was also cut off from AP and Karnataka. Hyderabad bore the brunt of the heavy downpour with many streets, especially in the Old City, turning into virtual rivers. As the situation turned critical, the army was called in to help in rescue and relief operations. The Telangana government also directed all schools, government and private offices to remain shut till Thursday as a precautionary measure. The city reported at least 18 deaths, but government sources said toll could rise given that there were a number of instances of people being washed and had not been accounted for as yet. Officials said that at least eight people got washed away in swirling waters and were missing till late evening. In Mailardevpally, a family of eight was trying to shift to another house and they got washed away while walking on the road. One of them was rescued by passersby, but seven others were missing. Another two people are missing after they were washed away near the foot over bridge at Falaknuma. In one terrifying incident, one person in Barkas was caught on camera getting washed away at high speed on city road. The incident was caught on camera and the video went viral. He was rescued by the police with the help of locals. Four columns of the Army’s Bison Division, including two columns of engineering personnel, one medical column and one task force shifted nearly 1,200 families from the low-lying areas along the Musi river. The personnel also used boats to take stranded people to safer places. Old, dilapidated buildings killed at least three people. Two people each were killed in Ibrahimpatnam and one in Phoolbagh areas after the roof of their houses collapsed on them. A day earlier, eight people had died in Ghouse Nagar after a wall had collapsed on the victims. The victims also included a three-year-old boy in Dilsukhnagar who drowned after the cellar he was playing in suddenly got flooded with water. On the other hand, a 49-year-old naturopathy doctor in Banjara Hills got electrocuted when he tried to operate a pump to remove water from his apartment’s cellar. Similar incidents took place at Amberpet and LB Nagar as well. The flood situation also cut Hyderabad off from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, with access becoming difficult on the national highways connecting Vijayawada and Bengaluru. Those who tried to take the routes despite being advised by the police and authorities got caught in huge traffic jams, especially on the Hyderabad-Vijayawada National Highway 65 (NH 65). Elsewhere in Telangana, three of a family died in Kammera village in Nagarkurnool when the roof of their house collapsed, while two persons were washed away in an overflowing stream between Pochampally and Kothaguda in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district. Their bodies were recovered. One of them is said to be an engineering student. A bridge also collapsed between Vantimamidi and Annasagar in Mulugu mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/32-dead-in-t-hyd-cut-off-from-ktaka-ap-army-called-for-help/articleshow/78670428.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||NTS exam for Standard X on December 13||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Council of Examination has announced that the National Talent Search (NTS) examination would be held on December 13 for Standard X students at the state-level, while the national level exam would be conducted on June 13. Students can fill the application forms latest by November 4. Students, who clear the talent search exam, will receive scholarships for their education up to post-graduation in professional courses, such as engineering, medical, management and law. The exam council stated that qualifying students will get a scholarship of Rs1,250, per month, up to +2 level, Rs2,000 up to graduation and another Rs2000 up to post graduation. Students with disability, reserved class will also get special concession, commissioner of exam council Tukaram Supe said. Such students must submit required certificates by November 10 on the website through their school login. Supe said, “If students fail to upload the documents, they will be considered in the general category.” Students can fill the application form until October 25 with regular fee and until November 11 with late fee. The exam will be conducted based on the mental ability test for 100 marks between 10.20am and 13.30am and scholastic aptitude test for 100 marks will be conducted from 1.30pm to 3.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nts-exam-for-std-x-on-december-13/articleshow/78670399.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Admission for RTE students by October 23||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) education department has started admitting students from the waiting list of the 25% reserved quota under the Right to Education (RTE) Act after the first round of admissions concluded. Parag Mundhe, assistant administrative officer, said the process would conclude on October 23. Over 2,000 students had been admitted in the first round, while there were 1,600 seats vacant. They had shortlisted 3,786 students in March, of whom 2,175 were verified and their admissions confirmed last month. As many as 1,611 students were not verified owing to non-availability of documents. As many as 179 schools were part of the RTE admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admission-for-rte-students-by-october-23/articleshow/78670395.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Resume train services to southern districts: Rail activists||Coimbatore: More than a month has lapsed since the district has resumed train services, but connectivity to the southern districts is yet to be restored. As a result, the Pollachi-Dindigul broad gauge now lies idle.Pointing out that there is always a heavy flow of labourers between the western and southern regions of the state, regular passengers and rail activists say they are forced to take buses, which are crowded and unsafe, in the absence of train services.Earlier, there were three trains to the southern region from the district - Coimbatore-Madurai passenger train (via Pollachi and Palani), weekly Coimbatore-Rameswaram night train and daily Coimbatore-Tuticorin and Nagercoil night train.A railway official said, “The Coimbatore-Nagercoil and Tuticorin train used to depart from the city railway station as a single train and split into two at Vanchi Maniyachi, with one part proceeding to Tuticorin and the other to Nagercoil.”This way, the city was connected to at least four major southern districts.Rail activists have been demanding more trains to Madurai and Rameswaram, including a daily night or day train, through Pollachi-Dindigul route since 2017.Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan says, “While night trains to Pollachi and Rameswaram could take some time to realize, we want the railways to start operating the existing trains to the southern districts at the earliest. There is a heavy movement of manual labour force from the southern districts to the western region. Many pilgrims to Palani, Madurai and Rameswaram are also affected by the absence of any train services.”Pollachi Train Passengers’ Welfare Association has, meanwhile, requested the Salem railway division to reinstate the Coimbatore-Madurai passenger train. Its secretary B Mohanraj says, “Lots of people travel between the two districts daily for a myriad of purposes. In the present conditions, trains are much safer than buses, which seat people closer to each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resume-train-services-to-southern-districts-rail-activists/articleshow/78670416.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Pune||Gold chain & cellphone snatchers on the prowl||Pune: Two motorcycle-borne men, one of them wielding a stone, charged at a 55-year-old woman and tried to snatch her gold chain on Tuesday afternoon in Lohegaon but sped away when the latter raised an alarm. The woman told the Airport police that she had stepped out to fetch some milk when the incident occurred. Police said the woman was wearing a gold chain and the man, riding pillion on the motorcycle, attempted to snatch the chain. When the woman screamed loudly, the duo sped away, police said. Similarly, two men, riding a motorcycle, snatched a gold chain worth Rs30,000 of a 52-year-old woman early on Tuesday morning in Khadakmal Ali off Shivaji Road. The woman was out for a morning walk, the Khadak police said. In another incident, two motorcycle riders snatched the cellphone of a student (20) in the Deccan area on Tuesday night. As per the Deccan police, the student was walking on the road when the suspects snatched his cellphone worth Rs30,000. The student stays in a college hostel on Senapati Bapat Road and had gone to Deccan for a walk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gold-chain-cellphone-snatchers-on-the-prowl/articleshow/78670406.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi university aspirants fret over slow process||NEW DELHI: Shubham Singh, a resident of Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, had applied for BCom at Delhi College of Arts and Commerce at 8.57am on October 12, the first day of admissions for the first cutoff list. However, his documents were verified by the college only after 52 hours on Wednesday. This situation existing in almost all DU colleges has been causing anxiety to applicants and forcing them to air their grouse on social media. The situation persists despite the DU administration sending a clarification to students telling them not to panic. The slow speed, however, has not resulted in a drop in the number of applications. DU saw 59,730 applications at the end of the third day, while 22,186 admissions were approved by 8pm on Wednesday. Kumar Ashutosh of College of Vocational Studies said the delay was due to a number of factors, including glitches in the system. “The process has been smooth after hiccups on the first day, but a huge backlog needs to be cleared. The online system is bound to make the admission process slower than before,” he added. According to DU’s online admission procedure, colleges can see a list of all applicants for a particular course on their dashboard and filter them on the basis of the cutoff. The teacher in-charge then verifies the minimum qualifications, cutoff requirement and certificates uploaded by the candidates. The convener of the admission committee checks the application again and sends it to the principal for approval. After this, the payment link is issued to the applicant. Gurpreet Singh Tuteja, associate professor at Zakir Hussain College, said, “The admission is delayed at the first stage itself because a teacher has to go through the documents thoroughly. In case of non-CBSE students, the marks need to be checked and verified.” Tanvi Agarwal, who had applied for BA(H) economics at Ramjas College, said she had to wait for over 24 hours before she got the approval and payment link. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said, “The delays have been resolved and admissions have sped up. However, the entire process can be quickened if DU allows us to have two conveners as checking can be done faster.” Responding to this, DU dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said, “We have told the applicants not to worry if there is a delay. Since this is the first time that admissions are online, teachers are taking their time in verifying documents. If all papers are in order, then applicants need not worry as they have till Friday midnight to pay the fees. We are trying to resolve the issues and teachers are working 24x7. Students can mail their queries to the nodal officers or call our helpline.” Jaswinder Singh, principal of SGTB Khalsa College, said, “Our cutoffs were similar to last year’s, but seats have started to fill up. The approval process will go on till Thursday. Teachers have finally got the hang of the system, so the process has sped up.” This was reiterated by Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava. “We have been continuing with the approval process for the past three days,” she said. Despite the high number of applications, especially in colleges like Sri Venkateswara, Hindu and Hansraj, admissions are likely to remain open in the second list. The colleges stated that many applicants could use the transfer window or cancel their admissions, which would lead to seats getting vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-aspirants-fret-over-slow-process/articleshow/78669084.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 15, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Covid fails to hit internships, placements at IIT-BHU||VARANASI: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have failed to make any impact on placements and paid internships at the Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU). Despite the academic session 2019-20 getting severely affected due to several lockdowns, the institute has maintained its growth pattern, both for placements and paid internships, during the pandemic period. “Even during this hard time, the institute is doing very well in the session 2020-21 both in terms of pre-placement offers and paid internship,” IIT (BHU) director Prof. Pramod Kumar Jain told TOI. He added, “The number of pre-placement offers increased from 164 in 2019-20 to 253 in 2020-21, and the number of internships also increased from 141 (2019-20) to 204 (2020-21). The placement data for the period up to September 8 speaks for itself, and this trend seems to continue for the remaining period of the academic session.” Jain said the placement is witnessing a continuous growth, both in terms of number and median salary as well. From a meagre number of 47 companies visiting in 1998, the institute could have more than 200 companies visiting it during the session 2019-20. The institute has been focusing to increase the employability of students by conducting programmes on hard and soft skills both. “The institute has involved the same resources, but made use of the digital platform, not only to equip its students for better employability but also to face the unprecedented stress due to Covid,” he said. “Since the students are found to be industry-ready, companies like Microsoft, Nutanix, Morgan Stanley, Texas Instruments, Amazon, Standard Chartered Bank, J P Morgan Chase, Oracle, to name the few, have already offered paid internships and would be visiting for campus selection in December ,” he added. According to him, in the current Covid pandemic scenario, a lot of challenges were there both for the recruiters and the institute. Conducting an online test remotely in a successful manner was a big challenge. The companies have come up with software solutions with proctoring capabilities to check use of unfair means and impersonation. Managing the schedule of interviews of the students simultaneously by the multiple companies was easy for the institute when the students were physically present in the campus. Due to Covid, interviews are taking place remotely. With the in-house developed processes and software, the institute could successfully overcome this problem. Jain said it was the year 2019 when India celebrated the centenary of its degree-level education in engineering beginning from the campus of BHU, established by Pt. Madan Mohan Malviya. Its erstwhile Benaras Engineering College (BENCO) was the only institute for more than a decade to produce engineers for the undivided India. He said even with the meagre resources at its disposal, the institute had its mark on teaching and research. The alumni from this institute continued to occupy the top positions world-over, be it teaching, research, consultancy, finance or public administration. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-fails-to-hit-internshipsplacements-at-iit-bhu/articleshow/78670058.cms||Binay Singh
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||New railway line in Western Ghats leaves activists, residents worried||Mysuru: Environmentalists are growing green with worry at the disregard being shown by both the state and central governments towards the loss of biodiversity that many of the proposed infrastructure projects in the Western Ghats will result in. In addition to the activists, residents of Uttara Kannada and Shivamogga districts too are watching with mounting anxiety the loss of the rich green cover that they have long prided themselves on. The new railway line proposed between Talaguppa and Hubballi via Sirsi and Siddapura has understandably raised the hackles of activists and residents alike, who fear irreparable loss to the biodiversity hotspot. On the other hand, elected representatives are defending the need for such infrastructure projects, which they say are essential for the development of the region. Responding to opposition from some quarters, elected representatives have asked activists to be patient until the railway authorities complete the survey for the project. Sources in the South Western Railway said that a survey was likely to begin soon to study the feasibility of a single broad-gauge line between Talaguppa, Sirsi, Siddapura and Hubballi. The survey for the 158-kilometre railway line will be undertaken using various methods such as elevation model technique, satellite imagery, GIS, et al. SWR public relations E Vijaya said that bids had been invited from private agencies to undertake the survey. “The agency will be given six months to complete the survey and submit a report,” she said. The development has understandably outraged the citizens and activists, who are battling hard to prevent the execution of the Hubballi-Ankola Railway Line. “We do not need this project. This is being executed only so big companies can profit,” said Akhilesh Chipli, an activist. Residents, meanwhile, said that the whole of the Western Ghats was now being threatened by increasing human activity. “There is an existing railway line between Shivamogga and Talaguppa. A new line has been proposed between Shivamogga to Haveri via Shikaripura. Such being the case, why do we need a new line via Sirsi and Siddapura, known for their dense forests?” asked Kargal resident Husain Raja. However, the elected representatives are making a strong case for the execution of the project, Sirsi MLA Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, also speaker in the Karnataka assembly, said, “We must wait for the survey to be completed, and take a decision later. Development is important in this region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/new-railway-line-in-western-ghats-leaves-activists-residents-worried/articleshow/78666349.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Clear your stand on same-sex marriage: SC to Centre, Delhi||NEW DELHI: Laws are gender neutral and government should try and interpret them in a beneficial way, Delhi High Court remarked on Wednesday, while hearing separate petitions by two same sex couples unable to get legal recognition to their union. A bench of justices RS Endlaw and Asha Menon sought the stand of the Centre and Delhi government on a petition by two women seeking to get married under the Special Marriage Act (SMA), which does not provide for same sex marriages. On the second plea, the court issued notice to the Centre and the Consulate General of India in New York where two gay men married in the US but were denied registration of their marriage under the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA) and are unable to fly down to India. Hearing both petitions together, the bench raised doubts over maintainability, pointing out that in the Indian context, the concept of marriage emanates from the customary laws that do not recognise same sex marriages. It also said that marriage is not defined under SMA and FMA, and everyone interprets what a marriage is according to the customary laws, adding that if same sex marriages get recognised under customary laws, it would be followed by other statutes. The court also highlighted that statutes such as SMA were enacted as there were no customs for inter-faith and inter-caste marriages. In response, senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, appearing for both set of petitioners, submitted that the petitioners are not seeking relief under any customary or religious laws, but challenging the constitutional validity of some of the provisions in the civil laws — SMA and FMA — which are applicable to all kinds of couples, including inter-caste and inter-faith. “We would simply want to be recognised as full citizens” Guruswamy argued, noting that the Special Marriage Act prohibits who can’t get married but can’t define what “marriage” is.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/clear-your-stand-on-same-sex-marriage-sc-to-centre-delhi/articleshow/78669099.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 15, 2020||Pune||Plasma demand drops due to fewer new Covid patients||PUNE: Demand for convalescent plasma, which a few months ago had caused a scramble among families of Covid-19 patients, has seen a drastic drop over the past few weeks. Shankar Mosalgi, the blood transfusion officer at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad, said demand for plasma, which at its peak was 100 bags daily, has now dipped to just about 40 bags. Pune divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, said the drop was the result of fewer Covid patients. Varun Bafna, a haematologist with the CPR hospital blood bank in Kolhapur, said plasma demand there has dropped 30%. But officials said plasma donations need to continue. Rao said, “We are conducting awareness drives with help from Sassoon hospital, Pune Municipal Corporation and the police department.” At the YCM hospital’s blood bank, which has had the most number of donations (over 1,280 units collected so far), a new machine has been added to ensure collection capacity remains stable. “We used to collect plasma from around 10 donors per day. That number remains unchanged,” Mosalgi said. Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) said the YCM hospital has maintained contact records of recovered patients in the region. When asked if there are plans to stockpile plasma — in case of a surge later this year — he said costs are definitely a factor. Plasma collection is an expensive exercise, Patil said. It costs around Rs 7,000 for each plasma unit to be collected and processed. “The PCMC has been doing well in terms of plasma donations and collection. And we do not feel the need to stock up,” the additional commissioner added. Plasma donation has continued to be a problem across Pune division despite a high number of recoveries. So far, only 2,682 recovered patients have donated blood plasma in the division, out of over 4,17,000 recoveries. There are only 411 units of plasma currently available across 42 blood banks of the division, which comprises Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plasma-demand-drops-due-to-fewer-new-ncov-patients/articleshow/78670425.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 15, 2020||Varanasi||Deoria bypolls: SP declares ex-minister as candidate||GORAKHPUR: Samajwadi Party declared former minister Brahamshankar Tripathi as the candidate for Deoria bypolls. The seat became vacant after the demise of BJP MLA Janmejay Singh. Earlier, he refused to contest in the election. “On the instruction of the national president, I changed my decision and now I’ll contest with full strength,” said Brahhmashankar Tripathi. Tripathi has been five-time MLA and two-time minister in Akhilesh and Mulayam Singh’s government. He started his political career in 1980. In 1989 and again in 1993, he became the MLA on Janta Dal ticket from Kasya in Kushinagar district. In 1991 and 1996, he lost the election from Kasya. But in 2002 and 2007, he won the assembly elections from Kasya on the ticket of Samajwadi Party. In 2012, he won the Kushinagar assembly seat. However, in 2017, he was defeated. BSP and Congress have already declared Abhay Nath Tripathi and Mukund Bharkar Mani Tripathi respectively as their candidates for Deoria bypolls.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/deoria-bypolls-sp-declares-ex-minister-as-candidate/articleshow/78670083.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Woman assaulted, looted by loader driver||KANPUR: A 35-year-old woman was found injured and unconscious on the side of Muderi road in Shivrajpur area of Kanpur on Wednesday. Police said that during preliminary investigation, she managed to inform them that she was dumped at an isolated spot after being severely assaulted and robbed off her valuables by a loader driver. Few persons have been detained for questioning to ascertain the identity of the loader driver, said SSP Preetinder Singh while talking to reporters. The woman is currently recuperating at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. “We found the victim injured and unconscious on the side of Muderi road. During preliminary investigation, the woman informed cops that she was brutally assaulted and had her valuables looted by a loader driver, who later dumped her at an isolated spot by the roadside and fled the scene. The incident occurred while she was travelling in his loader to Shivrajpur from Kalyanpur area of the city,” said the SSP. “We have picked up few persons from the area to ascertain the identity of the loader driver,” he added. “We are waiting for the victim to recover so that we can gather more details. Also, we are ensuring her statement before the magistrate,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-assaulted-looted-by-loader-driver/articleshow/78670384.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||At 324 mm, Greater Hyderabad scores one-day maximum after 20 years||HYDERABAD: October 13, 2020 went down as the rainiest day in the history of Greater Hyderabad, as the city received a month’s rain on a single day, bringing life to a crippling halt. The city and its outskirts recorded 324 mm rainfall in just 24 hours, according to the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS). It was twenty years ago, on August 24, 2000, that the city had recorded 241.5 mm of rainfall in 24 hours, triggering the Hyderabad floods. Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the core city area was lashed with 268 mm of rainfall from October 1-14 of which 191.8 mm on Tuesday alone. “Since the deep depression was centered over Hyderabad, it led to the torrential rains. But it was indeed unprecedented as our observatory has never witnessed such a high amount of rainfall in October,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). In October, 2017, Hyderabad received 248.3 mm of rainfall in a span of 15 days, and turning back the clock to October 1916, Hyderabad received 355.1 mm of rainfall in 31 days, which is an all-time record, the IMD said. But Tuesday’s rains saw Greater Hyderabad get pounded by almost 90% of the all-time monthly record in a single day, the first time in centuries, that the city and outskirts received such a high quantum of rainfall. “It was chaotic in 2000 floods, but Hyderabad did not have the modern infrastructure to tackle floods. Tuesday’s rains brought back the old memories, where I lost friends. The devastation now seems acute,” said Sai Krishna, 75, a resident of Banjara Hills. As many as 35 areas in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits received rainfall of above 200 mm. The TSDPS figures indicate that Ghatkesar in the outskirts of Hyderabad received highest rainfall of 324.8 mm followed by 300 mm at Vanasthalipuram and 298 mm at Pedda Amberpet and Hayathnagar. Many other areas such as Lingampally, East Anandbagh, Madhapur, Alwal, Banjara Hills, Malakpet, to name a few, received up to 200 mm of rains resulting in deluge across the city. The torrential rains are likely to reduce as the depression has weakened and moved towards interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra. “Intensity of rainfall will certainly go down as the depression has moved northwestward of Gulbarga. Light rains are likely to lash isolated parts of the city for the next few days following which withdrawal of southwest monsoon is likely to be complete by the third week of October,” said Naga Ratna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-324-mm-greater-hyd-scores-one-day-maximum-after-20-years/articleshow/78670445.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Bihar man to set up ‘jumbo village’ in Ramnagar||NAINITAL: An animal lover who has donated 50 acres of his ancestral land worth almost Rs 5 crore for elephant conservation in Bihar is now setting up a “jumbo village” in Nainital’s Ramnagar, an area known for its robust population of pachyderms. Akhtar Imam’s story has all the elements of a Bollywood movie. In fact, it closely mirrors the tale of 1971 blockbuster ‘Haathi Mere Saathi’ in which the protagonist Raju (Rajesh Khanna) becomes attached to elephants after they save him from a leopard. The villain of Imam’s story wasn’t a four-legged feline, but a gun-toting criminal seeking revenge over a personal enmity who entered his house one night but was driven away by the elephants. “My father had reared elephants all his life and they became even more dear to me after they saved my life,” Imam told TOI. A few years ago, the 50-year-old shifted from Bihar to Ramnagar where he has been looking after injured and old elephants abandoned by their owners. “Ramnagar is an elephant hotspot and there are jumbos here who have been abandoned by their owners since they are no longer of commercial use to them. I want to set up a village, a safe haven, for them here,” he said. He has already started with four elephants — Gulabo, Phoolmala, Moti and Rani — on 10 acres of land he got on lease. The land has been fenced and elephants have separate bathing areas and tin sheds to shield them from heat. But to realise his dream on a larger scale, Imam is seeking help from the state government. He has written to the chief wildlife warden, proposing a public-private partnership model for the elephant village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-who-donated-50-acres-of-land-for-elephants-in-bihar-to-set-up-jumbo-village-in-ramnagar/articleshow/78666378.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Meteoric rise in Vadodara’s ‘crimedom’||VADODARA: Starting with petty crimes like assault and intimidation, Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo, had gained notoriety for extortion and forcibly vacating disputed properties in Wadi and other old city areas over the last seven years. Policemen tracking Ajju’s rise in the city’s criminal circuit said that he used to earlier hang out with history-sheeters like Lalu Ando and Munna Tarbuch, who was an accomplice of another dreaded criminal and extortionist Aslam Bodiyo. Ando and Tarbuch are accused in offences like extortion and murder. Ajju had 41 offences registered against him including that of attempt to murder, communal rioting, extortion, loot and assault. Ajju was also detained under PASA six times. The first complaint lodged against him was that of assault and threat in Wadi police station in 2013. After quitting studies after Class VII, Ajju did nothing except for odd jobs sometimes, but spent most of his time loitering around or hanging out with friends. “He began by threatening small traders in his area to extort money. Later, he formed a gang of some five or six friends and began taking contracts from builders for vacating disputed properties,” said officials. In 2017, he along with Ando, was booked for plotting and fomenting communal riots during the Ganesha procession in the old city. Four policemen and five civilians were injured during the riots on the Mandvi-Panigate Road. In 2018, cops paraded him paraded publicly in his area to ensure that people don’t fear him. But that didn’t deter him much as he continued with his extortion business. Along with vacating properties, it is suspected that he had some share in some of them. Police are planning to inquire if Ajju, who had connections with some builders, owned any property directly or indirectly in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/meteoric-rise-in-citys-crimedom/articleshow/78669427.cms||Tushar Tere
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Jhalod corporator killed by contract killers||Vadodara: The death of the Hiren Patel, vice president of Jhalod municipality in Dahod district last month in what seemed like a hit and run case has turned out to be a contract killing. A man convicted in the Godhra Sabarmati Express carnage case is among the four accused held for killing the Jhalod corporator on Wednesday. Patel was killed on the Dahod Road in Jhalod when he was on his morning walk on September 27. It came to light that Patel was hit by a light commercial vehicle (LCV) from behind. Those arrested include Sajjansinh Chauhan from Shekhakhedi in Mahedpur taluka of Ujjain district in Madhya Pradesh; Irfan Siraj Pada from Godhra, Ajay Himmat Kalal from Jhalod and Mohammed Samir Mujavar from Mahidpur in Ujjain. It has come to light that it was Kalal who had contacted Pada for eliminating Patel. Pada is an accused in the Sabarmati Express carnage of 2002 and had been awarded life imprisonment. However, he jumped parole and was on the run since about a year now. He was held using technical intelligence. Chauhan is involved in a series of offences including those of murder, robbery and possession of arms illegally. Both Kalal and Chauhan had met Pada in prison. The Bolero SUV as well as Pada’s car have been seized along with the phones of the accused. However, the LCV that was used to kill Patel is yet to be traced. As soon as the news spread that what was believed to be a hit and run case was actually a contract killing, shops owners in Jhalod town downed shutters and within few minutes the market was closed. Earlier, Dahod police had registered a case of unnatural death and began a probe into the matter amidst allegations that Patel was killed. Patel was a BJP worker and the matter reached the state government. The top brass of the state police was also involved in the investigation. The accused had allegedly followed Patel in the Bolero and kept an eye on him. The LCV was kept ready on the road and when Patel reached there. He was dashed with it. Pada who was in the LCV went and sat into the Bolero after Patel was killed. Pada had kept in car at the Dahod railway station where he was dropped by other accused and returned to Godhra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jhalod-corporator-killed-by-contract-killers/articleshow/78667641.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||Rain drives down beans price||Mysuru: In the last week of September, a kg of the local variety of beans was sold for Rs 120. Now prices have crashed to just Rs 30. The price of onion, however, has touched a new high at Rs 65 per kg. The price of eggs too has increased to Rs 6.2. These market fluctuations are affecting both farmers and consumers. According to vegetable growers, prices are reducing for the last few days due to rain. Prices of beans (Rs 30), cucumber (Rs 10), potato (Rs 35-40), radish (Rs 15-20), ladies finger (Rs 20) and little guard (Rs 20) are much lower than before. hit by the price fluctuation. However, prices of a few vegetables such as carrot (Rs 90-100), onion (Rs 65), and tomato (Rs 20-25) are still high. With rain continuing in vegetable growing areas like Nanjanagud in HD Kote and neighbouring Hassan and Chikkamagalur districts, vegetable prices are expected to reduce further. “If the rain stops, prices may go up in the festival season. Compared to previous years, this year, prices are unstable,” said Somanna, a grower from Gorur. TR Vidyasagar, district Raitha Sangha president and a vegetable grower from Nanjangud blamed rain for the price crash. “Beans and tomato are getting damaged due to the rain. Naturally the price is reducing. There are no other reasons for the price crash,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rain-drives-down-beans-price/articleshow/78668284.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||HC flays T on RTE Act delay||Hyderabad: Telangana high court found fault with both the Centre and the state government for the enormous delay in implementing the Right to Education (RTE) Act to help children from disadvantaged and weaker sections. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy on Wednesday was hearing a PIL filed by advocate and social activist Thandava Yogesh who urged the states of AP and Telangana to implement the Act. On Wednesday, assistant solicitor general (ASG) Namavarapu Rajeswara Rao told the bench that section 12(1) (c) of the Act envisages that this law is for those children who belong to disadvantaged and backward sections of the state. “The state has to first notify them,” he said. State’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar said that they have been writing letters to the Centre for a long time and the Centre hardly responded to the state’s letters. “It is unfair on their part now to blame us now. In fact, the Constitution itself recognises SCs and STs as disadvantaged groups. The President of India notified them as disadvantaged groups,” he said. The bench too agreed with this argument and directed the state to file its counter on these aspects and also on how the state would notify the backward sections. That is not a big task, every DEO has the information. We will notify the same within no time,” Sanjeev said. On the issue of bearing the expenditure, which too was a bone of contention between the Centre and the state for a long time, the Centre’s counsel said that the expenditure would be borne on a 60:40 ratio. “If the state completes its formalities, we will release our share,” he said. Earlier, the Centre said the state should spend 100% and claim 60% reimbursement from the Centre. State was opposed to this idea. The bench found fault with both the Centre and the State and posted the case to November 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-flays-t-on-rte-act-delay/articleshow/78669126.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Hills worry as rain fury leads to landslides in Vij, one dead||Vijayawada: Panic seized the hilly terrains of Vijayawada after heavy rains led to landslides in parts of the city. In a tragic accident, one person died after the compound wall of a neighbouring house fell on his home. The incident happened on Tuesday morning at Nalugu Sthambala Centre in Bhavanipuram at one of the slums occupying the hills surrounding the city. According to Bhavanipuram police, the deceased, identified as 53-year-old T Siva Shankar was sleeping in his house when the compound wall of the neighbouring house fell on his own. Shankar got trapped inside gravel and debris. His wife and son were standing outside the house and immediately called for help. Neighbours called the cops and fire authorities. Rescue teams reached the spot within ten minutes and rescued Shankar who was severely injured and died on the way to the hospital. Police have filed a case and sent the body for autopsy. Town planning authorities of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) alerted locals of potential threat of landslides owing to continuous downpour over the last three days. The Ghat Road at Kanaka Durga temple has suffered due to the rolling hill boulders. The engineering and security wings of the temple administration responded immediately and cleared the boulders from the road. Temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu passed orders restricting movement of vehicles. The incident halted Dasara arrangements at the temple. Meanwhile, Krishna and Guntur district administrations issued a high alert for villages downstream of Prakasam Barrage as flood levels are increasing. The Tadepalli tehsildar has issued notices to former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s house and other houses on Krishna river bund and asked inhabitants to move to safer locations as floodwater is likely to touch 5 lakh cusecs by October 16. This is the second time that notices have been issued to the former CM’s house this year. Inflows at Prakasam Barrage touched 2 lakh cusecs by Tuesday evening. Officials released surplus water into the sea by lifting all 73 crest gates. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz said that inflow at Prakasam Barrage is likely to touch 3 lakh cusecs by Wednesday and the first warning will be issued soon. VMC authorities have started moving people in flood-hit areas to relief camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hills-worry-as-rain-fury-leads-to-landslides-in-vij-one-dead/articleshow/78648006.cms||Venu Lanka
October 15, 2020||Rajkot||Man tries to extort Rs 50L from doctor||Rajkot: A man was detained for trying to extort Rs 50 lakh from a doctor in Junagadh on Tuesday night. Police said Haresh Mehta had demanded the money from Dr Divyang Bhorania on Tuesday morning. “Mehta called up Dr Bhorania and threatened to kill him if he did not cough up Rs 50 lakh. After Dr Bhorania lodged a complaint with us, we identified the caller as Mehta whose cellphone location traced him to his house Rupavati village of Visavadar taluka in Junagadh. We caught him from the village,” said R K Gohil, sub-inspector with Junagadh local crime branch. “Dr Bhorania had operated upon Mehta’s father seven years ago. At that time, Dr Bhorania had charged Mehta an exorbitant amount. Nursing a grudge against Dr Bhorania, Mehta decided to extort him," added Gohil. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-tries-to-extort-rs-50l-from-doctor/articleshow/78669286.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders MTP in 2 teen elopements||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Wednesday ordered abortion in cases of two minors, who became pregnant after elopement. They were found by cops after their parents filed habeas corpus petitions. One of the girls is a resident of Ahmedabad. She is 14 years old and she was found five-week pregnant. Another girl is from Jamnagar district and is 17 years old. Her pregnancy was found to be of over 19 weeks. A bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Nirzar Desai had called for medical opinion after the girls were found pregnant upon being produced before the court in the last couple of days. Upon receiving medical certificates revealing that the doctors felt that carrying out medical termination of pregnancy would not harm the health of the girls in both the cases, the judges directed the doctors at concerned civil hospitals to go ahead with medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) and report back to the court. Advocate Mehul Surti, who appears for the mother of the 14-year-old, told TOI, “The high court ordered abortion for better future of the minor girl. The judges obtained consent from the parent before issuing the directions.” He also said that the high court has ordered the authorities to pay compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme within two weeks. In connection with the case involving the girl from Jamnagar, the girl was adamant that she would not join her parents after she was brought back by cops. The court also tried to persuade her to join her parents, mainly because the person with whom she had eloped was found to be a habitual offender. He was found to be convicted to 10 years in jail in a Pocso case, when he had eloped with a minor girl in 2017. A court in Rajkot had punished the person for abducting and raping a teenage girl from a village in Rajkot district. He challenged his conviction and got bail from the high court in February 2019. While on bail, he lured another girl from Jamnagar district. The HC was furious after coming to know about the facts and ordered the state government to initiate procedure for his bail cancellation, said advocate Nabil Bloch, who appeared for the girl’s parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-mtp-in-2-teen-elopements/articleshow/78670456.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||Labour problem halts pipeline work to Chamundi Hills||Mysuru: The pipeline work to provide Cauvery drinking water to residents and tourists atop Chamundi Hills has temporarily been stopped due to the coronavirus pandemic. Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB), which has completed 70% of the work, is facing a labour problem. The drinking water project was a long-pending demand, as both residents and devotees who visit the temple were facing drinking water problems. The water supplied through pipes was not enough for all, as 40% of the water was utilised by the temple and dasoha bhavan, and the rest was supplied to residents. Considering the demand from residents and temple authorities, the district administration took up the project at a cost of Rs 6 crore, but as the pipeline had to pass through a small portion of Rajendra Vilas Palace, belonging to the erstwhile Mysuru royal family, it was held back. At present, around 4 lakh litres of water is being pumped every day up to the hills from the existing small pipeline. The water from Melapura station reaches Devanuru pump house, from where it is supplied to Chamundi Hills. As per the new project, water from various pump stations are interconnected to pump 3.5 million litres of water to Chamundi Hills, where a 30 lakh litre water tank will be constructed. A KUWSDB officer told TOI that they have laid the pipeline till the Nandi statue, next to the existing pipeline. “However, the pipeline passes near Rajendra Vilas Palace atop the hills. We have requested the royal family members, and are yet to get permission to take up the work. The pipeline will not damage any property,” the officer said. The officer also said that due to the pandemic, labourers who were mostly from Bihar and neighbouring states, have returned to their native places. “If we get permission from the royal family, we will mobilise the labourers and complete the project within three months,” the officer said. Chamundi Betta gram panchayat president Geetha told TOI that the pipeline work was temporarily stopped due to labour issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/labour-problem-halts-pipeline-work-to-chamundi-hills/articleshow/78666397.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP, TRS nominees file papers for Dubbak bypoll||HYDERABAD: M Raghunandan Rao, the BJP candidate for the Dubbak assembly bypoll, made a big show of the party’s strength as he filed his nomination. TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha, who was accompanied by finance minister T Harish Rao and Medak MP P Prabhakar Reddy, too filed her nomination. In all 15 more nominations were filed on Wednesday, mostly by independents. Harish Rao, who addressed a press conference at Dubbak, said the TRS victory was a foregone conclusion. “It is a shame that the BJP is publicising that the Centre is giving funds for the schemes conceived by the state government,” he said. He pointed out that in the Huzurnagar bypoll, BJP had come in the fourth place. He also said that beedi workers had contributed towards the deposit amount of Solipeta Sujatha and it indicated the public support TRS had. BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay and former MP of Mahbubnagar A P Jitender Reddy participated in a big rally that was taken out in Dubbak in support of Raghunandan Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-trs-nominees-file-papers-for-dubbak-bypoll/articleshow/78669125.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||State records 1,400 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 1446 new cases of Covid-19 and eight deaths, raising the total number of cases to 2,16,238. While the death toll stands at 1241, so far, 19,1,269 patients have recovered from the coronavirus Infection. Currently, there are 23,728 active cases of Covid-19 in the state. The case fatality rate which is a measure of the percentage of patients who succumbed to the coronavirus infection as compared to the ones who got infected is continuing on a decline. The case fatality rate is currently 0.57%in the state, as against the national average of 1.5%. The recovery rate meanwhile is currently at 88%. The national average case fatality rate is 87%. Among districts, the GHMC limits recorded a total of 252 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-1400-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78669147.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Indian biopharma co ties up with US firm for Covid-19 vaccine||Mumbai: Epygen Biotech, a biopharma company with operations in Mumbai and Dubai, has tied up with US-based biotech firm Dyadic to work on a potential Covid-19 vaccine. Epygen along with Dyadic plans to offer 500 million doses of an “affordable’’ vaccine within six months of completing human clinical trials, Epygen founder and CEO Debayan Ghosh told TOI. The firm joins a list of domestic companies which includes Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute and Zydus Cadila, who are in the pursuit to develop a Covid-19 vaccine. At present Epygen’s facility of injectables, has a capacity of around 20-40 million doses a month. “We are in talks with private equity funds to raise $20 million in two tranches which will help us scale it to 100 million doses a month’’, Ghosh added. Epygen had earlier tied up with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research to develop an affordable clot-buster drug, and is the licence holder of “first recombinant protein drug’’ for cerebral stroke. It is yet to commercialise these drugs. The company’s partner, Dyadic has developed a Covid-19 vaccine antigen from its patented C1 cell line that can be produced at three grams per liter (3 g/l) in only five days. The ‘hyper-productive’ cell line based on the fungus, Thermothelomyces heterothallic or C1, rapidly expresses therapeutic proteins in large volumes at a low cost. This is a receptor-binding domain (RBD) antigen of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, which has been proven to bind efficiently to ACE2 (a receptor in human cells), used by the Coronavirus to invade human cells. Dyadic has already worked efficiently in neutralising the SARS CoV-2 virus in mice, the company said. The US firm worked on this vaccine with the Israel government for animal trials, and the Finnish government to develop the C1 SARS-CoV-2 RBD cell line. Epygen’s biologics facility will produce Dyadic’s C1-RBD based antigen vaccine against SARS COV-2 from clone till vial stage. Animal trials in Europe and Israel have shown great results and the company plans to conduct clinical trials in India following the accelerated pathway, after seeking regulatory approvals, Ghosh added. Dyadic’s C1 rapid recombinant protein manufacturing platform has demonstrated that it can manufacture monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) more efficiently and faster than currently existing technology, potentially broadening access to this therapeutic treatment. “Our C1 platform has the potential to generate 3-4x greater quantities of monoclonal antibodies in the same timeframe when compared to the current production methods using CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) cells. While that is still not yet enough to meet anticipated global demand, it certainly is a significant step in potentially helping to ensure greater access to patients, and at a lower cost,” Dyadic CEO, Mark Emalfarb said. The company expects up to 10 animal trials to be completed by the end of 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-biopharma-co-ties-up-with-us-firm-for-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/78663494.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Give Rs 10 lakh of ‘Covid riches’: Threat to doctor||AHMEDABAD: A Ghatlodia doctor on Tuesday filed a complaint with the local police stating that a man called him to demand Rs 10 lakh in protection money.  The doctor said the caller threatened him with dire consequences if he failed to give the money. Dr Prakash Patel, a resident of Sola, has been running a hospital in Ghatlodia for 20 years. He said that he also serves at two hospitals, including a Covid facility in Naranpura. Dr Patel said in his FIR that on Tuesday while he was examining patients, he received a call from an unknown number. “The caller began threatening me and demanded Rs 10 lakh,” Dr Patel said. “The caller introduced himself as Karan Rabari and alleged that I had caused damage to many people and had made huge amounts so I must give him protection money.” Dr Patel told the caller that he was not scared of him and would approach police. The caller then abused Dr Patel and issued more threats. Later, the doctor approached Ghatlodia police with his complaint. Dr Patel said that he does not know any Karan Rabari. Ghatlodia police registered a complaint of extortion and criminal intimidation against the caller, who is as yet unidentified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/give-rs-10l-of-covid-riches-threat-to-doc/articleshow/78670472.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||In Delhi markets on Thursday: Vidarbha orange carted on rail||NAGPUR: Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday pitched for more ‘kisan rails’ to transport farmers’ produce to various parts of the country. The minister was speaking while remotely flagging off the Nagpur-Adarsh Nagar (Delhi) ‘orange kisan rail’ on its maiden run on Wednesday. “The move will monetarily benefit a large number of farmers as orange kisan rail will cut transportation cost. As such, it will also reduce farmers’ suicides too,” said Gadkari. Appreciating Central Railway officials, Gadkari said, “I expect more such kisan rails for other farm produce like chilly, lemons, mosambi (sweet lime) and other produce. The officials should reach the farmers to guide them to transport their produce.” The minister also appealed to the farmers to form a group of companies and transport their produce by railway. The government is launching dry ports at Sindi (Wardha) and Jalna in Maharashtra, both connected to the railway line. This will also help the transportation of farm produce. “The oranges should be available to the people all round the year. Industrialists should start cold storages in the orange belt of Vidarbha,” said Gadkari. The orange kisan rail was the outcome of well-planned efforts by the railway officials who arranged for the parcel vans at Warud (5), Pandhurna (3), Nagpur (2), Katol and Narkhed (1 each). The vans will be attached from respective stations to make a rake of 12 bogies. The train is expected to operate once a week. The orange kisan rail left at 6pm and will reach Delhi at 3.40pm on Thursday. The Central Railway earned Rs6 lakh from freight revenue. “The timings have been set to make the product available early morning when the markets open,” said officials. On its return journey, the train will leave Delhi at 10am on Friday and reach Nagpur at 4.40am the next day. The regular service of this freight train will be notified soon. The train will have 10 parcel vans and one luggage-cum-brake van. The kisan rail will cover a distance of 1,106km in 20 hours on a single trip. The train will halt at Katol, Narkhed, Pandhurna, Betul, Itarsi, and Jhansi. Kisan Rails were announced in the general budget in order to provide a seamless supply chain of agricultural and perishable commodities. The first kisan rail was launched from Devlali (Nashik) to Danapur on August 7. The orange kisan rail is the second. The ministry of food processing has offered a 50% discount on freight for orange farmers. With passenger revenue dwindling, both, the South East Central Railway (SECR) and the Central Railway are aggressively marketing to boost freight revenue include orange growers. MPs Dr Vikas Mahatme, Ramdas Tadas and Krupal Tumane, mayor Sandip Joshi, MLA Vikas Thakre, GM Sanjeev Mittal, DRM Somesh Kumar attended the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-delhi-markets-on-thu-vidarbha-orange-carted-on-rail/articleshow/78669137.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Tahsildar E B Nagaraju held for graft found hanging in jail||Hyderabad: Tahsildar E B Nagaraju, who was an accused in two Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) cases, allegedly hanged himself at Chanchalguda prison on day one of his three-day custodial interrogation on Wednesday. Though no suicide note was found, family members alleged that the death was due to pressure from ACB investigators. On August 14, ACB had conducted a surprise check at a house in Kapra and arrested Nagaraju, 47, along with Rampally village revenue assistant (VRA) B Sai Raj, realtors Ch Srinath Yadav and K Anji Reddy for being in possession of 1.1 crore cash, which the realtors brought to give it to the tahsildar to get an official favour related to 19 acre 39 guntas disputed land in Rampally Dayara village of Keesara in Medchal district. Subsequently, based on the inquiry report of vigilance and enforcement department, ACB sleuths had registered a criminal misconduct case against Nagaraju on September 25 for illegally issuing passbooks to four people pertaining to 24 acres worth about 48 crore in Rampally. Recently, ACB had applied for custody of Nagaraju in the second case and court had granted three-day custody. On Tuesday, Nagaraju was taken into custody from Chanchalguda prison by ACB officials. An ACB team also took eight accused in ACP Narasimha Reddy’s disproportionate assets case into custody for questioning on Tuesday in relation to 1,960 square yard government land in front of Cyber Towers. After the interrogation at ACB head quarters at Banjara Hills, Nagaraju and the other accused were brought back to Chanchalguda prison in the evening. Nagaraju was lodged in one of the 25 cells at Manjira barrack with four others accused in ACP Narasimha Reddy’s DA case. “At 1.30am, Nagaraju asked his cell mates if any of them had a pen. As they did not have one, they asked Nagaraju also to sleep. Around 4.15am, jailor Srinivas and warder Nagaiah, who were on the night rounds, saw Nagaraju hanging from the window grill with a towel. They immediately opened the cell and rushed him to Osmania General Hospital, where he was declared brought dead around 4.40am,” Dabeerpura sub-inspector (SI) A Sekhar said. Director-general (prisons) Rajiv Trivedi said the night round officer had spotted Nagaraju hanging from the seven-feet high window grill. “Every 20 minutes, round officer checks the inmates. As soon as Nagaraju was spotted hanging, he was rushed to hospital. Other cell mates were asleep,” Rajiv Trivedi said. Police have registered a custodial death case under Section 176 of CrPC and revenue official Rasheed conducted the inquest. “I have recorded the statements of family members, including his brothers-in-law, Sekhar and Ravi. They said that Nagaraju was not suicidal and he might have ended his life due to pressure from ACB officials,” Rasheed said. ACB officials, who grilled Nagaraju during the day, said he was upset about not getting any support from colleagues and no one coming to meet him during mulaqats. Nagaraju did not divulge any details about the involvement of senior officials in relation to the cases booked against him. After the post-mortem examination, the body was handed over to his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tahsildar-held-for-graft-found-hanging-in-jail/articleshow/78670491.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||CBSE extends fee payment deadline to October 31||NEW DELHI: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has extended the last date of fee payment and submission of the list of candidates of classes X and XII from October 15 to October 31. The move follows reports of many parents finding it difficult to pay the fees in the wake of Covid-19. In its letter to the principals and heads of institutions, CBSE said the exams were a time-bound process and could start only when the list had been completed by the schools. But “from various sources it has come to the notice of CBSE that schools and parents are facing problems in completing the list because of the situation created due to Covid-19”, CBSE said, extending the deadline. CBSE has urged the schools in India and abroad to complete the process within the new deadline as “dates will not be further extended”. The board sent a separate letter extending the dates for registration of students of classes IX and XI, stating that the “preparation of board examination starts a year in advance with the process of registration of students”. With guardians facing similar issues, CBSE has extended this registration date from November 4 to November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-extends-fee-payment-deadline-to-october-31/articleshow/78673512.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt, Hindustan Zinc sign MoU for Rs 10k crore smelter||Gandhinagar: The state government on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding with Hindustan Zinc Limited, a subsidiary of the Vedanta group to set up a Rs 10,000 crore zinc smelter plant at Doswada in Tapi district of south Gujarat. This is Vedanta group’s first investment in Gujarat. “This new zinc smelter project with a generation capacity of 300 kilo tonnes per annum (KTPA) will accelerate the economic and industrial development of the state,” said chief minister Vijay Ruani, who was present for when the MoU was signed. Vedanta group subsidiary - Hindustan Zinc Limited will set up the world’s largest zinc smelting complex at Tapi in Gujarat. Under the new industrial policy of the state, the company will also establish a state-of-the-art research and development centre, to help conserve natural resources through technology & innovation. It will generate direct employment for over 5,000 people. The project with its scope for setting up ancillary facilities in and around the region will help the livelihood of around 25,000 people, the government claimed. The first phase of the project is expected to be commissioned within 36 months from the date of signing of MoU. “The state government will extend all support to make the plant operational within the stipulated timelines,” the CM said. Anil Agarwal, founder and non-executive chairman of Vedanta Group said, “The government has been supportive since the time we thought of setting up this project. I have hardly experienced such a fast-paced and progressive administration in any other part of India. I am delighted that the process for signing the MOU has been completed within a short span of 2 months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-hindustan-zinc-sign-mou-for-rs-10k-crore-smelter/articleshow/78670488.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad builders told to obtain RERA registration||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police on Wednesday held a marathon meeting with real estate agents and asked them to obtain registration with Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority. The contractors, builders as well as real estate agents have also been asked to compulsorily submit their employees’ record with the respective police stations as well as with the special branch (SB) of city police. Considering the spiralling number of cheating complaints in fraudulent transactions, forgeries, cheating in land and real estate dealings, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has sketched out a detailed plan. Assistant commissioner of police (SB) Ashok Bankar said, “Taking advantage of the fast developing real estate market of Aurangabad, which is the regional capital, several land mafia have become active in the city.” While expressing concerns about illegal plotting layouts in every extended area of civic limits, Bankar said that the police would act against the agents as well as those selling them. Authorities from the offices of the property registrar as well as sales tax department were roped in for the meeting in which the issues faced by all the stakeholders were discussed. Police assured the realtors that they would act against the land mafia, provided the real estate agents maintain transparency and cooperate with the law enforcement agencies. Authorities even warned of serious action against those indulging in unethical practices and wrongfully selling government lands. Police have also asked the real estate agents to keep the police updated about the transactions being carried out in the city and even formed a dedicated WhatsApp group ‘Bhumi’ for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-builders-told-to-obtain-rera-registration/articleshow/78666429.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS to support women’s quota||Hyderabad: The TRS is in favour of 33% quota being extended to women in Lok Sabha and state assemblies. Municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao on Wednesday said: “TRS will support the pending Women Reservation Bill if it is again brought in Parliament.” KTR said this during a discussion in the Legislative Council on Wednesday over the GHMC (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was approved unanimously. Referring to CPM member A Narsi Reddy’s comment that it would be better if women quota was implemented even in Parliament and assembly, KTR said: “TRS is in favour of it. First, let BJP and Congress members bring the Bill again in the Parliament.” Recently, the Centre sought the state’s opinion on extending 50% women quota in local bodies by making a constitutional amendment. “We have replied on it to the Centre. Telangana is the first state implementing 50% quota for women in local bodies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-to-support-womens-quota/articleshow/78669176.cms||Roushan Ali
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Man tested 4 times in 27 days, continues to be +ve||NAGPUR: Though it has been proved clinically that a few Covid-19 patients can carry the virus up to 70 days, some people are getting themselves tested repeatedly due to fear, lack of awareness and proper guidance. One such man from Washim has been tested four times in 27 days and his reports continued to come positive. All four tests were done through RT-PCR. A 58-year-old shopkeeper from Washim suffered from breathlessness and got himself tested at Akola Government Medical College and Hospital on September 17. His reports came Covid positive. One of his kin told TOI, “We were worried as the patient was showing severe symptoms. We failed to get a bed in hospitals in Washim. A relative staying in Khamla in Nagpur secured a bed in a private hospital on September 21.” “As the patient got rid of the symptoms after 10 days of hospitalization, the treating doctors re-tested him on October 2. Reports came positive. We were shocked to receive positive results despite 10 days of hospitalization. The patient remained in the hospital and another test was done (third time) on October 5. The reports again came positive,” he said. “Doctors said there was nothing to worry and the patient will not spread the infection after 14 days. He was given discharge on October 7. We avoided returning to Washim and stayed in Nagpur itself, with the patient in isolation. Later when we planned to go back to Washim, the patient was tested at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s RPTS Centre on October 12. This time also, the reports came positive. As we cannot stay at the relatives’ place endlessly, we took the patient to Washim on Wednesday,” said the relative. “The patient has continued to be in home isolation. He has no symptoms since October 1, but for weakness. The patient has decided to remain in isolation and get himself re-tested after 10 more days before going back to the shop,” he said. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI, “Very few patients can continue testing positive up to 70 days and it is clinically proved. Viremia (medical condition where viruses enter the bloodstream and hence have access to the rest of the body) in patients reduces and they cannot spread the infection after 10 days if not having any symptoms. Antibodies start to build in patient from 14 days onwards which slowly kill the virus. Therefore, there is nothing to worry if the patient has no symptoms after 10 days.” TOI had reported about some people testing negative in RT-PCR a day after testing positive. A girl from Khamla had continued to test positive for 40 days at IGGMCH in the initial stage of the pandemic in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-tested-4-times-in-27-days-continues-to-be-ve/articleshow/78669162.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s evaluation shows gaps in neonatal care in rural Punjab||CHANDIGARH: From lack of knowledge about neonatal care among accredited social and health activists (ASHA) to missing basic items in their kits, the evaluation of home-based newborn care (HBNC) and home-based young care (HBYC) has brought to the fore glaring gaps in newborn care in rural Punjab. With an aim to ensure effective management and delivery of health care services, the Centre got the scheme evaluated in five districts — Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, Ropar, Mohali and Nawanshahr – of Punjab through Population Research Centre (PRC) of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) in Chandigarh. The evaluation report pointed out that new-born care provided by ASHA workers pertaining to monitoring the temperature, ensuring warmth of newborn and counselling the beneficiaries about problems linked with breastfeeding was not adequate. Only miniscule 6% listened to newborn cry, 14% checked the heart of newborns, 18% provided eyecare and 32% diagnosed and counselled mothers in case of a problem with breastfeeding. As high as 54% of ASHA workers did not check if the baby was able to suckle breastfeed while 30% failed to teach mothers about safe breastfeeding. About 44% did not measure the temperature of newborns and 48% did not ensure warmth. Not only that, nearly 50% of ASHA workers were found to be unaware about the danger signs of sepsis among children. Most of the ASHA workers were not aware about the follow-up schedule of babies with low birth weight particularly after 3 months. At the time of survey, only 74% of ASHA workers had home-based newborn care kits and most of them were not as per the standard protocols. Basic items like cotton were found only in 16% kits, syrup paracetamol in 13%, digital watch and soap in 5%, sling weighing scale and syrup cotrimoxazole in 3% while most of the kits were without salter scales. The availability of digital thermometer was found in 95% kits, digital weighing scale in 73%, baby feeding spoon in 46% and blanket for neonates in 35%. The four-member team comprising Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda, associate professor Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal and Babita and Prabhjot Kaur, both research fellow at CRRID, in the report has recommended that refresher training should be provided to ASHA workers about basic activities of HBNC/HBYC schemes. All the workers should be provided with missing items in their kits to provide required support to run HBNC/HBYC schemes successfully in Punjab. “All incentives must be given to ASHA workers on time to reduce dissatisfaction. The incentives may also be provided to ASHA workers by linking them to other activities with the implementation of the scheme so that they earn adequately in a single visit to the household,” said Prof Nanda. He further recommended that village health and nutrition day (VHND) may be used to make households aware about the HBNC/HBYC schemes for better implementation in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centres-evaluation-shows-gaps-in-neonatal-care-in-rural-punjab/articleshow/78669156.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Bamboo units working sans nod in Gorewada||NAGPUR: The Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), which is executing the international zoo project, had shifted the safari plan to the southern side from the north because the Gorewada lake supplying drinking water to the city would have been polluted. On the other hand, the Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) has taken up construction of industrial units to treat bamboo in reserve forest without mandatory permissions. On Tuesday, 4-5 workers on the job at the vacuum pressure impregnation unit had a miraculous escape after a blast due to a technical snag in the automatic bamboo treatment machine. Heavy steel nut-bolts were broken into pieces and flew past the workers like bullets. The workers were not wearing any safety gear. After TOI report, FDCM officials did a spot panchnama but workers tried to downplay the incident. “MBDB is using copper chrome boron to treat bamboo and also extracting charcoal and oil from its waste. All this involves chemical processes which is prohibited in the green zone. The pollutants are feared to be discharged in the perennial nullah followed by lake water, threatening flora and fauna and rich biodiversity in the forest,” said senior FDCM officials. As per the MoEFCC guidelines, setting up industrial units is a non-forestry activity and hence a violation of the Forest Conservation Act. Even as the managing directors of MBDB, FDCM and PCCF (HoFF) are tight-lipped on the issue and did not respond to calls even on the second day, TOI has found that MBDB units are operating in violation of MoU between FDCM and MBDB signed on February 15, 2020. Principal secretary (forest) Milind Mhaiskar said, “I will look into the matter.” In November 2011, FDCM was handed over 1,914-hectare forest vide a GR. Out of this area, why was the 31.5-hectare area allocated to MBDB without asking the state government? The MoU clearly puts the onus of violation of Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980, on the bamboo board. The agreement also doesn’t make any mention of setting up of units in the reserve forest. Yet, one bamboo treatment unit has been set up, and work on another is going on. Besides, one more unit to extract oil and charcoal from bamboo waste is in place. Setting up of these units needs permission from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) & Directorate of Industrial Safety & Health. Hema Deshpande, a sub-regional officer of MPCB, said, “We did not receive any application from MBDB for setting up these units. This is a serious matter and action will be taken.” Earlier, despite opposition from FDCM officials, 31.5 hectares of reserve forest land in compartment number 795 was allotted to MBDB by the PCCF on December 12, 2019. The MoU states that activities undertaken will be for habitat development, soil and water conservation works only and no constructions should be undertaken. Besides, it is also not sure whether the MBDB followed mandatory BIS codes. “The board should also come clear whether the identification of isolated storage and importer of hazardous chemicals under manufacturing, storage, and import handling rules 1989 (amended in 2000), were adhered to,” said bamboo experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bamboo-units-working-sans-nod-in-gorewada/articleshow/78669164.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Digging for gold in the ashes of dead||AHMEDABAD: When even kin are reportedly refraining from collecting the ashes of the dead fearing corona, people of the Dhuldhoya community are eking out a living by sifting through the ashes from crematoriums across the city. On the banks of the Sabarmati, these people offload kilos of ashes and then run them through sieves hoping to find the elusive ornament that adorns the dead during their final journey. After the ashes melt in water, the sieves throw up coins, metal screws, joint implants and on good days, ornaments. “These may range from a small nose pin to a ring, a bangle or even a chain,” said Bharat Dhuldhoya, 30, from Nadiad. “But such a jackpot is rare. Mostly, we find anklets and silver earrings.” Bharat said he has been rifling through the ashes for gold for as long as he can remember. “All my brothers and my mother and father rummage through the dead’s ashes to find valuable items for a living,” he said. “In the time of corona, many people are scared but when the body is burnt, what is there to fear?” Bharat said when the Covid pandemic broke out, his mother sent him off with prayers to Sheetla Mata. “That is all. One cannot fear or one will die of hunger,” he said. On Wednesday, Bharat was accompanied by his four cousins from Nadiad: Kanti, Raja, Dashrath and Sachin. All had come for business to Ahmedabad. “On good days, we get a gold chain, a ring or earrings. Or else we have to make do with metal scrap,” said Kanti. Bharat said Dhuldhoya is a community largely engaged in washing gold dust found at jewellers. But a large portion of the community finds a living off the ashes. “Our community members move across crematoriums in villages in central and south Gujarat.” said Kanti. “It is a community profession which has sustained families for generations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/digging-for-gold-in-the-ashes-of-dead/articleshow/78670505.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||In poll affidavit, Sujatha says no criminal cases and no income||HYDERABAD: In her election affidavit, TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha declared there were no criminal cases pending against her and had no income to show. However, for the year 2019-20, her husband the late Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy paid income tax on Rs 1.36 lakh income. BJP candidate Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao has declared that there are criminal cases pending against him but has not been convicted in any of them. He said the allegations pertained to money transfer, rape, participating in a protest, an Income Tax cases and participating in TSRTC protest. No charges have been framed in any of the cases which have been registered at Shamirpet and RC puram police stations in Cyberabad, Raipole and Siddipet 1 town in Siddipet and Hayathnagar police station in Rachakonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-poll-affidavit-sujatha-says-no-criminal-cases-and-no-income/articleshow/78669152.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 15, 2020||Surat||Teenager groped||Surat: A 32-year-old man was nabbed by people after he groped a 17-year-old girl on a bike at a crossroads in Kapodara area on Monday. The accused, identified as Ratilal alias Raju Aghara, touched the girl on her waist when she was riding pillion with her uncle on a bike. Aghara, who was also on a bike, allegedly took advantage of the red signal. After groping the girl, he stopped his bike at some distance. Her uncle and others on the road caught hold of Aghara and handed him to the police. Aghara is unemployed and spends time by loitering around in the area with his friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teenager-groped/articleshow/78645644.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Minors assault Class-IX student in Kolkata, record video||KOLKATA: The city police is in a fix as online gaming and trolling among high school students took a serious criminal turn this weekend with separate complaints reaching them from two different parts of the city. In the first incident, the Tangra police on Monday has registered an FIR against four minors after they allegedly attacked and filmed a Class-IX student of a reputable south Kolkata school. The incident took place in the victim’s own apartment complex with two of his friends — both residing at the same complex — and part of the same online games group of which the victim was a member. Cops said the Tangra incident unfolded around 6.30pm on Sunday when three minors managed to induce the 14-year-old victim to come out of his flat through a common friend. The minors then allegedly dragged him to an isolated plot located within a tower of the apartment complex, assaulted him and finally filmed him before threatening to release the entire incident on social media. According to the victim’s father, the boy is in severe mental trauma and has stopped eating. “We have come to know that a similar incident took place even on October 1. That video is already in circulation. On Sunday evening, one of his friends, who stays here, came to call him. While leaving, he told my wife not to worry, saying that he would stand guarantor for our son’s safety. This raised doubts in her mind and she sent one of my two daughters, who saw my son being assaulted and managed to save him,” said the shocked father. “My son said he was induced to join them in playing online video games. As weeks passed, these youngsters asked him to buy pirated versions of the games from them. But when he refused, after seeing another Class-VIII student lose Rs 2,000, it angered them. He was abused, roughed up and asked to sing songs, all of which got recorded,” the father stated. A case under IPC sections pertaining to hurt, wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation was filed in this respect. In the second incident, the Bidhannagar cyber cell is probing a written complaint from a mother, who alleged that her 13-year-old-daughter was being stalked on Instagram by a student of a well-known south Kolkata school. The boy has been sending her sexually explicit messages. She claimed that despite the school taking up the issue, the problem has persisted. Child psychiatrist Indira Roy Mondal stated that while lodging a FIR sends the right message, it was important that these minors receive the required psychiatric counselling and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/minors-assault-class-ix-student-record-video/articleshow/78669171.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||HC allows govt plea for early hearing on Saini’s petition||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday allowed Punjab government’s plea to advance hearing in a case filed by former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, seeking directions to hand over investigation in any matter registered against him to the CBI or any other agency outside the state. The case was earlier listed for hearing on November 27 but now it would come up on November 3. The HC also made it clear that the interim protection granted to Saini—the prime accused in a case over alleged disappearance and elimination of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991—would continue. As per the interim protection, the state police will have to give a week’s advance notice to Saini in case he is required to be arrested in relation to any case pertaining to an incident during his entire career in the state police. With this, the main petition filed by Saini in 2018 and all the subsequent applications seeking protection from arrest by the Punjab Police in any case would now be heard together on November 3 by the HC, which passed the latest order while hearing an application filed by state government. On October 11, 2018, the HC had granted Saini protection in relation to Kotkapura sacrilege case/ a case involving Aman Skoda of Moga/ in any case pertaining to an incident of the period when he served as state vigilance head, intelligence IG or Punjab DGP. The HC had ordered that in case Saini needs to be arrested in these cases, one week’s advance notice shall be afforded to him before affecting his arrest so as to enable him to have recourse to remedies available to him. The previous order was passed after Saini had approached the court apprehending his arrest over the sacrilege cases. Later, on September 23 this year, the HC had ordered that in case Saini is sought to be arrested in any case pertaining to any incident during his entire service span, other than the one relating to Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case, then one week's advance notice shall be given to the petitioner before effecting his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-allows-govt-plea-for-early-hearing-on-sainis-petition/articleshow/78669166.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||200 eve-teasers counselled||Hyderabad: Telangana police’s Woman Safety Wing on Wednesday held a one-day online counselling session for eve-teasers on gender sensitization, where 200 offenders, including 25 minors attended the session. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/200-eve-teasers-counselled/articleshow/78669174.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong to honour Sam Pitroda||Hyderabad: The Telangana Congress has decided to honour Sam Pitroda with the Rajiv Gandhi Sadbhavana Award on the occasion of Rajiv Gandhi’s 30th Sadbhavana Yatra commemoration day on 19 October 2020 at Charminar. Pitroda earlier served as advisor to former Prime Minister Manmohan singh on public information, infrastructure and innovations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-honour-sam-pitroda/articleshow/78669168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur: No sign of Rajura tiger for last 4 days||CHANDRAPUR: The tracking teams pursuing the dreaded tiger of Rajura (RT-1) responsible for eight human kills are on their toes as the feline has suddenly gone silent since last four days. Having lost all its tracks, forest department has alerted neighbouring ranges about the possibility of tiger’s movement in their territory and have asked them to keep vigil. “The last of its camera trap picture was found in the morning of October 11. Since then it has disappeared and trackers have completely lost it trail. We have alerted neighbouring Kothari, Ballarpur and FDCM Thogaon ranges, while stepping up search operation in Rajura and Virur ranges,” DCF, Central Chanda Forest Division, Arvind Mundhe told TOI. He said they have also written to Asifabad forest division in neighbouring Telangana alerting them of possible migration of problem tiger in a bid to establish new territory. He, however, did not rule out the possibility of the tiger resting after good kill of wild prey in the same territory. The eight-year-old problem tiger appears to be quite aware of hunting operation underway against it. The tiger has killed over 25 baits without ever falling into the traps laid by the hunting team. “It has developed the habit of killing the bait in the day, and coming back to consume it during the night. We have mounted machans over the kills and put our team on them, but darting the animal in pitch black of the night is impossible,” Mundhe explained. Mundhe said they tried to use diffused lights at such places, but the tiger surreptitiously moved away avoiding the lit area. Even use of night vision binocular too proved useless, he said. The forest department even tried trenches and pits to capture the problem tiger, but to no avail. “We had dug trenches and pits in compartment no. 163 and 170 in Rajura range, the hotspot of its movement. But it leapt over them and meticulously avoided stepping on them. Multiple instances of the concealment over the trenches collapsing after the rains forced us to call off the endeavour,” Mundhe said. Their attempts to dart the problem tiger by putting the shooter in the trap cage too have failed, he said. Mundhe said that while capturing the tiger is a priority, they are also focused upon ensuring no more human casualty in tiger attack. “We have banned grazing in the forests frequented by RT-1 and no shepherd is allowed inside the forest. Public announcements were made in over a dozen forest villages warning people not to go into the forest. Villagers are directly involved in the tracking operation to win their confidence,” he told. Mundhe informed that 81 camera traps have been installed in the forest area divided into grids and they are checked twice a day. Some 40 Pugmark Impression Pads (PIP) have been prepared along the known trails of the tiger and they are continuously monitored to keep track of its movement. Two hunting teams, one each from TATR and Nagpur, have been deployed in the operation. Also, 25 STPF personnel have been roped in from Tadoba and these commandos are divided into five teams and helped by local guides to search the forest and track the location of problem tiger. Additional hunting team of Rapid Response Unit of Chandrapur is soon likely to join the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-sign-of-rajura-tiger-for-last-4-days/articleshow/78669177.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD announces gherao, Dalit say can’t trust it||JALANDHAR: Reacting to the announcement made by the scheduled castes (SC) wing of SAD to gherao residences of Congress MLAs on the issue of post-matric scholarship scam, the sangharsh committee of Sant Samaj, a representative body of Dalit sants, has said that Akali Dal is just shedding crocodile tears as the scam started during the SAD-BJP rule. In a statement issued here on Wednesday, committee spokesperson sant Satwinder Heera sought to put all the three big parties in the dock on the issue, alleging that the scam started during the SAD-BJP rule and later Congress further perpetuated it instead of exposing it. “If now SC students are suffering, SAD-BJP regime and now Congress are responsible. Now it is trying to mislead only by giving call to gherao residences of the Congress MLAs,” he said. Heera said a letter was also issued on October 10, 2014, due to which thousands of employees could not get promotion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-announces-gherao-dalit-say-cant-trust-it/articleshow/78669172.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal’s jean-clad engineer sarpanch remodels village||KAKRALA KUCHIYAN (KAITHAL): A qualified woman chief can transform a village. Thanks to her, this place 20 kilometres from the district headquarters knows gender safety, reading habit, and modern outlook. In her trademark blue jeans, white shirt, and neat braid, engineer Parveen Kaur, 25, surveys the makeover of her Dalit-dominated village of farm hands and odd-jobbers. Women and girls mingle with her freely, raising their concerns that came up during the Covid-19 pandemic. Parveen could win the sarpanch’s election unopposed in 2016 because the seat was reserved for a woman who had cleared Class VIII. Her father, contractor Meeta Ram, said: “No other village woman had that minimum qualification. It was a blessing in disguise for my daughter.” The family moved from the village a decade ago and lives in Cheeka town of Kaithal district. “My goal of having a base in Cheeka was good education for my daughter and son. Now, they have attained education, they should work for their village. Parveen is the first woman to move out of this village for higher education,” Meeta Ram said. Parveen Kaur said: “I was studying engineering at Kurukshetra University when the opportunity came to me. Professional education demanded attention but leading the village was no less tempting, so I was in two minds.” Today, the village has a panchayat ghar with solar-panel rooftop, a library with racks of books, public Wi-Fi, cemented lanes, and security cameras at prime spots. Yet pre-Parveen, the village looked opposite. The engineer sarpanch recalled: “I brought a shed over the bus stop, CCTV cameras for the safety of women, library and books for the students, water coolers for summer, and other changes.” Along with it, she is getting a diploma in web design from Chandigarh with family support. Parveen’s forte is women’s issues. She told TOI: “Men always find ways to get their work done through sarpanch but women hardly get ears. I found them representation in the gram sabha and all these changes, cameras, library, or Wi-Fi, were their ideas.” On choosing to be sarpanch, Parveen said she could not say no when the villagers urged her family to persuade her to represent the village. “In a way, the villagers and I were in the same position. We did not have a choice to look the other way,” she said. In September, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar praised Parveen Kaur on Twitter for taking interest in village development. She said: “Even a multinational job after engineering could not have been more satisfying than working for my own people and seeing my knowledge serve its purpose.” Former sarpanch Ram Singh said: “The village has transformed under Parveen Kaur. She has inspired youth to join politics.” Looking ahead to the panchayat elections next year, Parveen Kaur said she will have no hesitation in serving one more term, if she is a unanimous choice again. Watch Meet Parveen Kaur, a jean-clad engineer sarpanch whose village has street lights, CCTVs and libraries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kaithals-jean-clad-engineer-sarpanch-remodels-village/articleshow/78669178.cms||Sat Singh
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: CR says BG Metro to hit normal traffic||NAGPUR: Even as the state cabinet has approved the broad gauge Metro (BGM) proposal to provide high-speed connectivity to towns near Nagpur, there are several infrastructural and technical issues which will have to be taken care of. The Central Railway officials after scrutinizing MahaMetro’s final detailed project report (DPR) found that there will be several operational hiccups post-Covid-19 scenario when train operations would be normal. The DPR was approved by the Railway Board in August last and was circulated to the officials in October 2019. To run BG Metro, the height of at least 33 low-level platforms will have to be raised. It is not clear who will carry out this work. Currently, the sections between Nagpur-Wardha and Nagpur-Amla are oversaturated and their capacity utilization has reached 145%. “Increase in BG Metro trains’ frequency will severely affect coaching as well as freight train operations and also hit share of passenger traffic. There are several passenger trains operating between Nagpur-Wardha, Bhusawal, Amla and Narkhed. If existing paths are proposed for Metro trains then passenger rakes will occupy additional paths,” said officials. As per the MahaMetro DPR, trips of Metro trains proposed between Nagpur-Wardha and Nagpur-Narkhed routes will have an adverse impact on existing traffic. Similarly, regular trains and occupation of platforms at Nagpur will be affected due to Metro trains between Nagpur-Bhandara section. Moreover, stabling of empty rakes at Nagpur and Ajni yards will require additional shunting and will affect their normal functioning. Though the rolling stock will be procured by MahaMetro and maintained by it at Ajni and Khapri yards, there is also no clarity about en route repairs and maintenance of coaches, besides sharing of manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bg-metro-to-hit-normal-traffic-cr/articleshow/78669189.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Court grants bail to man arrested 47 years after offence||AHMEDABAD: Yashvant Rao Maratha, 68, was waiting for his summons for 47 years to appear before the court in a case of armed robbery. On the other hand, he was an absconding accused in the case for nearly half a century before he was arrested last month. A driver by profession, Maratha was arrested on September 12 from his residence in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on a non-bailable warrant issued by the city sessions court in a case of armed robbery registered in 1973. The case was registered with the Astodiya police station, now renamed as Khadia police station. He was placed in Sabarmati central jail after arrest, from where he filed for bail. Looking at his age and the nature of the case, principal sessions judge S K Baxi on Tuesday granted Maratha conditional bail. During the hearing on his bail application, Maratha’s advocate claimed his innocence. He submitted that Maratha’s car was used and that was how the co-accused was known to him. He was implicated in this case because of the registration of the car. The lawyer further submitted that the cops had earlier told him that he would be called as a witness in this case, but no police official had approached him and no summons or warrant was served on him during all these years. There was no intention to escape from justice and the address furnished to the police, which was mentioned in the chargesheet, was also not false. His daughter nowadays lives on this address and it was his daughter only, who directed the cops to his new address. The state government opposed Maratha’s bail plea citing his over four decades of abscondance. The court granted bail to Maratha on his furnishing a solvent surety of Rs 25,000 and on condition of not leaving the city of Ahmedabad without prior permission of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-grants-bail-to-man-arrested-47-years-after-offence/articleshow/78670508.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Safety takes precedence in temple run||NEW DELHI: Navratri, the nine auspicious days culminating in Dussehra, begins on October 17. It is a time when people flock to the temples for a darshan of Goddess Durga. Covid-19 has had a say on the festivities this year, however, and the most popular city temples have had to innovate on ensuring the devout get to worship the goddess and do it safely too. The aim of temples that usually attract huge numbers is to see fewer devotees coming. With this in mind, the Jhandewalan Mandir, for one, will take eight chariots holding Durga’s idol around the central Delhi neighbourhoods in the vicinity so people can seek blessings without having to go to the popular temple. “These are unprecedented times and we wanted to make sure people did not feel they had missed out visiting the mandir,” said Ravinder Goyal, member of the Jhandewalan temple committee. Goyal added, “Safety comes first. But we want everyone to have mata ke darshan so decorated tempos will carry the idol of goddess with pomp and show.” He said that though the temple authorities did not expect huge crowds, at least 50% of the usual lakhs of devotees are still likely to visit the temple. “We have demarcated social distancing spaces and have at least 100 volunteers to manage the crowd. We have also created sanitisation tunnels at the entries,” said Goyal. Another temple that attracts massive crowds is the Chhatarpur temple, where over 1.5 lakh devotees congregate on each of the nine days of Navratris. Spread over 75 acres, the temple is now criss-crossed with markings to facilitate physical distancing. More than a lakh eat at the temple langar daily. “Every year, most of the visitors stay back for the langar (prasad),” said Dr Kishore Chawla, CEO of the temple committee. “For the first time since we made provisions for langar, we will pack aalu-poori, sabzi and khichdi and hand the packets to the devotees instead of making them sit and eat.” Since the temple also has a medical facility, the committee will allow people to get tested for Covid-19 at the facility. “We want the devotees to visit the temple as normally, but remain vigilant about their and others’ safety,” said Chawla. Similar preparations are being made at Kalkaji Mandir in south Delhi as well. Brij Mohan Bhardwaj, joint secretary of the Kalkaji temple committee, said that all the shops in the congested shrine complex that did roaring business during the nine days of the festival have been strictly instructed this year to remain shuttered to prevent crowds building up and milling around. Bhardwaj said, “We have made arrangement for disinfection of the area and it will be taken well care of. Every devotee who visits the temple will have his temperature taken and put through sanitisation before being allowed entry into the complex. The shops that sell stuff offered in the temple will all be closed because we will not allow anybody to make any sort of offerings as they do in normal times.” The popular mandir sees thousands of devotees at this time of the year every year. With the number of visitors likely to decline this year, the temple authorities claimed to have taken care to arrange things in such a manner as to pre-empt any festivities from being stopped midway by the authorities. “Presuming that devotees will not be here in usual numbers, we have deployed 50 volunteers who will enforce physical distancing and mask wearing by all visitors,” added Bhardwaj. A smaller temple in Rajouri Garden also sees many locals turning up there every day during Navratri. This year, the committee has decided to go online to dissuade people from visiting the temple. Its YouTube page will carry videos of celebrations from past years. “We will also livestream the aarti so that nobody will feel they are missing out on worship,” said Harivansh Singh, temple committee member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safety-takes-precedence-in-temple-run/articleshow/78669194.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: HM body hails nod to 50% staff in schools||NAGPUR: State government has allowed schools to call up to 50% of their teaching/non-teaching staff to campus from October 15. Staff duty can be for online teaching, tele-counselling or any other related work. In Nagpur district, a majority of the schools come under the private aided category and are affiliated to state board. Headmasters Association (HA), which represents principals from such schools welcomed the decision. Its president Madhusudhan Mude said, “Extremely happy that the government has allowed us to increase staffing level. We were facing issues because if teachers are working from home, coordination becomes difficult. Also there are obviously too many distractions at home that prevent a teacher from giving their 100%.” He added that those who reporting to school have shown significant increase in productivity. “Doubts get clarified immediately with peers and that helps them perform better,” said Mude. CBSE schools’ Nagpur Sahodaya Association chairperson Reena Dargan said the decision will have to be customized by schools. “There are some schools who have a well-oiled online teaching system in place. There won’t be any point for them to recall staff back to campus. Then there is the issue of schools outside the city limits that will have to bear cost of transportation at a time when school fees are not coming in,” said Dargan. A private school teacher, who did not wish to be identified, felt this decision may end up being a disciplinary wand in management’s hand. “There is absolutely no need of 50% staff to be present in school. But now management will purposely call teachers and given them some work even though it can be done from home. Many principals are old school, prefer to see their staff in front of their eyes,” she said. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hm-body-welcomes-allowing-50-staff-in-schools-teachers-lukewarm/articleshow/78669182.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Council passes amendment to Stamp Act||Hyderabad: The Indian Stamp (Telangana Amendment) Bill, 2020, amending Section 47-A of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, was passed by the legislative council on Wednesday. The amendment will take away the discretionary power of inspector-general of registration and stamps department and registrars in fixing the value of stamp duty when people seek valuation of their property. Introducing the bill in the council, minister for roads and buildings, housing and legislative affairs Vemula Prashanth Reddy said the amendment gives that right to a committee headed by district collector. Apart from the collector, the committee would comprise district registrar as convener, municipal commissioner, chief executive officer of zilla parishad and DIG stamps as members in urban areas, while in rural areas, the committee would comprise joint collector, revenue divisional officer, DIG stamps and sub-registrar. He explained that earlier citizens were allowed to register a property even as their appeal to reconsider the stamp duty was pending with the IG. “The IG, after considering the appeal, can either increase or decrease the stamp duty. This has given scope for corruption in some places,” he said, adding “we are not saying everyone is corrupt, but there have been occasions where the stamp duty was grossly undervalued than the government fixed value.” “Once a decision is taken by the committee on the stamp duty, the citizen must pay the stamp duty and book a slot for registration,” he added. Explaining the need for bringing in the amendment, the minister said that during the transactions (buying and selling) the value of the property could be paid either as decided by both the parties or by market value. “Whichever is of higher value, then that is taken into consideration as stamp duty to be paid for transaction and subsequent completion of mutation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/council-passes-amendment-to-stamp-act/articleshow/78669204.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||50% clear MSU’s PhD entry test 2020||Vadodara: M S University on Wednesday declared results of the PhD Entrance Test (PET) 2020. PET is the qualifying test which is held for admission to PhD across various departments of the university. The pass percent of PET 2020 stands at 50 with a total of 588 out of 1,156 candidates who had appeared for the test declared as qualified. The exam was conducted in 39 subjects. PET’s coordinator professor C N Murthy informed that maximum candidates – 111 — had qualified in life sciences followed by 49 candidates who had qualified in English. While 42 candidates have qualified in chemical science, 38 have qualified in commerce. In subjects of law and physical science 34 candidates have qualified while 33 candidates have qualified in management. MSU had conducted PET earlier this month. The tenth PET for which 1,253 candidates had registered was for the first time conducted online in view of Covid induced pandemic.While paper I was for testing the general aptitude, analytical skills and research methodology, paper II was for testing the subject proficiency of the candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/50-clear-msus-phd-entry-test-2020/articleshow/78667694.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Surat||Post drug bust, Surat cops now plan ‘op clean-up’||SURAT: After it successfully busted the Rs 1.3-crore mephedrone drug racket and also effected multiple arrests in connection with the contraband dealings, city police will now focus on the de-addiction of the addicts. City police commissioner Ajay Tomar has planned a three-dimensional project to create awareness, de-addiction and enforcement of the law to keep a check on drug abuse. Any family member or friend of individuals addicted to contraband can seek police’s help them escape from the clutches of drugs. Police will also run an awareness campaign in educational institutions and through social media as well. The top cop recently held a meeting to discuss the plans of developing a de-addiction programme with experts working in the area, NGOs, educationists and also noted citizens. “We need a multi-dimensional approach to deal with drugs. Only enforcement is not enough hence we will help people manage addiction as well,” Tomar told TOI. At the meeting, head of New Civil Hospital’s psychiatry department Dr Rutambhara Mehta, along with associate professor Dr Kamlesh Dave remained present. Of the two government de-addiction centres operating in the state, one is in NCH, Surat and another in Ahmedabad. NCH runs various de-addiction programmes on a regular basis. “It is a good initiative by the police soon after the recent crackdown, which we believe will help control drug menace,” said Dr Dave, adding that best quality de-addiction and rehabilitation centres should be developed to help such addicts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/post-drug-bust-cops-now-plan-op-clean-up/articleshow/78668134.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Mining contractor threatened in Yamunanagar||YAMUNANAGAR: The district police have registered a case of extortion after a mining contractor in Yamunanagar alleged that he had received threat calls from a gangster named Kala Rana. Manoj Wadhwa of Sector 13, Urban Estate, Karnal, lodged a complaint at Sector 17, Huda (Haryana Urban Development Authority), Jagadhri police station, alleging that gangster Kala Rana threatened to kill his family, if he did not give him partnership in sand mines. On his complaint, a case has been registered against gangster Kala Rana under Section 387 (putting person in fear of death, in order to commit extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Station house officer (SHO) concerned Suresh Kumar said, “We have registered a case against Kala Rana, who is already wanted in another case of extortion registered in the same police jurisdiction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mining-contractor-threatened/articleshow/78669183.cms||Jaskaran Singh
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Decked up for Urs, Sirhind shrine emptiest in years||SIRHIND (Fatehgarh Sahib): The Covid-19 pandemic has thinned down the annual world congregation at the shrine of Shaykh Ahmad al-Faruqi al-Sirhindi (Mujadid Alif Saani) here to a few locals. It’s also the second consecutive Urs without Pakistani pilgrims, who couldn’t make it last year because of the tension post abrogation of Article 370. The three-day event will end on October 16 morning. A 50-year-old organiser said: “Earlier we received close to 40,000 pilgrims. They came from even Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, but this year only 200-odd locals joined the Urs, a first in my lifetime.” Syed Muhammad Sadiq Raza, sajada-nasheen (custodian) of the shrine and the main event manager, said: “For the Urs, we have sanitised the complex, made police arrangements, and ensured that the visitors wear masks, maintain social distancing, and avoid crowding. We follow the Covid-19 rules even during regular prayers at the mosque inside the shrine.” The custodian said: “This time we held special prayers for world peace and relief to mankind from Covid-19. For the devotees who couldn’t come to the event, we took it live on Facebook.” Many devotees are upset on missing the Urs. Malerkotla businessman Muhammad Tahir said: “We would go to Rauja Sharief almost every year but Covid-19 stopped us this time. We will now watch the prayers live on social media and pray to Allah to rid us of this pandemic and allow us to visit the shrine next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/decked-up-for-urs-sirhind-shrine-emptiest-in-years/articleshow/78669192.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Markets more important for farmers than MSP||CHANDIGARH: As the farmers are up in arms against the Union government over the new agriculture laws, a research conducted by the SBI has found that markets hold more importance for them as compared to the minimum support price (MSP). The study says that catering to only cereal producing states and shunning fruits and vegetables is lazy farming and parochial thinking. “However, while the bills (now Acts) aim to liberalise trade and increase the number of buyers, deregulation alone may not be sufficient to attract more buyers,” reads the research study conducted by a team headed by SBI’s group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/why-markets-are-more-important-for-farmers-than-msp/articleshow/78674251.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/markets-more-important-for-farmers-than-msp/articleshow/78669187.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Absconding Latif gang members held||Ahmedabad: City crime branch sleuths on Tuesday and Wednesday arrested two convicts — former members of the gang of underworld figure Abdul Latif who were involved in the murder of former Rajya Sabha member Rauf Waliullah — who had jumped parole. Mohammed Amin Shaikh was nabbed from a paan parlour in Dariapur on Tuesday while Mohammed Farooq Shaikh, 55, was nabbed on Wednesday, also from Dariapur. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, D P Chudasama said Mohammed Amin had got parole in April for 30 days. He got his parole extended by 21 days and was to present himself at Ahmedabad Central Jail in June. He did not turn up before the jail authorities and remained absconding. “Based on a tip-off, he was nabbed from a paan parlour in Dariapur,” added Chudasama. Mohammed Farooq Shaikh had obtained 15-day parole in March and got it extended by 60 days and then by 10 days more. “He was to present himself before the jail authorities in June but did not do so. He was nabbed from the entrance of Mole Pole in Dariapur on Wednesday. Both of them have been handed over to the jail authorities,” added Chudasama. Crime branch sources said Mohammed Amin and Mohammed Farooq were members of the Latif gang and between 1987 and 1994 had 22 cases under Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (TADA) registered against them. These were later scrapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/absconding-latif-gang-members-held/articleshow/78670738.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Record statements on camera: Rahatkar||Aurangabad: BJP national secretary Vijaya Rahatkar, in the wake of recent rape and murder incidents, has asked Prime Minitser Narendra Modi to ensure that all complaints pertaining to sexual harassment and rape must be recorded video recorded to reduce chances of manipulation. In a representation to the Prime Minister, Rahatkar, former Aurangabad mayor and a former chairperson of the Maharashtra Women’s Commission, also demanded that the courts trying these cases should function in two shifts — between 6 am and 9 pm — and that it should be made mandatory for the magistrates to complete the trial within one month. “I have prepared a list of suggestions and recommendations in consultation with former DGP Praveen Dixit. The government of India must consider these suggestions including that the recording should be done in the language and words as mentioned by the complainant thus the chances of killing the survivor would not be there. A provision should also be made to video record all the statements of witnesses and FIRs be submitted to the magistrate electronically,” zhe said. While appreciating the efforts initiated by the Central government in terms of women empowermen, she said she was making these suggestions to further improve the situation. She also suggested that the forensic experts should be roped in to gather samples so that the cases can end in convictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/record-statements-on-camera-rahatkar/articleshow/78666496.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Poles pitched, Gmada fails to power up 6 new traffic lights||MOHALI: Six new traffic signals in the city wait to light up because two government agencies, one that pitches the poles and the other that feeds electricity to those, have a coordination gap. Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) fitted the poles but failed to get a line from Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). Three signals each came up on two dividing roads (sector 78-79 and sector 79-80). Confronted, Gmada estate officer Baljinder Singh said: “We wrote to the PSPCL three weeks ago. We hope it will energise the traffic lights by the coming week.” Retired chief engineer Rajinder Singh Bedi, veteran Army officer Gursharan Singh, and former Punjab civil servant Ranjit Kaur Mann, who live in the affected sectors, don’t recall a similar instance in their long administrative careers when a ready project had no electricity to get started. Bedi said: “How can Gmada be so careless. It should have got the power line during installation and not left it for later. Why keep the public waiting for weeks, looking at lifeless poles.” The public wanted traffic signals at these key points for many years. Accident had become frequent with a rise in the number of passing vehicles. It is natural for people to be frustrated to see some hope after years, only to get no light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/poles-pitched-gmada-fails-to-power-up-6-new-traffic-lights/articleshow/78669239.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Implement EWS quota: Cong||Hyderabad: All India Congress Committee secretary Vamshichand Reddy on Wednesday demanded that the TRS government implement the reservations for the economically backward classes from the upper caste. “The 10% EWS quota passed by the central government has not been implemented in Telangana in entrances like DOST, polytechnic, ECET due to non-issue of GO by the TRS government in this regard. It is strange that the applications for EAMCET, ECET have an EWS option, but are not implemented during the admissions,” he said. The admission process for EAMCET-2020 would be completed by October 22, so the government should respond quickly and issue a GO for 10% EWS reservation without disrupting the existing reservations, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/implement-ews-quota-cong/articleshow/78669234.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Enhance BC quota to 42%: Jeevan||Hyderabad: Congress MLC T Jeevan Reddy on Wednesday urged TRS government to examine the possibility of enhancing BC reservations from the existing 34% to 42% in the ensuing polls to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. He said the SC and ST population was less in the state capital due to which the total quota of both the communities put together comes to 8% only. “The ST population is only 1.33%as such they get only 2 seats and SC population is 6.6% due to which they get 10 divisions (seats) only in GHMC. In such a case, BC quota can be enhanced up to 42%, including BC-E quota, keeping the overall quota well within the 50% cap fixed by the Supreme Court,” he said. Jeevan charged TRS government of doing injustice to BCs by deciding to continue the same 34% reservations in the ensuing polls to the civic body as was done in the 2016 GHMC polls. “When there is a scope to enhance, why not do it,” he said. KTR said the GHMC Act was clear how many per cent of reservation was to be given to BCs and reiterated that TRS government was committed to the welfare of the BCs and has given tickets to more number of BCs than any other political party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/enhance-bc-quota-to-42-jeevan/articleshow/78669243.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi NCR states given a month to complete delineation of NCZ||NEW DELHI: The NCR Planning Board has asked all member states — Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — to complete the delineation of Natural Conservation Zones (NCZs) within a month. The issue has been pending with the states for more than six years since the board issued notices to them in 2014. Sources said the one-month timeline to complete the exercise was decided at the last meeting of the board held early this month under the chairmanship of Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri. So far, only UP has submitted the NCZ area given in sub regional plan and this has been accepted by the board. TOI has learnt that the states have been asked to complete this exercise by carrying out ground-truthing with the satellite images and verifying the revenue records. Major natural features such as the extension of Aravali ridge in Rajasthan, Haryana and Delhi, forest areas, rivers and tributaries of major rivers, sanctuaries, lakes and water bodies were demarcated as NCZ in the Regional Plan-2021. Last month, the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) in its report had flagged how the delay in delineation of NCZ has resulted in non-finalisation of sub regional plan (SRP) of Haryana and Revised Regional Plan (RRP)-2021 and its adverse implications for environmental issues. Verifying the details with revenue records holds little significance in Haryana considering that almost the entire Aravalis in the state has been privatised. The successive governments in the state have been raising issue over the definition of Aravalis and forest in the state amid reports of a large part of the mountain range in the state being sold and resold in the past. There have been several reports how unauthorised constructions including farmhouses have come up in this range and on many occasions the Supreme Court had to order demolition of these structures. As per the law, no non-forestry activities are allowed in the NCZ areas. Demarcation of entire Aravalis as NCZ will put an end to any real estate activity in the region. Sources said Haryana has not yet taken a conclusive view on the NCZ. They added while the member secretary of NCRPB had sent two letters to Haryana chief secretary seeking clear NCZ proposal from the state government in September there had been no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncr-states-given-a-month-to-complete-delineation-of-ncz/articleshow/78669258.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PU dean visits 4 labs to see if SOPs are in place||CHANDIGARH: The dean research of Panjab University visited four laboratories on Wednesday to check if the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are in place in departments before the research scholars are allowed to access labs from October 15. V R Sinha, dean research, PU, said all the government standard operating procedures (SoPs) are being followed. Besides this, all the departments have been asked to draft their own SoP, which the scholars have to follow. He said he visited physics, chemistry, biophysics and biochemistry departments and found that all the SoPs are in place. He said the faculty is already accessing the laboratories and that SoPs are also pasted on the walls and the notice boards of all the departments for the scholars. Besides this, Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) staff is also on their toes and are sanitising all the laboratories of the departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-dean-visits-4-labs-to-see-if-sops-are-in-place/articleshow/78669221.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||City gets ready to celebrate Durga Puja amid Covid norms||CHANDIGARH: The upcoming festive season will brighten the days as cultural organisations are prepared to hold community festivity while maintaining all the precautions to check the spread of Covid-19. At Kalibari, for anyone who wants to enter the premises, wearing mask is mandatory and only 60 visitors will be allowed to enter at a time. A total 25 persons will be allowed to offer ‘Anjali’ at a time. Strict time limit for puja, sanitisation, thermal checking and social distancing are some of the rules that have been laid down for devotees, who would come to offer prayers during the Durga Puja. The ‘sandhya arati’ will be telecast live on Saptami, Aastami and Navami as per the timings mentioned on the Facebook page of the Kalibari temple Chandigarh. The link will be given during the mornings of the respective puja days. Community food will not be served and only dry prasad will be given to devotees. While the Durga Puja will begin with Shashthi i.e. the sixth day of Navratra (on October 22), temple gates will be opened on Saptami (October 23), Aastami (October 24) and Navami (October 25) from 8 am to 2.30 pm and from 4.30 pm to 6.30 pm. “Parking arrangements will be done outside the temple premises. Every visitor will be properly sanitised at the time of entry and the visitors will have to maintain social distancing at the time of the entrance as well as inside the temple complex,” mentioned the guidelines. The authorities said, “Not more than 60 visitors will be allowed entry at a time and can stay inside the temple complex for not more than 30 minutes, which can be extended to 45 minutes in case of offering Anjali. A batch of 25 persons each will be made to offer Anjali at a time and the remaining devotees will wait for their turn.” “These, however, are only tentative set of instructions and are subject to changes as per the guidelines. The final set of instructions will be issued two to three days prior to the start of the Durga Puja,” said one of the members of Kalibari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-gets-ready-to-celebrate-durga-puja-amid-covid-norms/articleshow/78669252.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Ten IITs to kickstart their campus placements on Dec 1||Mumbai: Ten leading IITs, including IIT-Bombay, Delhi and Madras, have agreed to kickstart their campus placements on December 1 – a tradition that has been followed for years. The All IITs’ Placement Committee (AIPC) has decided to stick to the regular schedule so far and most are working towards attaining it. With a delayed start to the academic session due to the pandemic, a few were apprehensive about starting the campus placement drive from December 1. “Some of the IITs completed their placement process for the 2019-20 batch as late as July 2020. Usually the process for planning and inviting companies for the new academic session starts by then. But since most of the processes are online this year, including the pre-placement talks (PPTs) and the final interviews, and there is no travelling involved, Phase 1 placement interviews can be started on December 1,” said AIPC convenor, Professor C S Shankar Ram from IIT Madras. “In fact, the PPTs have already commenced,” he added. An official from the placement cell of IIT-Bombay confirmed that placements would start from December 1 as of now. “The schedule will change only if all IITs decide to postpone it for academic reasons later. If they do, the companies may agree, as the process is online and no travel or venue booking is involved this year,” said the official, adding that a 15-day delay may not have a major impact on the schedule. At IIT-Kharagpur, the placement work for the 2020-21 batch has not started in full swing, but they intend to start the first phase by December 1. An official from another IIT said that the companies are drawing their recruitment plan now and some are confirming their presence. He added that the pre-placement offers till date has seen an increase if compared with the previous year. Some of the IITs may plan their end-semester exam after the phase-I interviews, said the official. IITs are divided into two groups this year, only for placement purposes – group-I and group-II. The group-I IITs include the older institutes - IIT-Bombay, Delhi, Madras, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Guwahati, Roorkee, IIT (ISM)-Dhanbad, IIT-BHU and IIT-Hyderabad. Group-II includes the newer IITs, however, based on the increase in graduating students, a group-II institute can enter group-I later. Group-II IITs usually start the process before those from Group I. IIT-Hyderabad, one of the newer IITs, for example, moved from Group II to Group-I this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ten-iits-to-kickstart-their-campus-placements-on-dec-1/articleshow/78670526.cms||Yogita Rao
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||66% fewer passengers last month compared to Sept 2019||Mumbai: Airlines carried about 40 lakh domestic passengers in September, which was a 66 percent drop from the number of passengers they carried in the same month last year, according to data released by the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday. In September last year, domestic airlines carried a total of 115 lakh passengers, whereas this year the pandemic brought the passenger traffic down to 38 lakhs. Between January and September this year, a total of 440 lakh passengers flew on domestic flights in India, as compared to 1,059 lakh passengers who flew during the same period last year, a decline of 58 % in passenger traffic, said the DGCA data. Passenger loads on airlines have been fluctuating in the past few months. In September, it ranged from a high of 73 % for SpiceJet to 34 % for Trujet, with most of the airlines registering a slight dip in passenger loads factors this month as compared to August. Only Pawan Hans made a huge recovery with a passenger load of 50 % as compared to August’s 24 %. All other carriers including IndiGo, Air India, Vistara, SpiceJet, GoAir, AirAsiaIndia had lower passenger loads in September as compared to the last. Overall, airlines cancelled 2.6 % flights this month mostly due to commercial reasons. The drop in domestic passenger traffic began in the first quarter of this year when the pandemic forced the government to suspend domestic flights for a period of two months from March end to May end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/66-fewer-passengers-last-month-compared-to-sept-2019/articleshow/78670546.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||3 held in Delhi for hiring proxy candidate for teacher recruitment exams||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Crime Branch has arrested three women who allegedly hired a proxy candidate to appear on their behalf in an examination held for recruitment of primary teachers. The deal was struck for Rs five lakh for each candidate and the accused women paid Rs two lakh as advance. The cops are now looking for the mystery woman who apparently appeared for four candidates in the exam, which was held on different dates. DCP (Crime Branch) Bhisham Singh said that the controller of exams for Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) had filed a complaint regarding impersonation by a few candidates in the online exam for the post of teacher (primary) held in October and November 2018. The exam was held in multiple shifts in which 71,912 candidates appeared. “DSSSB asks candidates to bring second page of the admit card on which their recent postcard size photograph is to be pasted on the designated place. This provision has been made so as to enable the chief invigilators and invigilators to identify the candidates properly,” DCP Singh said, adding that the page is collected by the invigilator at the examination centre. DSSSB said in its complaint that it also decided to forward the second page of the admit card of the selected candidate to the user department to ensure that the appointment was given to the same candidate who had appeared in the exam for the said post. Accordingly, DSSSB started segregating the second page of the admit cards of the shortlisted/selected candidates for the aforesaid post. During this process, it was discovered that the second page of the admit cards of four selected women candidates were having postcard-size photograph of the same woman. “Prima facie, it was evident that one lady had appeared for the exam on behalf of the four candidates and they all were selected,” DCP Singh said. The cops managed to arrest one of the accused women in 2018, but the other three could not be located. Recently, the cops got a tip-off about the accused residing in an outer Delhi locality and nabbed them. The arrested women have disclosed that they were studying at a coaching centre in Punjabi Bagh when they were approached by a woman who assured them to arrange a proxy candidate on their behalf to appear in the exam. The selection of arrested women has been cancelled and they have also been debarred from writing any examination held by DSSSB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-held-for-hiring-proxy-candidate-for-teacher-recruitment-exams/articleshow/78669308.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Get online admission forms for PG courses from today||CHANDIGARH: The education department has issued guidelines for admission to postgraduate courses i.e. MA, M Com, MSc and PG diplomas. The admissions will be done online and in non-centralised manner on merit basis. According to the notice issued by director education Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Panjab University, Chandigarh, has scrapped all entrance tests for 2020 due to Covid-19 and therefore admissions will be done by colleges as per the schedule issued by the department. According to the schedule, online application forms will be available from October 15 and the same will have to be submitted on October 22 before 5 pm. The provisional merit list will be displayed on October 24 at 3 pm. Students can report discrepancies directly to the respective college on October 25 by 3 pm. The final merit list will be displayed on October 26 by 4 pm. Online admission will start at college level from October 27 onwards. De-reservation of seats will be done on October 30. The admissions will be done on merit basis. The schedule for the postgraduate is identical for both the government and private colleges. There are around 3,500 seats in postgraduate courses. Apart from this, around 800 seats are available in postgraduate diplomas in both government and privately managed aided colleges. A new feature has been added this year that applicants will receive an SMS notifying them to deposit their fee after the college seat is assigned to them. Applicants are advised to give their contact number with WhatsApp and their working e-mail so that effective communication can take place. Supplementary online joint prospectus was launched by director of the higher education Rubinderjit Singh Brar on Wednesday. On the other hand, the UT education department began the third round of counselling on Wednesday for the vacant seats in humanities and some of the skill subjects in government schools. A total of 17 schools have vacant seats in humanities, while in skill subjects seats are available in fashion studies, textile design, design, stenography (Hindi), retail and marketing, taxation and cost accountancy, electronics and electrical technology. Application form is available on the website of the department. After downloading and filling up the form, a scanned copy of the same is to be submitted online by 5 pm on October 16. Candidates can mention five preferences or options. Scanned copy of the DMC is also to be sent through e-mail. To facilitate students, helpdesks have been set up at three schools – GMSSS-19, GMSSS-MHC Manimajra and GMSSS-40. Only those candidates, who have not been able to get a seat in the previous counselling, are eligible to apply. Any candidate who gives a false claim of not having got admission in the first two counseling will be liable for cancellation of seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/get-online-admission-forms-for-pg-courses-from-today/articleshow/78669289.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Fruit, flower market in 300 acres on the lines of Delhi Azad Market||HYDERABAD: Telangana government would develop a fruit and flower market in about 300 acres in Kongara Kalan in Rangareddy district, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced. This would be developed on the lines of Azad Market in Delhi, he said. “A comprehensive horticulture cultivation policy should be prepared, the results of which should be realised within a year. The state should occupy number one position in the horticulture sector too,” the CM said. The CM held a review meeting on horticulture department activities at Pragati Bhavan on Wednesday While stressing on the need for a qualitative change in the cultivation and growing of vegetables, fruits, flowers and other horticulture crops, the CM said the state is blessed with a wide variety of soil, good rainfall and professional skilled farmers and these advantages should be utilised to optimal level. “There is a need to bring in revolutionary changes in the cultivation of vegetables, fruits, flowers and other horticulture crops,” he said. Explaining the weather conditions in the state, the CM said, the witnesses an average rainfall of 900-1,500 mm per year. There are lakhs of farmers’ families who have professional skills. All these are ideal for horticulture cultivation. Despite these advantages, the state is importing vegetables, fruits, flowers, spices, and oil seeds from other states. The state must become self-sufficient in horticulture crops too, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fruit-flower-market-in-300-acres-on-the-lines-of-delhi-azad-market/articleshow/78669272.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Stunt proves to be fatal for school boy in UP||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old boy was found hanging from the roof of a hut in the outer yard of the house in Moda Taiya village under Pakhvada police station in UP’s Moradabad on Tuesday. Police said the boy, a student of Class VI, was studying at home since the lockdown, but was going to a nearby computer centre where he allegedly watched some stunt-based programmes like 'Shaktimaan' on Youtube. The boy tried to imitate the stunt characters and possibly got himself entangled in the rope he was playing with, the police added. The deceased, identified as Amit Saini, was the youngest among five siblings. The boy was rushed to a private hospital later where he was declared brought dead. The incident occurred on Tuesday when the boy had gone to take the cattle for grazing in the outer yard of the house and did not return. The family informed the police. After a brief search, the boy was spotted hanging from the roof of a hut with a rope. Harpal Singh, the boy's father who works as a labourer, said, “My son went outside the house where cattle are taken for grazing. He usually played there. On Tuesday, when he did not return, we started looking for him and found him hanging with a rope around his neck. Everything was normal before the incident and he even had breakfast with other members of the family. Nobody had scolded him. He didn't have any fights with anyone. He was not undergoing any kind of stress that could force him to take his life.” The family also denied having any personal rivalry in the neighbourhood, the police said. Pakhwada SHO, Moradabad, Rajni Dwivedi told TOI, “It appears that the boy, who loved to watch stunts of his favourite superheroes, was trying to imitate one of them while playing outside and got entangled in the rope. It was not a suicide. The family did not approve of a postmortem. The body was handed over to perform the last rites later on Tuesday.” The deceased is survived by parents and four siblings — two brothers and two sisters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stunt-proves-to-be-fatal-for-school-boy-in-up/articleshow/78665639.cms||Maria Khan
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||HC stays discplinary proceedings against KSOU registrar||Mysuru: A division bench of the Karnataka high court on Tuesday stayed a disciplinary inquiry against Lingaraj Gandhi, registrar of the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU). The inquiry was initiated in pursuance of a September 7 order by a single-judge bench of the high court, and Lingaraj had appealed against the order. Hearing a writ appeal filed by Prof A Rangaswamy, chairman of the department of studies and research in Kannada, the court had ordered an inquiry against Lingaraj. Rangaswamy had accused Lingaraj of having made false and misleading remarks in his application for the post of vice-chancellor of Dr Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University, Mysuru and Gulbarga University. Lingaraj subsequently challenged the order, and a two-judge bench decided to stay proceedings of the inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hc-stays-discplinary-proceedings-against-ksou-registrar/articleshow/78666538.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: With single dot, gang dupes 50 of crores||NEW DELHI: A gang of conmen has been busted for allegedly duping over fifty youths of crores of rupees by promising them jobs in central public works department (CPWD). The accused had allegedly made a fake website similar to the official website of CPWD and had even copied the content from the original one to make it look authentic. The gang conducted fake exams and offered fake appointment letters to applicants before disappearing with their money. “The accused have been identified as Amit (27) from Lucknow, Ram Dayal (27) from Rajasthan and Gurdeep (28) from Rajasthan. A laptop, five phone and a fake identity and visiting card of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have been seized from them,” said DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal. The men were arrested after deputy director general, eGovernance for CPWD, gave a complaint to police. The cops registered an FIR under the IPC and IT Act at South Avenue police station and a team led by ACP Pragya Anand and inspector Suhaib Farooqui was formed to investigate the case. The cops got in touch with the internet service providers, and obtained IP address and mobile number through which the fake websites — www.cpwdgov.in — was created. The original website is www.cpwd.gov.in. A suspect named Dayal was identified on the basis of technical surveillance and tracked. The cops then received an input that three members of the gang would come to Mahipalpur area and laid a trap. The accused were arrested on Monday and interrogated. Amit told police that lied about being an engineer with NHAI by acquiring a fake identity card, even as he worked at a call centre and a toll plaza to make ends meet. He even got married, showing off his fake credentials. As his acquaintaces started asking him to get them a government job as well, he stumbled upon the idea of creating a fake website to cheat people. “In 2018, he quit his job as a toll clerk and got a fake website www.cpwd.co.in created from a web designer in Lucknow and started his con job,” DCP Singhal said. Dayal and Gurdeep joined him as web designers to run the con. The accused ran this racket for two years before they got busted. The cops have obtained the details of two fake websites — www.cpwd.co.in and www.cpwdgov.in — created by them, apart from details of the payment gateway and the bank account linked with it. A piece of land in Lucknow and a car has also been identified as proceeds from crime. The accused were produced before the court and all the three accused were sent to police remand. Further investigation is underway. Two teams have been sent to Rajasthan and UP to recover the car, a computer and other evidence from their houses/offices, police said. Watch Trio busted in Delhi for offering fake CPWD jobs, stealing crores||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-single-dot-gang-dupes-50-of-crores/articleshow/78669363.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro passengers to soon get WiFi access at stations||CHENNAI: The 24km underground section of metro rail in the heart of the city has been mostly a dead zone for mobile phones. By April 2021, commuters can browse the internet and make online calls for free, as Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) will provide WiFi connectivity across all its 32 stations. If the signals are strong on the elevated lines and underground tunnels, commuters would be able to use the internet even while they are travelling in the train. Metro rail officials said work will soon begin to install optical fibre cables across the entire 45km stretch of phase-1 corridors. It will be a facility similar to those provided at the airport, where passengers can browse the internet as they wait to board a flight or at Central railway station, where passengers can use WiFi for a limited period of time. “It may take at least three to six months for installation of cables and access points, as this work will happen only for a few hours in the night after the daily train operations close,” an official said, adding that they are still deciding if the internet access for passengers will be unlimited or for a limited duration. Last year, CMRLfloated a tender to install and commission WiFi services across the phase-1 corridors with plans to provide commuters with unlimited, uninterrupted and free access to the internet in both stations and trains. The idea was to provide the service only in the paid area in the station which is after passengers swipe their smartcards on the ticketing or concourse level. At present, two mobile phone networks provide connectivity in some of the underground stations. But there are black spots inside these stations where the connectivity is poor, and commuters mostly travel without any signal on their smartphones in underground stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-passengers-to-soon-get-wifi-access-at-stations/articleshow/78648260.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Uttara Kannada bears brunt of cyclonic rain||Mangaluru: Though rainfall petered out in the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Wednesday there was widespread heavy rainfall in Uttara Kannada district in the last 24 hours disrupting normal life, especially traffic on the Mumbai-Karwar National Highway. While DK received 116mm of rainfall, Udupi received 117mm in the last 24 hours till 8.30am on Wednesday. Reports reaching here from Uttara Kannada said, since Wednesday morning heavy rainfall between Karwar and Bhatkal disrupted normal life. Many places along National Highway 66 were water-logged leading to traffic gridlock. “The water logging on the NH is due to four-laning along that stretch from Kundapur to Karwar. Where NHAI has completed the four-lane work, there’s no inundation. But where work is in progress, there is heavy water logging and traffic is moving at a snail’s pace,” said a person travelling from Karwar to Bhatkal. Kumta and Ankola also witnessed heavy water logging of roads. Nagarbastikeri in Honnavar taluk of Uttara Kannada received 204mm rainfall and Murudeshwara near Bhatkal received 145mm rainfall. The meteorological department stated that under the influence of depression over north Interior Karnataka and adjoining areas of Maharashtra and Telangana, the Karnataka coast will receive moderate to heavy rainfall. Udupi district also received heavy rains in the last 24 hours till Wednesday afternoon. Three areas of Kundapur taluk received the highest rainfall in the state. They were Balkuru (370mm), Koni (325mm) and Basruru (245mm). In Karkala, the house of Indira Jayakar Shetty at Mundli was damaged after the compound wall collapsed on the house. In DK, Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks received the highest rainfall at 146mm and 138 mm respectively. Puttur and Belthangady taluks received 103mm and 120mm of rainfall with Sullia taluk receiving the least at 74mm. In Bantwal, a portion of a wall of centuries old Sri Karinjeshwara Temple collapsed due to incessant rains late on Tuesday night and was noticed by temple authorities on Wednesday. Officials who inspected the premises said there was no danger to the temple. In DK, Neermarga (217mm) in Mangaluru taluk, Meramajalu in Bantwal taluk (166mm), Mennabettu and Kemral in Mangaluru taluk received rainfall of 155mm of rainfall each. KSNMDC warned that squally weather with wind speed reaching 45-55kmph is likely to prevail over the coast and warned fishermen not to venture into the sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/uttara-kannada-bears-brunt-of-cyclonic-rain/articleshow/78668948.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Musi sees record flood in last 20 yrs||Hyderabad: Musi, which had turned into the perennially dry river and stinking sewage drain, came back to life thanks to the record rainfall and release of water from Himayatsagar. Due to encroachments, the river has turned shallow and not able to take heavy inflow of water flooding Hyderabad all along its course. Central Water Commission says this may be the highest flood of Musi river after August 2000 flood. CWC flood forecast in an official release said, “River Musi at Anantharam in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district was flowing at above highest flood level for the first time in last four years. Musi at Valigonda in Suryapet district was flowing at the highest flood level during the last two years. This may be the highest after August 2000 flood.” Lawyer Mohammed Nayeem Pasha, who filed a petition in the NGT, said these heavy rains were a wake-up call to people and to the government. “The reason we have filed a PIL in NGT was to get directions from court for clearing encroachments and cleaning of Musi. There is severe ecological and environmental damage to the entire stretch of the river,” he said. The Musi Riverfront Development Authority had failed to remove encroachments, activists allege. Expressing concern, environmentalist Purushottam Reddy said: “Metro rail and Imblibun bus station are built on the Musi. There is an utter disregard for protection of the river.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/musi-sees-record-flood-in-last-20-yrs/articleshow/78670572.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 15, 2020||Surat||SCET’s online tech-fest from Oct 15||Surat: The Surat-based Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) is going to organise a two-day online tech-fest called the ‘Kshitij-2020’ will begin on Thursday.“SCET organises an inter-college level technical festival - Kshitij annually to provide a platform to foster and ignite the innovative minds. For this year, the event will be organised online in which a total of 10 departments of engineering will organise technical and non technical events like paper presentation, poster presentation , quizes and various other competitions, expert lectures and workshops among others,” “said Dr Prathmesh Vyas, professor of physics, SCET.“A total of 84 events will take place and students will showcase their creativity and innovation through online presentations. Event judges will judge them online and give results. Keeping in view the situation of pandemic this year, the events will be organised online,” added Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scets-online-tech-fest-from-oct-15/articleshow/78667781.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Two flee with gold watches worth Rs 22L||Vadodara: Two employees of Titan store on Race Course Road were cheated by two men who fled with watches worth Rs 22 lakh. One of the employees Hitendrasinh Solanki told police that a man named Sandeep had shown interest in buying gold watches for gifting. Sandeep had called on the shop’s landline phone. On Sandeep’s insistence, Solanki shared photos of watches on WhatsApp on September 10 and on October 8. On Tuesday, Sandeep told Solanki that he will come to the shop and finalize the deal. In the afternoon, Sandeep said he won’t be able to come to the shop, and Solanki should come to Welcomhotel with the watches. Solanki and his colleague Zaheer Sheikh went to the hotel on RC Dutt Road. Sandeep was not there, but another unidentified man was present in the room 208. The man told Solanki and Sheikh that their boss is sitting in another room, which was connected to the room they were in, and he will show the models to them. Solanki gave the models to the man and he took it one after the other to the other room. While he brought a few back, the others were kept in the room. The man then took two more models and did not come out for several minutes. When Solanki became suspicious, he went to check, but did not find anyone and the watches were also not there. The shop’s owner was informed about it and police were also called. In all 13 gold watches were taken away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-flee-with-gold-watches-worth-rs-22l/articleshow/78667793.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB arrests Nigerian, busts drug racket in suburbs that used international courier services||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has busted a major drug trafficking racket in the western suburbs that used international courier services with the arrest of a Nigerian national. The accused was caught with 4gm cocaine worth Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000 from Bandra on Monday. Though NCB officials did not divulge details about the case stating that they are yet to make more arrests, sources said that the arrested accused, Uka Emeka alias Godwin (34), has blown the lid off the racket active in the western suburbs. During interrogation, he allegedly said that he was part of a drug syndicate that procured contraband from the US via courier services. “He has also given us a list of their clients who are mostly from posh societies in Lokhandwala, Oshiwara, Andheri, Juhu and Pali Hill in Bandra. We are analysing the information and further course of action is under way,” said a source. Godwin has been booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The use of courier services for drug trafficking seems to be on the rise in the country, said NCB officials. In March, state home minister Anil Deshmukh had said the use of courier services to transport drugs had become a new challenge in controlling the menace. “This is an issue before the authorities, whether it is Customs, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence or NCB,” he had told the state council while replying to a calling attention raised by Congresss MLC Anant Gadgil. Deshmukh had also said that several Nigerian nationals were involved in the drug trade and had a hub in Thane, according to information received from intelligence agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-arrests-nigerian-busts-drug-racket-in-suburbs-that-used-intl-courier-services/articleshow/78669450.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Three doctors among 16 health staff to die of Covid-19 in north Maharashtra||NASHIK: The Covid-19 pandemic has claimed the lives of three doctors in north Maharashtra so far. While two of the doctors worked at government facilities, the third one was from a private hospital. These doctors were among the 16 frontline Covid workers at government and private hospitals who have succumbed to the infection in the region so far. Senior doctors of government covid facilities said doctors, nurses and other health workers are in a “sea of Covid patients” while on duty. Despite knowing the risks, they have been selflessly working hard for more than six months. Mallikarjun Pattanshetty, the deputy director of health for the Nashik region, said: “One doctor from Dhule and one from Nashik district, who had been working in government hospitals, have died due to Covid-19 so far. Another private hospital doctor has also died succumbed to the infection in Ahmednagar. There are 13 are health workers in government and private hospitals who have died due to Covid.” A total of 695 doctors, nurses and health workers have been infected by novel coronavirus in north Maharashtra. This includes 115 doctors, 133 nurses and 329 other health workers from government hospitals and 67 doctors, 35 nurses and 16 other medical staff from private hospitals. Pattanshetty said, 102 government hospital doctors and 62 private hospital doctors have recovered so far. IMA Nashik president Sameer Chandratre said a study showed that the rate of casualties among doctors infected by novel coronavirus is three times more than the general citizens. This means if 100 people get infected by Covid-19, three succumb to the infection. However, if 100 doctors get infected by the virus, the death rate is at least 9%. The study showed that in June, 11% of doctors had died of Covid infection and even now, the rate is at least 9%. The figures are same for the nurses, ward boys etc. “The government should at least announce an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for the family members of doctors, nurses, ward boys etc. who have died due to coronavirus while working in private hospitals, as they too are doing the same work as government doctors and other health workers,” said Chandratre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-docs-among-16-health-staff-to-die-of-covid-19-in-n-maha/articleshow/78666592.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||Delay in testing caused spike in fatalities: Mysuru DC||Mysuru: Delay in getting tested for Covid-19 was among the reasons for the spike in fatalities owing to the infection in Mysuru, said deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri Dasari on Wednesday. The DC, who shared details about the prevailing situation in Mysuru apropos of Covid-19 through a Facebook Live session, cited the recent death of a 43-year-old patient to highlight the negligent attitude among a section of the public. “He had had a mild fever but he did not get himself tested, and avoided receiving treatment. He remained home for a week and later had some difficulty breathing before succumbing to the infection. The authorities learnt this information following an interaction with members of his family in the course of an audit on the rising Covid fatalities in Mysuru,” Rohini said. She sought to remind the public that getting tested was the first step in besting the infection. “If you are displaying symptoms of the infection or have been in contact with previously infected patients, you must get tested. Mysuru has so far reported 900 Covid-19 fatalities, which accounts for 10% of the state’s death toll,” the DC said. Mysuru is second only to Bengaluru Urban in the number of Covid fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/delay-in-testing-caused-spike-in-fatalities-mysuru-dc/articleshow/78666587.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: DCP makes video to get plaints, inputs||NAGPUR: In an innovative effort to instill confidence in the police, DCP (Zone-III) Lohit Matani, who took charge recently, has made a video appeal to Nagpurians to fearlessly approach him in case they spot a criminal act. He has also asked people to seek police help to curb illicit activities that go unpunished or unnoticed. The 1.51 minute video shared on various social media platforms has gone viral. Matani appealed to citizens to contact him (on his mobile number 7028059687 shared in the video) in case they have any grievances against any concerned police stations or have inputs pertaining to IPL betting, gambling spots etc On the day after releasing the video, Matani received 18 calls and most of the complaints were pertaining to consumption of liquor in the open. “I will definitely take action against such activities,” the DCP told TOI. Zone-III jurisdiction includes Kotwali, Mahal, Wardhaman Nagar, Pachpaoli, Ganeshpeth, Shanti Nagar, Lakadganj and Tehsil among other areas. Sources said these areas have actually become infamous for illegal activities like betting, gambling, illicit liquor, IPL betting etc. In the recent past even the city police including crime branch have unearthed many illegal activities in this part of the city. Matani said that to ensure effective redressal of complaints he has also made a special register to note down any citizens’ grievances and inputs. An IPS officer of 2014 batch, Matani issued the video message putting his personal cell phone number as a helpline number. “I will be available 24X7 for the citizens,” he said. He claimed that he will try to ensure resolution of the complainants or any intelligence inputs within stipulated time period. “If I’m busy in meeting or any other work, my RTPC (radio telephony police constable) will be entrusted to note down the complaints,” he said. To a query on how he would ensure compliance of a grievance or any intelligence input, the DCP said he would try to resolve the complaints through police stations only. “If needed, other investigation modes will be adopted,” he said. This is not the first time that Matani has shared his contact number publicly. He added that when he was posted earlier as SRPF commandant in Amravati, additional SP Jalgaon and SDPO Ramtek subdivision, he used similar technique to bridge the gap between citizens and police. “This single move makes the police approachable and also changes image of police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcp-makes-video-to-get-plaints-inputs/articleshow/78669311.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 15, 2020||Surat||Virtual garba to appeal to citizens||Surat: During this pandemic, when every activity and public gatherings are closed or limited it’s very difficult to host and celebrate the most-awaited Navratri and other festivals, but the city-based Taal Group members have choreographed a garba to appeal to citizens to play at home and stay safe.“We customised and celebrated the garbha (Navraas), an offering to Goddess, while maintaining all precautions and guidelines by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and local administration. This final production of celebration is done after rehearsal of members online via video callings and later grouped into smaller groups. By this creative way, we are offering this creative production of garbha to Goddess in this pandemic. We want to encourage people to stay home during Navratri and play at home with family members. We want to send out this message through this 10 minute special video shoot,” said Krutika Shah, director of Taal group (Surat). She said that the special video will be on social media on October 17, the first day of Navratri. “We dedicate this concept of virtual Navratri to all front line workers who have been working tirelessly to fight Covid-19 and save lives,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-garba-to-appeal-to-citizens/articleshow/78667868.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Citing global trend, Lucknow experts say resurge of coronavirus likely after decline||LUCKNOW: The declining trend of the Covid-19 curve in the city is happening in a “natural course” after hitting the peak. However, if precautions are ignored, a resurgence might occur after Diwali, believe experts. The conclusion is based on the study of the novel coronavirus curve witnessed the world over, which shows that transmission rate increased gradually and remained high for two months after attaining the peak. It was followed by a decline for about two months but surged again as soon as people dropped their guard. Lucknow’s weekly incidence rate also shows gradual rise and a peak period of two months before the decline began. Going by the global trend, the coming days would be crucial and a lot will depend on public behaviour and administrative preparedness. “The transmission trajectory in US, Spain and UK and even Delhi shows a two-month peak period followed by a decline and spike again after two months,” said Dr D Himanshu, a communicable diseases expert at KGMU. He also said that after reaching a certain level, every virus tends to decline mainly because the populace starts developing immunity due exposure to the virus. Prof Avinash Agarwal from critical care medicine at KGMU also cited the Covid-19 trend witnessed the world over to predict the probability of a second wave post-Diwali, if precautions are not taken. “There is a possibility that some patients with low viral load might have gone undetected and developed immunity, which in turn lowered transmission rate as chances of such people passing on the infection to others is less,” he added. Expressing similar views, head of microbiology at RMLIMS Prof Jyotsna Agarwal said that the declining trend tends to develop a sense of complacency among people, which triggers a second wave. “Festival season is around the corner and restrictions are being lifted. At such a time, disrespect to safety protocols will create a conducive atmosphere for a flare up,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citing-global-trend-experts-say-resurge-of-virus-likely-after-decline/articleshow/78670577.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Cane admin issues recovery certificates against 4 pvt sugar mills in UP||PILIBHIT: The state sugarcane administration has issued recovery certificates against four private sector sugar mills in UP for delay in clearing cane price arrears. The action was enforced after a review of current status of payment to farmers by the mills on October 13. The crushing session for 2020-21 is scheduled to begin on November 1. Yet, as per official records on October 13, the state’s 119 functional sugar mills still owed farmers Rs 14,991.28 crore from the previous season. So far, 83.92% of the cane price for the crushing season 2019-20 has been cleared, said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, UP, adding that the state administration was taking steps to expedite payment of the remainder by constantly exerting pressure upon the mills. “Mills that were brought under the ambit of recovery include Sujanpur-Badaun mill of Yadu group, Chilwariya-Bahraich mill of Simbhaoli group, Modi Nagar-Ghazibad mill of Modi group and Rudhauli-Basti mill of Bajaj group. The action has been enforced under sections 17(4) and 18(3) of the UP Sugarcane (Supply and Purchase Regulation) Act, 1953,” he said. The government had made necessary preparations to release the Rs 3,000 crore due to sugar mills under buffer stock subsidy, export subsidy and transport subsidy, as well as Rs 1,000 crore from electricity sold by the mills to the UP Power Corporation Limited. This amount will be directly transferred to accounts of farmers against cane price arrears before the forthcoming crushing season begins, said Bhoosreddy. Pilibhit district cane officer Jitendra Kumar Mishra said Barkhera sugar mill of the Bajaj group, which owed farmers Rs 131. 62 crore on October 13, has been warned it will be issued recovery certificates if they did not clear dues soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-admin-issues-recovery-certificates-against-4-pvt-sugar-mills/articleshow/78664655.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||5 multiplexes, 1 single screen reopen today||LUCKNOW: After seven months, cinema halls of the city will reopen on Thursday with Covid-19 protocols. In the city, the first show will start at 1:45 pm. Cinema halls were closed on March 16 due to rise in Covid-19 cases. However, following the home ministry’s nod they are set to restart their operations in the state on Thursday. Talking to TOI, Anand Tiwari, entertainment tax officer, Lucknow said, “Covid-19 protocol has been shared with all cinema hall owners and everyone has agreed to follow it strictly. However, not all cinema halls will be reopened in the first week. Few cinema hall owners are yet to confirm the Covid status of their employees.” There are a total 20 cinema theatres, including 14 multiplex with multiple screens and six single screen cinema halls, in the city. Multiplexes like Inox cinema Umrao (Nishatganj), Inox Crown (Faizabad road), Inox Riverside mall (Gomti Nagar), PVR cinema Phoenix mall (Alambagh), Novelty cinema (Lalbagh) and single screen Novelty Aliganj will be reopened. Ashish Agrawal, chairperson, UP Cinema Exhibitors Federation, said, “Every second seat in the movie hall has been sealed and under no circumstances will the audience be allowed to sit next to each other. Further, thermal screening, hand sanitiser and social distancing will be a must at every cinema hall.” He further said, “In the first week only two shows will run between 1:45 pm and 9pm. We expect close to 15% footfall every day until new movies are released. At present, we will showcase movies like Malang, Tanhaji, Thappad and Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan.” No advance booking is allowed and tickets can be purchased from window counters at cinema halls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-multiplexes-1-single-screen-reopen-today/articleshow/78670590.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Cop dies of Covid in Nashik city||Nashik : A 56-year-old head constable attached to Deolali Camp police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. The head constable, identified as Nivrutti Bhau Bangre, was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city for the past 10 days. This is the seventh death of police personnel from Covid 19 in the city police commissionerate. Police officials of the Deolali Camp police station said Bangre tested positive on October 3 after which he was undergoing treatment He was serving as a driver at the Deolali Camp police station since the past one year. Senior police officials said Bangre may have contracted the infection during his duty as 10 to 12 personnel from their police station have been infected. In the view of police personnel contracting Covid, the city police have set up a 100-bed covid facility at the police headquarters along Gangapur Road. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cop-dies-of-covid-in-nashik-city/articleshow/78666604.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kochi||Now, hire water taxis in Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: People can now hire water taxi service of State Water Transport Department (SWTD) from Alappuzha. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the first water taxi service on Thursday at 11:30 am through video conferencing. He will also launch a 100-seater catamaran passenger boat service on Thursday. The second phase of water taxi service in the state is expected to be launched in Ernakulam in November. India’s first water taxi service will be operated from Alappuzha boat jetty, said Shaji V Nair, director, SWTD. People can hire the taxi from anywhere in Alappuzha district for Rs 1,500 per hour. The taxi can reach Kottayam from Alappuzha in an hour. Kerala: People can hire water taxi in #Alappuzha district for Rs 1,500 per hour. It has a seating capacity for 10 p… https://t.co/fUN8KRLHxF— TOI Kochi (@TOIKochiNews) 1602737016000“Presently people can hire taxies on roads if they don’t want to travel in buses or trains. But such an option was not available in water and private boat operators charge exorbitantly. So, the water taxi will be a boon for people to reach their destinations through water. If a person needs to reach a house in Kuttanad presently, they have to travel in SWTD boats that has many halts, and they also need to walk long distances from boat jetties to the houses. But water taxies will drop our passengers at the door step of houses in Kuttanad without stopping anywhere. Water taxi service will also gift a different experience to tourists,” said Nair. If a person needs the water taxi service, he or she can call 9400050325 or 9400050322. “A catamaran diesel-powered craft with a seating capacity for 10 passengers is being used for water taxi service. The cost of a water taxi boat is around Rs 60 lakhs,” Nair added. The boat has a 250-horse power outboard diesel engine imported from Sweden and it can run at a maximum speed of 19 knots (approx 35 km/hour). It has an electric power steering. A solar panel atop meets all other power requirements, including lights, fan and control system. Besides, the water taxi in Alappuzha, three more water taxies will soon be launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-hire-water-taxis-in-alappuzha/articleshow/78669504.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nashik||2 murders in Nashik||Nashik: Two murder cases were reported in the city between Monday and Tuesday and in both the cases the deceased were killed by their family members. In the first case, a 70-year-old man was killed by his grandson in Odha village along the Nashik-Aurangabad highway, while in the second incident a 35-year-old woman was killed by her husband in Satpur area. According an officer from Adgaon police station, Kiran Bendkule has been arrested for killing his grandfather Raghunath whose body was found in a sewer. “The victim’s body was tied with an adhesive tape while an iron chain was used to tie his legs. The was identified by the locals as a resident of Dhondegaon in Harsul,” he said. In the second incident, Satpur police have arrested Balu Khetre for killing his 28-year-old wife Vaishali. “The woman was choked by the suspect over an argument. We were informed by the neighbours following which we got into action and arrested the suspect,” another police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-murders-in-nashik/articleshow/78666613.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Bomb threat call triggers tension at Fadnavis event||Nashik: Police swung into action soon after an anonymous caller threatened that bombs had been planted on the premises of a private hospital at Jamner in Jalgaon district that was to be inaugurated by former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday.The personal assistant of MLA Girish Mahajan received the threat call followed by an SMS demanding Rs 1 crore just before the event, police said.“Mahajan’s PA, Deepak Tayade, received the phone call when he was at the inauguration venue while Fadnavis and other senior BJP leaders were at the bungalow of Mahajan,” police inspector Pratap Ingale of the Jamner police station told TOI. The officer said that Tayade received the call at 3.18 pm and the person told him in Hindi “the place where the programme has been organised has bombs placed in all its four corners. I am telling you this and now you decide what to do.” According to Ingale, the SMS sent at 3.37pm said: “Send Rs 1 crore by 5 pm. Tell Mahajan a very big explosion would take place. My people are waiting in Malegaon. You do as you wish, I will do my work and go.”Tayade lodged a formal complaint at 8.30pm, following which police booked the caller under IPC Sections 384 (extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury to commit extortion) and 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication). Ingale added that two suspects have been detained for questioning. Police said they have traced the phone number to a labourer from Pachora in Jalgaon, but he claimed that he had lost his mobile some time back. Fadnavis and other senior BJP leaders attended the inauguration of the hospital after getting the green signal from police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bomb-threat-call-triggers-tension-at-fadnavis-event/articleshow/78666630.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||286 run-down buildings dot Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: There are 286 dilapidated buildings across Hyderabad, show records available with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Another 250 structures, served notices by the civic body, have been renovated, its owners claimed. Records also showed that since October 9, GHMC reported 54 cases of wall collapse — 18 of them on Wednesday alone. Most of the dilapidated structures, officials shared, are located in Goshamahal circle, Mallepally, Begumbazar, Chintal Basti (Khairtabad circle), Charminar circle, Sultan Bazar and Secunderabad. Many among them are being used for commercial activities. A quick scan of Secunderabad’s Monda market showed several of these ageing buildings housing textile, jewellery, utensil stores on the ground floor and housing residents on the first floor. The scene was much the same in Begum Bazar. Owners that TOI spoke to said they wanted the buildings to be demolished but couldn’t do so because of the tenants. “Our tenants are running the business for four decades. We want to completely renovate the property but they fear we will lease it out to someone else post renovation, for an increased price, and are therefore not vacating. Like other property owners, I too would like market value for my property when I rent it out,” said V Dheerendra who owns a building in Sultan Bazaar. According to owners, most of these tenants pay only 10% of the current rental value. When asked, GHMC officials maintained that timely action was being taken against dilapidated structures. “As of Wednesday, 19 of them have been demolished, people living in 14 old buildings have been vacated and 35 people living near Musi have been rehabilitated. In all, this year, 154 dilapidated buildings have been demolished and 10 structures repaired,” said GHMC commissioner, D S Lokesh Kumar. Putting the onus of protecting their houses on its occupants, a town planning official also warned people living near sloppy terrains, especially in Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills to vacate to avoid any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/286-run-down-buildings-dot-hyd/articleshow/78670692.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab not responsible for Capital pollution: PPCB||PATIALA: Even as Delhi holds Punjab and Haryana majorly responsible for pollution caused by stubble burning, figures of Ambient Air Quality Index (AQI) show that Delhi remains more polluted than Punjab during the months when there are no farm fires. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials said Delhi should check pollution within the state as Punjab is not responsible for it. They said even on a day when Punjab recorded moderate AQI, air quality in Delhi was poor. PPCB has questioned the authenticity of the allegation of being the cause of pollution in Delhi. PPCB member secretary Karunesh Garg said internal pollution is the main cause of pollution in Delhi and the need is to tackle such pollution instead of attributing it to Punjab or other agricultural states. “It is a myth being perpetrated that Punjab farmers are polluting the environment in Delhi and NCR by burning wheat or paddy residue,” Karunesh said. He added that the graph shows that Delhi has remained much more polluted than Punjab during the period from 2018 to 2020. AQI data of Delhi, based on calculations of 34 monitoring stations, stood at 269 whereas in Punjab, it was 116 in 2018. In October 2019, AQI in Delhi was 207 and in Punjab, it was 130. AQI data shows that pollution in Delhi was much higher than Punjab despite the fact that no cases of paddy straw burning were reported in January, February and March, 2018 to 2020. In 2018, Delhi recorded 328, 243 and 203 AQI whereas Punjab recorded 175, 120 and 101 AQI from January to March. In 2019, AQI in Delhi was 328, 244 and 184 in the months of January, February and March. Punjab recorded 109, 100 and 108 AQI in the respective months. In 2020, Delhi witnessed 286, 241 and 128 AQI from January to March whereas Punjab recorded 121, 113 and 67 AQI in the respective months. PPCB chairman S S Marwaha said, “It is wrong to hold Punjab responsible for pollution in own state. Delhi should check the pollution within its territory. Stubble burning is not the only cause of pollution in Delhi. Punjab has safe or moderate pollution level whereas the national capital still has unhealthy air with poor AQI. The message is loud and clear that stubble burning incidents of Punjab are not responsible for Delhi’s pollution.” So far, Punjab has witnessed 3,112 cases of paddy residue burning from September 21 to October 13. In the corresponding period last year, it witnessed 872 stubble burning cases. PPCB chairman, S S Marwaha said last year, 18 lakh MT of paddy arrived till October 13 whereas this year, 39 lakh MT of paddy has arrived in the grain markets. He said if calculated on the basis of arrival of paddy, the number of stubble burning cases is far less in comparison to last year. PPCB revealed that till October 12, Rs 16,72,500 environmental compensation was imposed on farmers whereas 428 more violators out of 1,060 were being identified for farm fires. They said red entry was marked on 414 violators and six violators were prosecuted under the Air Act whereas 11 combine harvestors were also fined Rs 50,000 each. On October 13 this year, Delhi recorded 300 AQI in comparison to 148 AQI of Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-not-responsible-for-capital-pollution-ppcb/articleshow/78669462.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Register online for Durga Puja bhog, says Charbagh Samiti||LUCKNOW: Charbagh’s Manav Adarsh Sewa Samiti, which has been holding Durga Puja for 28 years, will be going digital this year. Apart from live streaming of ‘puja’ and other customary rituals, the committee has planned to deliver the ‘bhog’ at devotees’ doorstep on the day of Maha Navmi. As there will be no pandal hopping this year, the committee has decided to opt for home delivery of ‘bhog’ through its members following all Covid norms“During Durga puja, offering bhog to the goddess is important and its distribution among devotees is equally important. Since the rituals will be performed in the presence of committee members and no cultural event will be organised, we have decided to provide the ‘bhog’ at everybody’s doorstep who wish to get it delivered. People will have to register themselves through a Google form,” said organiser PK Ghosh. Two boxes of the bhog consisting of ‘khichdi’, ‘chachari’ and ‘kheer’ are priced at Rs 301 and Rs 501, respectively. “Whatever money we receive via the delivery orders will go to charity,” he added. Math plans Kumari puja: The Ramakrishna Math is planning to hold the 119-year-old tradition of Kumari Puja on Maha Ashtami day on October 24 with full Covid protocols. The event will be live-streamed on the official Youtube channel of Math. However, the final plan will be released after getting permission from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/register-online-for-durga-puja-bhog/articleshow/78670600.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI sets up 50 Covid molecular labs||Chandigarh: PGI has established 50 Covid-19 molecular labs in north India. Various labs and medical colleges of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Leh and Ladakh were covered under the programme. The total includes 16 government medical colleges, eight civil hospitals and 11 private medical colleges, seven defence laboratories and four state testing facilities. Additional testing facilities have been established at GADVASU, Ludhiana, NRDDL, Jalandhar, Punjab biotechnology incubator and Central Forensic Laboratory, Mohali. Covid-19 testing in some of the premier private medical colleges like CMC and DMC, Ludhiana, have also been established under the programme. Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGI, said “The pandemic posed a big challenge to north India as during the initial phase, very few labs were trained in molecular virology testing. It was a big challenge, but PGI accepted this as an opportunity to upgrade the labs of surrounding and far-flung areas. The department of virology established around 50 Covid-19 testing real time PCR labs.” Seeking to expand testing facilities, the Indian Council of Medical Research had identified PGI as one of the 14 centres of excellence to mentor all government and private medical colleges in their catchment areas to create state-of-art molecular virology setups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-sets-up-50-covid-molecular-labs/articleshow/78666627.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||1,852 new Covid cases in region, 45 die||Chandigarh/Shimla: The north region of Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh reported 1,852 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday along with 45 deaths. Coronavirus claimed 31 more lives in Punjab and infected 549 more people, while another 970 went home after recovery. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was among those discharged from a private hospital in Mohali. He had tested positive on October 6 and remained initially in home quarantine before being hospitalised on October 10. Of 31 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, nine were in Mohali, five in Jalandhar, three in Ludhiana, two each in Pathankot, Muktsar, and Ferozepur, and one each in Amritsar, Barnala, Faridkot, Sangrur, and Hoshiarpur. Doctors tested 68 people positive in Bathinda, 64 in Ludhiana, 51 in Patiala, and 47 in Hoshiarpur, besides 37 in Jalandhar, 32 in Kapurthala, 31 each in Gurdaspur and Pathankot, 23 in Muktsar, 22 each in Mohali and Amritsar, 17 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 16 in Fazilka, 15 in Faridkot, 11 in Mansa, 10 each in Sangrur, Barnala, and Tarn Taran, seven in Moga, and six in Ferozepur. Also, 95 tested positive in Jalandhar, 57 each in Mohali and Amritsar, 55 in Bathinda, 44 in Patiala, 41 in Hoshiarpur, 40 in Gurdaspur, 29 in Muktsar, 28 in Ropar, 20 in Kapurthala, 18 each in Fazilka and Tarn Taran, 15 each in Ferozepur and Faridkot, 14 in Nawanshahr, 12 each in Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib, seven in Pathankot, five in Mansa, four in Moga and three in Barnala. Haryana reported 1,205 positive cases and 13 deaths on the day. The state's has counted 1,45,507 infected cases and 1,614 deaths. Its hospitals have discharged 1,33,706 patients, while 10,187 cases are active. Haryana has a recovery rate of 91.89% and a doubling rate of 39 days. The state has tested 22,73,587 samples till date and it has 179 people on oxygen support and 27 on ventilators. Himachal Pradesh reported 98 Covid-19 cases and a death on Wednesday, besides 168 recoveries. The state has now 17,860 positive cases, of which 2,436 are active, 15,153 recovered, 250 dead, and 16 migrated. The positive cases include 24 from Solan district, 22 from Shimla, 15 from Bilaspur, 12 from Kullu, 11 from Hamirpur, nine from Kangra, three from Chamba, and two from Mandi. Those recovered include 40 from Kullu district, 33 from Shimla, 27 from Mandi, 22 from Bilaspur, 14 from Hamirpur, 11 from Solan, nine from Una, seven from Chamba, and five from Lahaul-Spiti. So far, 3,31,866 persons have been tested in Himachal Pradesh, of which 3,13,037 tests were negative, while the results of 969 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1852-new-covid-cases-in-region-45-die/articleshow/78669482.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Slow lifting of paddy causes glut in Karnal mandis||Karnal: Heavy arrival of paddy in grain markets and slow lifting of the procured crop has resulted in space crunch in various grain markets of the district. The farmers were facing problem to unload their produce as heaps of paddy bags are already lying in the mandis. According to the official data, till October 13, a total of 5,16,605 metric tonne (MT) paddy had been procured at 13 procurement centres in the district. Of the total procurement, 3,48,014 MT paddy has been procured by the food and supplies department, 97,678 MT by Hafed and 70,913 MT by Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC). Till Tuesday evening, about 1,44,570 MT of procured paddy was yet to be lifted. As per the figure provided by the district administration, Biana purchase centre has witnessed the slowest lifting of paddy as only 49% of procured paddy has been lifted so far. Similarly, Gharaunda and Ballah has witnessed only 53% lifting each. Only 68% paddy has been lifted from Assandh grain market and 79% from Karnal grain market. However, Jundla grain market has witnessed 95% lifting. Some farmers said the state government should make adequate arrangements to lift the crop on time. Kalu Ram, a farmer, said, “We had to unload our produce on the road, because we did not get any space in the mandi. Lifting should be smooth.” Rajneesh Choudhary, president of Karnal Arhtiya Association, said the tardy lifting has caused glut in the mandis as farmers are not getting enough space to unload their produce in overflowing grain markets. Sunder Kamboj, secretary of Karnal market committee, admitted to the slow lifting of paddy. But he clarified that some farmers come to the grain markets without schedule of the online portal, which creates problems in the mandi. He said they were trying their best to clear the market yards. District food and supply controller Nishant Rathi said as much as 5,16,605 MT paddy had been procured out of which around 72% had been lifted till Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/slow-lifting-of-paddy-causes-glut-in-karnal-mandis/articleshow/78669468.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM for identifying highload districts||LUCKNOW: Even as Covid -19 cases are coming down in the state, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked senior officials of the health department to identify high load districts and work with the local administration to bring down cases there. He has said that special focus is needed in Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut and Mathura. The CM said that due to the patient load in Lucknow where patients from even other districts are coming for treatment, ICU beds should be increased in KGMU, SGPGI and RML hospital. During a meeting with Team 11 on Wednesday, Yogi appreciated the fact that UP’s recovery rate had crossed 90% as number of recoveries each day have been higher than the daily cases since September 17. However, he expressed concern with the situation in Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut and Mathura and asked senior health officials to regularly communicate with senior health officers in the districts and provide them guidance. He added that in order to control the spread of Covid-19 more effectively, the state had to strengthen its contact tracing programme. Ambulances should also operate more actively to ensure that patients are able to get to a health facility in time. He also directed the police department to ensure that all personnel on field were wearing masks, gloves and using sanitizers while carrying out enforcement activities so that infections within the force could be prevented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-identifying-highload-districts/articleshow/78670606.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||16 under trial prisoners test +ve||Chamarajanagar: As many as 16 under trial prisoners in Chamarajanagar tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Jail authorities subjected about 58 under trials to Rapid Antigen Test and of them 16 were found positive. They have been shifted to covid care centres and hospitals. Jail superintendent Vijay Rodakar said the test was conducted as prisoners stay together and some of them were symptomatic. There are 120 under trial prisoner in the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/16-under-trial-prisoners-test-ve/articleshow/78666640.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Farmers could fudge output if CCE data revealed, Gujarat govt to HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government on Wednesday filed an affidavit in the Gujarat high court stating that farmers could manipulate crop output to show high losses and make large insurance claims under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, if the government reveals details of its Crop Cutting Experiment (CCE). The state government expressed apprehension of data manipulation by farmers in response to a PIL filed by Khedut Ekta Manch requesting the HC to direct the government not to withhold information relating to CCE. The PIL complained that the data is being manipulated and maintained that the government was under statutory obligation to declare it. On the other hand, the state government claimed that it withheld the data because at the behest of the central government, which advised it to delay declaration of the results of CCEs by three years or after the settlement of claims. The government contended that declaring the results of CCE in advance would enable farmers calculate the ‘threshold yield’ early and it would violate clause 23.2 of the PMFBY which prohibits the declaration of threshold yield before payment of claims. “…there is a possibility that in the next year the farmers may manipulate farming practices to alter production in order to show high losses,” the affidavit reads. CCEs are conducted to estimate crop production and calculate insurance claims. The actual yield of a crop in a given area is determined on the basis of CCE, and the difference between the threshold yield and actual yield is considered for payment of crop insurance, the reply said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/farmers-could-fudge-output-if-cce-data-revealed-govt-to-hc/articleshow/78670754.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Two posing as policemen loot labourer||Vadodara: Police have arrested two men for posing as cops and looting Rs 5,000 from a casual labourer in the city. The incident occurred when Soma Maali was waiting at the ST bus depot in Sayajigunj on Monday. Mali was smoking a beedi, when the accused duo identified as Bharat Ode and Valji Vankar approached him. Bharat introduced himself as a cop and told Mali that smoking in public is an offence. He then asked Mali to pay fine and forcibly took away Rs 5,000 that the victim was carrying. Mali left for Jambusar as his mother had died and he had to attend her condolence meet. He returned to the city on Tuesday and approached a security personnel at the ST depot to inquire about the fine he had paid. The matter then reached the security in-charge who then began search for the duo. Mali identified Bharat who was loitering in the ST depot. Bharat then revealed the name of Vankar who works as a security guard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-posing-as-policemen-loot-labourer/articleshow/78667812.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Green flag to Metro, state SOP awaited||NAGPUR: The state government in its latest unlock order has allowed Metros in the state to run from October 15. However, Nagpur Metro will not start operating from Thursday as the state urban development department (UDD) is yet to issue the standard operating procedure (SOP). MahaMetro officials were prepared to start operations from Thursday and waited till late night for the SOP. However, the UDD officials failed to issue it. Metro managing director Brijesh Dixit said that the agency had kept the system warm and running. “We used to run a train in the morning and evening every day. We can start regular Metro operations any day,” he told TOI. Dixit said that his next target was ‘Mission One Lakh’. “We want to increase the ridership of Metro to one lakh passengers per day. We will take the help of all organizations to achieve this target,” he added. The number of operational stations has increased to sixteen with the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) clearing four more stations recently – LAD Square, Bansi Nagar, Rahate Colony and Ajni Square. Six more stations on Reach I (Sitabuldi to Khapri) and Reach III (Sitabuldi to Lokmanya Nagar) will be opened in two months. If the Metro ridership has to increase then the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will have to start its city bus service. The city buses provide feeder service to the Metro. Dixit said that he expected the bus service would resume soon. While e-bicycles will be available at Metro stations, e-scooter operators are yet to get permission from the state government. This is a major hurdle in the way of increasing Metro ridership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-allows-metro-to-run-mahametro-waiting-for-sop/articleshow/78669531.cms||Ashish Roy
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Education dept simplifies process of issuing school leaving certificates||Chandigarh: To spare students the ordeal of running from pillar to post to get school leaving certificate, the Punjab education department has launched an online portal. A spokesperson of the school education department said the department has launched the online portal to facilitate the process of issuing school leaving certificates. School education secretary Krishan Kumar directed the superintendent of the concerned district education officer’s office to log in to the portal and take a copy of the transfer certificate received online from the school and get it signed by the district education officer (DEO). According to the spokesperson, in case of absence of the superintendent in the office, this responsibility will be discharged by the senior staff present. School principals have been directed to match the details of the student concerned with the school register before uploading the certificate on the portal. District education officers (DEOs) have been directed not to ask for records of any school in this regard and no teacher / staff will be called in the office of the DEO for the purpose. The department also launched an online software on the e-Punjab portal regarding pension cases of retired department employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/education-dept-simplifies-process-of-issuing-school-leaving-certificates/articleshow/78669525.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PEC students want no Dec exams, say pass them as per last year marks||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Engineering College (PEC) should not conduct the examinations planned for December of the semester that ended in April and pass students on marks obtained last year, according to a proposal by the student council. PEC director professor Dheeraj Sanghi agreed to the suggestion made in a meeting chaired by him with a condition that it be tabled in the senate meeting for the final nod. The council said students do not want the exams to be conducted, pointing out the move will not force hostellers to visit the campus twice. The senate in its last meeting had decided the examination of second, third and fourth year BTech students will be held in November and last year semester examination in December. Students of each year who are hostellers will have to visit the campus twice —in November and December — in this arrangement. Students argued that a spike in Covid-19 cases is feared in November and December owing to the festival season — a scenario that experts too have predicted — making it highly unsafe to travel just to appear in examinations. Sanghi said he could postpone the examination scheduled from November 2 till Diwali for the existing semester and review the situation after the festival. He also offered a choice that the institute could hold an examination twice for the semester students. It might be once in the last week of November and a common date could be decided later according to the number of students left to appear. The council proposed why the authorities are not exploring online examination option, leading Sanghi to point out it is not possible to monitor more than five students appearing online at a time. “But the authorities are exploring this option for international students, the strength of whom is around 40 to 45,” he said. PEC will try that the whole batch of 650 students is not called in one go, asking 50% to appear in the examination at a time. Box ‘Senate meet next week’ PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi said a senate meeting will be called next week to discuss and secure approval to the proposal of the student council of no examinations in December||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-students-want-no-dec-exams-say-pass-them-as-per-last-year-marks/articleshow/78666657.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Already struggling to preserve dying art forms, Covid deals severe blow to folk artists||DEHRADUN: After six months of lockdown and the consequent restrictions on public events, the pandemic has left many folk artists in Uttarakhand out of work. While some have turned to odd jobs, others are living off their savings and fervently hoping for the situation to improve. On an average, folk artists from Uttarakhand get around 20 to 40 shows a year, which helps them barely get through the year. In the wake of Covid-19, big events like Ramlilas, Dussehra celebrations and other festivities have either been cancelled or the celebrations have been curtailed leading to the artists being rendered jobless. “We have been pushed to the wall. Small savings and support from family members is somehow helping us survive,” said folk singer Hema Negi Karasi, who specialises in Jagar (a form of devotional singing unique to Uttarakhand). She added that earlier, “people of Uttarakhand who have settled in foreign countries or are based in other states, would invite us for programmes to keep the connection with their native land alive.” “All of that has stopped because of Covid-19. The festivals organised by the government are decent earning opportunities too. But these options aren’t there this year,” Karasi said. According to her, depending on the stature, a folk artist earns anything in the range of Rs 2,000 to Rs 50,000 per show. “A few even receive more than Rs 1 lakh but the amount is divided between backstage singers, musicians, lyricists and support staff. It was a booming sector earlier (before the pandemic), full of possibilities. But the prospects don’t look so good anymore,” she said. Ramesh Babu Goswami, a folk singer in Chaukhutia, Almora, used to get 50 shows a year, both in the country and abroad. With most of those gigs now cancelled, he has turned to farming at his native village. “I was lucky I had the option of farming. However, there are many who have no option but to look for odd jobs. In fact, quite a few are now working as daily-wage labourers. The Uttarakhand government had announced a relief of Rs 1,000 for a folk artist, which is far from enough to support a family,” Goswami said. Chandan Singh Karayat who runs a performers’ group called “Kumaon Sanskritik Rangmanch” said that “generally, his group began receiving donations to prepare for the Ramlila around June.” “However, since everyone is facing financial hardships, we didn’t receive any donations this year. We have students as young as 10 to those studying in college performing with us,” Karayat said, adding that the group is struggling to make ends meet this year. Some performers, like poet Gauri Mishra from Nainital, have shifted base to online platforms. “Stage programmes started getting cancelled from March onwards. However, a poet has the responsibility to present the prevailing circumstances in society. So, I posted videos on my YouTube channel, motivating people to survive this phase,” Mishra said. M S Mehta, a writer from Bageshwar, said he promoted the Kumaoni and Garhwali dialect online during the lockdown. “In my portal ‘Mera Pahad’, I have written extensively about typical words from the dialects which are not commonly used anymore. I also used Facebook to educate the people of the state about their regional languages and the importance of preserving it for future generations,” Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/already-struggling-to-preserve-dying-art-forms-covid-deals-severe-blow-to-folk-artists/articleshow/78666646.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||No partial reopening of schools for class I-VIII yet||Chandigarh: There will be no partial reopening of schools for students from class I to VIII from Thursday, as the UT education department is yet to get a nod from the higher authorities, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said on Wednesday.The education the department had sought the consents of parents of both government and government-aided schools. Private schools have already refused to reopen from October 15. For government schools, the department is waiting for orders of the higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-partial-reopening-of-schools-for-class-i-viii-yet/articleshow/78666647.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid death rate rises from 1.13% to 1.48%||Chandigarh: The Covid-19 mortality rate has increased from 1.13% to 1.48% — marginally less than the national rate of 1.53% — in 45 days from August 29 to October 13 even as daily growth of cases dips and the recoveries increase. “Although Chandigarh has seen a significant decline in daily growth of infections, its mortality rate has consistently increased over the past month. This is at a time when mortality rate at all-India level and in most other states is declining,” said Dr Rijo M John, a Kerala-based health economist. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore had recently stressed on monitoring the health of Covid patients under home quarantine. They should contact control rooms in their areas in case of any medical consultation, deterioration in their health conditions or requirement of ambulance, the administrator had said.Health experts said 90% deaths were of patients having underlying conditions. The prevalence of hypertension and diabetes was an additional factor. Experts said in many cases, there was a late diagnosis of the virus. “As there is social stigma attached with the virus, people sometimes willingly not come forward for the tests,” they said, suggesting people come forward when they notice that symptoms as timely diagnosis would ultimately help in reduction of mortality rate.Central team suggestionsOne contact-tracing team for every 20 to 25 active casesContact all new cases within 24 hoursNo level 1 (mild) case should be admitted to level 2 (moderate) or level 3 (severe) centresFamily members of positive cases should be contacted by doctorsTest symptomatic contacts of patients immediatelyDeath rate DateDeath Rate August 291.13August 301.25August 311.29September 11.25September 21.23September 31.24September 41.29September 51.25September 61.23September 71.23September 81.18September 91.15September 101.14September 111.14September 121.18September 131.13September 141.15September 151.12September 161.13September 171.15September 181.16September 191.18September 201.19September 211.19September 221.20September 231.28September 241.31September 251.29September 261.27September 271.27September 281.31September 291.34September 301.36October 11.36October 21.38October 31.39October 41.40October 51.41October 61.42October 71.42October 81.44October 91.45October 101.45October 111.45October 121.45October 131.48||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-death-rate-rises-from-1-13-to-1-48/articleshow/78666652.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp takes measures to stop remdesivir smuggling||Nashik: The recent incident of a contractual worker smuggling a vial of remdesivir out of the Nashik civil hospital and selling it to a private person has prompted senior officials to put in place strict security measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents.Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said: “We have taken measures to ensure that there is a full account of the available remdesivir stock in the hospital pharmacy, and to which patient the medicine has been prescribed/administered.”On Monday night, an official of the Nashik civil hospital registered a complaint against a contractual worker of the DCH for his alleged role in smuggling out a vial of remdesivir from the government facility and selling it to some other person at a much lower price. Acting on the complaint, the police arrested suspect Deepak Satpute of Ahmednagar district who is a contractual worker at the DCH.Satpute and his accomplice had allegedly smuggled out a vial of the medicine that is administered to critically ill Covid patients. The incident had taken place last month and after it came to light, the civil hospital had set up an enquiry.Raokhande said once the medicine is prescribed to a patient by the physician, the pharmacy department will issue the medicine after checking the prescription and writing the name of the patient on the vial. Further, the physician and the medical staff concerned will have to ensure that the empty vial is returned to the pharmacy department after the injection is administered.The civil surgeon added that even in the ward, a board has been put up which will have the names of the patients to whom the medicine would be administered along with the time and date when it would be administered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosp-takes-measures-to-stop-remdesivir-smuggling/articleshow/78666645.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Government embarks on grand campaign to wash away coronavirus from UP||LUCKNOW: The state government will be carrying out a major campaign to observe World Hand Washing Day on October 15, for which a social media campaign with the hashtag #HathDhonaRokeCorona will be launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday morning. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said the campaign to promote hand washing, a crucial mechanism for prevention of the coronavirus, will be rolled out in all 75 districts of UP. The government has appealed to people to make videos of washing hands and post them on social media using the special hashtag. The best videos of the day will be rewarded. Departments like health and panchayati raj, schools, anganwadi centres, gram panchayats and urban and rural bodies will be participating in the several activities planned for the day, to create mass awareness about the importance of hand washing, especially as a means to prevent diseases and more so, Covid-19. Directions have been issued to all district magistrates, chief medical officers and other officials in district level to implement all activities identified by the government. Among these are programmes between 10am and noon during which people will wear masks and observe social distancing, hold exhibitions on proper hand washing Under the ongoing Dastak programme, ANM and ASHA workers, anganwadi, teachers and students and members of self-help groups will take up 10 houses each in their areas and carry out demonstrations of the proper way to wash hands. An official said that other than the six steps of washing hands with soap, awareness will also be spread about when to wash hands, like before having food, after touching nose, mouth and eyes, and after coughing and sneezing and using the washroom. As part of the campaign, elbow operated water taps will be installed at wash basins and hand wash stations in all labour rooms, PNC wards and health centres, foot operated hand washing units will be installed at OPDs and receptions of health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-embarks-on-grand-campaign-to-wash-away-coronavirus-from-up/articleshow/78670612.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A CPM gamble, but will it pay off?||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It took only 10 minutes after Jose K Mani winded up his news conference in Kottayam for chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to issue a statement welcoming the decision of Kerala Congress (M) faction to support LDF. In an hour, the CPM state secretariat too welcomed Jose. But, the second largest party in the front, CPI, maintained a golden silence on a day which witnessed a major political realignment in the state. Welcoming the new political line of Jose faction, Vijayan said their stance is an endorsement to the position taken by the LDF against communalism and the steps initiated by the government to support farmers. “This is a setback for those forces who had tried to stitch together a united front against the LDF government,” he said. The CPM state secretariat said Jose’s appreciation for LDF’s policies reflected the public pulse. The enthusiasm of CPM and the lack of it in CPI sums up the mood in the LDF on the Jose faction’s decision to support the front ‘unconditionally’. The CPM, which has been making deft moves to ensure continuance of the government, viewed the shift of loyalty by Jose as a major step to weaken the UDF. In January 2018, the LDF could successfully engineer a split in the UDF by prompting the JD (U) faction led by late MP Veerendrakumar to quit the front and switch over to the left fold. Later, the party was rechristened as Loktanthrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the party is now in discussion with JD (S) to become the third strongest force in the LDF. The CPM, which is slowly making inroads into Muslim vote bank in the state, while at the same time taking on Sangh Parivar, wanted a strong ally in central Travancore where the support to left front is a fluctuating trend. The Democratic Kerala Congress, led by Francis George ex-MP, was seen by the party as one such formation but the group disappointed LDF by losing all the seats contested in the 2016 poll when general trend had favoured the LDF. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran, who had openly stated that the LDF didn’t need to give any life support to KC (M) which had been on the ventilator, was pacified by his CPM counterpart Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Kanam won’t play spoilsport to CPM’s plan though he and CPI are not yet convinced by the gains of accommodating Jose faction. The CPI is of the view that traditional voters of KC (M) have an anti-Communist mindset and they may not vote for the front whatever be the case. The CPM but doesn’t buy such an argument. They point out the association of KC (M) with the left front in 1980 when the party had been part of E K Nayanar-led government and the successful stint of KC (Joseph) in the LDF in later years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-cpm-gamble-but-will-it-pay-off/articleshow/78669554.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Water project inaugurated at Garden Reach||KOLKATA: Large areas of Behala, Tollygunge and Jadavpur may soon get more potable water as filtered water supply from Garden Reach waterworks is expected to get augmented for these south Kolkata neighbourhoods. KMC’s board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim on Wednesday inaugurated a water reservoir-cum-pumping station at Garden Reach, which will take care of growing demand for filtered water in several south Kolkata localities. The reservoir and pumping station with a capacity to store 10 million gallons of filtered water will benefit lakhs of people in large areas of Behala, New Alipore, Chetla, Kalighat, Dhakuria, Golf Green, Jadavpur and Tollygunge. Currently, Garden Reach supplies 175 million gallons of filtered water to most of south Kolkata areas and its fringes. “The new reservoir and pumping station will also ensure that the pressure of water supply also gets a boost, thereby adding volume and pressure to the overall water supply to lakhs of households,” said a KMC water supply department official. Mitigating water crisis in large areas of Behala, Jadavpur and Tollygunge can be achieved through additional supply from new reservoir and pumping station that will also minimize the use of ground water in these added areas. “It will increase filtered water supply and ensure that water is supplied to households in uniform pressure, which will redress water shortage in several south Kolkata neighbourhoods,” said Mainak Mukherjee, director-general of the KMC water supply department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/water-project-inaugurated-at-garden-reach/articleshow/78669540.cms||Saikat Ray
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||MC to run 2 petrol pumps, eyes Rs 3 crore revenue in year||CHANDIGARH: Cash-strapped municipal corporation (MC) will run two of its own petrol pumps in a crucial move to increase its revenue, hoping to meet a target of Rs 3 crore annually. The two petrol pumps are on Vikas Marg in Sector 51 and on the Delhi-Chandigarh national highway at Industrial Area, Phase II. Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore will inaugurate the Sector 51 petrol pump on Thursday, while that at industrial Area will become operational in the first week of November as construction and related work is going on at the site. The civic body has already tied up with India Oil Corporation. Last month, senior officials of IOC and MC, led by municipal commissioner K K Yadav, had visited both the sites. “The IOC has given us the franchise. They are the dealers. Like other petrol pumps of IOC, their role will be of supervision. Our people will run the petrol pumps on a regular basis. All preparations at the Sector 51 site have already been made, while the Industrial area site will take some time,” sources said. The administration had allotted the two sites to the MC to set up two retail petrol outlets in December last year. The move had come after Badnore had announced the allotment during his address in a MC house meeting in January last year to help the MC generate revenue. Yadav had received a letter from additional secretary, estates, administration, earmarking site number 3 at Industrial area, Phase II (near the rear side of plot number 1055) and site number 4 in Sector 51 A on Vikas Marg in Chandigarh. Box: 20 staffers at site: Yadav Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “Around 20 employees will run each petrol pump. Sixteen people will be handle fuel nozzles. There will be one supervisory officer and three other officers to look after the functioning of the petrol pump.” “We are expecting to earn around Rs 3 crore annually from both these petrol pumps. We will also be able to save between Rs 30 lakh and 40 lakh annually by filling fuel in hundreds of MC vehicles from our own petrol pumps,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-to-run-2-petrol-pumps-eyes-rs-3cr-revenue-in-year/articleshow/78666665.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||247 Moga panchayats pass resolutions not to burn stubble: DC||BATHINDA: Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans on Wednesday claimed that 247 out of total 340 village panchayats in Moga district have passed resolutions against stubble burning in their respective villages. The deputy commissioner in a press release said 73% panchayats from the district have resolved to eradicate the anti-environmental practice of straw burning and efforts are being made to prevail upon the remaining panchayats to make Moga stubble burning-free district. As per Punjab Remote Sensing Centre data, 20 stubble burning incidents were reported from Moga district till October 13. A couple of panchayats said they had passed resolutions, but now if some farmer sets crop residue on fire, they might not be able to stop that. The DC said the district administration had been regular in touch with panchayats to ask farmers to refrain from burning straw as toxic gases emanating from burning straw pollute the environment and could aggravate the Covid-19 situation which could lead to loss of precious lives. Hans said the resolutions passed by panchayats emphasized that they can maintain the fertility of the land by spreading paddy stubble in the fields without setting it on fire, which otherwise not only destroys friendly insects and micro-organisms, but also increases pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/247-moga-panchayats-pass-resolutions-not-to-burn-stubble-dc/articleshow/78669535.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 recovery rate crosses 90% mark in UP||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate for UP crossed 90% on Wednesday with the total number of recovered cases crossing the four-lakh mark. This is more than the national average of 87.05%. With this, UP joined the league of eight Indian states where the recovery rate is more than 90%. According to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar have the highest recovery rate of 94% followed by Tamil Nadu and Haryana where 92% patients have recovered. Odisha and Jharkhand rank number three with a recovery rate of 91%. UP now shared the fourth place with Delhi and Punjab with a recovery rate of 90% “The improvement is surely a landmark but this is not the time to relax and take prevention lightly,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Health ministry data revealed that UP’s Covid-19 death rate was equal to the national average of 1.5%, but the number of active infections in the state was less than the national average. While in UP, 9% of the Covid-19 cases belong to the active category but in In India, the proportion of active infections is 11.4%. Prasad said the number of active infections in the state was 36,898, of whom about 20,000 patients were hospitalized. Meanwhile, 2,778 fresh cases were reported in the state which was less than the number of those recovered in the past 24 hours. The new cases took the state’s tally to 4,44,000. The state also recorded the death of 41 persons taking the toll to 6,507.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-90-mark-in-state/articleshow/78670617.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University may appoint tech partner 3 days before IDOL exams||MUMBAI: Mumbai University authorities claim to have floated an e-tender to appoint a new technology partner to conduct the online exams of the Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL) on Wednesday morning, but many complained that the link was not available on the varsity website and the state government tender information system till 9pm—an hour before the closing of bid submissions. The university extended the e-tender deadline till Thursday noon. This means that MU is likely to finalise a new technology partner on Friday—three days before the online distance education exams commence. “While university officials could not provide the link to the tender throughout the day, they kept claiming that it is online and many edutech companies were filling the tender,” said a senate member. A university official claimed that the tender was uploaded on the directorate of higher education website. Worried about the tendering process, another official said there is a possibility that a ‘substandard’ firm would quote a cheaper rate and win the bid. “The MU should take care of these aspects as there is little time for trial and error,” said the official, adding that a mock test has become all the more important after the online exam fiasco. MU had to postpone final-year IDOL exams to October 19, after most third-year arts and commerce students could not access question papers due to a cyber attack that allegedly brought down the server on October 3 and 5. Meanwhile, the exam schedule for smaller groups of students was released by the institute on Wednesday. IDOL issued a revised timetable for backlog (ATKT) and fresh exams for BSc-IT, and BSc-Computer Science students as well as for first- and second-year BA and BCom backlog exams. While all these exams are set to commence October 19, these courses have fewer students. A revised schedule for the 8,000 students from third-year arts and commerce, whose exams were disrupted last week, is yet to be released. A university official said that announcing a date for an exam which will be taken by a large number of students is not advisable at this stage when a service provider is yet to be finalised. On Tuesday, MU handed over fresh appointment letters to faculty whose tenure had expired in May. “These teachers had worked during the interim period, but the fresh appointment letters are dated September 1. Why should they lose three months of pay despite working?” asked Mumbai University and College Teachers Association general secretary Subhash Athawale. “We demand MU give them appointment letters from June.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/univ-may-appoint-tech-partner-3-days-before-idol-exams/articleshow/78669547.cms||Yogita Rao
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||3-month expenditure capped at 8%, 6% for UT depts||Chandigarh: The orders of the ministry of finance to continue to maintain a ceiling of 20% on its budget in the third quarter last week have forced the finance department of the UT administration to cap the monthly expenditure of all the departments at 8% for October and 6% each for November and December.The administration can spend only Rs 1,027 crore in this quarter — Rs 411 crore in October and Rs 308.29 crore each in November and December — according to the instructions. The finance department will regularly monitor the expenditure of each department to avoid any violation of the orders.After mentioning the exact expenditure month-wise, the finance department has made it clear that if the allocated amount could not be spent, it would not be carried forward to the next month. In case of any emergency and extreme and unavoidable requirement, the department can approach senior officers, sources said.The order, a copy of which is with TOI, said, “There will be no ceiling on expenditure on account of salaries and wages. Bills related to electricity and water charges and reimbursement of medical claims are permitted to be present. There shall be complete ban on LTC, however TA and DA may be allowed on urgent official tours duly approved by the UT adviser.” “The payment of advance on account of medical treatment is allowed judiciously in case of urgent nature with prior approval of the finance department. The office expenses and other charges head should not be operated except for payment of wages and petrol, oil and lubricants (POL) and no expenditure shall be incurred from the other object heads without the prior permission of finance department,” the order said.Rs 1,000cr lossThe Chandigarh administration was allocated Rs 5,100 in the annual budget in February. With a ceiling of 20%, Chandigarh will lose rupees Rs 1,000 crore. Making justified allocation to all the departments of the UT as per their requirements is turning out to be a major challenge for the finance department.SPENDING AMOUNTOctober | November | December | TotalRs 411.04crore | Rs 308.29 crore| Rs 308.29 crore | Rs 1027.62 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-month-expenditure-capped-at-8-6-for-ut-depts/articleshow/78666661.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 15, 2020||Surat||Surat city Congress chief threatened to kill me: Dharmesh Mistry||SURAT: Congress Seva Dal’s Surat city’s chief organiser Dharmesh Mistry has alleged that Surat city Congress president Babu Rayka has threatened him to kill over the phone using abusive language. Mistry, who was sacked by Congress Seva Dal as city chief, approached the police to lodge a complaint against Rayka and his son Rushin. An audio conservation, in which Rayka allegedly used abusive language to Mistry went viral on social media on Wednesday. All India Congress Seva Dal on Wednesday removed Mistry and appointed Shantosh Patil as Surat city’s chief organiser. “We organised a virtual meeting at the party office and after the event, decorators took away all chairs from the office. So, I called up city Congress’s spokesman Kiran Rayka to inform him about it but he was angry at me. His father and city Congress chief Babu Rayka also used abusive language at me and threatened me to kill,” said Mistry, a resident of Narayan Apartment, Ahwa. Kiran Rayka, nephew of Babu Rayka refuted the allegations and alleged that Mistry had been engaged in illegal activities in the city and he had been warned about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/city-cong-chief-threatened-to-kill-me-alleges-seva-dal-chief/articleshow/78668031.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Incessant rain trips power, logs out several WFH IT employees||Hyderabad: Tuesday’s incessant downpour, that saw Hyderabad receive highest ever rainfall in 24 hours, disrupted operations of IT & ITeS players due to widespread power outages. IT industry sources said, the power disruptions hit anywhere between 10-20% of employees as computer systems and broadband connections crashed. Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association president Bharani Kumar Aroll, said it estimates that the downpour may have impacted 15-20% of the sector’s employees. “Employees of IT & ITeS companies were impacted more than product companies. 20% of the night shift employees were affected,” he explained. Murali Bollu, CEO, ZenQ said at least 10% IT employees were impacted due to power and bandwidth issues since Tuesday. “There was an assurance from the government that power would be restored and some of it was restored today so we need to wait and see how things evolve tomorrow,” he said. “While companies had given UPS and inverters to some employees engaged in critical work when WFH started, today many companies were offering employees working on critical projects the option of coming to office if possible,” he said. “A chunk of employees went back to hometowns outside Telangana post lockdown and having been working from there,” explained Ranvijay Lamba, managing director, Arcesium, a US-based fintech player. Telangana IT & industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said power was shut down as a precautionary measure to prevent electrocutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incessant-rain-trips-power-logs-out-several-wfh-it-employees/articleshow/78669546.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal now setting up border outposts near China border||PITHORAGARH: Days after it was alleged that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) had constructed at least nine buildings on the Nepal side of the Nepal-China border in Humla district in Karnali province, sources confirmed that Nepal has set up six border observation posts (BOPs) along its border with China. The BOPs have been set up at Hilsa in Humla district, Koral in Mustang district, Tatopani in Sindhupalchok district, Karung in Rasuwa district, Kimathanka in Sankhuwasabha district and Olangchung Gola in Taplejung district. The sources added that at least 9 more BOPs are also proposed to be set up along the Nepal-China border. All of them will be manned by personnel of the Armed Police Force (APF), Nepal’s paramilitary force which has been mandated the task of manning the BOPs along the border with India as well. In the last six months, Nepal has opened around 90 BOPs along the border with India and China. Sources familiar with the matter told TOI that the Nepalese government has taken a decision to set up at least 500 BOPs along the border with its two neighbours in the next two years. Notably, Nepal has an almost 1400-km-long border with China that runs along 17 of its districts while its border with India is around 1800-km-long and adjoins 27 of the country’s districts. Nepal began its spree of opening up BOPs along the border after a reigniting of its dispute on the Kalapani area with India in May this year when defence minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an almost 80-km-long road that went up to near Lipulekh. Nepal raised an objection to this, alleging that Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limipiyadhura were part of its territory and subsequently, its parliament also passed a new political map that showed these areas as part of Nepalese territory. Since then, Nepal has set up around 85 BOPs near its border with India of which 15 are near the border with Uttarakhand. The Nepalese government has also reopened its airport at Patan in Baitadi district which adjoins Uttarakhand and constructed a helipad at Chhangru which is situated near Kalapani. Watch Nepal now setting up border observation posts near China border||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-now-setting-up-border-outposts-near-china-border/articleshow/78666667.cms||Prem Punetha
October 15, 2020||Noida||In need of money, relative abducts and sells 3-year-old in Noida||NOIDA: In need of money to pay his rent due for months, a man allegedly plotted the abduction of his relative’s three-year-old child, along with a childless couple, and sold the boy to them for Rs 25,000. The boy has been rescued and the trio was arrested, police said on Wednesday. The boy was abducted from outside his house in Sarfabad on September 11. His father Virendra, who works as a security guard at a highrise society in Sector 76, said when he and his wife, a cook, would leave for work, their 11-year-old daughter would look after their third child. “That day too, my daughter had gone inside the room to get clothes for the boy because he had just taken a bath. He was standing in the balcony with other kids when the accused, Hasmat, picked him up and left with the help of my uncle, Ativeer,” he said. After the boy’s sister returned, she informed her parents that the child had gone missing after which cops were called. Police said that Ativeer, who also works as a security guard at Spectrum Mall, remained with the family throughout and was very active in helping and guiding them. Virendra said during the entire month that his son was away, Ativeer remained in touch with them and frequented their rented accommodation which was near to their home. However, after a month, police traced the boy to Faizganj in Badaun, where Hasmat and his wife Sama had been staying with the child. “They had been feeding him properly and giving him milk too. They kept him like their own child,” a police officer said. DCP (Noida) Rajesh S said that Hasmat knew Ativeer for the past some years as both previously worked as auto drivers. “Hasmat and his wife were childless and the former had expressed his desire of getting a child to his friend Ativeer. They told him that they were ready to spend Rs. 1.5 lakh for the same. Ativeer planned to abduct the third child of his own relative Virendra and the accused abducted him from outside his house,” he said. A team of the crime branch and the surveillance team which had been working on the case developed the clues and kept Ativeer on radar and on Wednesday, rescued the boy from Badaun. While Hasmat (35) and Sama (33) were arrested from Badaun, Ativeer (40) was picked up from Noida. An FIR has been lodged against them under IPC sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement, kidnapped or abducted person) and 120b (criminal conspiracy).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-need-of-money-relative-abducts-sells-3-yr-old/articleshow/78670621.cms||Shikha Salaria
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Power outages add to Covid patients’ misery||HYDERABAD: Covid patients recovering at home have been doubly stressed over the past two days, having to deal with being unwell and now the torrential rains. Power cuts and water inundation has left many of them on tenterhooks. Raju R, a resident of Moosapet, had been running a mild temperature. “A few days ago, I tested positive for Covid-19. I have been feeling unwell, but more than my sickness it was Tuesday’s rain that had me worried. There was at least 4 feet of water in my house. I could not rest through the night and felt like as though my condition would only worsen.” With the power cut-off all night and the phone without charge, another Covid positive patient, from Begumpet complained that he feared not being able to reach anyone in case he needed help. “I did not feel too weak, but was tense because if there was a sudden deterioration in my condition, I would not be able to reach out to my relatives.” Happy about his decision to self-isolate in a three-star hotel, Shyam M said on Wednesday, “I moved to the hotel when I tested positive. My parents in Vidyanagar have been without power for 16 hours. While I am worried for them, I have not faced any issues here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-outages-add-to-covid-patients-misery/articleshow/78669539.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Active cases drop by 73% in Nandurbar||Nashik: The Covid-19 testing laboratory started in Nandurbar district and, continuous observation and analysis of patients through monitoring application have helped the district to bring down the number of active cases by 73% in less than 45 days. On August 31, the number of active cases in the district was 1,387, while on October 14, the number dropped to 382 Additional district collector Mahesh Patil said, “District collector Rajendra Bharud continuously monitors the online portal on patient management and analysis. This has resulted in improvement in contact tracing and treatment of the patients thus enabling the administration and health officials to bring down the number of Covid-19 patients in the district.” Nandurbar district was dependent on Dhule for Covid test reports that took more than 48 hours, following which the treatment and contact tracing was done. Patil said since Nandurbar got a Covid testing laboratory on August 16, the process of getting throat swab test results faster has helped in early diagnosis, providing treatment and better contact tracing. The online portal started by Nandurbar district administration has also helped them to monitor and analyse the health of the patients in the Covid-19 facilities. “Earlier we had patients who would stay for 12 to 17 days for treatment in hospitals because their conditions had already deteriorated by the time the test results came in. The stay has largely dropped below 10 days now. The system quickly figures out the patients whose treatment will be prolonged and appropriate intervention is done,” the officer said. The district has so far registered 5,639 Covid-19 cases, out of which 134 patients have succumbed to Covid and 5,109 (90%) patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-drop-by-73-in-nandurbar/articleshow/78666682.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Unlock effect: City’s air quality starts deteriorating||CHANDIGARH: With more relaxations announced in the Centre’s unlock plans and stubble burning in neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, the air quality in the city has deteriorated. From air quality index (AQI) at good level during lockdowns 2 and 3, it has now entered the moderate category. The AQI is now being recorded regularly between 100 and 140. The air at 4pm on March 27 was the cleanest in the country, with an index of 17. It remained under good / satisfactory category up to 100 AQI till recently. But this month, it has been constantly over 100 AQI. Last year around Diwali, the air pollution was so severe that the index had reached 371 in Sector 22, 280 in the silence zone of Sector 12, 247 in the commercial area of Sector 17, and 352 in the institutional zone of Sector 39. The continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) on Panjab University’s south campus in Sector 25 records real-time change every hour. National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) money will help the UT administration have two more air monitoring stations — in sectors 26 and 50. On July 16, 2019, UT administrator V P Singh Badnore had inaugurated the PU station that measures air on eight parameters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unlock-effect-citys-air-quality-starts-deteriorating/articleshow/78666692.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Singer Veer Sahu ‘dares’ FB rival to face-off, gets arrested||ROHTAK: Police have booked a Haryanvi singer and husband of popular folk singer Sapna Chaudhary, Veer Sahu and 65 others for assembling in large numbers and not following Covid-19 norms. Police said, Sahu, with his supporters, attempted to assemble at the historic Meham Chabutra on October 12 after serving an ultimatum to one Naveen Panghal, who had trolled him on Facebook. Police said Veer Sahu challenged Panghal on his Facebook page and said he would reach Meham Chabutra with his supporters on October 12. They did not take any precautions like wearing masks or maintaining social distance. Police was deployed in Meham town due to which Veer Sahu went to another location, from where he livestreamed his action on Facebook. Police said Sahu and 65 others were booked under 188/34 IPC and 51B of Disaster Management Act. Tulsi Grewal, head, Meham Chaubisi khap said police should have played a proactive role in the incident and stopped the cavalcade of the accused from entering the district boundary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/singer-veer-sahu-dares-fb-rival-to-face-off-gets-arrested/articleshow/78669543.cms||Sat Singh
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||No impact of rain on prisons||Hyderabad: Barring an incident of wall collapse and soil erosion due to breached pond bunds, prisons in Telangana remained unaffected due to heavy rains that battered most of the state. Senior prison officials under the supervision of prisons and correctional services director general, Rajiv Trivedi remained alert through out the night. There was a wall collapse at Cherlapally prison due to soil erosion but no casualties reported. Fishing ponds at Cherlapally, Adilabad and Khammam prisons were filled to the brim. tnN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-impact-of-rain-on-prisons/articleshow/78669551.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Fake bail racket busted in city, 4 arrested||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The police here on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang of fraudsters with the arrest of four of its members, who used to arrange bails for under-trials/ prisoners on forged documents. They said the accused arranged over 200 such bails in the past one-and-half years.According to the cops, the accused—kingpin of the gang Harpal Singh alias Manoj Kumar, 32, of Phullanwal village; Rahul Kumar, 39, of Anand Vihar, Phullanwal; Navdeep Singh, 34 of Guru Nanak Pura, Civil Lines; and Harwinder Singh, 32, of Talwandi Noawad village—would access the land documents of people online and using the details therein, they would forge documents and arrange bails. They used to charge Rs 10,000 for each bail.The Division Number 5 police, who busted the gang, also recovered 50 forged Aadhaar cards and 20 original land documents from the possession of the accused.Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the gang was operating in various courts and would reach out to lawyers offering to give surety of bail for their clients for a fee. Suspicion arose after the police observed that there was a rise in the number of accused jumping bail. Thereafter, the police started a probe.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP)-III Sameer Verma said Harpal alias Manoj is the kingpin of the gang, who used to forge all the documents through some mobile application and then, with the help of other gang members, used to arrange bails for the seekers.Talking about their modus operandi, ADCP Verma shared, “The accused used to get online access to the land documents and look for land without any loan against it. The accused would then forge the Aadhaar card of the land owner by pasting their own pictures on it. Using that, they would procure the land documents from the revenue office after paying the requisite fee and then arrange bails on the basis of forged documents. The accused used to charge about Rs 10,000 for each bail.”The officer said, “Since the information of land documents is not made public on the online platforms, we are also suspecting the involvement of some employee of the revenue department. In the past one-and-half years, the gang has forged bail papers for over 200 people. We are also approaching the sessions judge’s court to identify who all have availed the services of the bail racket. Action will be taken against them also.”According to police, accused Harpal was earlier arrested by the Division Number 5 police in a similar case in February 2019. However, later he came out on bail and again took to his old ways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fake-bail-racket-busted-in-city-4-arrested/articleshow/78666703.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nashik||No public gatherings for Ravan Dahan||Nashik: The Nashik district administration has said that Navaratra as well as Dasara festivities will be carried out in a very simple manner without any kind of public gathering. The administration also said that squads will be put in place during Navaratra to keep a check on pandals. These squads will also ensure that only rituals are carried out in the simplest manner without the presence of public in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.“We will have to stick to the guidelines of the government on celebration of religious festivals modestly and ensure least gathering of people at pandals during Navaratra and Dasara. Besides, the squads will also carry out inspection of pandals to check if they are erected in permitted places, not affecting traffic and if the idols are smaller than the stipulated sizes,” resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode said.Based on the guidelines of the Bombay High court, the squads will be appointed across the district to keep a check on several things, including construction of pandals in an appropriate manner, ensuring that they do not hinder the flow of traffic, have proper permissions from authorities concerned, permission from pollution control board to play sound system, etc. Besides, the squads will also keep a close eye on other things as stipulated in the conditions about celebration of Navaratra by the state government. Among other guidelines, the government has put a ban on the traditional ‘garba’ or any other cultural programmes. The organisers have also been banned from providing any food or drinks to people in and outside the pandals.The administration has also asked people to opt for idols less than four feet in height, adding that they should be made of clay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-public-gatherings-for-ravan-dahan/articleshow/78666693.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Interim HC relief for airport food contractor over security clearance||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday stayed an order issued by the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security to withdraw security clearance of a food contractor at eight airports, including Mumbai international airport. Travel Food Services Pvt Ltd, a contractor at several airport lounges and food courts, had challenged the October 9 order. Its counsel Ravi Kadam argued that ‘without any show-cause notice or hearing or reasons arbitrarily by a one-line order’, a joint director at the ministry of civil aviation had informed the firm that its security clearance has been withdrawn. While seeking that the security withdrawal be quashed, Kadam had submitted that the company operates as a concessionaire and conducts operations across eight airports, and exclusively at three. Its contract with Mumbai International Airport Ltd is valid till 2023, he had added. For the ministry, additional solicitor general Anil Singh cited a report by the Intelligence Bureau and said that the order was based on this report. The HC on Tuesday had asked Singh how a one-line order was passed and where was the ‘application of mind’ in the case. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni observed that serious and important questions were raised in the petition which need to be heard expeditiously and posted the matter for final hearing. Pending final disposal, the HC granted interim relief as sought by the company to stay the enforcement of the communication of October 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/interim-hc-relief-for-airport-food-contractor-over-security-clearance/articleshow/78669558.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie: 2 dead, 3 hurt as car falls into gorge||MUSSOORIE: Two persons died and three others sustained injuries as the car they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge on Wednesday afternoon on Lambidhar-Kimadi-Dehradun (LKD) road near Kimadi village. According to police, the injured were rushed to Max Hospital at Dehradun and the two bodies were sent for postmortem. According to sub-inspector Neeraj Kathait, the victims were returning to Dehradun via LKD road after visiting Mussoorie when their vehicle veered off the road and fell into a 100-metre-deep gorge. “Two persons died on spot while the three injured were rescued by the police. The injured have been rushed to Dehradun,” Kathait told. The deceased have been identified as Sagar Dhiman (20), a resident of Dehradun, and Yash (18), a resident of Roorkee. Among the injured persons, two are from Laksar and one is from Roorkee. Two of the injured persons are reported to be in a serious condition. It must be mentioned that the LKD road which connects Mussoorie to Dehradun is a narrow road without any parapits or crash barriers and in the past, several accidents have taken place on this road. During the rainy season this year, the police had even stopped the movement of tourist vehicles on this road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-dead-3-hurt-as-car-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/78666696.cms||Anmol Jain
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s recovery rate more than that of state||NAGPUR: At 86.65%, Vidarbha’s recovery rate beat state’s average of 83.78% but dipped slightly as compared to the national rate of 87.05%. The day’s maximum cases of 609 and 29 deaths were reported from Nagpur. Vidarbha recorded 42 deaths, 1482 new cases and 1,630 recoveries. This took the total cases to 1,71,740, 4,460 deaths, 1,48,824 discharged patients with 18,256 under treatment. Besides Nagpur, deaths were reported from Bhandara and Amravati (4 each), Chandrapur (3), Wardha and Yavatmal (1 each). No Covid death took place at Gondia, Gadchiroli, Akola , Buldhana and Washim. The 1,482 new cases came from Bhandara (148), Wardha (44), Gondia (114), Chandrapur (315), Gadchiroli (81), Akola (32), Amravati (54), Yavatmal (27), Buldhana (31) and Washim (27) besides Nagpur’s 609. Of the 1630 patients recovered in a day, Nagpur’s count stands at 743. The district now has 7,416 active cases. Gadchiroli: On Wednesday, 81 new cases were reported and 63 patients were discharged. The district now has 995 active cases, while total cases are 4,236. So far, 32 have succumbed to the disease while 3,209 defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: The district’s day’s tally remained at 27 and no deaths. The death toll stands at 105. The new cases took the tally to 5096, 28 discharged rose total count to 4453 while 538 are active. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 55-year-old man which took the Covid toll to 294. Also, 27 new patients were detected while 38 got discharge. According to sources, now there are 526 patients under treatment. The district had reported total 9,175 Covid patients so far of which 8,271 have recovered. Amravati: Four Covid deaths were the only dark side of Wednesday that saw recoveries exceeding the number of new patients in the district. Against 133 recovered patients, there were only 54 new admissions to the Covid Hospital. While the count of recovered patients reached 13,450, that of the caseload reached 15,118. The recovery rate was 88.97% on Wednesday. The four Covid deaths took the toll to 339, thus leaving 1,329 patients, including 631 under treatment here, nine in Nagpur and 689 in home isolation, in the district. Wardha: A 70-year-old woman died due to coronavirus infection, while 44 new patients were detected on Wednesday. Also, 200 persons got discharge in the day. The recovery rate of the district is increasing with each passing day, leaving 1,532 patients under treatment. The caseload of the district reached 5,570, while 3,865 have defeated the virus so far. Total 173 patients have died due to coronavirus in district till date. Of the total 441 test samples, reports of 44 (including 21 women) came positive on Wednesday. The new patients detected on Wednesday include Wardha 31, Deoli and Hinganghat 4 each, Samudrapur 3 and Selu 2. Buldhana: Of the 332 reports including those from labs and rapid antigen test (RAT) kits, 31 tested Covid positive while 301 were negative. The 41 patients were discharged. According to official data, 167 reports confirmed through labs while 134 tested positive in RAT. The district now has 8148 cases, 7635 recoveries, 111 deaths and 402 active cases. Bhandara: Both recoveries and new cases were above 100 mark in the district on Wednesday. The labs reported 148 new cases, while hospitals discharged 134 patients after recovery. But, four Covid deaths rocked the district taking the toll to 177. The district has 1348 active cases. Total caseload is 7101 cases, and 5576 discharged patients. The recovery rate is 79% now. Gondia: No death was reported by 114 new cases were detected while 80 discharged on Wednesday. The new positive patients from Gondia taluka and nearby places. Covid death toll so far is 108, and 8153 cases, 7395 recoveries and 650 active. Akola: Just 32 new cases were detected and 37 recoveries reported on Wednesday. The cases tally climbed to 7898. So far, 26 people have died here of Covid. With 37 patients discharged, the tally touched 7264. Still 374 are active patients. Chandrapur: Sudden spurt in Covid infection cases, as witnessed after detecting 315 new patients in a single day, on Wednesday has baffled the health department. The total Covid caseload has now reached 12,746. Detection of Covid cases had tumbled down with the daily patient count remaining under 200 since October 3. This had made most people believe that the Covid infection has started losing its sheen in the district. Three deaths were reported during the last 24 hours raising the toll to 193. The day also witnessed discharge of 133 patients and total recoveries surged to 9,492, leaving 3,061 under treatment. The deceased include two males from Sister Colony and Rayyatwari Collieries in Chandrapur city, and a woman from Mul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-recovery-rate-more-than-that-of-state/articleshow/78669567.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC says no to razing Dalibagh house of Mukhtar’s relative||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court has restrained government authorities from demolishing the house of jailed gangster and BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s sister-in-law Farhat Ansari in Dalibagh area of the state capital. It directed the authorities as well as Mukhtar’s sister-in-law to maintain status quo at the site. A division bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Jaspreet Singh said that the manner in which the state authorities have proceeded with unprecedented expedition, there is no prima facie chance that the petitioner would get alternate and efficacious remedy before the state government. The bench considered the statement made by the petitioner’s lawyer HGS Parihar, assisted by Minakshi Parihar Singh that the proceedings against Mukhtar’s sister-in-law were initiated by Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) on the instructions of higher authorities in the government. The bench further directed the state government and LDA to file replies to the petition of Farhat and directed to list the case after six weeks. The petitioner had challenged an order of September 29, 2020 passed by the LDA vice-chairman in purported exercise of the powers under Section 15 (9) of the Urban Planning and Development Act whereby the map sanctioned by the LDA on January 31, 2007 and permit no. 23524 had been cancelled because the said house was constructed at gata no. 93 which was an evacuee property. It caused serious apprehension to the petitioner that her house would be demolished soon and hence she had moved the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-no-to-razing-dalibagh-house-of-mukhtars-relative/articleshow/78670619.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Revoking GO on activity in catchment||HYDERABAD: With torrential rains filling the Himayathsagar and Osmansagar, and flood gates being opened in the former, experts have pointed towards the need to protect catchment of the reservoirs. They say the twin reservoirs are still the beating heart of the city and plans to scrap the GO111 would prove costly. “The twin reservoirs are what have protected the city during these rains by storing water that would have otherwise flooded the streets. If not for them, there would have been a repeat of the 1908 floods and a similar loss of life,” said environmentalist Purushotham Reddy. The reservoirs have been used as a buffer from floods and as drinking water sources for the city. The GO prohibits any construction or industrial activity with a 10km radius of the two reservoirs, which is being opposed by realtors, builders and industry. The government too has been considering of scrapping the GO, mainly contending that they are no more drinking water sources for Hyderabad. Arguing against this, Reddy said, “The past few days have shown that the reservoirs are alive. They have been created in such a way that as drinking water sources, they can percolate the city naturally through gravity.” This, he said, is much better than the state’s plans to draw water from Krishna and Godavari rivers, which would need the water to be lifted, making it more costly and less sustainable. There are thousands of encroachments on the catchment of the reservoirs in areas such as Chevella, Shamshabad, Moinabad, Kothuru, Rajendra Nagar and Shankarpalli, say experts. They feel not only do these encroach and pollute the catchment, but are under threat themselves during floods. Water expert Narasimha Reddy Dhonti said, “The GO111 is in fact limited and needs to be strengthened. The catchment of the reservoirs is much larger than 10km. The rapid encroachment beyond the ‘protected area’ is what has led to the delayed filling of the reservoirs.” He added that instead of focusing at distant water sources, the government must first protect what is at hand by desilting to ensure their capacity is retained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revoking-go-on-activity-in-catchment/articleshow/78669566.cms||Uttara Varma
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Masks ready & fumigation over, halls eye staggered reopening||KOLKATA: If you have been in a mood for a thriller and wished to either watch ones directed by Srijit Mukherji or Indrasis Acharya in the theatres this year but couldn’t, don’t lose heart. You may be able to watch it at a cinema near you soon. With cinemas slowly opening from October 15 following new SOP, all arrangements are being made to woo the audience back to the theatres. Not just fumigation, even masks and gloves will be sold on cinema premises. INOX has 15 properties in Bengal with nine in Kolkata. Among these, only three properties are reopening on Thursday with screening of ‘Thappad’, ‘Malang’, ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan’ and ‘The Parcel’. There will be one new release — Rohan Sen’s Bengali film, ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’. Times ViewAll precautions should be followed. This would be beneficial to not only cinema goer's health but also help the financial health of cinema halls; the entertainment sector cannot survive in a city with a surging Covid count.In Kolkata, Swabhumi will screen the first show at 10.15am with ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan’. But popular INOX properties, including those at Forum, South City Mall, Hiland Park, Quest, City Centre I and II are not reopening on Thursday. INOX Madhyamgram and INOX Darjeeling are also reopening on Thursday. Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director at INOX (East), said, “We will gradually open our multiplexes, according to operational readiness.” Carnival Cinemas in Salt Lake, Siliguri and Barasat will begin operations on Friday. Sujit Kumar Bhukta, GM (east) of Carnival Cinemas, said, “We will open with ‘Chhichhore’ and ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’ and are looking at a 20% to 30% price reduction of tickets to woo the audience.” Established in 1963, Belgharia’s Rupmandir Cinema is perhaps the only single-screen theatre in Kolkata set to open its doors on October 15. While lease holder Santanu Raychaudhuri will re-release ‘Kedarnath’ , one show of Srijit Mukherji’s ‘Dwitiyo Purush’ has been slotted. Last-minute preparations on at Rupmandir CinemaRaychaudhuri, who took the lease of the cinema in 2013, didn’t start any advance bookings since he wasn’t sure of audience turnout. Only 75 balcony seats out of the total capacity of 240 of Rupmandir are being kept open for sale from Thursday. Since glossy posters were not available for “Kedarnath”, Raychaudhuri got 500 litho posters printed for the publicity of the SSR release and had them pasted on walls in and around his cinema. Piya Sengupta, president of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association, said, “Since cinemas were shut for seven months, many technical faults are now arising. Nandan was supposed to reopen on Thursday but it could not due to technical issues. About 70 single-screen theatres are opening across Bengal on Thursday.” Most other single screens in Kolkata, including Menoka, New Empire, Basusree, Priya and Prachi, are eyeing a Friday reopening. “The UPS started showing problems at the last minute and I had to push the reopening date from Thursday to Friday,” said Prachi owner Vidisha Basu. Those who are reopening are aware that it will take time for things to settled down. Ashish Saksena, COO – Cinemas, BookMyShow, said, “To aid a safe and hassle-free movie-viewing experience, we have put forth a comprehensive guide for cine-goers with the ‘My Safety First’ safety shield tag. This feature will enable them to see the various safety measures employed by cinemas and make an informed decision before they step out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/masks-ready-fumigation-over-halls-eye-staggered-reopening/articleshow/78669561.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Many residents left without essentials||Hyderabad: Power, internet and network disruptions since Tuesday night have left many in the lurch as residents were seen struggling to get access to water and food, along with connectivity issues. Those dependent on bore-well water for day-to-day activities are the most affected as they had to survive with few litres of storage water for more than 20 hours. “Our apartment’s cellar was completely flooded with rainwater. We could not even step out to get essentials,” said Phanindra B, a resident of Manikonda. He said the apartment association had to use their own funds to pump water out of the cellar and added that they did not have power at for least the last 24 hours as all electric meters are in the cellar. “They started pumping out water from 12pm. Even by 7pm, only 50% of the water could be pumped out,” he added. Shekar R, a resident of Chandanagar, said that taps in his building went dry before sunrise as there was no power since Tuesday night. “There was no means for me to charge my gadgets or to step out of the home,” said Rajender Reddy, a techie. C Vinod Kumar, state convenor, Forum for IT Employees, said 20% employees had to avail casual leave today as only very few firms declared holiday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-residents-left-without-essentials/articleshow/78669549.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Trade body says penalties being levied unlawfully||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), the state’s apex trade body has alleged wrongful levying of penalty by the civic authorities under the name of ‘administrative charges’ for the alleged violation of social distancing norms. Traders allege that at a time when shopkeepers and those at commercial establishments are already bearing the brunt of penalty and punishment for no fault of theirs but for customers for violation of social distancing norms and not wearing masks, arbitrary imposing of administrative charges is only hurting businesses. Speaking on the matter, Jayendra Tanna, president, GTF, said, “Businesses are already reeling under financial troubles in the wake of the pandemic as demand has taken a major hit and therefore, revenues are down. Traders and commercial establishments are also struggling hard to enforce norms of social distancing but if people don’t comply, they are penalised. Moreover, the penalty amount is arbitrarily levied in the name of administrative charges and imposing hefty fines is further burning a hole in the traders’ pockets.” “The charges need to be fixed according to the act and one cannot arbitrarily impose random penalty amount,” Tanna further added. Similar problems are also encountered when the civic authorities levy penalties for mosquito breeding found at public places or even for illegal parking. The Gujarat Provisional Municipal Corporation Act does not have any provision for fines be it mosquito drive or any other drives against illegal parking, said an AMC official. Even the Joint Enforcement Teams (JET), which are collecting fines for spitting or urinating in public or even illegal parking, are doing so in the name of administrative charge. However, since one member of the JET team is usually from the police, these charges are being imposed for obstructing the traffic under the Motor Vehicles Act. When contacted about collecting hefty sum of money under ‘administrative charges’ instead of as fines, an AMC official said, “In all these offences the AMC levies administrative charge, whether for not wearing masks, spitting on the road and even violating social distancing norms .Under The Epidemic Diseases Act, the AMC is empowered to collect fines for Covid-19 related violations. In absence of any yardstick the officers imposed any charge.” “Administrative charge is a provision which was approved by various committees and was even given clearance in the general board and hence it is legal according to provisions of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation,” the official further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/trade-body-says-penalties-being-levied-unlawfully/articleshow/78670768.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara elephants carry out rehearsal for big day||Mysuru: As only a few days left for the Dasara celebrations, the weight training practice rehearsal using sand bags for the 750 kg golden howdah carrying elephant Abhimanyu, and the two other Dasara elephants, Gopi and Vikrama, continued on Wednesday. Abhimanyu had been trained by making him carry 500 kg sand bags on his back for the past few days, which was increased to 600 kg on Wednesday, to prepare for carrying the golden howdah during the Vijayadashami celebrations. The veterinarian and forest department officials who are taking care of the Dasara elephants had written a letter to the Palace Board deputy director, to ensure that a crane is available to start the wooden howdah carrying rehearsal sessions for Abhimanyu, six days back, and are awaiting crane services. Once the crane is available, the rehearsal for carrying the wooden howdah by the elephant will be taken up, said sources. Celebrations to be low-key The Dasara committee is prepared for the celebration of Dasara in a simple manner this year, as per guidelines from the district administration. There will be Karaga performances in the town, after the performance of puja in Pampinakere on Saturday. “The devotees should not gather in large numbers, and we request them to cooperate with us,” said Robin Devaiah, working president of the Madikeri Dasara Committee. Kundurumotte Chauti Mariamma, Kote Mariyamma, Kanchi Kamakshi and Dandina Mariamma temples have a historical legacy of the Karaga festival, and the traditional performances will continue as usual this year. However, the movement of Karaga troupes in the town is limited to two days, instead of 10. Karaga troupes will accompany the Dasara kalashas’ from the 10 temples, on Vijayadashami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-elephants-carry-out-rehearsal-for-big-day/articleshow/78668816.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Onion wholesale price touches season’s high||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion prices at the Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, increased marginally on Wednesday recording the season’s new high at Rs 4,300 per quintal. The previous high was recorded at Rs 4,251 per quintal on January 3 this year. According to traders, the average wholesale price is expected to cross Rs 5,000 per quintal within a week. Exactly a year ago, on October 14, 2019, the average wholesale onion price was Rs 2,851 per quintal. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,500 and Rs 4,801 per quintal, respectively, at Lasalgaon APMC on Wednesday. The average wholesale onion prices have increased by 65% in just the past 12 days, from Rs 2,600 per quintal on October 3 to Rs 4,300 per quintal now. In the retail markets in Nashik city, onions are sold at Rs 50 per kg. According to the officials, the kharif onions have not yet started arriving at the markets barring at some APMCs in the district. The onions currently being brought to the markets are summer onions harvested in March and April. But even these onions are coming in reduced volumes and farmers too have limited stocks in their storages. Meanwhile, the demand in the wholesale markets is hight. This has caused the spike in the average wholesale onion prices, said the APMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-wholesale-price-peaks-at-rs-4300/quintal/articleshow/78666711.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Girl missing after falling into Pili river in Nagpur||NAGPUR: A 13-year-old girl fell into Pili river in North Nagpur while she was crossing a pipeline bridge on Wednesday morning. She was untraceable till late in the evening. The search operation was called off after it grew dark, but would resume on Thursday morning. “On Wednesday at around 11am, the girl Shailya Muskan Ansari (13) was crossing the bridge when she lost balance and fell into the river. Soon she disappeared in the polluted water,” said a local Nilkanth Ambadre. As there is no bridge to connect Vandevi Nagar and Shiv Nagar across Pili river, residents of either side use the pipeline bridge, locals told TOI . “The bridge is very narrow and only pedestrian movement is possible,” said Ambadre. On being informed, expert divers from NMC’s fire and emergency services department launched search operation. As the girl could not be traced till late in the evening, fire officials suspect that the girl might have been trapped in the silt. The water flow in the river has reduced considerably due to a sewerage treatment plant upstream. The team carried out search in the river up to Kalamna area, but in vain. The operation was stopped in the evening due to bad light. The rescue team will use Poclain machine to search the girl on Thursday. Senior PI Ramakant Durge from Yashodhara Nagar police station told TOI that Shailya Muskan was staying with her widowed mother and elder sister in Lane Number 3 of Sangam Nagar. Local BJP corporator Bhagyashree Kantode and her husband Ganesh were seen helping the rescue team. Kantode told TOI that two years ago, the state public works department had taken up the work to construct a new bridge over Pili river connecting Vandevi Nagar and Sangam Nagar. However, the work is going on at a snail’s pace. The bridge is part of new cement road being constructed in Vandevi Nagar and Shiv Nagar on either side of the river. The ongoing pandemic has further delayed the bridge work, said the corporator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/girl-missing-after-falling-into-pili-river/articleshow/78669605.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Good Samaritans help rain-hit with food and milk in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Amid the misery and loss, several Good Samaritans came forward on Wednesday to offer help to those affected by the rains. “We are near Falaknuma flyover distributing food, milk and water packets to people who are stuck in their house and are unable to step out as homes and streets are flooded. A friend has been helping the NDRF team, municipal and police personnel guiding them to the houses, where residents need to evacuate,” said Sayeed Musmar who has been helping people along with 10 of his friends. Mohammed Imaad along with 15 volunteers reached out to people of Virasat Nagar, Balareddy Nagar, Samata Colony, Tolichowki area. “The NDRF boats arrived at around 11.30 am, till then we were using temporary boats to distribute food, and water,” said Imaad. Professionals Solidarity Forum Hyderabad (PSFH) distributed 500 plus food packets since morning in flood affected areas like Tolichowki, Falaknuma, Shaikpet, Lakdikapul, Bandlaguda. They plan to continue the activity until Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/good-samaritans-help-rain-hit-with-food-and-milk/articleshow/78669557.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP defers new tariff for powerloom weavers||LUCKNOW: Powerloom weavers have been given some respite by the government with the state cabinet on Wednesday clearing a proposal to defer the implementation of the new power tariff to August. Lakhs of powerloom weavers had gone on strike against the move to remove the flat rate for power usage and instead, implement a slab- wise rate related to unit consumption. The new system was to have been implemented from January 1, 2020, but due to some issues with the system, the government continued to charge a flat rate even in January and February. The implementation was then scheduled for March but due to the financial losses faced by weavers due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the government has now decided to defer the date of implementation of the new power system, in which their subsidy will also stand affected. The state government will have to bear an additiona fiancial burden of Rs 435 crore due to this decision. Pension plan for ad hoc staff: In another important decision related to payment of pension under the UP Retirement Benefits Rules of 1961, the cabinet has cleared an amendment to the rule under which people hired on ad hoc or temporary basis will only be given retirement benefits from the date that such employees are regularized, and not from the date of their appointment. Under this too, the government has made it clear that only such employees will be regularized who were hired against a post and those whose hiring took place in accordance with service rules. “Under each government, there are appointments either as favour or in violation of rules. It had to be seen how such employees should be given retirement benefits and it was decided that such payments should only be made to persons hired as per rules,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-defers-new-tariff-for-powerloom-weavers/articleshow/78670626.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Talwandi plant to suspend operations||PATIALA: Facing the coal crisis, the Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), Banawali, with installed capacity of 1980 MW is set to suspend its operations on Wednesday night on the directions of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). This private power plant was already running a single unit and that too on half capacity due to coal shortage. It has three units, each having installed capacity of 660 MW. According to the official data, it was generating 319 MW on Wednesday. A senior official of TSPL said, “We have been facing shortage of coal from the last few days despite the fact we had enough stock with us. The operations will probably be suspended tonight following instructions from the PSPCL.” On Wednesday, Punjab witnessed around 7,500 MW demand for electricity. NPL Rajpura is also generating 664 MW power per day, which is half of its total 1400 MW of installed capacity. The power plant has two units of 700 MW each. As per figures received by the PSPCL on Wednesday morning, GVK Goindwal Sahib plant is left with only 93 MT of coal stock, just enough for 0.01 days. It has already suspended its operations since Tuesday. The TSPL has 1.42 days (47,660 MT) of coal and NPL Rajpura has 3.51 days (61,514 MT) of coal. Punjab witnessed a demand of 1,637 Lakh Units (LU) on Tuesday, of which PSPCL managed 252 LU from private thermal plants within the state and 154 LU were supplied from hydro generation and 33 LU from solar plants within Punjab. Around 1,178 LU were purchased from outside. The TSPL generated 90 LU and NPL 164 LU on Tuesday. The Punjab state power plant at Ropar has 6 days of coal (85,612 MT) in stock while the state-run Lehra Mohabbat has 4.21 days of coal (59,141 MT). Sources revealed that if the power is generated in state-run thermal plants at full capacity, it will cost Rs 4.4 per unit approximately, which is cheaper if compared to three private plants in the state. Power purchased from NPL Rajpura costs Rs 5.5 per unit, TSPL cost is Rs 6.62 and GVK is Rs 9.5 per unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/talwandi-plant-to-suspend-operations/articleshow/78669571.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||NLSIU’s class has 33% girls; 50% students from 4 Hindi states||BENGALURU: The new batch of National Law School of India University (NLSIU) is likely to have 33% girls and half the students will be from the states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, the country’s Hindi heartland. The tentative admission list for the fresh NLSIU batch, shared in response to a query from TOI, shows 39 girls have secured admission in a class of 120, making for 33%. This is in line with last year, where 27 (34%) of the 80 chosen candidates were girls. The list shared by the premier law school is tentative and the final one is subject to two pending judgments with regard to the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) and completion of admission formalities, informed university officials. CLAT 2020 was mired in controversy after thousands of candidates filed objections regarding technical glitches and problems in answer keys. Overall, students from 21 states/Union Territories have secured admission. The university, however, did not disclose the tentative numbers from Karnataka. It only revealed four states with highest representation. For the first time in 32 years, NLSIU increased intake for its flagship BA LLB (Hons) undergraduate programme from 80 to 120. It may be recalled that NLSIU had to set aside seats for Karnataka domicile quota students but the high court has since struck down the relevant legislation. According to the varsity, most students who secured the top all-India ranks in CLAT chose NLSIU as their preferred destination. Interestingly, there are 11 students from Patna, who will be part of the 2020 batch, and five of them are among the top eight rank-holders. Four of the top 10 rank-holders in 2019 were from Bhopal. There will be 16 students each from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and 17 from Madhya Pradesh. Another 11 will be from Rajasthan. In 2019, 17 students from Rajasthan and 13 students each from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh were admitted to the programme, making Bihar a surprise entrant in the list this time. “Preparation happens best when students do it in a group. This is especially true of general knowledge and current affairs. So, when a student secures a good rank, he’s not alone; it would be a group which fares well from a region,” observed Gautam Puri, vice-chairman, Career Launcher Educate Ltd.He said the extra time students got due to postponement of the exam would have helped improve their performance. “Even while they do well in all areas, students from Bihar usually lag in the English section. The extra time would have helped them prepare well,” he said. The Hindi heartland, which has a large number of law aspirants, shifted focus from three-year law programmes after graduation to five-year programmes in top NLUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nlsius-class-has-33-girls-50-students-from-4-hindi-states/articleshow/78669005.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Retention wall won’t serve any purpose: Experts||VADODARA: Construction of retention wall near Bhukhi Nullah, the tributary of Vishwamitri river that passes from the heart of M S University, will not serve any purpose. Structural engineering experts suggest that such a retention wall will further damage the foundations of the university buildings located near the tributary. Environmentalists have already earlier raised objections to the university’s plan of constructing the retention wall. “Permanent damage to the natural topography of Bhukhi Nullah was already done through an ill-conceived plan that was implemented by the then authorities of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and MSU,” said Dr I I Pandya from the applied mechanic and structural engineering department of MSU’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering. As syndicate and senate member Pandya had opposed laying a 2.5 metre pipeline from Alkapuri underpass to Bhukhi Nullah for disposing rainwater. Despite the project, the underpass still remains choked every time the city witnesses heavy showers while the nullah floods the university campus. “It was a big blunder. According to the topography, Bhukhi Nullah is located at a height of about 12 feet above the underpass. The civic authorities had laid the drain in such a way that the water flows from lower spot to a higher level, which is totally against the engineering concept,” explained Pandya. “The water has to flow downwards, if the underpass has to be cleared quickly. The VMC officials had dug up more than 20 feet below the ground level to maintain the slope from the underpass to Bhukhi Nullah which is 600 metres away,” he said. “The drain discharges water at about three metres above the basement of Vishwamitri river. Whenever the water level in the river crosses three meters, the river water starts flowing towards the underpass from the pipeline due to gravitational force. So, instead of accepting water from Bhukhi Nullah, water from Vishwamitri river starts entering the nullah in reverse flow,” he said. The momentum of the reverse flow is such that foundation of the university buildings gets damaged due to heavy soil erosion. “Even if you construct retention wall, water will continue to percolate in the ground, soil will continue to erode and foundations of the buildings will continue to get damaged,” he said, adding that the retention wall cannot be constructed from too much depth of the tributary as it will create ecological imbalance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retention-wall-wont-serve-any-purpose-experts/articleshow/78667836.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ephedrine worth Rs 80 lakh found in gas stove holder||BENGLAURU: In yet another big drug haul at the Bengaluru airport cargo, ephedrine worth Rs 80 lakh was found concealed inside a gas stove holder meant to be shipped to Australia from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Wednesday. Customs sources said the consignment with nearly two kg of the banned stimulant was booked by an unknown person from Tamil Nadu to be sent to Sydney. Sources with the Cargo Intelligence Unit (CIU) of KIA cargo wing said the consignment with gas stoves was booked on DHL cargo from Ambur in Tamil Nadu to be shipped to Australia. “A person, who is yet to be identified, had booked it as kitchen equipment and the consignment reached Bengaluru airport cargo section by road a few days ago and went through a thorough inspection before being boarded into a cargo flight to Australia,” said an airport source. Bangalore customs officials at the cargo unit spotted something amiss when they passed the gas stoves through the hi-end scanning device at KIA on Wednesday afternoon. Immediately, they dismantled one of the stoves to unearth a white colour substance inside all the four legs of the stove holder. Only the stove holder had the stimulant. Further inspection ascertained that it was ephedrine. Customs investigators suspect the seized drug, which is a stimulant and used for recreational purpose, is worth no less than Rs 80 lakh in the international market. Its value will shoot up on illegally reaching the Australian shores, they said. Watch Drugs worth Rs 80 lakh found in gas stove holder at Bengaluru airport||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ephedrine-worth-rs-80l-found-in-gas-stove-holder/articleshow/78668873.cms||Petlee Peter
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru riots: NIA grills two Congress MLAs||BENGALURU: Sleuths from National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday questioned Congress MLAs BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan and Rizwan Arshad in connection with the August 11 east Bengaluru violence. This is the first time that legislators are being questioned in the case. City police had arrested 422 people and NIA, which took over the case on September 21, nabbed one person. The MLAs were questioned separately for over two hours. The officials wanted to know the first-person account, sources said. Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan was questioned on his knowledge on the incident. “The officers asked how, when and what time did Rizwan received information on the violence and what was his response to it. They took a detailed statement from him on facts, including what he saw on reaching the violence-hit areas, with whom all did he communicate, did he make any effort to intervene or pacify the mob, if so, who were they?” sources said. Chamarajpet MLA Zameer Ahmed faced some additional questions too. “Knowing Zameer Ahmed had addressed several such mobs in the past, sleuths asked what, according to him, provoked the crowd. They sought his opinion on attacks made on police stations of DJ Halli and KG Halli. Mainly, the officers wanted to know how a large mob gathered in such a short span of time,” sources said. Four men had died in the violence that broke out after Naveen Kumar, nephew of Congress MLA (Pulakeshinagar) Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, allegedly posted objectionable content on social media. Two acquitted in terror case Bengaluru: The NIA special court on Tuesday acquitted two persons who had been accused of affiliation with a banned terror organization. Rahim Khan and Meer Nasuruddin were arrested by Commercial Street police in April 2011 and were charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Police alleged that they raised funds for Deendar Anjuman, a banned terror outfit, and were propagating its activities. Certain objectionable literature, notebooks and receipt books were allegedly seized from them. Chandrashekar RP, advocate for the accused, countered the claims, stating the prosecution had not placed any material, either oral or documentary, to show that any attempt was made to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-riots-nia-grills-two-cong-mlas/articleshow/78668984.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Rains wash away DeepthisriNagar roads||HYDERABAD: Deeptisrinagar in Chandanagar was inundated owing to the heavy rains on Tuesday night. Several trees and electricity poles were uprooted. “Today, the water is almost 3 to 4 ft deep. Many cellars are already filled with water," tweeted @Mahesh_kakanuru, a local. The condition of this road has been like this for years together. The roads from Deeptisrinagar connecting to the PJR Enclave and Miyapur- Chandanagar NH44 were waterlogged. Traffic movement was cut off. “This happens every time there is a heavy rainfall. Despite work going on round the year for the last two years, at this stretch, there seems to be no change in the situation,” said P Vijay Rao, a resident. The IMD said that the deep depression was now moving towards Maharashtra.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rains-wash-away-deepthisrinagar-roads/articleshow/78669562.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Harrowing time for Nadeem Colony locals||Hyderabad: Residents in several low-lying areas in the city, especially those living in Nadeem Colony, Toli Chowki, had a difficult time on Wednesday. “We haven’t slept or eaten as our house was inundated following the heavy rains. We shifted to the second floor but all our household items including sofa, bed, and other items are completely submerged in water,” said Rubeena Bee (32), a resident of Nadeem Colony. Many like Rubeena faced similar problems as most houses were in knee-deep water. “Scared, we couldn’t sleep all night. I have three children at home and all were extremely scared to see the water level rising in the lane,” said Mohammed Rayesuddin (47), another resident. Disaster Response Force of the GHMC evacuated many residents and shifted them to temporary shelters. Shoeb Khan (20), a final year degree student, spent the night pumping water out of their living room, as the rain water entered the first floor. “It’s been over 20 hours and with no electricity in the colony, I could hardly reach out to people for help. Even though, some volunteers are sending food packets and carrying out the rescue operation, how will they reach here if my phone battery dies,” he said. A man from Saroonagar Colony was seen sitting on the stairs of his house along with his 81-year-old mother as his house was filled with seven feet water. He allegedly contacted the rescue team but got no response||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harrowing-time-for-nadeem-colony-locals/articleshow/78669568.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Friends chip in for actor fighting for life in hospital||Bengaluru: “My dear brother, a cherished friend and a loved artist lies on the brink of life today. Faraaz Khan who gave many years of his life to the art of acting and gave his best in front of the camera only to impress his audience needs your help to survive today...” It was a desperate plea for funds by family members on a crowd-funding platform (Impactguru) but one that also reminded people of ’90s actor Faraaz Khan. He’s the son of Yusuf Khan of Amar Akbar Anthony fame.Best recognised for the 1996 sleeper hit Fareb in which he debuted, Khan, since October 8, has been lying unconscious in the Vikram Hospital ICU following three consecutive seizures and pneumonia. He was initially admitted for a cough and chest infection he’d been suffering for over a year. According to the diagnosis by Vikram Hospital’s consultant neurologist Dr Raghavendra S — shared on the campaign page — the actor is suffering from herpes encephalitis, aspiration pneumonia and sepsis with septic shock.The campaign, initiated by his brothers Fahed Abousher and Ahmed Shamoon, aims to raise Rs 25 lakh for treatment. Little over a day old, the campaign got a boost when actor and director Pooja Bhatt tweeted about it. “Please share and contribute if possible. I am. Would be grateful if any of you can as well,”she tweeted on Tuesday. Since then, the campaign has raises over Rs 4 lakh and has had fans, well-wishers and donors writing in.“I hope you recover soon Faraz! It’s been over twenty five years since I we hung out but I have some very fond memories of the time :),” wrote donor Niranjan I. “Faraaz, I have been your huge fan, love you, pls get well soon, I heartily pray for your speedy recovery (sic),” reads another message.Abousher told TOI from Dubai, “When he was initially admitted, the doctor said he had a 5%chance of survival but he’s recovering well. He’s still on ventilator support but he is recovering.”Terming the crowd-funding campaign ‘a last resort’, Abousher said he was gratified by all the funds and well-wishes pouring in. “I’m surprised by the love people are showing because my elder brother hasn’t been a part of the film industry for the past 14 years,” Abousher said, before thanking Pooja Bhatt and her tweet for making the campaign go viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/friends-chip-in-for-actor-fighting-for-life-in-hospital/articleshow/78668929.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC job offer for youth who nabbed man for sacrilege||Patiala: SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal visited both Jallah and Tarkhan Majra villages, where a miscreant had desecrated the holy book in gurdwaras, on Tuesday evening and appreciated the effort of a village youth who had caught the accused in the act and confronted him. Longowal has also assured the youth a job in the SGPC. Head granthi of gurdwara at Tarkhan Majra village Malkit Singh’s son Manjot Singh (20) had nabbed the sacrilege accused on October 12, when he was desecrating the Guru Granth Sahib. Sehajvir Singh (20), of a village in Nabha had allegedly committed two sacrileges on the fifth anniversary of Bargari sacrilege when he was caught. “The accused requested my father Malkit Singh, who is head granthi to open the doors as he wanted to pay obeisance. My father refused at first but on repeated requests, he asked me to open the doors of the hall and allow him to pay obeisance. I saw the accused touching Sri Guru Granth Sahib and standing very close to it, near the place where a granthi sits. I objected and went near him. I saw that he had torn ang (pages) of Sri Guru Granth Sahib and had torn around 23 ang (pages),” said Manjot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-job-offer-for-youth-who-nabbed-man-for-sacrilege/articleshow/78669610.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Seventh Pay Commission okayed for NMC||Nashik: The state government has approved the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission for the employees and officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). The urban development department of the state government has sent an order to this effect to the NMC. However, the government has also set some conditions about ensuring that the establishment cost of the municipal corporation does not fall below 35% and it will increase its revenue. Given the poor financial condition of the civic body due to the pandemic over the past six months, the state government has also directed the municipal commissioner to implement the 7th Pay Commission rules only after the NMC’s financial condition improves. Therefore, though the state government has given its nod to the civic body for the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission, it will take a few months for its actual implementation. “We wanted the state government to give its nod for the implementation of the Pay Commission. But we also know the financial condition of the civic body,” said an office-bearer of the Nashik Municipal Karmachari & Kamgar Sena. “Hence, it will take some time for its implementation, but what is important is that the state government has given its approval,” said an office-bearer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/seventh-pay-commission-okayed-for-nmc/articleshow/78666733.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Let SIT probe firing incidents: Sikh bodies to CM||BATHINDA: Several Sikh organisations and political outfits on Wednesday urged Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to direct the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to complete its probe into both Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents at the earliest and put those named as accused in the cases behind bars. The plea came after a number of Sikh bodies and political parties observed the 5th death anniversary of Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh, who were killed in a police firing at Behbal Kalan village of Faridkot district on October 14, 2015 while taking part in a protest against the sacrilege incident at Bargari. The ‘barsi’ (anniversary) was observed at Gurdwara Tibbisar Sahib at Behbal Kalan village. Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal, United Akali Dal president Gurdeep Singh, SAD (Amritsar) general secretary Jaskaran Singh Kahan Singh Wala, Dal Khalsa general secretary Kanwarpal Singh, Akal Federation’s Nirmal Singh Chaura, MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, AAP MLA Baldev Singh, singer Deep Sidhu and many more addressing the gathering inside the sanctum sanctorum of the gurdwara asked the government to get justice to the bereaved families and the Sikh Qaum by taking to task anyone who was even remotely behind the killings and acts of sacrilege. The organisations demanded the arrest of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and a thorough investigation into the role of some politicians. Baljit Sing Daduwal and Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said there was a deep-rooted conspiracy behind the incidents of sacrilege, pointing towards engineering those incidents by central agencies using their puppets with an intention to plunge Punjab into another turmoil. Referring to the two incidents of sacrilege two days ago at Fatehgarh Sahib villages, Kanwar Pal said there is a set pattern behind all such incidents. Sarbat Khalsa-appointed Jathedar Dhian Singh Mand visited the gurdwara in the morning before the start of the commemoration function. Various organisations honoured Krishan Bhagwan Singh’s son Sukhraj Singh and Gurjit Singh’s father Sadhu Singh. Earlier, the bhog of paths were performed at the houses of Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/let-sit-probe-firing-incidents-sikh-bodies-to-cm/articleshow/78669594.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Solar-powered tubewells to be installed for farmers in UP||LUCKNOW: In a big push to solar power, the state cabinet on Tuesday approved a pilot project in which solar tubewells will be installed for community use by farmers. The Community Mini Green Tubewell Scheme, under private minor irrigation, will entail a solar-powered tubewell being installed for groups of small and marginal farmers. A group will have a minimum of 10 members. As per the proposal, the pilot project will continue for a year after which it will be assessed. For 2020-21, a budget of Rs 6 crore has been approved for setting up 179 tubewells. The cost of one tubewell is estimated at Rs 4.7 lakh of which the central share will be Rs 73,050, the state’s share Rs 2.4 lakh and the farmer’s share Rs 1.5 lakh. An official said that the work of installing the tubewell will be carried out by the minor irrigation department while the agriculture department, which is also the nodal department of Kusum Yojna-B, will be responsible for solar pumps. One tubewell is estimated to be able to irrigate a 6-hectare land and create capacity for irrigating a 10-hectare land. Under the scheme, the tubewell is proposed to be installed at a depth of 69 metres. The scheme will not be applicable for blocks where groundwater is in critical or over-exploited categories. Other works which will take place along with installation of tubewells will include construction of pump houses and laying of pipes for distribution of water. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that in addition to the initial budget, more can be sanctioned with which 10 groups in large districts and five groups in smaller districts can benefit under the scheme. An official said that it is meant largely to benefit farmers who are financially weak. In another decision, the cabinet has approved to transfer land from the tourism department free of cost to the Food Craft Institute in Aligarh for construction of their building. The institute, which teaches courses in tourism, was set up in 1984 by the Centre and transferred to the UP government in 1989. It has since been running out of the Aligarh Muslim University polytechnic premises and has had no building of its own. The cabinet also approved a forest department decision to transfer 25,885 hectare land in Saharanpur to Indian Army for use as the Asaan Field Firing Range for 30 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/solar-powered-tubewells-to-be-installed-for-farmers/articleshow/78670638.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Sivasankar seeks anticipatory bail||KOCHI: M Sivasankar, who was principal chief secretary to CM Pinarayi Vijayan when the alleged gold smuggling through diplomatic channel came to light, has approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail. In the plea filed through advocate S Rajeev, the IAS officer said he is fearing an arrest and has contended that he has been questioned in detail several times, up to 90 hours, by central agencies and that he has been fully cooperating with them. No agency has submitted a report against him, the petition stated. Now, enforcement directorate has filed a chargesheet before the court for money-laundering offences in which several findings have been made pointing fingers at him, the petition said. Praying for an anticipatory bail, the IAS officer said in his plea that the investigating agency may be compelled to arrest him to satisfy certain vested interests. He met Swapna Suresh, who was secretary at the UAE consulate general and a key accused in the gold smuggling case, as part of official duties and then became friends with her and her family. They used to attend social functions together and have attended or hosted birthday celebrations and exchanged gifts. But, he did not know that Swapna and others were involved in gold smuggling, said Sivasankar’s plea. During interrogation, he mentioned that he was aware of Swapna’s acceptance of tip from the ruler of Sharjah. On her request to account this money, he introduced her to his chartered accountant and mentioned about the tip amount in WhatsApp messages to the accountant. These conversations happened at least 8-12 months before the alleged crime. But, the chargesheet presents the messages as if it pertains to handling of money related to alleged gold smuggling, the petitioner has contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-seeks-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/78669672.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of coordination leads to delay in power restoration||HYDERABAD: Lack of coordination between two departments resulted in delay of power restoration at various locations in the state. Power supply disrupted at many places due to tree falling but restoration took several hours. TSSPDCL sources said power supply interrupted in nearly 200 to 300 locations following trees getting uprooted and branches falling on the power lines. “Small tree branches can be removed by the power utility staff. But, big trees have to be removed by the Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM) of GHMC as they have men and machinery to cut and remove trees and vehicles,” a chief general manager of TSSPDCL said. Officials said despite calls by the locals and power staff, the EVDM chose to first clear waterlogging on the roads and trees in VIP colonies. “As a result of this, we faced the wrath of the people for not restoring power,” a divisional engineer said. For instance, in Keshavanagar Colony in Secunderabad, while a tree fell on the road on Tuesday night, the EVDM team arrived only at about 10 am on Wednesday. GHMC officials however laid the blame on the power discoms for not doing a proper trimming of tree branches during summer. “They (TSSPDCL) can have a wing for disaster management with proper men and machinery as our priority is to clear waterlogging on the road and overcome traffic congestion on main roads,” a senior GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-coordination-leads-to-delay-in-power-restoration/articleshow/78669612.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkashi: One killed, another hurt after car falls into gorge||UTTARKASHI: A person died and another sustained injuries after the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge in Mori region of Uttarkashi district on Tuesday late evening. According to TOI sources, two villagers, both residents of Tiuni village, were heading towards Naitwad village, when the accident took place. Their vehicle fell into a nearly 200-foot-deep gorge from Sankari-Naitwad road near Sidri village, killing 30-year-old Bablu Singh on the spot. Whereas another person, identified as 32-year-old Bharat Singh, was severely injured in the accident. Police pulled out the injured person from the gorge and sent him to a community health centre at Mori from where he was referred to a higher medical facility in Dehradun. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer of Uttarkashi, said, “The severely injured villager is undergoing treatment at a Dehradun-based hospital. Meanwhile, the body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-another-hurt-after-car-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/78666723.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
October 15, 2020||Nashik||I-T search on premises of 12 Nashik onion traders||Nashik: Eighteen teams of 110 income tax officials from Nashik, Pune and Aurangabad started searches on the residences and offices of 12 onion traders in Nashik district at 3pm Wednesday. The searches, at Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon and Nashik city, are being held due to apprehensions that traders are resorting to hoarding and black marketing, said sources in the I-T department. “The I-T officials are inspecting the records about the auctions of onions held at the Lasalgaon APMC during the past few months and also the quantity of the produce purchased by traders,” said the sources. The action comes in the wake of a consistent rise in onion prices at Lasalgaon, the country’s largest wholesale onion market. — Tushar Pawar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/i-t-search-on-premises-of-12-nashik-onion-traders/articleshow/78666745.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Many flights cancelled, delayed in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The torrential rains impacted air traffic movement to and from Hyderabad all through Wednesday, with more than a dozen flights either cancelled or delayed. Destinations that took a hit included Bengaluru, Tirupati, Ahmedabad, Vijayawada, Pune, Mumbai, Goa among others. Earlier on Tuesday evening, multiple aircraft arriving into the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport were diverted to either Chennai or Bengaluru. They were rerouted to RGIA later in the night. The flood of disruptions a day after the rain fury, meanwhile, left passengers flustered. Tagging details of a Hyderabad-Lucknow flight, one passenger wrote: “Flight status shows departed but passengers are still waiting to board.” And when the airline explained the situation, he added, “My concern is that if you are not able to make it then at least don’t fake it and be transparent to the passengers. This misinformation can lead to passengers missing their flight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-flights-cancelled-delayed/articleshow/78669661.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Power cut puts Hyderabad on standby mode||HYDERABAD: Residents of hundreds of colonies spent Tuesday night in pitch darkness due to rain-triggered power outages. Electricity was not restored in many colonies till Wednesday evening. However, power utilities claimed electricity was restored in 95% areas. Power supply snapped in Vasavinagar in Old Alwal around 8 pm on Tuesday and till Wednesday late evening, the residents were waiting for restoration of electricity. “I have visited fuse call office (FCO) at Lothukunta twice and there was nobody to respond,” BR Mallikarjuna Sarma, a resident, told TOI. Similarly, the power supply got disrupted due to heavy downpour in a colony besides Shanti theatre at YMCA, Narayanguda, at about 11 pm on Tuesday and power supply was not restored. MS Makta in the high-profile Raj Bhavan zone too did not get relieft from power shutdown since Tuesday night. The situation is similar in hundreds of colonies in Saroornagar, Uppal, Paradise, Saifabad, Mehdipatnam, Azamabad, Banjara Hills, Cantonment, Malakpet and several areas of the Old City. According to Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSDPCL), power supply got disrupted in nearly 500 to 600 areas in the city as water gushed into colonies and substations and tree falls on power lines. As there was water stagnation in colonies and roads near transformers, power utilities had swtiched off power supply to avoid any untoward incidents while in some cases feeders tripped, poles got damaged and transformers tripped as trees uprooted and fell on power lines. As many as 200 agriculture power distribution transformers were washed away in Musi river in Naglonda and Yadadri-Bhongir districts. Officials claim power outages happened in residential colonies under 686 11 kv feeders, which supply power to residential colonies, and 671 were restored by Wednesday evening. The rest could not be restored as colonies were still under water. Similarly, distribution transformers got damaged and only five were replaced. Poles were re-erected at 249 places of 312 locations. Saroornagar and Saifabad divisons were the worst affected areas as it received 30 cm rain, while in Banjara Hills power got disrupted due to tree falls. “We have restored and rectified power-related issues in 95% of areas and balance would also be covered by Wednesday night. At many locations, we could not take up restoration works immediately as we waited till water is bailed out and receded,” TSSPDCL director (operations) J Srinivas Reddy said. He said in some apartments, local feeders were charged but apartment transformers, where storm water entered into cellars, were shutdown to avoid any toward incidents. Meanwhile, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao spoke to Telangana Genco and Transco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao on power issues following heavy rains that lashed the state. He directed the CMD to monitor the situation with Transco, Genco and discoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-cut-puts-city-on-standby-mode/articleshow/78669670.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed, one hurt in landslide in Rudraprayag||DEHRADUN: Two persons died and one sustained injuries after being hit by boulders during a landslide in Jakholi block of Rudraprayag district on Wednesday morning. According to the District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC) of Rudraprayag, the three persons were working on a farm belonging to one Mohan Singh in Panjana village when the landslide occurred. "Two persons were buried alive in the landslide while one person sustained injuries. They were taking out stones from the farm land when the debris and boulders started rolling down and they were caught off guard," said a DEOC official. The deceased have been identified as Guman Singh Gusain (50), and Gopal Singh (40), both residents of Jakholi block. The injured person, Gopal Singh, is also a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-one-hurt-in-landslide-in-rudraprayag/articleshow/78666739.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Peace meeting planned to ease dalit-thevar communal tension||Madurai: Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri said officials from the revenue and police departments will conduct a peace meeting in Olaikulam village near Kayathar for establishing harmony among people from different castes. It is following tense moments prevailing in the village in the aftermath of a section of people from the thevar community making Paulraj, a dalit shepherd, fall at the feet of a man from the other community and apologize.The collector visited Paulraj and his family on Wednesday and listened to their grievances and demands. Later, to a query by reporters about periodical meetings to avert such incidents, Nanduri said that revenue and police personnel would conduct peace meetings at the village level when such incidents take place. “Based on the family’s demand, we have started taking efforts to provide a free house site patta to Paulraj’s family and for the government to construct a greenhouse. Compensation will be given to the family based on the sections under which the case has been registered against the accused. Untouchability or caste discrimination cannot be practised in this age,” Nanduri said. Stringent action would be taken against those indulging in such acts, he added.After the video of the incident recorded by the accused went viral in social media, police registered a case against eight people and arrested seven of them. Police protection was also provided to the house of the victim to avert retaliation by those from the thevar community. Superintendent of police of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar visited the victim at his house on Tuesday and assured necessary security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/peace-meeting-planned-to-ease-dalit-thevar-communal-tension/articleshow/78671163.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Nashik||Cidco divn reported most cases last week||Nashik: Cidco division of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has reported maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the last week, overtaking Panchavati division. The number of cases has increased again in the Cidco division. Around 940 of the total 3,036 cases reported in the city last week were from Cidco division, followed by Panchavati with 715 cases. Nashik Road division reported 571 cases in the last week. The remaining 180 cases have been reported from the other three divisions of NMC – Nashik East, Nashik West and Satpur divisions. Between 27 and October 7, the number of cases dropped in Cidco but in the last week, Cidco reported a hike in cases. Even though the number of cases daily has dropped in Nashik city from 986 around a month ago to 425 cases so far, there is not much change in the number of cases reported in Cidco division. Earlier, Cidco reported around 153 new cases per day around two weeks ago while in the past week 156 cases were reported per day in the division. NMC officials said Cidco division is densely populated as it houses the maximum population among all six divisions. “The city residents are not adhering to the safety norms to prevent Covid. The number of cases had dropped around a couple of weeks ago in the Cidco, but the it has again increased as compared to other divisions,” said the officials..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cidco-divn-reported-most-cases-last-week/articleshow/78666764.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 15, 2020||Nashik||582 cases in Nashik district||Nashik: The district reported 582 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 381 from Nashik city, taking the tally of positive cases to 87,191. Four of the eight people who succumbed to Covid-19 in the district were from Nashik city. The death toll stands at 1,555 in the district, including 823 in the city. As many as 550 patients were discharged from across the district on Wednesday, of which 403 patients are from the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/582-cases-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78666751.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: RPF busts e-ticket scam, 1 held, hunt on for aide||CHENNAI: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has busted a ticket booking racket and seized e-tickets worth Rs 7,034 and expired tickets worth Rs 1.68lakh from a travel agency in Vellore following a raid on Tuesday. An agent was arrested while a hunt is on for his accomplice who is suspected to be in Kolkata. RPF Chennai senior divisional security commissioner Senthil Kumaresan said the scamsters adopted a new modus operandi and used a software to bypass captcha and the need for an OTP on IRCTC website and were booking tickets at a premium for customers. “The agency had a licence to book railway tickets and were running a proper firm for issuing tickets and other services. But they created fake IDs on IRCTC and were using an illegal software called ‘Real Mango’ to quickly fill all the columns and book tickets. This way, they were able to book thousands of tickets in no time. By the time people logged in and filled up the personal details, the tickets would have got booked.,” he added. He also said that such touts put genuine passengers at a disadvantage because they are not able to get confirmed tickets on trains and are forced to fall back on such agents who book tickets for a hefty commission. During inquiry, it was found that the accused were operating as sub-agents on behalf of the owner of the travel agency from West Bengal and booked e-tickets using multiple user IDs violating IRCTC rules. The cell phone of the accused was also loaded with apps for booking tickets. Recently, a gang of touts using illegal software ‘Real Mango’ was busted by RPF in Kolkata. “An all India drive was being done to check if touts were using such software or apps to block large number of tickets during festival time. More checks will be done during Puja and Diwali season,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rpf-busts-e-ticket-scam-1-held-hunt-on-for-aide/articleshow/78669684.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Judicial commission’s tenure extended in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The tenure of the judicial commission that was formed to examine and make necessary recommendations regarding purchases in the police department has been extended for six months. The original tenure of the commission had lapsed even before the commission could begin functioning, for the want of subjects to be considered and subsequently, Covid-19 outbreak. The commission has been given extension till December 7. The commission headed by justice (retd) C N Ramachandran Nair comprises former state police chief Jacob Punnoose and former additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) Subrato Biswas, and was constituted on March 7 for three months. However, even before the members could meet for want of terms of reference (ToR), lockdown was imposed. The tenure of the commission had then expired on June 7. Now, the government has given terms of reference to the commission, that include examining if existing financial powers of state police chief needs to be enhanced. Presently, the expenditure limit of the state police chief is Rs 5 crore with regard to the Centre’s modernization of police force (MoPF) schemes, while it is Rs 50 lakhs of plan funds of the state and the budget. The committee has been asked to formulate procedures to procure security-related equipment, including arms and ammunition for police, after a comparative study between police’s existing procedures and successful methods adopted by other states and central police forces. The committee has been asked to examine the works and projects undertaken by police and look into matters incidental to and arising out of them. The government had appointed the commission in the wake of the comptroller and auditor general’s (CAG) findings in its report tabled in the assembly. The CAG’s audit report of the functioning of police was highly critical and had unleashed a string of controversies regarding improper utilization of funds. The CAG was highly critical of purchases that did not adhere to stores purchase rules and central vigilance commission guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/judicial-commissions-tenure-extended/articleshow/78668173.cms||KP Saikiran
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: WWF launches planet-based diet for healthy Earth||NAGPUR: The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) has launched ‘Planet-based diets’, a new approach to making food choices that can help ensure a healthy planet as well as healthy people. The initiative will offer not just a global framework but also, for the first time, a customized platform that can accelerate the adoption of healthy and sustainable planet-based diets at the national and individual levels. Planet-based diets are win-win eating patterns that can globally reduce food-based greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30%, wildlife loss by up to 46%, agricultural land-use by at least 40% , and premature deaths by at least 20%. This was revealed in a WWF report, ‘Bending the curve: The restorative power of planet-based diets’, released recently. The report says the planet-based diets are sustainably produced ingredients that have minimal impacts on nature. These diets include cultivating a wider variety of foods which help bending the curve on the negative impacts of the food system, moving from one which exploits the planet to one which restores it for nature and people. Against the backdrop of the ongoing pandemic, it has become more important than ever to adopt healthier and more considered diets. The major drivers of emerging infectious disease, such as Covid-19, have been shown to be the unsustainable conversion of land for agriculture, intensive livestock farming and illegal trade in wildlife, often for consumption. It is necessary to change how we produce and consume food to provide everyone with a healthy and sustainable future. The report indicates that transitioning to planet-based diets deliver high human health benefits and low environmental impacts, including a more stable climate, less wildlife loss, and more space for it to thrive, and, crucially, longer and healthier lives for people. “Dietary changes take place at the local level, so it was important for us to translate the global agenda into actionable national-level analysis,” said Brent Loken, WWF’s global food lead scientist and lead author of the report. “Failing to change our diets is having dramatic impacts on our health, nature, climate, and other aspects of socio-economic development,” said João Campari, a global leader of WWF's food practice. “Food systems are the primary driver of biodiversity loss. In the past 50 years, species populations have declined by an average of 68% and food production has caused 70% of biodiversity loss on land and 50% in freshwater. If we are to achieve food systems that protect nature while providing everyone with enough nutritious and healthy food, we require an unprecedented level of collaboration to urgently deliver transitions to planet-based diets,” says Campari. Indian diets have also changed in the last decade. While the portion of food grains in our diets has declined from 43% to 32%, the proportion of protein-based foods like eggs and dairy increased from 12% to 18% and fruits and vegetables from 23% to 34% in volume. This shift also has implications on the environment. “We need actions across the food system, in production, consumption, and food loss and waste. Adopting planet-based diets, which will increase conscious consumption and shift market demands, can accelerate other actions and help achieve sustained change,” said Campari. Adopting planet-based diet cuts..* Food-based greenhouse gas emissions by at least 30% * Wildlife loss by up to 46% * Agricultural land-use by at least 41% * Premature deaths by at least 20%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wwf-launches-planet-based-diet-for-healthy-earth/articleshow/78669698.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 15, 2020||Nashik||NMC prepares for ‘second wave’ of cases in Nov-Dec||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is prepared for the “second wave” of Covid-19 in November and December as projected by the state government. The civic body is going to increase the number of beds available in the city from the present 4,500 beds to 5,500 by the end of this month. It will increase the number of beds in its Bytco hospital from 500 to 1,000, including 450 beds with oxygen support. Moreover, around a dozen private hospitals have also applied to the NMC, seeking permission to provide treatment to Covid patients. The state government has projected a second wave of Covid-19 in the city during the winter months of November and December. Even though the number of new cases has dropped over the past fortnight, the civic body is prepared to handle a second wave, said the officials. “We already have an adequate number of beds in civic and private hospitals. Right now, 60% of the 4,500 beds in 90 hospitals are vacant,” they said. “We have planned to add 1,000 more beds in civic and private hospitals so that the number of total beds will be more than 5,500,” said NMC officials. The city had around 6,000 active Covid patients around a month back. The number has now dropped to 3,500. Of them, 1,700 are undergoing treatment in civic and private hospitals and 1,800 are taking treatments at their homes, said the civic officials. Around 85% of all positive patients are asymptomatic and can be treated and cured at homes, but the remaining 15% of symptomatic patients need treatment in hospitals. Moreover, those asymptomatic patients, who don’t have facilities at home, are also treated in the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-prepares-for-second-wave-of-cases-in-nov-dec/articleshow/78666775.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Committee constituted for monitoring pvt hospitals: Govt||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to constitute a monitoring committee to monitor private hospitals collecting exorbitant charges for Covid-19 treatment. When the state government informed the court that a monitoring committee had already been constituted for monitoring private hospitals, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought details on the members who are part of the committee and also sought details on the steps taken against the private hospitals which had collected exorbitant charges for Covid-19 treatment. The judges also sought as to whether notice boards were installed at the private hospitals indicating the fee fixed by the government for Covid-19 treatment.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K K Ramesh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/committee-constituted-for-monitoring-pvt-hospitals-govt/articleshow/78670677.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Srisailam project gets 1,230 tmcft this year, 6 times its capacity||HYDERABAD: With heavy inflows into Krishna river basin from upstream states like Karnataka, Srisailam project received 1,230 tmcft water this year, which is six times more than the capacity of the Srisailam dam 213 tmcft. Similarly, Nagarjuna Sagar, which has the capacity of 309 tmcft water reserves, received over 800 tmcft (more than double) cumulative inflows in this year. Pulichintala dam, which has just 44 tmcft capacity got cumulative inflows of 647 tmcft. Going by the reports prepared by the water resources department, major irrigation projects both in Krishna and Godavari rivers in the state have received huge inflows in the past four months. Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar gates were opened at least five times in this season to release water to the downstream. The first dam in Telangana on Krishna river, Jurala had got 870 tmcft water against 8 tmcft. But on Godavari basin, only two projects Sri Ram Sagar and Sripada Yellampally got huge inflows due to heavy rains in upstream Maharashtra state. “Yellampally got 351 tmcft water in the past three months while the capacity is 18 tmcft. Similarly, Sri Ram Sagar received 292 tmcft against the capacity of 87 tmcft,” a chief engineer said. Meanwhile, the water resources department alerted the Krishna basin officers after the Central Water Commission issued a flood alert to Narayanpur dam and Almatti dam which have been receiving over 1.20 lakh cusecs of inflows. The flood warning said the inflows into Krishna river may go up to 1.90 lakh cusecs, which is the upstream of Jurala project in Telangana. Priyadarshini Jurala Dam authorities said the present inflows from upstream areas are 2.65 lakh cusecs and water is being released through spillway and 37 gates. The officials said due to excess rain, of 43,000 minor irrigation tanks, over 25,000 anks are in surplus and 11,970 tanks have been filled between 75% and 100% of their capacity in this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srisailam-gets-1230-tmcft-this-yr-6-times-its-capacity/articleshow/78669710.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Juveniles who went to school committed more crimes||LUDHIANA: Juveniles who attended schools were more involved in crimes as compared with those who did not, showed the recently-released report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). It also indicated that juveniles who lived with their parents were more involved in criminal offences as compared with those who lived with their guardians. As per the report, 37 juveniles were arrested by the Ludhiana police commissionerate in 2019. Of them, 32 (86.5%) were those who had attended school and five (13.5 %) had not. Among the literate ones, 22 had studied up to primary level and 10 had education between primary and matric. The report also points to an increase in the number of crimes executed by the juveniles in the city. In 2017, as many as 27 juveniles were nabbed by Ludhiana commissionerate police. Twenty-one were arrested in 2018 and in 2019, as many as 37 juveniles were involved in crimes. The cases in 2019 increased by 76% as compared with 2018. Of these 37 juveniles, 26 lived with their parents and 11 with their guardians. No homeless adolescent was arrested in any crime. Juveniles were found involved in several offences, like murder, rape, assault, sodomy, thefts and burglaries. The maximum (11) were arrested for thefts, five in cases of causing grievous hurt, three for rape, two for unnatural offence, one for assault on woman with intent to outrage her modesty, one for murder, among others. The report also throws light on disposal of cases of juveniles apprehended and sent to court in the IPC and Special and Local Laws (SLL) cases. The number of juveniles whose cases were pending for disposal at the beginning of 2019 was 145. Besides, 37 cases were reported in 2019. This makes a total of 182 cases. Among these cases, 42 juveniles were awarded imprisonment, 29 were acquitted or discharged later in the year. Thus, 0.7% were held guilty. Deputy commissioner of police (detective) SPS Dhindsa said, “In majority of the cases, it has been observed that minors indulged in crimes due to their social and economic condition. They have to drop out of school due to the poor financial condition of their families and then indulge in crimes, like snatching and thefts. At times, they come in contact with youngsters who are into crimes to make easy money. They are vulnerable at this age.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/juveniles-who-went-to-school-committed-more-crimes/articleshow/78666779.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus on decline: Doubling rate 105 days in district||LUDHIANA: There is some good news on Covid-19 front. The doubling rate has been more than 105 days in the district for the past many days. The doubling rate is the number of days it takes for the cases to double based on the past seven-day growth rate. As per the recent state media bulletin released by the health department, the doubling rate for Ludhiana district was 106, which is 20 points more than on October 4, when it was 85. As compared with September 25, the doubling rate is more by 51 days. The latest bulletin suggests that with a doubling rate of 106, Ludhiana is at seventh position among the districts of the state, with Patiala with 148 days at number one spot. Sangrur is at number two position with the rate of 139 days, Barnala at number three (138 days), Moga at number four (130 days), Fatehgarh Sahib at number five (115 days) and Ferozepur at number six (110 days). Kapurthala had lowest doubling rate of 46 days. The local health department says the doubling rate had been witnessing a gradual increase since July 9, but there was an intermittent decrease as well. The data suggests that doubling rate for Ludhiana was 15.7 days on July 9, which increased to 18 days till July 17, but dropped to 12 days on July 31. As per the data, the doubling rate increased to 16 days from 13 days from August 1 to 15. It increased further from 18 days on August 17 to 28 days on August 31. As per the state health department, the doubling rate increased from 37 days on September 2 to 39 on September 15, then reached 55 days on September 25 and was recorded at 100 on October 7, before reaching the current value. Health department authorities say maybe the peak is over. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga says there is a decline in pandemic and increased testing, extensive contact tracing and awareness have helped in achieving this change. He warns that people should follow norms and wear masks, maintain social distancing, hand hygiene and go out only if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-on-decline-doubling-rate-105-days-in-district/articleshow/78666783.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Israel to begin water study in Bundelkhand||LUCKNOW: The steering committee for the India-Israel Bundelkhand Water Project met virtually on Wednesday and approved the start of a feasibility study for technology driven irrigation, water supply and conservation in Jhansi’s Babina block. Israeli envoy to India, Dr Ron Malka, tweeted: “Today we took a very important step forward of our India Israel Bundelkhand Water Project. The steering committee leads today by Mr Alok Sinha and myself assembled and defined tangible action items for implementing large scale model for comprehensive water management.” Sinha said that as per the MoU signed between the two countries in August, the committee has not only approved the feasibility study but also approved of the formation of a working group. “The feasibility study in the 25 villages in Babina block will be conducted by experts from Israel. The expenditure for this will also be borne by them,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/israel-to-begin-water-study-in-bundelkhand/articleshow/78670669.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chennai||TN told to probe fee complaints||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the school education department to inquire and file a report on complaints made against 32 CBSE schools that were alleged to have demanded over and above the 40% of fee permitted to be collected by the court. “Based on the report the court will ascertain the number of CBSE schools that have violated the court order and necessary action will be initiated,” Justice N Anand Venkatesh said. On July 17, Justice N Anand Venkatesh fixed 75% of the last year’s fee as the tentative fee for the present academic year and permitted private educational institutions to collect 40% of it by August 31. On September 23, the court initiated suo motu contempt of court proceedings against nine private schools in the state for violating court order and insisting parents to pay 100% of the annual fee. The CBSE was also directed to ascertain as to whether any such complaints have been made against schools affiliated to it. When the pleas came up for hearing, counsel for CBSE Nagarajan filed a report and submitted that so far, 32 complaints have been received against private CBSE schools. Recording the same, the judge passed the interim order. During the hearing, counsels representing the schools submitted that 40% to 50% of the parents are yet to pay the fee fixed by the court. “We have not taken any action against them. But the court must also consider that the institutions are paying the teachers and maintaining the school infrastructure. They wanted the court to decide on permitting collection of the remaining fee,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-told-to-probe-fee-complaints/articleshow/78669718.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Madurai||20 held for ransacking houses of Madurai double murder suspects||Madurai: Madurai district police on Wednesday arrested 20 people, who went on a rampage and attacked the houses of two suspects in the double murder that rocked Kunnathur village on Monday.Kunnathur village president Krishnarajan and his friend Munusamy were hacked to death on Monday and their funerals were conducted on Tuesday evening. A section of villagers, who took part in the final rites went on a rampage and attacked the houses of former village president Thirupathi and village secretary (in-charge) Palpandi, the prime suspects in the double murder case.They also set fire to a haystack behind Palpandi house. Based on a complaint from Palpandi, Karuppayurani police registered a case. The attackers were booked under various sections of IPC on charges of rioting, causing damage to public properties, mischief by fire or explosive substance and trespassing into house to commit an offence.Meanwhile, district police are yet to arrest the accused behind the murder. Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said that they have got vital clues and are pursuing the case closely. Soon, people behind the incident will be arrested, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/20-held-for-ransacking-houses-of-madurai-double-murder-suspects/articleshow/78671164.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||As govt allows reopening of schools, parents say online education was best option||DEHRADUN: As the state government finally gave its nod to the reopening of the schools from November 1 for students of Classes X and XII, several parent bodies expressed unhappiness at the decision. The parent bodies have said that in times of a pandemic, online education was the best option while adding that schools could have called some students to clear their doubts occasionally. “The government has also made it clear that schools won't be held responsible if a student is tested Covid-19 positive. The schools are also not ready to take this responsibility. In such a situation, how can we send our kids to schools,” asked a local who did not wish to be named. Parents have said that the government order does not specify if online classes will continue after reopening of schools or not. Notably, the schools had demanded the government to allow them to discontinue online classes within one week of reopening saying that they don't have enough staff to run both online and offline classes. The schools will open for students of two classes on November 2 as November 1 is a Sunday. It is worth mentioning here that the government order comes after several meetings were held between government officials, school managements, parent bodies, and other stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-govt-allows-reopening-of-schools-parents-say-online-education-was-best-option/articleshow/78672322.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Illegal constructions to be razed on Sumandeep campus||Vadodara: Vadodara district collector has issued orders to demolish unauthorised construction at Pipaliya-based Sumandeep Vidyapeeth in Waghodiya taluka. According to the orders issued recently by district collector Shalini Agrawal, the district development officer (DDO) has been directed to remove illegal construction done by K M Shah Charitable Trust and its managing director Dr Mansukh Shah. She has also asked the DDO to submit the action taken report to Lokayukta Gujarat. The order pertains to 33,350 sq m unauthorised construction at Pipariya campus. The said construction is in violation of Gujarat Land Revenue Rules, 1972, stated the order. The collector has issued order as there is change in land use. Earlier, representations against the illegal construction at Sumandeep Vidyapeeth were made before the district panchayat. It is worth mentioning here that in February 2017, Shah was arrested along with his two aides in cash-for-marks scam. Later, involvement of several other officials of Sumandeep Vidyapeeth had also surfaced.In May 2017, Shah was also accused of forging land documents and was booked at Waghodiya police station. Later, investigation of the case was handed over to the anti-corruption bureau. Recently, Supreme Court asked the Vadodara sessions court to continue his trial in cash-for-marks scam after the Gujarat High Court discharged him from the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/illegal-constructions-to-be-razed-on-sumandeep-campus/articleshow/78667898.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Day 6: Nagpur University finally clears online test, 23,715 appear for exams||NAGPUR: The teething troubles for Nagpur University in holding it’s first online examination seem to be over as the varsity, after five days of chaos and confusion, managed to conduct the multiple choice questions (MCQ) test of nearly 24,000 students seamlessly on the sixth day on Wednesday. The examinees included over 11,000 engineering students who had faced problems in paper submission on Monday. The varsity helplines, which rang continuously for the first five days of the examination due to one or the other issues, were mostly silent on Wednesday, as a majority of examinees hardly faced any difficulties. The attendance in most of the faculties, except arts, was over 98% and average was over 95%. Some examinees, particularly from rural areas, did face problems due to low connectivity. “Five students from Gumgaon in Nagpur district couldn’t appear due to network problems. We received some complaints from students who inadvertently clicked on mock test option in the Pariksha app. We then removed that data and allowed them to log in again. Barring these, we hardly faced any issues today. The number of complaints dropped drastically,” a relaxed Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. An official from Promarc Software, which is facing ire of students and NU’s present and former statutory members on social media, due to the initial fiasco, told TOI that its staffers worked till Tuesday midnight to fine-tune the system. “We did server code optimization by changing some settings. These changes were done in different parameters. We didn’t increase server capacity as is speculated. Our server never reached its full capacity during the earlier five papers,” he said. The official added reducing the size of images received from examinees’ mobiles through proctoring helped streamline the process. “Earlier, the server was receiving high resolution images that were blocking the traffic. We’ve now filtered these, as we don’t need such big size images for proctoring,” he said. TOI received a couple of complaints from students claiming that their civil engineering paper was “out of syllabus”. The exam director, however, rejected the charge saying the question paper was set by accommodating all three combinations — easy, moderate and difficult. “It means 40% questions are easier, 40% moderate and 20% difficult. This is a normal pattern of any exam. The students may have found some questions difficult to answer. They can still lodge a complaint with the exam section, if they wish to,” said Sable. On Thursday as well, a large number of examinees would appear in online exams. “About 9,000 commerce students will appear in the first shift, followed by 8,000 in science and other courses on Thursday. We’re hoping for another smooth day like today,” he said. Only 3 students opted for offline exams Out of over 75,000 final-year students, only three have opted for offline exams citing that they didn’t have mobile. “An NGO has approached us for helping them out and in a couple of days, it plans to handover mobile handsets to these students so that they too could appear in online exams. All of them hail from rural areas. We weren’t expecting such a low number for offline exams,” Sable told TOI. In neighbouring Amravati district, over 5,500 students have preferred pen-and-paper exams over MCQ tests. Status of NU online exams on 6th day Shift -------------- Faculty------------ Enrolled ------------------ Appeared ----------% 1st ------------- Commerce --------- 2,373 ---------------------- 2,355 --------------- 99.24% 2nd ------------- Arts ----------------- 9,489 ----------------------8,652 ---------------- 91.17% 3rd ------------- Science ------------- 1,530 --------------------- 1,504 ---------------- 98.3% 4th ------------- Engg & Tech ------- 11,335-------------------- 11,204 --------------- 98.84% Total ------------------------------------ 24,727------------------- 23,715 --------------- 95.90%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-6-nu-finally-clears-online-test-23715-appear-for-exams/articleshow/78669755.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||6-month licence fee waiver to multiplexes in UP||Lucknow: In a major relief to cinemas and multiplexes that had been shut since the end of March due to the Covid-19 lockdown and are beginning operations from Thursday, the state government has announced an exemption of licence fees from April to September, 2020. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced the exemption of six months in light of the fact that cinema halls and multiplexes did no business in this duration due to the lockdown guidelines. The exemption has been announced under the provisions of section 10 of UP Cinema (Regulation) Act 1955. Cinemas and multiplexes have finally been allowed to start operations from Thursday but the permission has come with several riders to enforce sanitation and social distancing. An auditorium can only be filled to 50% of its capacity while ticket sales will largely take place online or through contactless payment mode. Face masks will be compulsory for all guests and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/6-month-licence-fee-waiver-to-multiplexes/articleshow/78670672.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Month after HC order, cops fail to trace missing minor and paramour||LUDHIANA: It has been over a month since the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered the Ludhiana police to arrest a man who had escaped with a minor girl on the pretext of marrying her. The cops are yet to recover the girl, and her family is doing rounds of the police station to know her whereabouts. On June 8, 17-year-old daughter of a Ludhiana-based couple had gone missing. Later, the family identified that a man of their locality had eloped with her on the pretext of marrying her. Mother of the girl alleged that the accused befriended her daughter and escaped with her. They got an FIR registered, but the police could not trace them. She added, “Thereafter, the accused approached the high court to get anticipatory bail and protection from our family as days after escaping, my daughter turned 18. We approached the court and managed to prove that when the accused eloped with my daughter, she was a minor. On September 9, the HC ordered the Ludhiana police to make the accused join the investigation, add the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in the FIR and trace my daughter. His anticipatory bail plea was rejected.” The woman alleged, “The cops had called the accused to the police station and made him join the investigation, but they could not trace my daughter. Now the accused is missing and the police are clueless. It has been over a month since the HC order and we have been making rounds of the police station in vain.” Her mother said they have traced the kin of the accused, who had left their locality soon after the incident, and they were aware of the whereabouts of her daughter, but the police were not questioning them. ASI Gurpreet Singh said earlier he was investigating this case and has been recently transferred to Tibba police station. He added, “On the orders of the high court, we made the accused join the investigation and he gave in writing that he would bring the girl back. However, after that the accused also escaped. The police have added the sections of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in the FIR. The investigating team had made all efforts to trace the girl and arrest the accused. We visited Himachal Pradesh, where the accused had taken shelter. There, the entire team had contracted coronavirus and was in isolation. After my transfer, sub-inspector Jatinder Singh is investigating the case.” ASI Jatinder Singh could not be contacted for statement. The girl’s family is planning to meet commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/month-after-hc-order-cops-fail-to-trace-missing-minor-and-paramour/articleshow/78666788.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 15, 2020||Kochi||KSEB to sell extra power generated at Moolamattam||IDUKKI/PALAKKAD: KSEB has received bids to purchase extra power generated at Moolamattom power plant. Earlier, the board had decided to surrender the power from Central pool and make use of the additional power generated at Moolamattom to tide over the rising water level at Idukki reservoir, said Rajan P, KSEB director (transmission, system operation and REES). After a meeting on Tuesday to discuss power position, the power plant has increased its generation, aiming to reduce the water level in the reservoir. The total power generated on Tuesday was 7.041mu. “The four of the six power generators are generating power full time, while the other two are under repair,” said the official. “The dam safety wing is closely monitoring the situation and if needed, we will release water from the reservoir,” Rajan said. Dam safety wing assistant executive engineer Aloshy Paul told TOI, “The dam safety wing has already completed arrangements to open the dam if needed. We hope the water level will reduce within days as power generation has increased.” With the district experiencing heavy rainfall on Wednesday, the water level in Idukki reservoir continued to be above the blue alert level. The water level on Wednesday was 2,392.20ft, which was over one ft above the blue alert level. The dam safety wing on Tuesday issued a blue alert when the the water level reached 2,391.18ft. The blue alert level for the day as per the new rule curve fixed by central water commission was 2,390.85 ft. The district received an average rainfall of 34.12mm for the past 24 hours till Wednesday evening. Peermade taluk received the highest rainfall of 54.2 mm. “The dam safety wing is monitoring the rainfall pattern till October 15,” said Paul. Meanwhile, the water level in Mullaperiyar on Wednesday was 127.45ft. Shutters 3 major dams opened due to heavy rain The shutters of Malampuzha, Walayar and Pothundy reservoirs were opened as their water level had crossed danger mark in the heavy rain lashing the district for the last one week. All the four shutters of Malampuzha were opened as the water level crossed 114.3m as against full reservoir level (FRL) of 115.06m. The shutters of Walayar Dam were opened when the water level touched 202.52m as against the FRL of 203m. The shutters of Pothundy were opened as its water level crossed 107m as against the FRL of 108.204m. The shutters of Mangalam Dam which was opened last month are still kept open and the shutters of Kanjirapuzha Dam opened in August also remains opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kseb-to-sell-extra-power-generated-at-moolamattam/articleshow/78669790.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Government school teacher caught virus through use of public transport’||Mangaluru: The daughter of a teacher in Dakshina Kannada has claimed that her mother contracted Covid-19 through use of public transport to conduct Vidyagama classes, indicating the government was right in halting the programme. Padmakshi N, 45, a teacher at Jawaharlal Nehru Makki Aided High School, is battling the infection in a private hospital in Mangaluru. Her daughter, Aishwarya Jain Y, an engineering student, said her condition is critical due to severe lung infection. In a post on social media which has since been widely shared, Aishwarya revealed how Vidyagama had “crippled” her family as her father, Shasikanth Y, a teacher at DJ Higher Primary Aided School, had also tested positive. She said Padmakshi used to travel 4km by public transport to school and walked about 8-9km to reach out to students. “My mother would return home tired every day and with leg pain (sic). We believed it was due to her work and ignored it. As days went by, her health condition deteriorated,” Aishwarya wrote. Addressing the state government, she wrote: “We are among those families who are suffering due to Vidyagama, as both my parents and younger brother have tested positive. My parents are government teachers. My mother’s condition is critical and is in intensive care using 90% oxygen support at a private hospital from September 29. She has been fighting for her life ever since. My father who is also positive is trying very hard to pay hospital bills and is under unbearable stress. We need a helping hand right now. My mother was healthy before Vidyagama. Hope the government will not let its teachers down.” Aishwarya told TOI, “If anything goes wrong, the government must be held responsible.  Following Aishwarya’s post, minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar said cost of Padmakshi treatment will be borne by the government. “I have spoken to the deputy commissioner and department of public instruction officials in Dakshina Kannada to ensure best treatment for the teacher. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has also spoken to the DK district administration in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/government-school-teacher-caught-virus-through-use-of-public-transport/articleshow/78668216.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools suspend classes, cancel exams||Hyderabad: Power and internet disruption in the city due to the torrential rains forced several schools to suspend online classes on Wednesday. Even before the state had declared a holiday, schools had sent out messages to parents informing about the suspension of virtual classes. “Due to the inclement weather and its consequences on the network/electricity, we have decided to declare holiday today (Wednesday). Please stay safe,” read a message from DPS Hyderabad. Few schools, where unit tests or assessments were scheduled, also cancelled the examinations. “Due to the incessant rains, the internet and electricity are disconnected. Therefore, we will have no online class today (October 14). Today’s unit test is postponed, the new date will be informed later. Stay home, stay safe,” reads a message from St Patrick’s High School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-suspend-classes-cancel-exams/articleshow/78669723.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Surat||ACB questions Surat DyMC in DA case||Surat: Deputy municipal commissioner of Surat Municipal Corporation, Ketan Patel, registered his statement with the ACB office in Nanpura on Wednesday. Patel is facing an inquiry into a case of disproportionate assets filed against him by the national corruption watchdog. Meanwhile, Patel had resigned from the civic body post a day before the inquiry was ordered against him on October 8. His resignation is, however, yet to be accepted by the SMC. Meanwhile, Patel went on leave from his job till December after submitting his resignation. Patel was called to register his statement by G V Padheriya, assistant director, ACB, Ahmedabad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/acb-questions-surat-dymc-in-da-case/articleshow/78668202.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chennai||Rajinikanth gets Madras high court rap over tax remission plea||CHENNAI: In an embarrassment to actor Rajinikanth, the Madras high court has refused to entertain his plea against Rs 6.5lakh property tax demand for his marriage hall in Chennai during the lockdown period. “Do you think that the court has no better things to do except directing the corporation authorities to dispose of your representation,” Justice Anita Sumanth told Rajinikanth’s counsel on Wednesday. The judge also warned the actor of imposing a cost on him for having rushed to the court without giving adequate time for the authorities.“You made the representation to the Chennai Corporation on September 23 and rushed to the court within a week. Why do you want to rush to the court instead of approaching the authorities?” the court said. When the court was about to dismiss the petition with cost, counsel for Rajinikanth pleaded to the court to permit him to withdraw the petition.  Later, allowing the withdrawal memo, the court dismissed the petition. According to Rajinikanth, his marriage hall remained vacant since March 23 till now in view of Covid-19 lockdown imposed by the government. The corporation issued a property tax invoice demanding Rs 6.5 lakh as tax for the period from April to September 2020. Pointing out that the tax demand had been made though Section 105 of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act provided for remission from tax for properties that remained vacant or unlet, Rajinikanth had sought tax remission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-gets-hc-rap-over-tax-remission-plea/articleshow/78669747.cms||Suresh Kumar
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Walk from Delhi Metro to Terminal-1 to be a breeze||NEW DELHI: From December, Delhi Metro commuters won’t have to trudge between the domestic terminal of Indira Gandhi International Airport and the train station through busy traffic. A dedicated 370m subway constructed by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will seamlessly connect the Terminal-1 station of Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) with the departure and arrival terminals. Apart from escalators and elevators, the subway will have travelators so that passengers don’t have to walk all the way. This will be the first subway in the city to have travelators. A DMRC spokesperson said, “The pedestrian subway is nearing completion and is expected to be ready by the year-end. Commuters travelling to and from the airport will be able to directly enter and exit the Metro station using the subway that has lifts and escalators. The subway has been constructed using the cut-and-cover technology, which was an engineering challenge as very hard rocks were encountered during excavation work.” The subway will connect the airport terminals with Gate 3 of the Metro station. “There will be two entry and exit points, one each at the arrival and departure terminals of the airport, with two escalators and two elevators, along with a staircase. The elevators will be more spacious than the usual ones with a capacity of carrying 26 people,” said the spokesperson. The extension work of arrival and departure sheds by Delhi International Airport Ltd at the subway’s entry and exit is in progress. The eventual opening of the subway for passenger movement will depend on the completion of this work. Though IGI’s domestic terminals were put on the Delhi Metro map in May 2018 when Magenta Line opened, the travelling experience did not equal Airport Express Line, which was seamlessly connected to Terminal-3. Due to lack of seamless connectivity at the domestic terminal, passengers have to walk along with their luggage through a pathway across a road amid busy traffic. To give them safe passage as of now, DMRC has installed adequate signage and constructed a tiled pathway between the station and the airport terminals. Though planned earlier, the subway couldn’t open along with Magenta Line as its construction couldn’t be completed due to IGI’s expansion plans. DMRC wanted the location of the subway to be in sync with the domestic terminals post expansion. The subway was expected to open in mid-2019, but the deadline was later extended to the year-end. The second deadline was also missed and, subsequently, the Covid-19 outbreak hampered the work further this year. Though DMRC didn’t specify the exact reason for delay in the project, sources said that civil work was almost complete, but it was taking time to put in place some technical systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/walk-from-metro-to-t1-to-be-a-breeze/articleshow/78669773.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 15, 2020||Madurai||MKU begins admission to distance edu courses||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on Wednesday began admissions to 24 distance education courses for the academic year 2020-21. The last date for applying is October 31. As per a notification from the university, admissions to the 12 UG courses and 12 PG courses approved by UGC Distance Education Bureau (DEB) began. The programmes offered are: BA Economics, MA Economics, BA English, MA English, BA History, MA History, BA Journalism and Mass Communication, MA Journalism and Mass Communication, BA Political Science, MA Political Science, BA Public Administration, MA Sociology, BA Sociology, MA Tourism Management, BA Tamil, MA Tamil, BBA (Business Administration), MBA (Business Administration), BCA (Computer Application), MCA (Computer Application), B Com, M Com, B Li Sc (Library Science, M Li Sc (Library Science) and B Ed. Students can apply either online or directly on the university campus in Palkalai Nagar or any of the 10 authorised learner centres in Madurai, Dindigul, Theni and Virudhunagar. The 10 centres include various MKU constituent colleges and MKU evening colleges in the four districts, for which addresses and contact numbers have also been put up. The notification asked students to only approach the 10 authorised centres. If any additional centre is authorised, information regarding the same will be released by the university. For details, visit www.mkudde.org or contact 6379782339, 9442026474 or mail to mkuddeodl@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-begins-admission-to-distance-edu-courses/articleshow/78671167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Five booked for wrongful confinement, rape of a 30-year-old woman||PILIBHIT: Five people of a village under Gajraula police station were booked in connection with wrongful confinement and rape of a 30-year-old woman on Wednesday morning. In her complaint to police, the woman stated that in the evening of September 16, she was talking to her mother-in-law while her husband had not returned home from the field when the accused — Uma Shankar, Parmanand, Man Singh, Ramautar and Ganga Devi — barged into the house and dragged her to their car parked outside. The woman alleged that she was taken to an unknown location in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani and was confined to a room, where Uma Shankar raped her. It was on October 10, when Uma Shankar dropped her at Amaria bus stand in Pilibhit city and threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anyone, she further alleged. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the accused were booked under sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement), 452 (house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-booked-for-wrongful-confinement-rape-of-a-30-year-old-woman/articleshow/78666801.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC stays exemptions on environmental clearance||KOCHI: The Kerala high court has issued a stay on ministry of environment’s 2014 notification exempting educational institutions and industrial sheds with built-up area of more than 20,000sq metres from obtaining environmental clearance. A division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly issued a stay on September 17 after considering a petition filed by NGO One Earth One Life through advocate Harish Vasudevan. Amendment to environmental impact assessment notification issued on December 22, 2014 modifying the definition of built-up area by providing exemptions was questioned in the petition. The amendment goes against Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, the petitioner said, while seeking to quash exemption granted through the amendment. During admission hearing on January 27, 2016, the ministry was granted four weeks to respond to the petition. On October 5, 2016, granted three more weeks. On June 14, 2018, four weeks were granted again. On May 27 last year, the ministry’s counsel submitted that he will file affidavit in three weeks. On May 29 this year, it was again adjourned to June 16. On June 16, the counsel sought time again. On August 14, postponement was sought to September 8 and granted. On September 8, the court passed an order expressing its dissatisfaction. A stay was issued on September 17 as no affidavit was filed by the ministry. The court said a stay is required to protect environmental interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-stays-exemptions-on-environmental-clearance/articleshow/78668212.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Two farmers killed by stray bulls in Budaun, Kheri dists||BAREILLY: A 70-year-old farmer was gored to death by a raging stray bull in Kankasi village under Zarifnagar area of Budaun district on Tuesday evening. The farmer was shooing a stray cow away from his maize field when the bull attacked him. Other farmers present at the scene rushed him to a hospital, but he died shortly afterwards. The victim, Athar Singh, a marginal farmer, is survived by his wife and three sons. Police said the bull tossed Singh up and then gored him, breaking his ribs and causing internal bleeding. The family would be entitled to compensation, said police. In a separate incident, a 75-year-old farmer was killed by a stray bull in Mitauli area of Kheri district on Wednesday morning. The victim, Noor Mohammed, was going to his field when a stray bull tossed him up and he died due to ribs injuries. Mitauli SDM Digvijay Singh, meanwhile, sent a team of revenue officers to the victim's house to collect details for sanctioning compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-farmers-killed-by-stray-bulls-in-budaun-kheri-dists/articleshow/78666812.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 975 crore for power transmission upgrade in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The energy task force (ETF) headed by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari gave nod to strengthening power transmission infrastructure at a total estimated cost of over Rs 975 crores in the state. The projects, which are proposed to be taken by the energy department, include construction of 400/200/132 KV transmission substation at Mohanlalganj besides 765 KV transmission line at Ghatampur-Hapur stretch, 765 KV in Rampur and 400 KV at Ataur-Indrapuram stretch. Tewari said that all construction would be carried out at per guidelines laid down by the Centre and on public-private-partnership (PPP) model while following competitive bidding. The ETF also green flagged transmission projects worth around Rs 246 crores in various regions of UP. They include laying of transmission lines of 220 KV and 132 KV capacity in Mohanlalganj and construction of 133/33 KV sub-station in Padrauna in Kushinagar. Managing director of UP Transmission Corporation Limited (UPTCL) Senthil Pandiyan said that the construction of high capacity transmission substation would address the problem of overloading which often results in prolonged power outages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-975crore-for-powertransmission-upgrade/articleshow/78670681.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||4-time rise in stubble burning in UP||LUCKNOW: The incidents of stubble burning in the state increased by four times between October 4-9 (six days) despite the ban on it by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal, latest data of the agriculture department show. As per the data, 33 such incidents were recorded in 25 UP districts between October 1 and 4. The count jumped to 136 by October 9 in 44 UP districts — irking the state government which had already directed the agriculture and revenue department officials to keep vigil on stubble burning which leads to heavy air pollution, especially during winters. The maximum 14 incidents were reported from Aligarh, followed by nine each in Lakhimpur Kheri and Saharanpur. Likewise, Shamli in west UP reported eight incidents, Shahjahanpur six, and Meerut and Rampur five each. Earlier, chief secretary RK Tiwari had issued orders on August 26 and October 1 seeking strict compliance of the SC and NGT ban on burning of crop residue to check increasing air pollution. In an order issued to all district magistrates on October 11, Tiwari had said that the satellite imagery between October 1-9 showed that stubble burning was still continuing in the state. He said the incidents have been reported despite harvesting of kharif crop by combined harvester and even manually. Tiwari pointed out that in some cases crop residue were collected at multiple spots before setting them on fire. Tiwari added that the farmers used the combined harvesters without using equipment which help in collection of stubble. “This was done despite strict government directions that harvesting should not be done without the use of residue collection equipment,” he said. The order further said that in some places incidents of burning of domestic waste were also reported from the agricultural fields. Tiwari has now directed the agriculture and revenue department officials to seize the combine harvesters which are used without residue collection equipment and initiate legal action under the Prevention of Control of Air Pollution Act against the owner. The government has also decided to rope in municipal authorities in urban areas and gram panchayat in rural areas to control crop burning, while imposing a penalty and lodging FIR against the farmer. At the same time, the agriculture and revenue department has been asked to take strict action against lekhpal and other officials who have been entrusted to stop such incidents. Watch UP: Stubble burning incidents jump four times in 6 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-records-4-time-increase-in-stubble-burning-in-six-days/articleshow/78670691.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 15, 2020||Goa||‘Ensure Goa is BIS compliant by 2024’||Panaji: The directorate of Industries, Trade and Commerce (DITC) must prepare an action plan by March in consultation with Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and local stakeholders so that Goa’s manufacturing sector and relevant bodies are BIS compliant by 2024, Goacan said. The consumer action forum has written to director of industries Deepak Bandekar to put in place the action plan which should be implemented from April. “DITC is the nodal department in Goa for monitoring the implementation of all standards prescribed by BIS and it would be prudent to take up the challenge to prepare an action plan to make Goa a fully compliant state in the next three years,” Goacan coordinator Roland Martins said. Martins has recommended that DITC must organise a briefing for heads of departments (HODs) about the BIS Act, 2016, and the benefits of Goa becoming fully compliant with BIS quality and standards. A consultation with stakeholders like Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry, Goa State Industries Association, CREDAI, EDC, Goa Tourism Development Corporation, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation and Goa Industrial Development Corporation is a must, Goacan said, if Goa wants to identify the challenges likely to be faced in making Goa fully compliant. “DITC must identify the incentives required like preferential purchases and reduced taxes for local manufacturing hubs, local testing centres and the financial implications to the state exchequer,” Martins said. The directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship must also be roped in to provide specialised training for entrepreneurs and the workforce so that they meet BIS standards. Martins has also recommended that adequate awareness programmes need to be held to inform consumers about the BIS quality and standards for goods and services. He said that it is DITC’s responsibility to facilitate regular meetings of the state-level committee on standardisation and quality systems so that the action plan gets the required support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ensure-goa-is-bis-compliant-by-2024/articleshow/78670722.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Patient inflow remains low||Hyderabad: Patient inflow at most hospitals in the city remained bleak on Wednesday as several parts of the city were cut off due to flooding. At the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), less than 10% of the patient were seen, as compared to regular days. “With overflowing tanks having inundates houses and even the main roads, affected people are stranded and looking for relief. Some have chosen to stay at home. Consequently, out patient departments (OPD) and emergencies at government hospitals have been comparatively low. Even doctors faced difficulty in commuting to the hospital,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari from Helping Hand Foundation, which works with several city-based government hospitals. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patient-inflow-remains-low/articleshow/78669759.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Narayana mgmt refutes parents’ allegations of forced fees||NAGPUR: Two days after Narayana Vidyalayam’s Koradi Road branch parents protested in front of the school alleging they were being forced to pay full fees amid the Covid-19 pandemic, its management categorically denied all charges. Principal Anupama Tiwari told TOI that the management has scheduled a meeting with agitating parents on Saturday on the school’s premises to discuss all their issues. “We never forced parents to pay the full fees. Instead, we allowed them to pay it in monthly instalments. Even we were surprised by their sudden protests as we were offering them all sorts of concessions. We’re only charging tuition and term fees and haven’t increased it due to the pandemic. Still parents are making misleading claims that the school is charging fees for sports and other extra-curricular activities,” said Tiwari. On parents’ claims of charging Rs60,000, the principal said their fees were around Rs52,000 which can be paid in instalments. “We understand that parents are facing all kinds of difficulties due to the pandemic and lockdown. We’re ready to help them out in every possible way. When some parents told us that they had paid additional fees, we assured them that it would be adjusted next time,” said Tiwari. Regarding harassment charges levelled by one Mohnish Ramteke, who claimed that he was made to run from pillar to post to get a transfer certificate (TC) for his son studying in KG1, Tiwari said it was delayed as he wanted the caste to be mentioned. “We told him to bring the caste certificate if he wanted to include his caste in the TC. After he submitted the certificate, we provided him the TC immediately. When he told us that he had lost his job, we even offered him recruitment in the school,” said Tiwari. Refuting the allegations of the school stopping online classes of those students who failed to pay the fees, the principal claimed that not a single student’s link was disconnected. “Those who protested may have vested interests. We learnt that many of them were not from our branch. On Monday, we invited them to the auditorium for talks, but they surprised us by protesting outside the school with banners,” said Tiwari. On Monday, over 250 parents gathered in front of the school demanding that the management should charge only tuition and term fees as directed by the Maharashtra government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/narayana-mgmt-refutes-parents-allegations-of-forced-fees/articleshow/78669776.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, apply for BTech lateral entry||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Undoing the apprehensions and fears of a large chunk of engineering diploma holders, state government has finally called for applications for lateral entry admission to BTech courses in the state. As per the notification issued in this regard by the commissioner for entrance examinations, application for lateral entry admission has started by Tuesday afternoon. A large number of candidates who cleared polytechnic course had been running from pillar to post as there was an inordinate delay in inviting applications for lateral entry to BTech third semester. Though the candidates wanting to take lateral entry admission had petitioned the authorities and also sought judicial intervention to speed up the process, it took months for the government to finally act on the demands Candidates seeking BTech lateral entry admission should have completed a three-year diploma /DVoc or BSc with Mathematics as a compulsory subject in Plus Two. Admission would be on the basis of marks scored by them in the qualifying examination. Those desirous to take admission may apply online through the entrance commissioner’s web portal www.cee.kerala.gov.in. Prospectus and detailed notification are available on the website. Certificates proving income, community, non-creamy layer status should be uploaded along with the online application. EWS list published CEE has published the category list of candidates eligible for special consideration available under economically weaker sections (EWS) under general category candidates. The eligibility list of candidates who have submitted the EWS certificates through the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in for admission to EWS quota seat reserved for admission to Kerala engineering/architecture/pharmacy courses have been published herewith. Candidates can check the list through the candidate portal on the above website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-apply-for-btech-lateral-entry/articleshow/78668274.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Ayurveda resident docs call off strike||NAGPUR: Resident doctors of Ayurveda faculty, who were on strike since October 7, finally decided to call off their agitation and go back to work from October 15 after the state cabinet approved Rs10,000 per month incentives to their existing stipend on Wednesday. Resident doctors of Ayurveda faculty were working at par with their counterparts of modern medicine as frontline Covid warriors. But they were not getting their stipend from last four months. Moreover, they were not allotted Rs10,000 additional incentives given to modern medicine and dental faculty residents from May 2020. The strike, started from Nagpur Government Ayurvedic College, was later followed statewide by all Ayurveda GMC residents. “The major issue of incentives has been resolved and we are going back to work due to the prevailing Covid conditions. As far as the other issues are concerned, our delegation will meet district collector Ravindra Thakare on Thursday,” said Dr Sumit Marathe, president of Maharashtra Association of Ayurveda Resident Doctors (MAARD). After the cabinet nod, a junior resident doctor in a government Ayurveda college will now get a monthly stipend of Rs64,551, JR-2 Rs 65,112 and JR-3 Rs 65,673. The incentive of Rs10,000 per month will be applicable from May 2020. More than 300 residents stand to gain from this hike. They have thanked medical education minister Amit Deshmukh for this decision. The students forum of National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA) has also welcomed the decision. “We laud the state government’s decision to increase the stipend. We also expect the government to clear the pending demands of Ayurveda residents,” said Dr Shubham Bobde, president of NIMA students’ forum. “NIMA will continue to pursue the demand for similar incentives to our interns and residents from non-aided Ayurveda colleges as these doctors are also providing Covid services,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ayurveda-resident-docs-call-off-strike/articleshow/78669785.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Crops in 8L acres flattened, Medak worst hit||Hyderabad: Heavy rains have inundated crops in eight lakh acres across the state. According to preliminary reports, the erstwhile common Medak district was the worst-hit with 2.8 lakh acres marooned in rainwater. Along with paddy, cotton and red gram were the worst-hit. More than one crore acres was under cultivation in kharif season. While the final verification of inundated crops in August is yet to be completed, the last two days of rains have further wreaked havoc on crops, officials said. Sangareddy district also bore the brunt with nearly 1.7 lakh acres inundated. Nearly 65,000 acres in Siddipet were also inundated. Khammam district was also one of the worst affected with crops in one lakh acres inundated. Nalgonda (55,000 acres), Nagarkurnool (37,000), Mahbubnagar (26,463), Bhadradri (10,000) and common Nizamabad (4,000 acres) suffered crops damage. The estimates show that Narayanpet suffered a big loss with 55,000 acres inundated. Common Warangal district was not spared with over 1.04 lakh acres inundated. Crops in Karimnagar (15,000 acres), Jagtial (9,100) and Rangareddy (25,633) were also inundated. While these are only preliminary estimates, a detailed report would be prepared in next couple of days, officials said. “If the rains continue, then groundnut crop may be lost during the rabi reason. About 30,000 acres of grounnut crop was sown in Mahbubnagar district alone,” an official said. Meanwhile, farmers demanded the state government to estimate the crop damage and give them adequate compensation. “The government should give input subsidy scheme benefit to us and for each acre’s damage Rs 10,000 should be paid,” said A Srikanth Reddy, from Nizamabad. Rains in August had inundated 3.5 lakh acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crops-in-8l-acres-flattened-medak-worst-hit/articleshow/78669788.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 15, 2020||Delhi||HC frowns upon ‘sorry state of affairs’ in Chandni Chowk||NEW DELHI: Observing that there is “complete apathy and mismanagement” in the pending project to pedestrianise Chandni Chowk area, Delhi High Court has converted the issue into a PIL. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad recently took suo motu notice of a TOI news report published on October 7 that highlighted how the project of pedestrianisation of the stretch of road between the Red Fort intersection and Fatehpuri Masjid at Chandni Chowk, has been derailed. While taking cognisance, the bench cited the report and photographs of the stones and garbage strewn all over the pathway, of the broken bollards and dug up footpaths, noting that all these show a “sorry state of affairs.” Justice Kohli noted that the “pedestrianisation of the above stretch of road is a part of the prestigious project of redevelopment of the entire Chandni Chowk area, that was conceptualised by Delhi government over a decade ago and for which, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) was set up.” It also pointed out that the ambitious project, which has been in the pipeline for quite some time, witnessed several government agencies, including Public Works Department (PWD), Bombay Suburban Electric Supply (BSES), Delhi JAL Board (DJB), Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and traffic police, being roped in for proper coordination between departments to implement the project and give a major facelift to the Delhi’s iconic market. “This included widening of the aforesaid stretch of road, declaring the same as a car-free zone, decongesting the said area and making the 1.3-km stretch pedestrian-friendly,” the bench observed, recalling the background and circumstances under which the redevelopment was envisaged. The reality of the pathetic condition of the area, “as appears from the photographs accompanying the news article, shows complete apathy and mismanagement on the part of the authorities and the stakeholders that need to be remedied at the earliest,” the court further observed, while converting the matter into a public interest petition. “This court therefore takes suo motu notice of the above and directs the Registry to register a petition in public interest and place the matter before the Chief Justice for being assigned to the appropriate bench,” the court directed. It also said a copy of its order will be sent to lawyers representing all the agencies concerned, such as SRDC, Government of Delhi, PWD, BSES, DJB, DUSIB and Delhi Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-frowns-upon-sorry-state-of-affairs-in-chandni-chowk/articleshow/78669791.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Multiplexes to get show on road, single-screens to wait and watch||Bengaluru: With the government allowing movie theatres to open from Thursday, multiplexes have decided to resume operations from Day One, while most single-screen halls have decided to wait and watch since there are no new big-ticket releases. The lack of new releases comes even as 60 movies have been cleared by censors since March. KV Chandrashekar, president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association, said besides lack of content, screening movies only for 50% capacity is a big challenge for single-screen theatres. Inox Leisure Limited will run shows at five places in Karnataka, including two in Bengaluru. Mohit Bhargava, regional director (south), Inox Leisure Limited, said their screens at Lido Mall on MG Road and Brookefield Mall, Kundalahalli Main Road and one each in Manipal, Mysuru and Belagavi will resume operations. “The idea is to welcome people and reassure them that theatres are a safe environment. One month from now, we are hoping there will be a bigger audience and more films lined up for release,” Bhargava said. He said the seven-month shutdown has resulted in a loss of about Rs 5,000 crore for the Kannada film industry alone. There are 650 single-screen theatres and 260 multiplex-screens with a total four lakh seats. About 12 lakh employees are dependent on the industry. Kannada filmmakers are hesitant on new releases as they fear a lack of audience. “Besides, in order to implement social distancing, we need to run theatres at 50% capacity and this again is a loss,” said Umesh Banakar, vice-president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. Banakar said theatres will have to sanitise spaces after every show and this will push up costs. He said single-screen theatres cannot afford it. “As an owner of three single-screen theatres, I will not screen movies till a solution is found to this pandemic,” he said. Multiplexes though are determined to press ahead and say they will draw content from their library. “We have taken measures to enable safe movie-watching at multiplexes,” said Pramod Arora, chief growth and development officer, PVR Ltd. “Though no new movie will be released on Thursday, we are hoping to build consumer confidence by running shows. We hope, in two weeks things will change and people will come in large numbers.”  The Central Board of Film Certification, Bengaluru, cleared 60 movies since March this year. During the same time, 47 applications were received, a majority of them in September. Sources say many of the movies cleared are movies dubbed in Kannada. With theatres closed, some filmmakers chose OTT platforms to release their movies. ‘Bheemasena Nalamaharaja’, directed by Karthik Saragur, produced by Pushkara Mallikarjunaiah and starring Rakshit Shetty and Hemanth M Rao, is set to release this month, while ‘Law’ and ‘French Biryani’, made by PRK, were released during the shutdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/multiplexes-to-get-show-on-road-single-screens-to-wait-and-watch/articleshow/78668341.cms||Kiran Parashar
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Undertrial found hanging inside district jail’s premises||BAREILLY: An undertrial, 38, lodged in Bareilly district jail, was found hanging under mysterious circumstances inside the toilet of his barrack on Wednesday. Mohammed Aayaz, a resident of Budaun district, was arrested in a robbery case in 2017. Jail superintendent Vijay Vikram Singh said, “Aayaz has committed suicide using a piece of cloth. A magisterial inquiry has been set up in this case.” The family members of Ayaaz said that they will file a complaint against jail administration for showing negligence. The superintendent said, “The incident happened at around 4.30am on Wednesday after Ayaaz locked himself in the toilet. When he didn’t come out for quite some time, the door was opened and he was found hanging with a piece of cloth. We are shocked and trying to confirm the reason behind his extreme step. A departmental inquiry is ordered as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/undertrial-found-hanging-inside-district-jails-premises/articleshow/78666831.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||No fear of law in UP, says Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Slamming the BJP over incidents of crime against women, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Wednesday said the police have failed to check such incidents leading to growing resentment among people. He said the most shocking part of increasing cases of sexual assault and other crimes against women is that the moment any such incident is reported the government announces that the two were either relatives or known to each other. “The fact is that people have no fear of the law which is why the crime is rising sharply,” Akhilesh said. “Perpetrators of crime against women are getting shelter from people in power. The ruling party’s city president of Mawana has been accused of making obscene videos of a woman and attempted to outrage her modesty. In Jhansi, over 10 goons gang-raped a college student. In Gonda, three minors suffered burns in acid attacks when they were sleeping on the terrace of their house. This is scary,” the former UP chief minister said. Citing an incident of Chitrakoot where a Dalit minor was gang-raped and police did not even register the case, Akhilesh said the incident explains the seriousness with which the police handle cases of crime against women. It was only after the girl committed suicide that the police came into action. The family and friends of the victim had to stage a protest to ensure the arrest of the accused, he said. SP announces Deoria, Bangarmau candidates: The Samajwadi Party has announced candidates for the Bangarmau and Deoria Assembly seats where bypolls are to be held. According to an official release, while Suresh Kumar Pal has been declared as the SP candidate for Bangarmau Assembly seat, Brahma Shankar Tripathi has been named as the candidate for Deoria seat. The Samajwadi Party had earlier announced candidates for four of the seven Uttar Pradesh Assembly seats where by-elections are to be held on November 3. The party has left the Bulandshahr seat for its ally, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-fear-of-law-in-up-says-akhilesh/articleshow/78670702.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Government declares holiday today too for all private, government offices||HYDERABAD: With incessant rains wreaking havoc in the state and the weatherman forecasting more rains, the Telangana government has directed all government and private offices to remain shut on October 14 and 15 as a precautionary measure. Only organisations and staff engaged in relief and rescue operations have been exempted from the holiday order (GO Rt No 1539) that was issued by Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday. “The government hereby declare holidays on 14th and 15th October 2020 to all government offices, private institutions, including banks and financial institutions under Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, due to unprecedented incessant rains for the last 12 hours and imminent forecast of heavy rains in Telangana state, except for the staff and offices engaged in relief and emergency services,” said the order issued by the general administration department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-declares-holiday-today-too-for-all-pvt-govt-offices/articleshow/78670704.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Sec’bad under water, over 1.2k families shifted to relief camps||SECUNDERABAD: As the heavy downpour led to three lakes and an open nala overflowing in the Secunderabad Cantonment, over 150 colonies have found themselves inundated since Tuesday. In a relief, no incidents of casualties have been reported from the area yet, which is the second-largest cantonment in the country. Over 1,200 families staying in half-a-dozen low-lying areas at Rasoolpura have been shifted to the nearby government schools after their houses were submerged. The SCB health and sanitation wing is ensuring supply of food for the evacuees. Houses in areas including Royal Enclave, ICRISAT Colony, Park View Enclave, SAIL Colony, Krishi Nagar and Dhanalakshmi Colony were inundated after the Hasmathpet lake overflowed. Residents said that their electronic goods have suffered severe damage. Around a 100 families living near the Ramannakunta lake were also affected after sewage water suddenly gushed into houses. A posh locality in Soujanya Colony also similar situations, where sewage entered the premises of residences. All the by-lanes, including Sai Baba Colony, Srinivasa Colony, Santoshpuri Colony and Akash Nagar, New City Colony and AIRLINES Colony saw the houses inundated. Another 50 families living adjacent to Tirumalgiri lake spent sleepless nights for the past two days after their houses filled with sewage water. Fewresidents who spoke to TOI said that the SCB officials were aware that they had to give the Brithis-era sewerage system a facelift. But a delay in action from their part has led to the current deluge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secbad-under-water-over-1-2k-families-shifted-to-relief-camps/articleshow/78669794.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Second shot at JEE Advanced is one-time relief for students||NAGPUR: Finally, some good news for IIT aspirants who missed the crucial JEE-Advanced due to Covid-19 pandemic. Joint Admission Board (JAB), the nodal body overseeing admissions to IITs, has decided to give one more chance to such candidates in 2021. Such candidates won’t have to go through the qualifying JEE Main exam next year. The JAB also made it clear that this was a one-time relief being provided to students due to the pandemic situation. For the uninitiated, the JAB has the powers to frame policies, rules and regulations of JEE under the guidance of IIT Council. JEE-Advanced is the sole gateway to the prestigious institutes, and is conducted by IITs directly. JEE Main is the qualifying exam for it and is conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA). All those who missed JEE-Advanced on account of being Covid-19 positive will get their chance next year. During JAB’s emergency meet held on Tuesday, the issue of those students who missed the exam because Covid-related travel restrictions also came up. To avoid prejudice to other candidates, an official statement from JAB confirmed that it has expanded the scope of its decision. Now all candidates who had successfully registered to appear in JEE (Advanced) 2020, but were absent in the exam, will also be allowed to appear for it in 2021. The statement went on to say that to ensure equal opportunity to all, the JAB has also decided that these candidates will not have to qualify JEE (Main) 2021 and will be allowed to directly appear in JEE (Advanced) 2021. This relaxation of existing eligibility criteria will be in addition to proportionate relaxation of age bar. Further, it was decided that these candidates would be considered in addition to and not as part of the total number of candidates who would qualify from JEE (Main) 2021 for appearing in JEE (Advanced) 2021. The JAB decisions All those who registered for JEE-Advanced 2020, but were absent, now get a second chance This chance will be given during JEE-Advanced 2021 No need to appear for qualifying JEE Main 2021 exam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/second-shot-at-jee-advanced-is-one-time-relief-for-students/articleshow/78669796.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 15, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govt response on Tasmac shops||Madurai: Granting interim stay on the setting up of a Tasmac shop in Pudukkottai district, the Madras high court put forth a series of queries to the state government with regard to Tasmac shops and sought a response. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that though the state government in it 2016 election manifesto had stated that it would bring prohibition by closing liquor shops in a phased manner, new shops are being opened by the government. The judges observed that it is not known as to whether the government is taking steps to fulfill its promise as per its election manifesto. Hence, the judges put forth a series of queries: Number of tasmac liquor shops which were available in 2016; and number of shops which were closed in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The judges also sought details on the total number of liquor shops which are situated in the state at present and also sought for year-wise details of income generated from Tasmac shops since 2016. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K Karuppaiah, who sought not to establish the Tasmac shop at Aranthangi. The petitioner stated that since educational institutions and religious places of worship are situated in the locality, setting up a liquor shop would cause nuisance to the people. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-tasmac-shops/articleshow/78670706.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Bareilly||Body of 50-year-old missing man found hanging in PTR||PILIBHIT: The body of a 50-year-old missing man was found hanging from a tree in the core forest area of the Mala forest range in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Wednesday morning. The victim was missing since October 11. PTR deputy director Naveen Khandelwal said a joint team of PTR and Gajraula police station had been searching for the victim in the forest area for the past three days, suspecting that a tiger might have killed him. The body had, however, no marks to suggest that the victim was attacked by a wild animal, said Khandelwal. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the victim, Gaurang Tapani, of Kanjaharaiyya village had gone missing in the afternoon of October 11 after he left home for some work. Further action would be taken after the autopsy report ascertained whether it was a suicide or a murder, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-50-year-old-missing-man-found-hanging-in-ptr/articleshow/78663947.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Government owes explanation to people’||HYDERABAD: Expressing grief and condolences to the family members of those who died in house collapse and other incidents due to heavy rains and floods in Greater Hyderabad and elsewhere in the state, Telangana Congress president Uttam Kumar Reddy said the government could have reduced the impact of the deluge that engulfed the state capital and many other parts by evacuating people from low-lying areas. He said the government should have alerted the people about the impact of the extremely heavy rains that the state had experienced in over a century.“The TRS government which had announced that it would transform Greater Hyderabad into Dallas must answer now,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-owes-explanation-to-people/articleshow/78669801.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Gonda acid attack: Family of accused says he is framed||LUCKNOW: Hours after police arrested Ashish Kumar for throwing acid on three sisters who were asleep on the terrace of their house in Gonda on Tuesday, his family claimed that he was not involved in the crime and has been framed by police. The family claims Ashish was in Bahraich when the incident took place and was arrested merely to show that police acted swiftly. They said police detained the family members and have forced him to surrender. “Shoot him if he has committed the crime but don’t send him to jail for something he has not done,” Ashish’s mother Laxmi Devi said. She demanded for a meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the case. Gonda police meanwhile claimed that one of the girls had seen Ashish at the time of crime. The same was corroborated by one of the neighbours who was asleep outside the house. Gonda SP Shailesh Pandey told TOI that on the fateful day, the accused had made multiple calls to one of the sisters. “The victim was not willing to talk to him but the accused was adamant,” he said. Pandey also said that Ashish had fled to Bahraich to seek shelter. “We have technical evidence to show the involvement of the accused, backed by the statements of the victims,” he said. The girls, aged 17, 12, and 8 years, have suffered burn injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gonda-acid-attack-family-of-accused-says-he-is-framed/articleshow/78670708.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills woman in Pithoragarh, cage installed||PITHORAGARH: A 40-year-old woman was killed by a leopard on Dhari-Chandak road in the district on Wednesday. Subsequently, a cage was installed by the forest department in the area to trap the big cat. “Basanti devi (40), a resident of Papdeu village, was collecting grass in a nearby village when a leopard attacked her and dragged her to the jungle. The leopard ran away after those accompanying the victim chased it,” said Dinesh Joshi, ranger, Pithoragarh. Incidentally, the sister-in-law (27-year-old) of the woman was also killed by a leopard in the same area a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-woman-in-pithoragarh-cage-installed/articleshow/78666845.cms||Prem Punetha
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Cinema halls to Unlock doors today in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Nearly seven months after they were asked to shut down when the lockdown was announced, cinema halls and theatres in the city are all set to open from Thursday. The owners of various multiplexes had called upon chief minister Arvind Kejriwal a day earlier demanding that they be allowed to operate 24x7. Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which had reviewed the Covid-19 situation, decided to allow them to start operations with 50% seat occupancy. Kejriwal asked the representatives of the cinema hall associations to work together to revive the city’s economy and directed them to strictly follow the guidelines so that opening of multiplexes did not lead to spread of the novel coronavirus. The CM, in an earlier meeting of DDMA, had suggested opening of multiplexes and theatres. “The past seven months have been very tough for us. The entire country and the world is suffering from the Covid-19 pandemic. Delhi has fought a very tough and strong battle against Covid-19. The most important thing is getting the economy back on track, which is in a bad shape due to the lockdown,” Kejriwal told the representatives. Remarking that the economy needed to be brought back on track through collective efforts and the lockdown couldn’t last forever, Kejriwal said, “Since Unlock 1, we have started opening Delhi’s economy according to the guidelines and orders issued by the Centre. I hope that cinema halls will follow the guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) given by the central and state governments. It is extremely necessary to follow social distancing and sanitisation protocols.” Currently, Delhi has around 130 multiplexes, while 70 are under construction and likely to be functional by next year. Together, the cinema halls pay Rs 250 crore as taxes annually. In a statement, the government mentioned that the representatives of the cinema halls assured the CM that they would adhere to all directions. They sought Kejriwal’s intervention in ease of doing business stating that they were facing problems because they were required to obtain the same licence from two authorities. The SOPs for cinema halls require them to ensure a complete ban on eating and drinking while watching movies. The audience would have to sit on alternate seats and a cross mark would have to be made on those that needed to be left vacant. Tickets would only be sold online. The entry and exit gates, seats and lobbies would have to be sanitised from time to time. The hall should be cleaned after every show and sanitisers must be provided to visitors. Everyone within the premises would have to wear masks. Watch Multiplexes, cinema halls in Delhi set to open from October 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cinema-halls-to-unlock-doors-today/articleshow/78669836.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Brahmin candidates get top billing in Deoria bypoll theatre||LUCKNOW: In a rare coincidence, all four candidates for the byelection to the Deoria Assembly seat are brahmin, making it a close contest. The six other seats up for byelections in the state also appear set for a tough fight. Out of 28 candidates in the byelections for seven seats, 25% are brahmins, which indicates an intense fight for the vote bank. The Congress, in its bid to regain its traditional brahmin constituency, has fielded Aarti Bajpai in Bangarmau (Unnao), Rakesh Mishra in Malhani (Jaunpur) and Mukund Bhaskar Mani in Deoria. Samajwadi Party (SP) has fielded its local heavyweight Brahma Shankar Tripathi, former minister in Deoria, with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) too fielding a brahmin, Abhaya Nath Tewari from the seat. The BSP has also fielded a brahmin candidate in Malhani (Jaunpur), Sunil Dubey. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will apparently be depending on the charisma of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, mainly because it appears to have taken a risk by fielding candidates against the wishes of the local workers and cadres in some constituencies. For example, in Ghatampur (reserve) seat in Kanpur, there was a strong demand for the daughter of minister Kamal Rani, who died of Covid and there was sympathy for her as she had been an MP also in the past, apart from being BJP’s local strong face. But the party denied the ticket to her and fielded Upendra Paswan. Contrary to this, the party has fielded Sangita Chauhan for byelection in Naugawan Saadat in Amroha. Sangita is the wife of Chetan Chauhan, who also died of Covid. Sangita has not been politically active, but she has been given a ticket. In the Kairana byelections to a Lok Sabha seat in 2018, the BJP had fielded the daughter of Hukum Singh, Mriganka Singh, who was also a non-political face and lost the election. Similarly, in Deoria constituency, son of BJP MLA Janmejaya Singh who died recently was demanding to contest, but the party denied a ticket to him and fielded a Brahmin professor in a local degree college. Janmejaya Singh was an OBC-Sainthwar and BJP’s decision of fielding a Brahmin candidate when all three parties have already named Bahmin candidates, is being questioned within the party circles itself. In Malhani constituency, the election has become interesting after ‘bahubali’ (muscleman) ex-MP, Dhananjay Singh also plunging into the fray as an Independent candidate and filing his nomination papers on Wednesday. Malhani has been a strong bastion of the SP with its leader Parasnath Yadav an eight-time MLA who passed away recently. The SP has fielded Parasnath’s son, Shani Yadav while the remaining three have fielded upper caste candidates in the Yadav dominated constituency. The BJP has fielded Manoj Singh, who was once named in the murder of a students’ union leader of then Allahabad University, Rajesh Yadav. The Yadavs, who are already committed to the SP, may further consolidate against the BJP candidate. Sensing the tough battle, Yogi himself has started directly interacting with booth workers of the six constituencies where the byelection is due on November 9. The ruling BJP will heavily depend on brand Yogi focusing on the fight against Covid 19 in the state, while the Opposition appears set to bank on the Hathras case and the spate of incidents of crime against women, the migrant crisis, joblessness and economic challenges in the state. This will be the first major test of the Yogi government of its performance in the Covid crisis and the state government’s strategy to overcome this challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/brahmin-candidates-get-top-billing-in-bypoll-theatre/articleshow/78670720.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Lakes and storm water drains shrink in size||HYDERABAD: Reduced holding capacity of lakes and encroachments on storm water drains was observed during the downpour which inundated parts of city. Water from upstream major reservoirs and tanks including Himayat Sagar and Hussainsagar was released into lakes via water channels, including storm water drains. As holding capacity of the water bodies and its channels has reduced, neither the lakes nor the storm water drains were able to gush out the water discharged into them. Verification revealed while the lakes have been encroached upon by housing societies, commercial establishments and construction businesses, the storm water drains (nalas) have been occupied by economically weaker sections. As per records of irrigation department, surplus water in Palle Cheruvu, Ramanthapur lake, Hussainsagar lake, Appa Cheruvu, Saroornagar lake and Gurram Cheruvu were the reasons for inundation of residential localities in eastern part of the city and in GHMC south zone covering Old City and Rajendranagar circle. Due to incessant rains, LB Nagar zone covering parts of parts of Uppal, Ramanthapur as well as GHMC Charminar zones were the most affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lakes-and-storm-water-drains-shrink-in-size/articleshow/78670712.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Decide on bill for 7.5% MBBS quota for govt school students: HC||Madurai: Taking into account that the Neet results are to be published on October 16 and the medical admission process set to start thereafter, the Madras high court on Wednesday observed that a decision needs to be taken at the earliest with regard to the bill to provide horizontal reservation of 7.5% to government school students who clear Neet, for admission to undergraduate courses.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the ‘Tamil Nadu admission to undergraduate courses in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homoeopathy on a preferential basis to the students of the government schools bill, 2020,’ has been passed by the state legislative assembly unanimously on September 15. The judges observed that though it was sent for assent the same day, it is pending for the past one month without any decision.The judges said that as per the data only three, five and six students from government schools got admission in the medical colleges during the past three years - 2017-2018, 2018-2019 and 2019-2020 respectively. Therefore, if no decision is taken with regard to the reservation for the government school students, definitely only less number of students would get admission, observed the judges.Since the interest of the government school students should be safeguarded, a decision needs to be taken at the earliest with regard to the bill. After the advocate general Vijay Narayan sought time to get instructions in this regard, the judges adjourned the case to October 16.The court was hearing a batch of two public interest litigations filed by S Ramakrishnan and V Muthukumar, residents of Madurai district. The petitioners sought for a direction to implement horizontal reservations for government school students who clear Neet for admission to undergraduate medical courses based on the recommendation of the committee led by retired justice P Kalaiyarasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/decide-on-bill-for-7-5-mbbs-quota-for-govt-school-students-hc/articleshow/78670749.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Discharges push active cases lower||Vadodara: Discharge of 157 Covid-19 patients on Wednesday ensured that the number of active cases of the viral pandemic went down further in the city and district. From 1,742 active cases, the number went down to 1,691 on Wednesday. The high number of discharges since the last couple of days has been accompanied by fewer number of new cases being detected in the city and district. During the 24 hours ending on Wednesday evening 4,204 samples were tested in the city and district and 107 were found positive taking the total number of positive cases during the pandemic to 13,382. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed the death of one more person due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. So far, 207 such deaths have been taken on record by the civic body even as many other Covid-19 positive persons have died to comorbidities. The 1,691 cases that remain under treatment now include 69 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 161 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/discharges-push-active-cases-lower/articleshow/78667976.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||ED raids 5 properties of former BSP MLC||LUCKNOW: Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided five properties of former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLC, Mohammed Iqbal in New Delhi and Saharanpur on Wednesday. Iqbal was booked under prevention of money laundering Act in November 2019 along with his son, Wajid Ali, in a mining scam in Saharanpur district. ED said that the accused also purchased property in the disinvestment of sugar mills during the Mayawati government in the state, which is also a part of the probe. ED on Wednesday said that the premises of AMB Buildprop Private Limited owned by Iqbal, was raided. The agency also seized incriminating documents, electronic equipment and other material from the premises and search is underway. “Receipts of transactions have been seized which would be analysed further,” a source in ED said. ED said that during investigation under prevention of money laundering Act, it has surfaced that Iqbal and his family members have more than 110 companies and most of the companies are shell companies having no business activities. “It was also revealed that the funds generated through illegal mining were laundered. The funds were ultimately used for acquisition of huge assets and closed sugar mills” said a source in ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-raids-5-properties-of-former-bsp-mlc/articleshow/78670748.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kochi||NIA suspects smugglers linked to D Company||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency – probing the terror angle in the gold smuggling case – submitted before the special court that it suspects a connection between the racket and D Company, the notorious gang of Dawood Ibrahim.While opposing the bail plea of eight among the accused, NIA said the 13th accused, Sharafuddeen, had gone to Tanzania with the fifth accused KT Ramees. NIA submitted a photo of the accused holding a gun, reportedly taken in a market in Tanzania where guns are sold, as evidence. “Even as smuggling operations continued, Ramees was caught by Customs in Nov 2019 for smuggling 13 rifles (0.22 bore). D Company has its presence in Tanzania and UAE and a south Indian named Firose is managing its affairs. We are investigating the possibility of Ramees having a connection with the gang,” NIA said. NIA submitted that Ramees used to smuggle gold from Tanzania to UAE before smuggling it to India. In Tanzania, Ramees tried to procure a diamond merchant’s licence, NIA told the court. Opposing the bail plea, NIA claimed that one of the accused had links with Islamic State and SIMI. A newspaper clipping of IS members in Syria and a downloaded message about convicted persons in a SIMI case, retrieved from his mobile, was cited as the reason for NIA’s suspicion. The agency told the court that a photo of controversial preacher Zakir Naik, a fugitive, was retrieved from Swapna Suresh’s phone. Photos of bundles of Indian and foreign currencies were also recovered from her phone. Prosecutor Arjun Ambalapatta and assistant solicitor general (ASG) P Vijayakumar argued the case for NIA. The ASG presented in court that there is a possibility that gold could be used as currency by terrorist organizations. He reiterated that the aim of the accused was not to make profits but to fund illegal activities and hence it shouldn’t be considered as an ordinary smuggling case. Citing a report of Financial Action Task Force (FATF), NIA said the modus operandi in this case – in which the financiers reinvest their money in smuggling instead of taking profits –is similar to the process flagged by FATF as possible terror funding. NIA said FATF had flagged in the report that when the profits of gold smuggling is not taken by financiers, it could be for other extremist activities or money laundering. NIA submitted the report in court. The court posted all petitions to Thursday. The court will also hear the counsel of Sarith PS and Swapna as part of their bail pleas on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-suspects-smugglers-linked-to-d-company/articleshow/78669854.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Two killed in tiger and wild boar attacks in Chanda||CHANDRAPUR: Two shepherds were killed in separate incidents of wildlife attack in the district during last 24 hours. While one was killed in a tiger attack in South Bramhapuri range, the other was killed by a wild boar in core zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve. Sources informed that shepherd Umaji Maske (66) from Haldha village had taken his cattle to the forest under South Bramhapuri range on Wednesday. While his cattle returned home in the evening, he did not. The relatives of Maske and villagers started searching for him and found his body in compartment no. 1142 in the range on Thursday. There is presence of tigress T-27 and its three cubs in the area where the incident took place, sources added. CCF, NR Pravin confirmed Maske was killed in tiger attack and claimed that foresters have given ex gratia aid of Rs20,000 to his kin. In yet another incident, one Shatrughna Gedam (55) had taken his cattle for grazing illegally into the core zone of TATR on Wednesday. He was attacked by a wild boar and died on the spot. Villagers later searched for him and recovered his body from compartment no. 64 in Nimdhela beat on Thursday. Officials said grazing is not allowed inside the core zone. The two deaths have taken the tally of people killed in wild animal attacks to 27 in the district this year. While 22 people have been killed by tigers, four other have been killed in leopard attacks. This is the lone incident of a person being killed in wild boar attack this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-killed-in-tiger-and-wild-boar-attacks-in-chanda/articleshow/78688715.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard that attacked 5-yr-old shot dead in U’khand||DEHRADUN: A man-eater leopard on prowl was shot dead on Tuesday night after it killed a five-year-old boy in Kasmoli village earlier in the evening hours. The forest officials confirmed that the same leopard had earlier killed a nine-year-old girl in Saldogi village, which is just four kilometres away (aerially) from Kasmoli. “The victim boy was sitting near the door of the kitchen where his mother was preparing food. The leopard on prowl attacked the child, dragged it to a nearby place, choked him, and killed him,” said MS Bisht, SDO, Narendra Nagar. The body was retrieved barely 70 metres away from the house. The leopard was also hiding in a nearby spot. It revisited the spot to relish its hunt but was shot dead by sharp shooter Joy Hukkil, who was appointed by the forest department for the task. Hukkil was hired to kill the leopard after it had killed a nine-year-old girl in Saldogi village. He had reached the village on October 12 and had installed cameras and cages to track the movement of leopards. “Our teams were barely three kilometres away and in no time we reached Kasmoli village where the leopard attacked the boy. I spotted it inside bushes and shot him dead from a distance of 20 metres,” said Hukkil. He also confirmed that the leopard was the same which had killed the girl earlier. “The canine of the big cat was missing and it was disabled. This indicates that it was incapable of gripping its prey. Therefore, it targeted smaller and easier prey like kids. In Saldogi too, it had killed a nine-yr-old girl and on Wednesday, it killed a five-year-old boy,” added Hukkil. According to TOI sources in the forest department, Uttarakhand has already killed six leopards from its wild this year after they got into conflict with human beings or ran into human-dominated landscape. Besides, 15 leopards primarily active in human-dominated landscapes have been radio-collared by the forest department. It is worth mentioning that 22 people, including the five-year-old-boy, had died due to human-leopard conflict in the state this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-that-attacked-5-yr-old-shot-dead-in-ukhand/articleshow/78666894.cms||Shivani Azad
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Power play: Mega inverter in Delhi shows the future in case of grid failure||NEW DELHI: A grid failure recently led to massive power outages in Mumbai and its neighbouring areas, almost bringing the country’s financial capital to a halt, including its trains. Precautions are being taken in the capital avoid such a situation, at least for essential services like hospitals, the Delhi Metro, Delhi Jal Board etc. TATA Power-DDL, has set up a South Asia’s largest grid scale Battery Energy Storage System (BESS) in north Delhi’s Rohini in collaboration with AES Corporation and Mitsubishi Corporation. In simpler terms, the 10 MW battery storage set up in Rohini is like inverters in our houses, only a massive one interconnected on a network of 200 MW capacity, which can feed around 2,500 ‘preferred customers’. The preferred customers, TATA Power-DDL spokesperson said, are those providing essential services like hospitals, Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Metro, government offices, schools etc., where the company proposes to use emergency power during any breakdown or situations like grid failure. Ganesh Srinivasan, CEO, Tata Power-DDL said that this ‘inverter’ would also help in managing peak power demand load during summer and help balance the load curve of power distribution utilities. “The rate of power changes during the day during peak and non-peak hours. You can’t store electricity but with battery prices coming down rapidly, this ability to store energy can help as you can charge when prices are low and discharge when the prices are higher,” Srinivasan told TOI. He said that distribution companies can predict the demand, based on the weather or other factors and schedule power generation accordingly. However, there could be times when the prediction can go wrong. Thanks to BESS, the discom can store additional power if the demand doesn’t rise or meet additional demand if needed. In the BESS, Li-ion (Nickel, Manganese and Cobalt oxide) batteries are used with support of Advancion technology to operate the plant seamlessly. The 10 MWh system is divided into four cores of 2.5 MWh capacity and each core can be operated individually and collectively. After Rohini, a similar facility is coming up in north Delhi’s Rani Bagh and there are plans to have similar but smaller facilities in every neighbourhood in the future. Srinivasan said that instead of building transformers and electric equipment, similar batteries can be used to meet peak hour demand for a few hours during when the demand is high. He said that instead of creating humongous infrastructure required to meet peak demand for some hours, particularly in summers, one can think of investing in batteries, where capital expenditure is lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/power-play-mega-inverter-shows-the-future-in-case-of-grid-failure/articleshow/78669952.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||District administration evacuates over 3,200 families||HYDERABAD: Over 2,000 families were evacuated from the areas situated along the Musi river, by Hyderabad district administration on Wednesday. In fact, the HMWSSB had alerted the Hyderabad district administration, in view of opening the floodgates of Himayathsagar and discharging excess flood water in Musi river, for the past three days. Alerted by this caution, revenue officials visited Golconda mandal, the first mandal which was hit by flood water in Hyderabad district and evacuated families from Bapu Nagar and Lakshmi Nagar at Langer Houz areas. All the families residing at low-lying areas have been shifted to nearby government school and are being provided food and water, according to a revenue official. Another 1,200 families were evacuated in Asifnagar, Charminar, Nampally, Bahadurpura, Amberpet and Himayathnagar too, said a senior Hyderabad collectorate official. The district administration took help in rescue operations from army and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams. Hyderabad collector Swetha Mohanty visited Bandlaguda and reviewed rescue operations. She asked the revenue authorities to keep a close vigil on low-lying areas, as the discharging of flood water had continued for a few days. AIMIM MLAs and corporators of civic body swung into action and provided water and food to the families who were evacuated by the revenue officials. No casualties were reported on Wednesday, added the revenue officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dist-admin-evacuates-over-3200-families/articleshow/78670753.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||Contain Covid-19 spread, CPM urges govt||Mysuru: District members of the CPM protested near the deputy commissioner’s office here on Wednesday, demanding that the state government take all possible steps to curb the spike in Covid-19 cases, apart from a complete scale down in Dasara festivities. The protesters urged the government to stop illuminating major junctions, Dasara procession routes and roads, as tourists may arrive in large numbers to enjoy the illumination arrangements, and contract the virus. The government must initiate measures to prevent people from flooding the city during the Dasara procession and other celebrations, they said. “Thousands of taxi drivers, tongawalas, street vendors and hoteliers used to earn a year’s worth of income during Dasara celebrations. As their livelihood had been affected this year, the state government must provide Rs 7,500 a month to the affected taxi drivers, street vendors and other unorganised sector workers for three months, from the Rs 15 crore sanctioned for Dasara celebrations,” they said. CPM district secretary K Basavaraj and Jagadeesh were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/contain-covid-19-spread-cpm-urges-govt/articleshow/78666892.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF hopes to woo dissidents||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Jose K Mani’s decision to switch over to LDF was something UDF had expected for weeks. Since the two KC (M) legislators belonging to Jose faction boycotted the no-confidence motion against the government, the group’s exit was only a formality for the UDF leadership. P J Joseph faction has assured the UDF leadership that several leaders with Jose will abandon him and move to UDF soon. A few weeks ago, ex-MLA Joseph M Puthussery announced that he is snapping ties with Jose faction. What the UDF leadership wants now are more such defectors. Though opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has denied it, a section of leaders of NCP, an LDF constituent, who is upset over the prospect of losing Pala seat held by Mani C Kappan, are in consultation with UDF. As NCP is part of UPA at the national level, the party can easily switch to UDF if there is an irresistible offer. But it needs to be seen how the political realignments play out. UDF’s primary aim will be to retain control over Kottayam district panchayat in the local body elections and give a fitting reply to the Jose faction. At present, the UDF has 14 seats in the total 22 seats of the district panchayat out of which KC (Mani) has six seats. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy will now have a major role in his home district to woo the Christian community towards the Congress and the UDF. UDF leaders on Wednesday tried their best to put up a brave face claiming that Jose’s truck with the LDF will not have an impact on them in anyway. “If Mani sir was alive now, he would not have let this happen. People who believe in secular and democratic values will not accept it. It is a very unfortunate decision. The LDF had haunted Mani sir all these years and now his son has surrendered before them. It is betrayal of the highest order the state has ever seen,’’ said Chandy. UDF is countering Jose’s allegation of betrayal by claiming that the son has betrayed his father. “Mani’s soul will not pardon Jose’s mistake. He has now aligned with those people who have called Mani a liar and looter,’’ said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. UDF convener M M Hassan, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty too came out strongly against Jose terming his act as a political betrayal of Mani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-hopes-to-woo-dissidents/articleshow/78669938.cms||Rajiv G
October 15, 2020||Rajkot||Female cop, woman conductor’s cat fight video goes viral in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A video of the fisticuffs between a female cop and a woman conductor went viral on social media on Wednesday. The video shows the police sub-inspector engaged in a verbal duel with the conductor at Rajkot new bus stand. “The cop had driven her two-wheeler into the bus stand where entry of private vehicles is banned. The conductor while the bus was reversing asked her to take the vehicle away, which the cop refused. This started the fisticuffs,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/female-cop-woman-conductors-cat-fight-video-goes-viral/articleshow/78668406.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: October air fouler than last 2 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality index in the first two weeks of October was worse than in the same period in 2018 and 2019, according to CPCB data. The average AQI for Delhi from October 1 to 14 was 212 (poor), a significant rise from last year’s 159 (moderate) in the same fortnight and 207 (poor) in 2018. The capital also logged a high AQI of 300 (poor) this past fortnight against a high of 270 in 2019 and 262 in 2018. Experts feel early harvest remains burning and the poor end to the monsoon season may have contributed to this unseasonal spike. CPCB data, however, shows 2020 was cleaner in comparison with the same period in 2017, 2016 and 2015. The comparison though could be less than accurate since Delhi had just six air quality monitoring stations in 2015 and 2016 and 17 in 2017, while there are 35 functional air monitoring stations across the city today. Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, attributed the early rise in pollution levels to an early withdrawal of the monsoon relative to 2019, coupled with complete lack of rain from September 8 onwards. “The monsoon withdrew from Delhi this year on September 30, but there was dryness in the atmosphere because the capital last received rainfall on September 8 with 18.8 mm rain. Rain helps settle down pollutants, so this did not happen this year. Besides, the wind speed during the nights was almost nil this week and pollutants could not be dispersed,” said Srivastava. Last year, the monsoon withdrew from Delhi on October 10 and the city had received 47.3mm rainfall on October 4. Historical data shows Delhi generally starts recording an increase in pollution with a drop in the temperature and as stubble burning picks up pace from the second week of October. This year, fires to get rid of harvest remnants were seen on satellite imagery from as early as the first week of September, with field fires in Punjab at an all-time high, if data for this period for the last five years from 2016 is considered. VIIRS satellite data from 2016 onwards shows a spike in farm fire counts in the last week of September and the first week of October, with 50-100 counts per day recorded in 2017. However, this year the average count of such stubble burning incidents per day crossed 150 in the last week of September and ranged between 150 and 200 counts in the first week of October. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at Centre for Science and Environment, said, “The capital’s air was cleaner from October 1 to 14 in 2019 and 2018 than this year. This is due to meteorological factors and onset of early crop burning in 2020. The local pollution profile now needs to be checked to determine how and why it was different this year compared with the last two years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/october-air-fouler-than-last-2-years/articleshow/78669886.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 15, 2020||Delhi||GRAP in effect to loosen pollution’s grip in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A week after Delhi’s Air Quality Index started logging “poor” levels of pollution, the Graded Response Action Plan measures came into force from Wednesday. Under this, generator sets of all capacities run on diesel, petrol and kerosene have been banned in Delhi and the neighbouring cities of Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi’s AQI improved marginally from Tuesday’s 300 to 276 on Wednesday, but a haze hung over the capital during the day as the wind speed remained sluggish. The Supreme Court-appointed EPCA said on Wednesday that from October 15 onwards, only establishments qualifying as emergency services or those in the exclusion list would be allowed to use electric generator sets. The exempted services, therefore, include hospitals, nursing homes and healthcare facilities, elevators and escalators, railways, trains, Delhi Metro, the airport and inter-state bus terminals. Housing societies can use gensets only to keep lifts operational during a power outage. Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has also exempted National Information Centre’s data centre in the capital. EPCA chairman Bhure Lal warned that if any resident or a colony was discovered using generators without grounds for exemption from the ban, they would be fined on the spot and other actions taken based on the size of the generator, its capacity and the amount of fuel that might have been consumed. “Strict action will be taken against violators of our order. Only emergency services are allowed to use them from October 15 onwards,” reiterated Lal. A DPCC official elaborated that if anyone was found violating the ban, the generator set would be confiscated and a penal environmental compensation levied against the user. Under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, the same violation attracts a fine of Rs 5,000 or a jail term of 18 months. On Wednesday, EPCA instructed the chief secretaries of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to issue directions to state electricity boards to provide 24x7 electricity in the NCR cities to prevent the use of generators and so avoid inconvenience to people. “Any deterioration in ambient air quality in the region during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic will have considerable ramifications for the health of the residents of Delhi-NCR,” said the EPCA order. “Sincere efforts must be made to ensure that the ban is effective and monitored rigorously in your area.” Delhi recorded a slight improvement in AQI on Wednesday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union earth sciences ministry, said the calm surface wind condition would prevail and AQI was likely to stay between the higher end of “poor” and lower end of “very poor” categories on Thursday. Dipankar Saha, former head at CPCB’s air laboratory, said, “Entire NCR is experiencing poor air quality due to locking of pollutants at the gateway to the Indo-Gangetic plain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/grap-in-effect-to-loosen-pollutions-grip/articleshow/78669903.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata satellites go for safer Durga Puja this year||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has decided to conduct a ‘Best Covid-Safe Puja’ contest for block and gated community pujas in New Town this year. Every year, NKDA organizes contests based on best idol, best pandal and overall Puja in New Town but this year, these contests will not be conducted since the Puja committees are scaling down the grandeur keeping in mind the pandemic situation. Officials said that the single-category contest to decide who has organized the best Puja following all Covid-safety and preventive protocols would be decided by NKDA based on the residents’ feedback and a local NGO – the New Town Forum and News (NTFN). “The members would visit pandals across New Town between 10am and 3pm and will submit their recommendations on best Covid-safe Puja in blocks and those for gated communities. Following their recommendations, a NKDA team will cross-check and see on their own as to how the committees have implemented safety measures. The ranking would be published in the NKDA website and prizes would be given in December,” said a NKDA official. The Puja committees in New Town has been adviced to set up pandals keeping three sides open and to follow no-mask-no-entry step. Masks will be given in case people come without wearing them. There should be adequate space inside pandals and hand sanitizers will be dispensed at the entry point. For anjali, residents will have to bring their own flowers. There will be no cultural events. The Puja committees said they were strictly following the Covid-safety protocol this time. “There will be no functions or community lunch this time. There will only be a small pandal with three sides open. We are also planning to have arrangements for online anjali for the residents of our housing complex,” said Subho Dasgupta of Moonbeam Abason Utsav Committee. The traditional grandeur will not be allowed at the Upasanasthal immersion ghat. The Puja committees will not have to bring workers to unload idols as all labourers, bins, safety boats and even dhakis will be arranged by NKDA this time and a minimum number of people will accompany the immersion procession in a pre-scheduled slot to avoid gathering of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-safety-awards-make-an-entry-in-new-town/articleshow/78668425.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Covid-19 cases cross 56k mark, death toll nears 800||DEHRADUN: With 429 fresh cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand’s coronavirus tally reached 56,070 on Wednesday. Also, 14 more Covid-19 patients died in the state on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 796. Among the 429 cases on Wednesday, the maximum of 157 were from Dehradun, followed by 55 from Haridwar, 42 from Nainital, and 40 from Udham Singh Nagar. The nine hill districts collectively reported 135 cases. “The recovery rate reached 87% in the state on Wednesday with 827 more patients recovering from the infection. So far, a total of 48,798 people have defeated the virus,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. According to official data, the four plain districts account for 92% of the total deaths and 65% of the total positive cases. Dehradun has reported the most number of positive cases and deaths in Uttarakhand. The capital city accounts for 53% of the total deaths with 422 fatalities. The Covid-19 death rate of the city is 2.7%, which is almost 1% higher than both the state's and the national death rate. “The national death rate is 1.5% while Uttarakhand’s current death rate is 1.4%. Increasing fatalities are a cause of concern and this should be addressed,” said Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state). However, Dr Nitin Pandey, senior paediatrician of the capital city, has a different view on rising Covid-19 deaths in the state and in Dehradun. “Most of the patients who died were very sick. The plain regions are recording more deaths because hills don’t have big hospitals and thus, people are traveling down to Dehradun, Haridwar, and other plain cities for better treatment,” said Dr Pandey. Meanwhile, director general (health) Dr Amit Upreti on Wednesday issued prices for One Step Covid-19 Test in the state. “Private labs will be able to charge Rs 1,500 for the single step test in plain districts and those in hills can charge Rs 1,680. If the government hospital sends samples for single step tests to a private lab, the labs will be given Rs 1,400 for each test,” said Dr Upreti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-56k-mark-death-toll-nears-800/articleshow/78666918.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Some multiplexes in Ahmedabad to reopen today||AHMEDABAD: As the state government and Union home ministry have given permission for multiplexes and cinema halls to resume operations — while adhering to strict guidelines — from Thursday onwards, a few movie theatres in the city are set to reopen in this ‘new normal’. Concerns about few or no new releases continue to worry multiplex owners, as it will affect their revenues while operating costs pile up. Not all multiplexes will reopen from Thursday. Some may open from the weekend or next week. For instance, Wide Angle at SG Road or Cinepolis at Vastrapur are not expected to open on Thursday. Their owners have not shared a precise date for reopening. “Some may open on Thursday while others may resume operations by the weekend. We are not sure how footfalls will be given the widespread public apprehension remains,” said Manu Patel, chairman, Gujarat Multiplex Owners’ Association (GMOA). Multiplex owners are concerned about revenue, especially as operating costs rise. There are few new releases not scheduled and this will hurt revenue significantly. “We don’t expect crowds of more than 25% of capacity as there are no new movie releases. This will hurt revenues significantly. We will be releasing slightly old but popular movies so that people can enjoy themselves,” said Niraj Ahuja, manager of a city multiplex. With capacity capped at 50%, a dent in ticket sales is expected. Simultaneously, the cost of operations will go up. “The repeated sanitizing of the premises and limited food and beverages sales due to public apprehensions will certainly hurt revenues and add to our costs. The past six months have been difficult for us without any revenue. We had to shell out money from our pockets to keep the business running and pay monthly overheads,” said another multiplex owner on condition of anonymity. Industry players said a surge in online streaming platforms is also affecting the revenues of multiplexes in a big way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/some-multiplexes-in-city-to-reopen-today/articleshow/78669961.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Army, NDRF move in to rescue 200 stranded families in Falaknuma and nearby areas||HYDERABAD: Several people stranded in Al Jubial, Gazi-e-Millat and adjoining localities of Falaknuma were evacuated by army and NDRF personnel on Wednesday. Army personnel used boats to bring out residents struck in rain-affected places. Almost 200 families stuck in their houses were moved to safer spots. Vehicles, household goods and valuables were washed away and damaged in these areas due to heavy rain. A few locals TOI spoke to said Tuesday night’s rain was so heavy that water had entered their homes, forcing them to climb onto their terrace for safety. “Water entered many houses and people had to move to their terrace. We stood there waiting for help the whole night without basic amenities,” one of the men who was rescued along with his children, told TOI. AIMIM MLA Mauzam Khan said all the people were being moved to nearby function halls and other safe places. “Food packets and water bottles are being distributed to the rescued,” he said. Two engineering teams, a medical team and a task force column from Bison Division, Secunderabad moved nearly 1,200 families from low-lying areas, situated along the Musi. Alzuberi colony and GM Colony were hit when water from the Musi rushed in after floodgates of Himayathsagar were opened. Revenue and police authorities have also shifted several stranded persons to function halls. “We have evacuated several people from Bandlaguda to safer places in Falaknuma,” said Farheen Sheikh, tehsildar of Bandlaguda. The NDRF teams have been jointly working with GHMC’s DRF teams for evacuating stranded in Falaknuma and Chandrayangutta areas,” said DCP (South Zone) Gaja Rao Bhupal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-ndrf-move-in-to-rescue-200-stranded-families-in-falaknuma-and-nearby-areas/articleshow/78670775.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 15, 2020||Goa||In volte-face, CM says DDSSY won’t cover Covid treatment||PANAJI: In a series of flip-flops, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said treatment for Covid-19 in private hospitals would not be covered under the state government's cashless health scheme, Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY), as the government has been “making all the required facilities available to the common man”. Sawant told reporters that covering costs for Covid-19 treatment under DDSSY had been finalised in March when the state did not have the required infrastructure to treat Covid patients. “Subsequently, however, sufficient infrastructure required for a Covid patient was made available by us. Four hospitals with approximately 1,000 beds were also readied,” he said. “When we are providing better facilities than private hospitals and there is no shortage of beds, there is no need to cover Covid-19 under DDSSY. Only patients requiring private rooms and similar facilities will go to private hospitals.” Incidentally, a number of politicians, including Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik and director of health services Dr Jose D'Sa have taken treatment for Covid-19 in private hospitals. Just last week, the government had amended DDSSY to include cover for Covid-19, enabling patients to avail treatment for the virus from an empanelled private hospital. The notification, however, was cancelled just three days later. State government officials had said the move came after private hospitals expressed displeasure over the cover provided by the state, even as the opposition had accused the BJP government of succumbing to pressure from private hospitals while notifying rates for Covid cover. Health minister Vishwajit Rane had said the cancellation came after consulting chief minister Pramod Sawant. “This notification doesn’t make sense and it has to be cancelled.... a fresh notification will be issued in consultation with the CM,” Rane had said. Last week, TOI had reported that Sawant had said that “the government will look into the matter” with regard to the discrepancies in the rates for Covid treatment notified under DDSSY and the fees charged by private hospitals. The rates fixed were much lower than those capped by the government for Covid treatment in private hospitals. When asked why the government intended to revise the rates under DDSSY for Covid patients in private hospitals, Rane had said the file was moved around seven months ago and that the situation had since changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-volte-face-cm-says-ddssy-wont-cover-covid-treatment/articleshow/78671224.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||‘Gang-raped’ girl hangs self in UP, 2 cops suspended||JHANSI/LUCKNOW: A day after the suicide of a 15-year-old Dalit girl who had been allegedly gang-raped in UP’s Chitrakoot last week, her brother said the local police station initially turned away his parents by saying they should provide "strong evidence" for an FIR to be registered. Two police officers were suspended for laxity on Wednesday even as the three accused were picked up on the basis of an FIR lodged at Sariya police station after the girl hanged herself. The police swung into action after a video of the girl's family members blocking the road at Mainpur-Karvi Marg went viral. The suspended officers are Karvi police station SHO Jaishankar Singh and Sariya police outpost in-charge Anil Sahu. The family had refused to cremate the girl's body till the police started an investigation. The funeral took place after assurance of action by the police and the district administration. The girl’s brother said the family should be given Rs 1 crore in compensation along with a house, a firearms licence and security. He said his parents had gone to the police outpost to register a complaint of gang-rape on October 8, but were asked to come back with evidence. "On October 13, my sister was alone at home and hanged herself." IGP (Chitrakoot Dham range) K Satyanarayan said that on the basis of a complaint by the girl's mother, a case of gang rape and abetment to suicide had been lodged against the three accused under the Pocso and SC/ST Act. "The post-mortem showed that the victim died of asphyxia. Slides of the victim have been sent for further analysis," he said. Satyanarayan claimed that on October 8, the victim’s family had said they would file a complaint after a week. On October 8, in Kaumraha Ka Purva village under Kotwali area of Chitrakoot, three men had allegedly abducted the girl when she had gone to a field to relieve herself. The family said the girl was raped for several hours. She was left in a nursery with her hands and legs tied. She was traced only after her parents started searching for her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gang-raped-girl-hangs-self-2-cops-suspended/articleshow/78670776.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Farm fires: EPCA rap for Delhi’s neighbours||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed EPCA, in a review meeting of the ongoing stubble-burning situation in the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, directed the state governments on Wednesday to take stock of the situation on the ground. The governments were asked to take immediate measures to reduce farm fires. Rapping the states over the spike in crop-fire cases over the last two weeks, EPCA said despite claims made about preparation on the ground, over 500 fire counts were recorded in the three states on Tuesday alone. EPCA Chairman Bhure Lal said, “The air quality is getting worse each day and you know how harmful it is for people, especially during such a time,” he said, asking Punjab government officials why fires were on the rise in the state. A Punjab government official said the recent agitation against the farm bill was making it difficult to provide assistance to certain farmers, however, action had been intensified on the ground. “We are working hard to resolve the issue and work with the farmers who are in a state of agitation. Itn some cases, hey are not willing to accept help either,” an official informed EPCA via video conferencing. On the other hand, Haryana government officials said there had been a drop this year as compared with the same time last year. “At this time last year, we had over 700 fire counts and the figure is below 600 at the moment,” said an official. EPCA has asked all three states to rely on one uniform source for farm fires, which could provide them a benchmark to work on, asking them to use IMD’s SAFAR satellite data for keeping track. While Haryana identified 53 fire counts in the state on Tuesday, EPCA said SAFAR’s fire count showed 150 instances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fires-epca-rap-for-citys-neighbours/articleshow/78669957.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Salt Lake Pujas take guard against virus||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar city police on Wednesday held a coordination meeting with Puja organizers to release a guide map and lay the guidelines that primarily focus on Covid-safety measures. The Rs 50,000 cheques — the government grant announced by CM Mamata Banerjee earlier — were handed over to some Puja committees. Incidentally, the number of Puja committees who received the state dole jumped to 609 this year from last year’s 410. Bidhannagar MLA and fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen were also present on the occasion. “Almost 95% of disbursal process has been completed and the rest will be done in a few days. We are also processing the online applications. The government guidelines have been conveyed. Our officers are visiting Puja pandals to check on the preparedness,” said Bidhannagar city police commissioner Mukesh. Bidhannagar MLA and fire minister Sujit Bose, who was present at Wednesday’s coordination meeting along with Bidhannagar mayor Krishna Chakraborty and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, added: “A committee from Salt Lake who celebrates Dasherra had come to me. I had requested Firhad Hakim if permission for Dasherra Utsav can be given in Eco Park, which he said he will look into.” Among the general guidelines this time, no loudspeakers more than 65 decibel can be used. No processions will be allowed and use of masks and sanitizers are compulsory. Pandal would not be more than 45ft and the idols need to be less than 20ft. The guideline has stressed on online inauguration of Pujas. From the police’s end, there will be adequate pickets, RT mobile response teams and traffic police deployment along with police assistance booths at all important junctions. The Puja committees in Salt Lake said that they were strictly abiding by the safety guidelines. “We will not encourage any gathering inside the pandal,” said a BE (west) Puja committee organizer. “The pandal is being erected in such a way that people can stand maintaining social distancing,” said a BJ Puja committee member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-pujas-take-guard-against-virus/articleshow/78668440.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||Precaution for Kumari Puja at Belur Math||Kolkata: Belur Math has put a system in place for organizing the Kumari Puja on Ashtami. Right from who will bring her in and dress her in fineries to where she will be seated and how the puja will be offered, everything has been chalked out, announced Swami Jnanavratananda, one of the trustees of the monastic order. Since the puja has been shifted inside the temple, the Kumari Puja too has been taken to a designated spot in a straight line to where the idol would be kept. “There is a door to the West of where the idol would be placed. This leads to a verandah where the Kumari puja would be done,” the monk said. The size of the idol will be much smaller than previous years since it will be placed inside the temple this time, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/precaution-for-kumari-puja-at-belur-math/articleshow/78668489.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 15, 2020||Vadodara||Six ancient idols found during digging in Gujarat's Dahod||VADODARA: Six ancient idols found while excavating land for a building construction in Kadiyavad Naka area in Dahod town were taken away by workers who were oblivious of their significance. They had to be convinced to part with them after they had kept them at a temple. The idols were discovered about a week ago by workers at the site. They took permission of the site owner and took away the idols. They were planning to worship them after installing them at a temple. “While the workers took the idols away, word spread in the locality about this find. An alert citizen informed the municipality and gave an application in this regard,” said vice-president of Dahod municipality, Deepak Soni. He is elected from the same ward where the idols were found. The incident came to the notice of the municipality on Friday. Members of the Jain community also came to know and after seeing the idols, they concluded that these were from an ancient Jail temple. Soni said that members of the Jain community met the workers and convinced them to part with the idols. After the workers agreed, these were brought to a Jain Derasar in the town on Sunday. According to Soni, the chief officer of the municipality and the president were also informed about the idols. He added that they were also looking to inform archaeologists for an expert opinion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/six-ancient-idols-found-during-digging-in-dahod/articleshow/78667990.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 15, 2020||Meerut||UP edu dept instructs all dists to demolish dilapidated school buildings by Oct 31 or face action||MEERUT: Over a month has elapsed since the Uttar Pradesh education department had instructed the district magistrates all 75 districts to form committees to decide on the demolition of dilapidated school buildings, but many districts are yet to complete the survey of dilapidated school buildings saying engineers of the Public Works Department are “busy”. The department has now ordered the DMs to complete the survey with immediate effect and demolish the dilapidated school buildings by October 31, failing which they will face action. Following the department’s instructions, the DMs were supposed to form committees comprising assistant engineers of PWD and minor irrigation department to survey the school buildings and decide which buildings should be demolished. However, even over a month has passed, many districts are yet to submit reports citing PWD engineers are too busy to visit schools for surveying buildings. “The chief development officers of each district are asked to ensure that a report on dilapidated schools is submitted by October 31 or face action. The auction of such schools which have to be demolished should also be done,” reads the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director-general, education, UP. Expressing his disappointment over the undue delay, Anand said, “It’s sad that an important safety issue like this is being delayed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-edu-dept-instructs-all-dists-to-demolish-dilapidated-school-buildings-by-oct-31-or-face-action/articleshow/78667000.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Festive bonanza: U'khand Cabinet ends one day salary deduction for staff||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet on Wednesday took a number of key decisions aimed to benefit the government employees and the people. It gave nod to the proposal to not deduct one day salary of government employees – barring IAS, IPS, IFS and MLAs – each month under the Covid fund, while it approved regularisation of land for those staying on category 3 and 4 land from or before 1983. The Cabinet also approved a new sports policy, and increased the per kg rate of pine needle under its Pirul policy from Re 1 to Rs 2. In another major decision, it has decided to give an additional Rs 1,000 to 2.43 lakh registered cab and e-rickshaw drivers. Few months ago, the drivers were given Rs 1,000 and now the additional amount. “The festive season is going to start and we've decided not to deduct the one day salary per month of state government staff. However, the one day salary of CM, Speaker, Deputy Speaker, ministers, MLAs, IAS, IPS and IFS would be deducted for the remaining part of the financial year,” urban development minister Madan Kaushik said. In a welcome move for people staying on lands under category 3 and 4 since or before 1983, the government has approved the regularisation process. The charges have been fixed and from the date of notification, the people occupying these lands will have permission to get it regularised within a period of the year. However, it will not be applicable on watershed lands, graveyards and small roads. “For a land up to 200 metres, one has to pay 5% of the circle rate of 2004. For 200 to 400 metres, a person needs to give 10% of the circle rate of that land in 2004 and for land of 400 metres to 1,000 metres the charges would be 25% of the 2004 circle rate. Most of such occupants are in Udham Singh Nagar, Dehradun and Almora,” the minister explained. Prominent sports persons would get a quota in schools and colleges and there would be provisions of promotion for outstanding players. “A player who wins gold at the Olympics will get Rs 2 crore, silver medalists Rs 1.5 crore and Rs 1 crore for bronze. Participants at the Olympics would get Rs 10 lakh. Similarly, players taking part in global events would get Rs 2 lakh, a gold medalist in international events would get Rs 30 lakh, silver medalist Rs 20 lakh and bronze medalist Rs 15 lakh. For players winning gold in Asian Games, the government would give Rs 30 lakh, silver Rs 20 lakh, Rs 15 lakh for bronze and Rs 1 lakh for participants,” the minister added. Under the sports policy 2020, 1% of the state's GDP would be used for sports. Besides, defining the encouragement amount for medal winners and participants at international level, it has provisions of a special Devbhoomi Khel Ratna award and Himalaya Putra award. Earlier, the state lacked a policy to use scholarship funds, which were lying unutilised in government colleges. A committee headed by the director of higher education has been constituted to look into the legal and technical issues. The cabinet aims to provide rights at the director's level to spend the amount for constructive activities. As most of the state government colleges were affiliated with HNB University – a Central university, there were some technical aspects, which acted as a stumbling block for allocating funds. A panel headed by the chief secretary has been constituted now. Moreover, the cabinet has approved a track and trace concept for the excise department. Under which, the state will get a special hologram made for liquor bottles. These holograms would be made by Security, Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited. The state government has also approved Rs 1 crore to help carry out works in association with Akharas. These works would be permanent in nature and their maintenance would be done by the Akharas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/festive-bonanza-cabinet-ends-one-day-salary-deduction-for-staff/articleshow/78666987.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Heavy rain throws normal life out of gear in Karwar||Karwar: Heavy rain lashed Uttara Kannada district on Wedensday and Karwar taluk bore the brunt of the rain. Normal life was disturbed in Karwar city where water entered low-lying reas. People blamed the local administration as roads were half-dug in several areas which compounded their woes. Water entered houses near Karwar port and Aligadda areas. In June just as the monsoon began, people in these areas faced similar problms. Several houses in the area were marooned with water entering these houses. Paddy crop was completely destroyed in Bhaira area of Karwar taluk. In Bargal village, large tracts of sugarcane fields were inundated with water destroying the crops. Houses around the INS Kadamba naval base in Arga village too were marooned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/heavy-rain-throws-normal-life-out-of-gear-in-karwar/articleshow/78668881.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Destination Goa shifts from beaches to heritage, hinterlands in tourism policy||PANAJI: The state government on Wednesday approved Goa’s first tourism masterplan and tourism policy that seeks to reinvent Destination Goa — by helping it face heightened competition by taking the focus away from beaches to its heritage, culture and hinterlands. The 25-year vision document is the state’s first serious attempt to chalk out a systematic path for the tourism industry, which has mostly grown on its own since the 1970s, with the arrival of the flower children to Goa — inadvertently bringing into focus the state’s ‘sussegado’ and carefree environment. The vision of the policy is to make Goa the most preferred destination around the year for high-spending tourists in India by 2024, and a world-class international tourism destination by 2030. The masterplan charts the path Goa should follow in future, tapping its various attributes that have remained out of focus — or their existence hardly highlighted over the past four decades — even as the state yielded huge profits focusing just on its beaches. The tourism policy mentions that tourism is the backbone of Goa’s economy, and 40% of the state’s population directly or indirectly dependent on it. Considering the exploitation some beaches — especially those in North Goa — have undergone due to commercial activity, the policy states that the regeneration of beaches will also be taken up, and their conservation won’t be neglected even while promoting coastal tourism. The policy states that environmental sustainability shall be the key determinant for coastal tourism development. The policy also said the state will pursue blue flag certification or its comparable standard. A recent attempt to attain the certification was opposed and Goa lost the opportunity to receive the tag even as eight beaches elsewhere in India got selected. While the words mostly associated with Goa — sea, sun and sand — will be difficult to erase in a short span, the document nonetheless lists various aspects that Goa tourism should focus on. The masterplan is divided into six modules, including development of an action plan to implement previous modules. The policy also has a provision for forming a tourism board, which will act as the apex body for taking policy decisions relating to planning, development and marketing of tourism in the state. Goa receives upto 80 lakh tourists annually, with around 7-8 lakh foreign arrivals. But over the last few years, it hasn’t seen much growth in the arrival of foreign tourists. Charter arrivals are dropping too,as the state has not been able to beat competition from Sri Lanka or southeast Asian countries. Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that the policy and masterplan focuses on eco, hinterland, adventure, education, sport, coastal, culture and heritage, and nature-based tourism, leisure and entertainment, connectivity infrastructure, support tourism infrastructure, promotion and marketing and skill development. “With this changed focus, Goa will be able to raise its stock in the international and domestic markets and touch new heights. We will become the top world-class destination,” he said. The masterplan, however, is expected to facilitate and streamline the development of tourism in the state with significant focus on infrastructure development and raising the quality tourism-related facilities and services, with an emphasis on sustainable tourism development over short, medium and long-term periods. A stakeholder said that with the masterplan in place, GTDC will now not be able to incur mindless expenses on projects, as the tourism board will have a final say. Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) president Nilesh Shah said that the industry is happy the government has finally come out with the vision document and policy, but that some of their important suggestions haven’t found a place in the policy. Hotelier Francisco de Braganca, who was part of the consultative process for the tourism master plan, said that what they had envisaged under former CM Manohar Parrikar when the process for creating it started in 2014, is missing in the document. He said that the roles of tourism department, Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) and proposed tourism board are overlapping, and that the new exercise will not yield the desired results. The 12-member tourism board, with the tourism minister as chairman, will also have representatives of government and industry. A vice-chairman will be nominated by stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/destination-goa-shifts-from-beaches-to-heritage-hinterlands-in-tourism-policy/articleshow/78671245.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||No more twice-a-week, Kolkata-London flights only on Sundays from Oct 25||KOLKATA: Plagued by poor loads since the introduction of the twice-a-week direct service between Kolkata and London, Air India has decided to reduce the frequency to once-a-week after Durga Puja. “After Navami, October 25, the flight will arrive in Kolkata and take off for London only on Sundays. The flight that operated on Thursdays has been withdrawn as it isn’t sustainable to continue with the present load,” an AI official told TOI on Wednesday. The AI decision comes a day after the CM pitched for enhanced connectivity between Kolkata and Europe and urged the civil aviation ministry to make the flight a permanent one. The flight that started on September 16 was to initially operate till October 24 before its service was extended to December-end and then to the end of March next year. The introduction of the flight had led to considerable excitement in the market with many hoping it would revive international travel that had ceased in March when the flights were abruptly shut down as India went into a lockdown. Though similar flights introduced from other cities, including Kochi and Goa, have done well, the one from Kolkata to London and back has failed to draw enough passengers. Only once did a third of the 256 seats in the Dreamliner aircraft used on the sector get filled up. With an average load of 70 passengers, the London flight has attracted primarily cinema crew travelling to shoot in the UK and students flying down to join institutions in the country. Though the UK is issuing all categories of visa, including tourism, the 14-day quarantine on arrival is a dampener as it will enable only those who have relatives and friends to travel. The flight to Kolkata has another problem. With the state government making it mandatory for all incoming passengers from abroad to carry the latest RT-PCR report stating that he or she is negative, many have opted not to travel as the test is time-consuming and expensive in London. Realising this, CM Mamata Banerjee had on Tuesday suggested that the state government would introduce a rapid antigen test facility at the airport but linked it to the London flight being made into a permanent one. Travel agents said the airline’s decision to reduce the frequency, while understandable given the poor load, was unfortunately timed as traffic would increase once testing is available on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-twice-a-week-kol-london-flights-only-on-sundays-from-oct-25/articleshow/78668447.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||How Gorakhpur’s Tabassum helped free 7 Indians in Libya||GORAKHPUR: A Gorakhpur-born school principal in Libya, Tabassum Mansoor, 58, played a crucial role in mediations to secure the release of seven Indians, who were in captivity of a militia group in war-torn Libya, since September 13, when they were en route to Tripoli airport to board a flight to India. On Monday, the ministry of external affairs announced the release of seven Indians, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat and were employed with Al Shola Al Mudea energy company in Libya. Speaking to TOI from Benghazi, Tabassum Mansoor, who runs Indian International School, confirmed she held protracted negotiations with Libyan kidnappers to secure their release. Mansoor has been living in Libya for 30 years and had earlier helped evacuate 3,000 stranded Indians in 2011 after the toppling of the Muammar Gaddafi regime. “The seven Indians left Brega in an SUV to catch a flight from Tripoli, 800km away. The militants had been tipped off about their flight to India and that they had cash on them. The SUV was intercepted in Asswerif area, where they were robbed and taken hostage. I cannot divulge details of negotiations due to security concerns,” she told TOI. Her Gorakhpur-based brother, Dr Osama Habib, said, “Tabassum last came to Gorakhpur 18 months ago when our mother died. She also arranged the wedding of her daughter here two years ago.” My sister helped in evacuation of stranded Indians Libya during the Benghazi unrest and was awarded the Uttar Pradesh Apravasi Bharatiya Ratan Puruskar in 2017.” Recollecting her childhood days, Habib said, Tabassum has always been a fighter and exemplified courage. “She stands by truth and helps the needy. She had this trait since childhood when she would stand up for servants in the house. My father established the first chartered accountancy company in Gorakhpur and Tabassum did her schooling and graduation from Gorakhpur before moving to Libya.” In a statement, the External Affairs Ministry had on Monday said: “All seven Indians are in good health and are currently staying in the company's premises in Brega. We are trying to complete requisite formalities to enable their return to India". Earlier, TOI had spoken to Lallan Prasad, brother of one of the hostages, Munna Chauhan, who hails from Kushinagar district of Uttar Pradesh. Chauhan was employed as an argon welder and had gone to Libya through a Delhi-based recruiter, N D Enterprises Travel Agency. “The militants had demanded $20,000 ransom from Libyan firm for their release. His visa had expired on September 13 and he had called home to say he was boarding a flight home. Hours later, his phone went dead.” Lallan filed an online FIR with Delhi’s Prasadpur police station on September 27 and appealed to external affairs ministry to help release the Indians in captivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-gorakhpurs-tabassum-helped-free-7-indians-in-libya/articleshow/78670799.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Haryana’s refusal to ban DG sets led to spike in Delhi’s pollution, says AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party national spokesperson and Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha on Wednesday hit out at the BJP-led Haryana government claiming that they were responsible for the sharp increase in Delhi’s air pollution. Chadha said that despite EPCA enforcing Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), Haryana had refused to ban diesel gensets, which was aggravating air pollution. Days before GRAP was scheduled to be put into force, Delhi saw air quality deteriorate with AQI reaching the extreme end of the poor category. For the first time since February, AQI crossed the 300 mark. Track the pollution level in your city“As GRAP will come into force on October 15, the use of diesel gensets will be banned in Delhi-NCR. While Delhi government has dutifully followed the rules set by EPCA, the neighbouring Haryana doesn’t seem to be taking any action. Their government has written distress letters to EPCA repeatedly saying they can’t enforce the ban in their state. They told EPCA that Gurgaon and Faridabad had several thousand homes that didn’t get electricity and were wholly dependent on diesel gensets, which is why the ban won’t be conducive,” Chadha said. The legislator also mentioned how the failure of Haryana government in providing electricity to its residents had compelled them to resort to an unnatural and extremely polluting form of electricity. “In my understanding, this is a failure on the part of Haryana government, which could not supply electricity to its residents in the populous cities of Gurgaon and Faridabad. This was compelling them to use diesel generators,” added Chadha. Highlighting the health hazard posed by the combination of Covid-19 and air pollution, Chadha said, “We’re already battling the pandemic. On top of that, our neighbours indulge in stubble burning. There is no end to our air pollution woes.” The AAP functionary also slammed the Centre over the issue. “It appears that the BJP-led central government, along with Central Pollution Control Board, is aiding and abetting Haryana government to violate GRAP norms,” he alleged, adding that the Centre in its ambitious National Clean Air Programme had recognised stationary diesel gensets as a major source of pollution. Urging EPCA to deal with Haryana government with an iron fist, Chadha said, “Haryana government should show, and not tell. They must take resolute steps to sort out pollution-related matters in a time-bound manner and immediately ban the use of gensets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/haryanas-refusal-to-ban-dg-sets-led-to-spike-in-delhis-pollution-says-aap/articleshow/78669965.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Rajkot||Doc killed in car accident||Rajkot: A doctor was killed and four injured in a car-minibus collision near Vanthali of Junagadh district on early Wednesday morning. The deceased was identified as Dr Ravi Dadhania. Police said Dr Dadhania was in the car which had a head on collision with the minibus. Those injured were the passengers of the bus. The accident occurred near Vadal railway crossing of Vanthali. Dr Dadhania was the resident of Zanjharada Road in Junagadh. Dr Dadhania’s cousin Ankur Dadhania lodged a complaint against the driver .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/doc-killed-in-car-accident/articleshow/78668538.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Eco concerns to dictate coastal tourism plan in Goa||PANAJI: The newly approved Goa tourism master plan has laid emphasis on coastal tourism while making environmental sustainability the key determinant for any development projects for this sector. In the last two decades, Goa’s coastline has witnessed an increase in commercial activities with a corresponding rise in footfalls, which has led to the degradation of some beach stretches. The policy talks about regeneration of beaches that will be identified by the tourism board — the new body that is proposed to be formed. Beach regeneration will include infrastructure development such as access, parking, urban sidewalks, promenades and other public amenities and services providing cleanliness and security. Conservation of the beach’s character, the policy states, will be a key measure that will include protecting sand, sand dunes and water quality. At many beach stretches, hotels and shacks, mostly private, release sewage and other waste into the sea while the local authorities look the other way. The master plan states that the government must take measures to prevent soil erosion, protect sand dunes and ecologically sensitive areas. It also suggests a blue-flag certification or comparable standards for select beaches. So far, attempts at getting blue-flag certification have been opposed by locals — fishermen and shack operators — who fear that their livelihoods may be impacted. It also suggests that swim zones be separated from areas used for water sports activities to enable best global practices to be followed. Presently, swim zones are marked at most beaches that are manned by lifeguards, but the distinction is hardly maintained. The policy wants beach shacks to be issued labels and accreditation for Goan cuisine which matches guidelines stipulated by the department. Most of the shacks either cater to foreign or domestic tourists or both, and hardly any shack has local items on its menu. The department of tourism and Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) shall make efforts for development of ecotourism attractions in relevant coastal sites by attracting acclaimed national and international brands, the master plan states. Fishermen markets and food and beverages courts have to be developed in participation with local stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eco-concerns-to-dictate-coastal-tourism-plan/articleshow/78671247.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Pensioners in UP can now submit life certificates online||LUCKNOW: Pensioners in the state, most of whom are senior citizens, would no longer have to trudge to banks or treasury offices to submit their life certificates, with the state government deciding to make the procedure online. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s announcement on Wednesday will benefit 6.5 lakh former government employees and thousands of private sector pensioners. At least 4 lakh retired government employees and 2.5 lakh under government-aided departments will benefit, said a finance department official. The CM directed the finance department to develop a procedure to allow online submission and publicize it extensively. The procedure of submitting certificates by beneficiaries to prove they are alive and should continue to receive pension begins in November each year. Now, they can submit certificates through common facility centres and receive pension without unnecessary running around, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pensioners-in-up-can-now-submit-life-certificates-online/articleshow/78670807.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Students fly back to campuses abroad||CHENNAI: After more than six months of virtual classes from his home in Trichy, 24-year-old R Aravindh flew back to his university in Italy on August 31. “I do have the option of attending classes online from my home in TN. But studying abroad is not just about academics, it also means a exposure to new people, culture, places, managers, professors, etc,” says Aravindh, who is pursuing his masters’ in management engineering at Politecnico di Milano. “I wasn’t scared of contracting the virus on the journey, and I believe proper use of masks and sanitizers can protect me,” he says, adding that 90% of his friends have returned to campus. The pandemic continues to rage across the world, and many universities are offering the option of doing the courses online. But many Indian students have returned to their university campuses abroad as they feel virtual classrooms don’t offer the complete experience of studying in a foreign campus. Ananya Rao, 18, flew back to the US mid-August, where she began chemical engineering at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. “My university offers online classes too, but I had seen my elder brother struggle with online college classes from halfway across the world in the summer. Being in a different time zone, taking exams at night etc. was less than ideal,” says Ananya. “I opted to go to the university so I would be in the same time zone and also to make some connections with fellow students, which would have been very difficult from Chennai.” Her parents were worried, she admits. “My mother is a doctor so she did a lot of research and felt the risk was relatively low for my age group,” says Ananya. Others returned to campus as they didn’t want to defer a year or take on extra workload the next year. Nina Dharmaraj flew out on September 4 to start the first year of her Bachelors in veterinary medicine, at the University of Edinburgh. “The college offered online courses for year one students. However, this meant that the weekly lab classes would be deferred to the next year, making it potentially less effective and adding to workload next year,” says her father R Dharmaraj, who lives in Thiruvanmiyur. Shreya Prasad, 21, who lives in Padur and is doing Bachelor of Honors in accounting and finances, level 8, at Dundalk Institute of Technology, Ireland, says she returned on September 15 as her residency permit had to be renewed and practical classes would resume on campus. “I could defer the year but I didn’t want that,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-fly-back-to-campuses-abroad/articleshow/78678297.cms||Priya Menon
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Students fly back to campuses abroad||CHENNAI: After more than six months of virtual classes from his home in Trichy, 24-year-old R Aravindh flew back to his university in Italy on August 31. “I do have the option of attending classes online from my home in TN. But studying abroad is not just about academics, it also means a exposure to new people, culture, places, managers, professors, etc,” says Aravindh, who is pursuing his masters’ in management engineering at Politecnico di Milano. “I wasn’t scared of contracting the virus on the journey, and I believe proper use of masks and sanitizers can protect me,” he says, adding that 90% of his friends have returned to campus. The pandemic continues to rage across the world, and many universities are offering the option of doing the courses online. But many Indian students have returned to their university campuses abroad as they feel virtual classrooms don’t offer the complete experience of studying in a foreign campus. Ananya Rao, 18, flew back to the US mid-August, where she began chemical engineering at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. “My university offers online classes too, but I had seen my elder brother struggle with online college classes from halfway across the world in the summer. Being in a different time zone, taking exams at night etc. was less than ideal,” says Ananya. “I opted to go to the university so I would be in the same time zone and also to make some connections with fellow students, which would have been very difficult from Chennai.” Her parents were worried, she admits. “My mother is a doctor so she did a lot of research and felt the risk was relatively low for my age group,” says Ananya. Others returned to campus as they didn’t want to defer a year or take on extra workload the next year. Nina Dharmaraj flew out on September 4 to start the first year of her Bachelors in veterinary medicine, at the University of Edinburgh. “The college offered online courses for year one students. However, this meant that the weekly lab classes would be deferred to the next year, making it potentially less effective and adding to workload next year,” says her father R Dharmaraj, who lives in Thiruvanmiyur. Shreya Prasad, 21, who lives in Padur and is doing Bachelor of Honors in accounting and finances, level 8, at Dundalk Institute of Technology, Ireland, says she returned on September 15 as her residency permit had to be renewed and practical classes would resume on campus. “I could defer the year but I didn’t want that,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-fly-back-to-campuses-abroad/articleshow/78678298.cms||Priya Menon
October 15, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Students fly back to campuses abroad||CHENNAI: After more than six months of virtual classes from his home in Trichy, 24-year-old R Aravindh flew back to his university in Italy on August 31. “I do have the option of attending classes online from my home in TN. But studying abroad is not just about academics, it also means a exposure to new people, culture, places, managers, professors, etc,” says Aravindh, who is pursuing his masters’ in management engineering at Politecnico di Milano. “I wasn’t scared of contracting the virus on the journey, and I believe proper use of masks and sanitizers can protect me,” he says, adding that 90% of his friends have returned to campus. The pandemic continues to rage across the world, and many universities are offering the option of doing the courses online. But many Indian students have returned to their university campuses abroad as they feel virtual classrooms don’t offer the complete experience of studying in a foreign campus. Ananya Rao, 18, flew back to the US mid-August, where she began chemical engineering at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. “My university offers online classes too, but I had seen my elder brother struggle with online college classes from halfway across the world in the summer. Being in a different time zone, taking exams at night etc. was less than ideal,” says Ananya. “I opted to go to the university so I would be in the same time zone and also to make some connections with fellow students, which would have been very difficult from Chennai.” Her parents were worried, she admits. “My mother is a doctor so she did a lot of research and felt the risk was relatively low for my age group,” says Ananya. Others returned to campus as they didn’t want to defer a year or take on extra workload the next year. Nina Dharmaraj flew out on September 4 to start the first year of her Bachelors in veterinary medicine, at the University of Edinburgh. “The college offered online courses for year one students. However, this meant that the weekly lab classes would be deferred to the next year, making it potentially less effective and adding to workload next year,” says her father R Dharmaraj, who lives in Thiruvanmiyur. Shreya Prasad, 21, who lives in Padur and is doing Bachelor of Honors in accounting and finances, level 8, at Dundalk Institute of Technology, Ireland, says she returned on September 15 as her residency permit had to be renewed and practical classes would resume on campus. “I could defer the year but I didn’t want that,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-fly-back-to-campuses-abroad/articleshow/78678299.cms||Priya Menon
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Over 200 government school students selected for NTSE preparation||LUDHIANA: With National Council of Education Research and Training (NCERT) deciding on the pattern of National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) Punjab 2020 for both stage 1 and stage 2, government schools have started preparation and the classes will kickstart from Friday. NTSE Punjab stage 1 paper pattern comprises two sections — mental ability test (MAT), and the scholastic aptitude test (SAT). In Ludhiana, over 200 students from government schools have been shortlisted for the preparation of NTSE. Over 150 students, who have scored over 95% of students and above, have been selected in the initial phase. Ludhiana coordinator from the education department, Sanjeev Taneja said, “We have identified over 150 students initially, those who have scored over 95% in Class IX. Now, we have decided to include more and we have picked students who had shown competitive spirit and have participated in various competitions.” Last year, only two students from Ludhiana were selected from Punjab. Taneja said the criteria were changed in a virtual meeting held with education secretary Krishan Kumar recently and it was decided that students who scored 90% and above can come forward. Taneja further said, “We have a resource group including two teachers for maths and SST and one for English. We already had a virtual meeting and classes will kickstart from tomorrow. The classes were delayed as there was no exact figure. We would be providing regular material, which will be circulated from the state.” Talking about the challenges, Taneja added, “We had to identify students who will be comfortable giving time besides regular classes.” The duration of the NTSE stage 1 is 120 minutes and students need to answer 200 MCQs (multiple-choice questions). Students have to be familiar with the syllabus and exam pattern of Punjab NTSE. D S Chinna, principal of Government Senior Secondary School Shahpur said, “Students should download NTSE Punjab question papers from the SCERT website and practise with previous year test papers to strengthen their preparation. These question papers help in understanding the NTSE Punjab exam pattern and syllabus better. Students can download these question papers along with the answer key. Instead of cramming, memorise the important concepts by making hand-written short notes while preparing for the NTSE. These notes also help in easing the revision process. Students should follow the NCERT books for getting detailed information on the syllabus. Also, follow a few best NTSE books, available both offline and online, to ace the exam. In case of doubt or confusion, students are advised to consult teachers.” NTSE Punjab Exam Pattern 2020 (Stage 1) NTSE stage 1 comprises 200 questions divided among two sections, MAT, and SAT, 100 marks in each section. The medium of the question papers will be in English, Hindi & Punjabi Students have to solve all the questions in offline mode or pen and paper mode only There will be no negative marking in NTSE Punjab Stage 1 exam and 1 mark will be awarded for each correct answer SAT section will comprise of 100 questions (Science-40, Maths-20, Social science-40) and designed for examining the knowledge and capabilities of students MAT Section will contain questions based on pattern perception, analogies, coding-decoding, classifications, hidden figures and problem-solving etc Students who qualify both the papers separately will be selected in NTSE Punjab 2020 Result||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/over-200-govt-school-students-selected-for-ntse-preparation/articleshow/78665062.cms||Mehak Jain
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Take tough action against lake encroachments, urge activists||HYDERABAD: With most water bodies in the city at full capacity and overflowing, with colonies nearby inundated, there have been renewed calls to determine the water spread and boundary of lakes. This is the best time to determine encroachments and act against them, said experts. “There is no doubt encroachments are the primary reason for inundation. Land regularisation schemes must be scrutinised to avoid such flooding,” said environmentalist Subba Rao. Urban planner Srikanth Peddibhotla said: “No one realises the gravity until floods happen. Gullible buyers often purchase land property worth crores only to realise later that their investment is literally in the drain.” Activist Lubna Sarwath said, “There are BT roads inside lakes, walopen gyms, religious structures, function halls on the channels and acres of layouts in FTL.” Thakur Rajkumar Singh, an activist, said: “Owing to illegal construction over nala Ganganivani vadaka leading to Medla Cheruvu in Tellapur, nearly 300 houses have been inundated.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-tough-action-against-lake-encroachments-urge-activists/articleshow/78670803.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia gets labour and employment in minor cabinet reshuffle||New Delhi: In a minor reshuffle of the Arvind Kejriwal cabinet, the portfolios of labour and employment were taken away from environment minister Gopal Rai and given to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia to enable him to give greater focus to the environment.The deteriorating air quality has brought challenges for the government, and it is trying to do whatever possible at its end to improve the air quality.A notification for the reshuffle was issued on Wednesday evening by the general administration department after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal in consultation with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal allocated the portfolios of labour and employment to Sisodia.Now, the portfolios of Babarpur MLA Gopal Rai include development, general administration department and environment, forest and wildlife. Rai is also the convener of the Delhi unit of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party. Manish Sisodia is the minister with maximum portfolios, including education, finance, planning, land & building, vigilance, services, tourism, art, culture & language, labour, employment and all other departments not specifically allotted to any minister.After Sisodia, Satyendar Jain is the minister with maximum portfolios, including health, industry, public works department, power, home, urban development, irrigation and flood control and water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/manish-sisodia-gets-labour-and-employment-in-minor-cabinet-reshuffle/articleshow/78669991.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Traders at ‘Paltan Bazaar’ unhappy with anti-encroachment drive before Diwali||DEHRADUN: Officials faced a lot of angry resistance from the traders' community at the famous market ‘Paltan Bazaar’ in Dehradun during an anti-encroachment drive on Wednesday. The demolition drive was continued by the task force for the second consecutive day at various locations of the city. Some of the traders, who have already suffered huge financial losses this year, said that the drive could have been conducted after the festival season. The team, which comprised officials from government departments like PWD, Municipal Corporation, district administration and others, visited the Paltan Bazaar in the morning, when traders in large numbers came out to protest. Later, the police were called in to control the crowd. The trading community complained that the market has already suffered huge economic losses due to Covid-19 and with the festival season coming up, the demolition drive should have been conducted after Diwali. “The market has suffered heavy losses this year and in the past few weeks, it gradually started picking up, but now we have again lost the momentum. All this anti-encroachment drive should have happened after Diwali as the trading community hoped this season would bring some relief. Now, the traders will have to fund the repairing of their demolished shops. We will have a meeting soon to decide on our future course of action,” Pankaj Masson, president of the Doon Udyog Vyapar Mandal, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traders-at-paltan-bazaar-unhappy-with-anti-encroachment-drive-before-diwali/articleshow/78667006.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Students fly back to campuses abroad||CHENNAI: After more than six months of virtual classes from his home in Trichy, 24-year-old R Aravindh flew back to his university in Italy on August 31. “I do have the option of attending classes online from my home in TN. But studying abroad is not just about academics, it also means a exposure to new people, culture, places, managers, professors, etc,” says Aravindh, who is pursuing his masters’ in management engineering at Politecnico di Milano. “I wasn’t scared of contracting the virus on the journey, and I believe proper use of masks and sanitizers can protect me,” he says, adding that 90% of his friends have returned to campus. The pandemic continues to rage across the world, and many universities are offering the option of doing the courses online. But many Indian students have returned to their university campuses abroad as they feel virtual classrooms don’t offer the complete experience of studying in a foreign campus. Ananya Rao, 18, flew back to the US mid-August, where she began chemical engineering at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. “My university offers online classes too, but I had seen my elder brother struggle with online college classes from halfway across the world in the summer. Being in a different time zone, taking exams at night etc. was less than ideal,” says Ananya. “I opted to go to the university so I would be in the same time zone and also to make some connections with fellow students, which would have been very difficult from Chennai.” Her parents were worried, she admits. “My mother is a doctor so she did a lot of research and felt the risk was relatively low for my age group,” says Ananya. Others returned to campus as they didn’t want to defer a year or take on extra workload the next year. Nina Dharmaraj flew out on September 4 to start the first year of her Bachelors in veterinary medicine, at the University of Edinburgh. “The college offered online courses for year one students. However, this meant that the weekly lab classes would be deferred to the next year, making it potentially less effective and adding to workload next year,” says her father R Dharmaraj, who lives in Thiruvanmiyur. Shreya Prasad, 21, who lives in Padur and is doing Bachelor of Honors in accounting and finances, level 8, at Dundalk Institute of Technology, Ireland, says she returned on September 15 as her residency permit had to be renewed and practical classes would resume on campus. “I could defer the year but I didn’t want that,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/students-fly-back-to-campuses-abroad/articleshow/78668540.cms||Priya Menon
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Entries invited for Arambam contest||Madurai: The sixth edition of Arambam, a contest for start-up ideas among the aspiring entrepreneurs has kicked off. Jointly conducted by the Madurai chapter of Young Indians and Nativelead Foundation, the organisers of the event have invited workable business ideas. Sharmila Devi, chair of Entrepreneurship Vertical of Young Indians, Madurai chapter, said both entrepreneurs and students willing to take part in the contest can send their start-up ideas to the email id www.aarambam.in, till October 31. Sharmila Devi said that the contest is being organized since 2015 in order to encourage and build entrepreneurship skills among the student community and to support mainstream entrepreneurs who wish to take their business ventures to the next level. The short-listed entries will be called for virtual evaluation on November 20. “The winning ideas from the mainstream entrepreneurs will receive mentoring from Nativelead Foundation. The ideas of student will be appropriately awarded with a citation and prize money” Sharmila Devi said. Sivarajah Ramanathan, co-founder and chief executive officer of Nativelead Foundation, said that this year the ideas will be evaluated based on new age entrepreneurship. He said that participants are encouraged to look at ideas, which are innovative as well as connected with technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/entries-invited-for-arambam-contest/articleshow/78670806.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Temples won’t be closed to devotees, says Pradipsinh Jadeja||GANDHINAGAR: Minister of state (MOS), home, law & legislative affairs, Pradipsinh Jadeja, clarified on Wednesday that the government has not directed major temples to close down due to the possibility of spread of Covid-19 during the upcoming Navratri and other festivals and termed such news as rumours. Jadeja said, “The government has not directed any temple to close down for devotees due to Covid-19 outbreak. However, we have only coordinated with trustees of respective temples to ensure social distancing and other norms for the safety of devotees. According to the government of India’s Unlock-1.0 guidelines and subsequent guidelines issued by the state government, all temples are allowed to be open.” He added, “Since a few lakh devotees are expected to visit temples during Navratri, temple authorities have been asked to take necessary precautions only. All temple trusts can take decisions according to the local conditions as and when required. All rituals like `aarti’ and ‘yagna’ will be performed following routine practice. However for ‘darshan’, use of LED screens have been advised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/temples-wont-be-closed-to-devotees/articleshow/78669999.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Evict occupants of all dilapidated buildings: Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The state government has directed the officials to forcibly evict residents from dilapidated buildings, if necessary. A decision to this effect has been taken to prevent further loss of life. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao informed the legislative council on Wednesday that inmates of some dilapidated buildings were not vacating them despite notices being served. “Some of them got stay orders from the court. A few others continued to stay in such buildings. There is no option but to evict them forcibly. He said two helicopters have been kept on stand by to rescue people in emergency situations, while terming the deaths due to house collapse on Tuesday as unfortunate. Responding to a request from AIMIM’s Aminul Hasan Jafri, that flood situation was critical, KTR said government had set up 40 camps to shift people from low-lying areas. “This is an unprecedented rain and flood. I have never seen such heavy continuous rains in Greater Hyderabad in 40 years,” KTR said Boats were deployed to rescue stranded people, and more from tourism department and NDRF were requisitioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/evict-occupants-of-all-dilapidated-bldgs-govt/articleshow/78670808.cms||Roushan Ali
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||UGC declares common calendar||Ahmedabad: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has declared a common academic calendar for all state universities and the new academic session for the year 2020-21 will begin from November 1. The state government has also declared its academic calendar for universities, but there is uncertainty over when the academic sessions should start. There is no unanimity amongst the universities as to when the academic session should commence, though February 15 has been set as a deadline to finish the first session. With the Boards results out, declaration of results of JEE (Mains) as well as JEE (advanced) and result of NEET being awaited in short period, the UGC has decided to start the academic session from next month. The Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has announced to begin its academic session from October 15. The Gujarat University has not finalized as to when it will start academic activity with its fifth round of admission still under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ugc-declares-common-calendar/articleshow/78670029.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||MC demolishes under construction school||LUDHIANA: An under construction school building was demolished by the civic officials on Wednesday, as the building plan was not approved for the building. On Monday too the officials had demolished the structure and the civic officials claimed that some people at the site had taken assistant town planner (ATP) Satish Kumar with them in a car and left him stranded somewhere else. The ATP said, “We had received complaint about illegal construction of a school in Lohara. On Monday, we had demolished the foundation laid for the structure.” He said some people at the site had invited him to the car to talk. “I went with them in the car and told them that without approval they will not be allowed to do the construction work. They left me near Eastman Chowk.” He said once again complaint was made that construction had resumed, so they again went to the spot and demolished the construction. MTP S S Bindra said it was serious matter that the ATP was taken away in car but luckily there was no tussle or mishap at that time. He said but when work was started again they had to dismantle it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-demolishes-under-construction-school/articleshow/78665083.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Auto-rickshaw driver kills college girl after argument||MEERUT: A 20-year-old girl was allegedly killed by an auto-rickshaw driver in Garhmukteshwar area of Hapur. According to police, the driver, Noor Hasan, 25, befriended the BA student during one of her trips to tuition classes, and used to take her there regularly. “Soon, Noor started getting possessive and didn’t like when Aafreen talked to someone over phone,” a police officer said. “They knew each other. And, during an argument over the girl’s conversation over the phone, he hit her with an iron rod. She died on the spot. The accused tried to pass it off as an accident but was caught later. An FIR has been filed in the case under IPC section 302 (murder) against the accused,” said Pawan Kumar, deputy superintendent of police of Garh Mukhteshwar. Noor took the injured girl home and claimed that she met with an accident while getting down from the vehicle. She was declared dead at hospital. Brother of the girl, Mohammad Naved, said, “My sister used to go for tuitions every morning. On Tuesday also I had dropped her near the auto-rickshaw and returned home. A few hours later, he brought Aafreen home saying she had met with an accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/auto-rickshaw-driver-kills-college-girl-after-argument/articleshow/78667027.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar farmers protest non-procurement of paddy, burn produce||RUDRAPUR: The farmers of Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday evening burnt their produce to protest “irregularities” in the government’s paddy procurement process. They allege that more-than-half of the farmers registered for procurement are yet to sell their produce and the middlemen are manipulating them to sell their crops at cheaper rates in the absence of government procurement at minimum support price (MSP). The farmers later submitted a memorandum, addressed to the chief minister, to the sub-divisional magistrate seeking quick action. Tejinder Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Sangathan, told TOI, “The stalemate over paddy procurement continues in the district. We are forced to stage protests as middlemen are harassing farmers in the absence of a clear procurement policy. The state government had announced to start procurement from September 27 but the procurement agencies and rice-millers are not cooperating. This has left the farmers helpless and many have already turned up at the mandis with their produce.” Thakur Jagdish Singh, another farmer, said, “The change in the procurement policy has only added to farmers’ distress. The middlemen are not following the protocols of the purchase and are manipulating the farmers who are desperately in need of money.” Kuldeep Singh, another farmer, said, “The produce is not being procured on the pretext of high moisture content. The authorities have ignored our pleas, leaving us with no option but to protest. The agriculture bill recently passed by the Union government will only add to the woes of the farmers. If our demands are not met, we will intensify our protest and also block the highways in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-farmers-protest-non-procurement-of-paddy-burn-produce/articleshow/78667026.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 15, 2020||Goa||Cabinet approves 4-month power bill relief for consumers||PANAJI: To reduce the burden on consumers in view of the pandemic, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to give all categories of consumers a subsidy from the period June 1 to September 30 against the power tariff hike as per the new tariff order issued in May for the electricity department. “Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in lockdown in economic activities and reduced income of most consumers. In such a situation, an increased tariff may impact the economic revival efforts of the government. In view of this, it is proposed to grant subsidy to all the categories of consumers from June 1 to September 30 (four months) to nullify the impact of tariff hike as per the new tariff order issued by JERC so that consumers will effectively be billed at older rates. For the period October 1, 2020, to March, 2021, JERC approved tariff as per order dated May, 2020, will be made applicable,” the cabinet note said. The state’s electricity department comes under the ambit of the JERC as per the Indian Electricity Act, 2003. JERC issues tariff orders after admitting petitions and holding public hearings. The department has been filing tariff and aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) petitions before the JERC for every financial year. For the petition filed by the department for the current financial year the commission had scheduled a public hearing in February and the tariff order was issued and posted on the JERC website in May for implementation from June 1. The state’s electricity department had proposed an average tariff hike for FY 2020-21to the tune of 3.8% against which the commission approved a tariff hike of 5.3% considering all categories of consumers. The hike was expected to lead an approximately Rs 100 crore increase in revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-approves-4-month-power-bill-relief-for-consumers/articleshow/78671248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Other schools too likely to reopen after October 15||Ludhiana: Others schools have started planning for a partial reopening of schools for students of classes IX to XII on a voluntary basis, for taking guidance from their teachers from October 15. The Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the directorate general of health services have approved the same. The schools have been taking all the precautionary measures and made necessary arrangements to ensure the safety of the staff and students. Already one-third of the staff report on a rotation basis to take care of the school’s routine activities like administrative and planning work. The school campus has been fully equipped with thermal screening and sanitisation devices for the visitors to ensure safety inside the premises. Entry will be denied if anyone has any kind flu or fever symptoms. According to the guidelines issued by the government, a consent form was circulated to the parents for recording the students’ health history if they are ready to send their children to school. The response from the parents indicated that it will be safe to continue the online classes for the students. Mandira, a teacher from DAV Pakhowal Road, said, “ The parents shared their opinions and suggestions for reopening of schools. The parents were informed that the school will remain open for doubt-clearing sessions for the students from classes IX to XII and online classes will also continue. The parents and students were encouraged to get their queries resolved over telephone.” Satwant Kaur Bhullar, principal of DAV Pakhowal Road, said, “Even though cases are decreasin, we cannot afford to be careless. We have decided to open on October 15 according to the directions of the government. We have sought consent from parents, but only 5% to 10% of parents have given consent. A special committee consisting of teachers and supporting staff has been framed to ensure that all the guidelines issued by the prime education and government bodies related to Covid-19 are followed religiously.” The administrations of other schools also said they will leave no stone unturned to make arrangements for the reopening of schools. Principal of Amrit Indo Canadian School Jaskiran Kaur said on September 22 they had opened but a very few students turned up. “Only 20 students came on the first day and 40 on the second. Then we switched back to online classes. After planning, we will again reopen school on October 16, following odd and even roll numbers.” Thakur Anand Singh, senior president of Associated Schools Joint Action Front (Punjab), said, “We called a meeting today and discussed about the current situation of schools. All members were being advised to follow the protocol of Covid-19 because students’ safety is top priority. So, all members have agreed to sanitise schools and maintain proper distance in classrooms.” In the meeting Surjit Singh Sandhu president of the association gave assurance to all members that he would try to meet education minister soon regarding the associate schools current problems like RTE recognition. Meanwhile, district education officer Swaranjeet Kaur said, “There are orders from the government that schools can be opened in a phased manner after October 15 but we are waiting for the orders from the department. Probably we will receive the orders in a day. The parental consent of students is compulsory and will continue. The schools have to follow safety protocols issued by the department of school education in consultation with the department of health and family welfare and the government of Punjab.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/other-schools-too-likely-to-reopen-after-oct-15/articleshow/78665076.cms||Mehak Jain
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Water bodies reclaim lost ground, erase urban sprawls||Hyderabad: A big lesson Mother Nature taught Hyderabad on October 14 is that water will furiously reclaim its lost ground, drowning urban sprawls in its flow. After unprecedented rain, the lakes of Hyderabad, whose storage capacity eroded over the years, breached their bunds and flooded residential colonies. Most areas which faced flooding in the city on Wednesday are those abutting water bodies and obstructing their channels. The flooding story is the same, be it at Mailardevpally, Tellapur, Begumpet, Madhapur, Ramanthapur and Malkajgiri. Palle Cheruvu bund breached, flooding several colonies in Mailardevpally and surrounding areas leading to roads turning into streams. Although orders directing authorities to evict squatters had been issued by courts and National Green Tribunal (NGT), encroachments have continued unabated with political support. Activists say of 190 lakes in GHMC limits, all of them have been encroached upon. Activist Lubna Sarwat said, “Both Palle Cheruvu and Bandlaguda Cheruvu encroachments have resulted in flooding of several localities in the area. Squatters are not only private players but also civic agencies.” “Vengalrao Park is actually Enugulakunta. It was turned into a park with a pond. Due to this, flood from Banjara Hills is causing waterlogging at Raj Bhavan and Model House,” she added. Encroachments at Tammidigunta lake has resulted in flooding of a posh residential complex. Historical satellite imagery of lakes like Surram Cheruvu of Bandlaguda is evidence that it has been annihilated systematically. Despite repeated appeals to restore Palle Cheruvu, the officials did not heed resulting in breach on Wednesday, causing havoc in the area. A HUDA notification states: “All local bodies, municipalities and gram panchayats, in whose jurisdiction lakes fall, shall take steps to exercise utmost vigilance to prevent any type of encroachments, reclamation, petition or damage of any listed lakes. They are also directed not to grant any permission for buildings or structures of any type within the full tank level and within the 30 metre buffer belt around the lakes under any circumstances.” However, the notification has been binned. Public representatives have a different take. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi told TOI: “This flooding and breach of Palle Cheruvu happened due to unprecedented and record rain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-bodies-reclaim-lost-ground-erase-urban-sprawls/articleshow/78670812.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 15, 2020||Chennai||Missing youth with learning disability reunited with family||Chennai: When Manoj Kumar went missing three months ago, his family members initially thought he had gone to a relative’s house. But they got worried when they could not trace him as the 21-year-old has been living with mental illness for years. More than a week ago, Manoj was reunited with his family, thanks to a police officer’s timely intervention and a social worker’s dedication. “I found a crowd gathered near Thirumangalam signal, some people told me that a man was creating a disturbance,” says senior head constable Jai Shankar of the Thirumangalam police station. “I found a young man with only a towel wrapped around the waist behaving violently towards passerssby.” Shankar calmed him down, offered food and contacted Udavum Karangal. “We brought him to our home in Thiruverkkadu. After a few days of treatment, he told us his parents’ names and that he was from Mannargudi, but he didn’t remember any phone number,” says social worker Mohan Ethiraj, who tracked down Manoj’s family through a panchayat president. Manoj, who was working in a factory in Chennai, was being taken home by his father Bharathi Mohan after his employers complained about his violent behaviour when he went missing. Manoj was reunited with his father on September 29. “It was an emotional moment as both of them hugged each other in joy,” says Ethiraj. “We gave them medical advice, 15 days medicine and are in touch with them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/missing-youth-with-learning-disability-reunited-with-family/articleshow/78668550.cms||Priya Menon
October 15, 2020||Lucknow||Congressman, ex-Rajasthan governor’s son held for abetting suicide of woman in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Alok Prasad Pasi, a Congress leader and son of former Rajasthan governor Sukhdev Prasad, was arrested by Lucknow Police on Wednesday night in connection with the incident in which a 35-year-old woman set herself ablaze outside the BJP office on Vidhan Sabha Marg. Police claimed that Alok, who is the chairperson of ST/SC cell of UP Congress, had provoked the woman to take the drastic step. The woman, who suffered 90% burns on Tuesday, died at the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee (SPM) Hospital in Hazratganj on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of police, central zone, Somen Barma said Alok was picked up from Gomtinagar and a team from Maharajganj police was coming to interrogate him, following inputs about his possible role in the incident. “On the basis of questioning, charges against him will be decided,” he added. “Alok has been arrested and booked under the charges of abatement to suicide of the woman. We are collecting evidences from Maharajganj police in the case,” said Barma. Chief medical superintendent of Dr SPM hospital, Dr SK Nanda said the victim’s dying declaration could not be taken as she remained unconscious till the end. Superintendent of police, Maharajganj, Pradeep Gupta said, “We have clues suggesting Alok’s involvement in the case. For past several days, he was frequently seen with the woman. His call detail records will be checked. We have shared this information with Lucknow Police and they will register FIRs if they find the inputs correct,” said Gupta. The woman got married in 2014 but later separated from her husband. She then started living with a man from another community in Maharajganj. “After three years, the man left for Middle-East and his family refused to let her stay with them,” said a police official privy to the probe. Sources said a few ago, Alok had organised a protest for the woman outside the residence of her partner. Police claim having procured the footage of Alok instigating the woman to set herself ablaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/congman-ex-raj-guvs-son-held-for-abetting-suicide-of-woman-in-city/articleshow/78670810.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand forest development corporation blames state minister for delay in filing SPA||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation on Wednesday withdrew an affidavit filed in the Uttarakhand high court that blamed the state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat for a delay of over 700 days in filing a Special Appeal (SPA) against the court’s earlier order of April, 2017. The affidavit, filed last year, says that the corporation did not file a special appeal “under pressure”. The affidavit filed by BD Harbola, divisional logging manager/nodal officer court cell, said that the corporation sought the legal advice after the 2017 order and counsel advised them to file the special appeal against the order. However on July 4, 2017, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the forest minister where it was decided to postpone the filing of the special appeal. The affidavit goes on to say that even though the minister has nothing to do with the corporation, it was because of “pressure” that it did not file a special appeal within time. “That is stated here that the Hon’ble Minister has nothing to do with the affairs of the corporation… It is relevant to state here that the Hon’ble Minister is not the part of this supreme body... the corporation did not come forward to file a special appeal within time under pressure,” reads the affidavit, a copy of which is available with TOI. A special appeal can be filed within 30 days of the order of the HC but in this case, even though the court order came in April 2017, the SPA was filed in April 2019. However, the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani gave the permission to withdraw the affidavit on Wednesday. Subsequently, the affidavit was withdrawn. Earlier in April, 2017, the HC had upheld the legality of the merger of the posts of the assistant logging officer (ALO) and the deputy logging officer (DLO) done by the state of Uttar Pradesh. Later, the governing body of the corporation decided in its meeting on March 8, 2019, to file the special appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-forest-development-corporation-blames-state-minister-for-delay-in-filing-spa/articleshow/78667060.cms||Prashant Jha
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||No. of flyers up from 3k/day in Aug to 4k in Sept||Jaipur: The air passenger traffic at Jaipur airport is gradually increasing. The airport had witnessed 3,000 passengers per day in August which has increased to 4,000 per day in September. In the first 12 days of October, the number of travellers has increased to 5,000 per day. Besides, the airport has handled 54 flights (27 arrivals and 27 departures). The airport authorities are optimistic that the footfall will hit 7,000 per day by the end of this month due to festive season. TOI on Tuesday spoke to authorities and various operators to know how the footfall is increasing and passengers are showing interest in air travel.Jaipur airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara said, “Since flights resumed operations, we are following standard operating procedures at the airport, while operators too are following the guidelines. This has made passengers to feel safe in flights. Therefore, number of passengers and flights is increasing. We had started with 10 flights daily. Now, we are operating almost 24 flights per day,” he said.Passengers visiting various cities and coming back to Jaipur too are conscious and aware of what they should do while travelling. “It is always better and safe during Covid times to have double mask to shield face. I am also carrying sanitiser,” said Meghna Singh who came from Mumbai to Jaipur on Tuesday afternoon.According to airport authorities, the number of passengers at Jaipur airport was 3,000 per day on an average in August. “This included arrivals and departures. In this month, we had a total footfall of nearly 1 lakh,” said an officer.The number went to 4,000 in September. “As the festive season is ahead, we are hoping to have an average of 7,000 passengers per day by the end of this month as from October 14 Navratra will begin and people will start travelling,” said an operator.Also, in the past three months, the airlines have also introduced cheaper fares to various cities like Mumbai, Kolkata, Varanasi and others from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-of-flyers-up-from-3k/day-in-aug-to-4k-in-sept/articleshow/78668546.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 15, 2020||Madurai||10-yr-old elephant found dead near Manimuthar dam||Tirunelveli: A 10-year-old female elephant that was ill and spotted roaming alone near the Manimuthar dam in Tirunelveli district over the last few days, was found dead on Wednesday in a private land belonging to farmer Sudalaikannu at South Pappankulam. The elephant was spotted by farmers of Pottal and North Pappankulam, and the forest department personnel attached to the Ambasamudram division of Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) started tracking it. Realising that the animal is weak they placed food stuffed with medicines on the elephant’s paths. Department personnel said that it could not walk fast and could not take food or water. It’s condition deteriorated and it was found dead on Wednesday. A team led by deputy director of the Ambasamudram division of KMTR, Kommu Omkaram went to the spot and conducted preliminary investigations. Forest veterinarian Manoharan conducted the autopsy. The autopsy revealed that the calf had infection in the mouth and in the digestive system. Undigested palm fruits were also found in the intestine. Forest department personnel ruled out the possibility of the pachyderm being poisoned by farmers. Officials said that vital samples will be sent for laboratory tests to ascertain the cause of death. The carcass was buried at the same spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-yr-old-elephant-found-dead-near-manimuthar-dam/articleshow/78670814.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Swimming pools may not reopen soon||Ahmedabad: Only a handful of pools will resume operations from Thursday. The AMC-run swimming pools at Sardar Patel Stadium and at Gujarat Vidyapith are under renovation. Most city clubs are under confusion regarding SOP. “Our pool is under renovation and with no guidelines from the government , we are not sure of whether we will let the swimming pool open,” said Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club. Club sources said as far as swimming pools are concerned, there are widespread apprehensions. “There is no question of opening it for members as it is against the guidelines. However, if any member is training as a swimmer for a competition, we will make all possible arrangements,” said Jayesh Modi, vice-president, Karnavati Club. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/swimming-pools-may-not-reopen-soon/articleshow/78670054.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Travel curbs on Lonavla in Maval, other sites lifted||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh lifted the travel ban to locations such as the Bhushi dam in Maval as well as other dam areas on Tuesday. The order stated that the earlier order regarding the ban issued on June 7 stands cancelled. Pune’s resident deputy collector (RDC), Jayashree Katare, said the earlier order on June 7 was a precautionary measure taken in order to discourage crowding in the said areas at the time. It was not related to tourism, rather it was a preventive step to avoid crowding, she claimed. Now, that the “Unlock” process is underway, the decision to cancel the earlier order has been taken. “We still hope citizens do not crowd in the dam areas, which are popular tourist destinations. If the crowding continues, we might as well impose a weekend ban on these places again, if required,” she said. Pune rural superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh told TOI that the police department will focus more on the enforcement of masks and guidelines set up for restaurants and eateries. “Lonavla is a second or third home for many people and we will make sure that there is no undue harassment of the local residents or such citizens during the enforcement. However, we will also make sure that the popular tourist destinations do not get crowded as the ban has now been lifted,” he said, adding that citizens should follow the necessary safety guidelines put forward by the administration. Hrishikesh Kolhapure, who works with a private travel firm, said thiswas a welcome move by the district administration. “It will surely help the travel and tourism industry get back on track,” he said. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that citizens should remain alert in the current situation and even though there is no vaccine at present on the contagion, citizens’ behavioural change could act as a vaccine and save people from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travel-curbs-on-lonavla-in-maval-other-sites-lifted/articleshow/78670081.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Duped plot owners of Secretariat Nagar to intensify protest||Jaipur: Kamleshwar Nath Pathak (72), who suffers from a chronic kidney ailment, has no other option than to join a protest to attain possession of his plot in Secretariat Nagar, which he had purchased nearly 17 years ago from a coloniser. Pathak is among 3,500 aggrieved plot owners who invested in a housing society colony where lease deeds were claimed to be distributed by the then chief minister in 2003. On Tuesday, the plot owners announced to intensify their protest and sought permission from police administration to carry out a car rally along with their family members demanding justice. These owners are requesting chief minister Ashok Gehlot to constitute a high-level committee to probe the land fraud. In the scheme, the cooperative society had proposed to develop around 4,200 plots but Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) issued lease deeds to around 700 plot owners. Since then the remaining investors are running from pillar to post for receiving possession of their plots. Ashok Mehta, a member of the Secretariat Sangharsh Samiti said, “The lease deeds were distributed by the then chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the camp. On January 7, 2010, the layout plan of the society was approved. However, office bearers of the Muhna Housing Cooperative Co-operative Society are not giving possession of the land,” he said. The victims, who remain deprived of their plots, had staged a protest outside the assembly on July 19 2019, following which CM Gehlot took immediate action and handed over the case to the registrar of cooperative societies.For speedy redressal and investigation into the matter, three departmental committees were constituted. A plot owner said “The committees have completed their task. Now, the investigation will be carried out by a high-powered committee which will comprise an additional chief secretary-rank officer. The committee will be constituted on the directions of chief minister. We have requested to hear our plea at the earliest as plot owners are waiting for past many years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/duped-plot-owners-of-secretariat-nagar-to-intensify-protest/articleshow/78668543.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra education department will decide about calling teachers back after Diwali vacation||PUNE: The state education department will decide about calling teachers to school only after the Diwali vacation in November. No instructions were issued on Wednesday even though the state government permitted 50% teaching and non-teaching staff to work from schools. Director of education Dinkar Patil on Wednesday evening said the department has not as yet decided to call teachers to work. He said, “We are looking at cases in the other states where teachers were called and then schools had to shut down again due to rising Covid-19 cases. So, we are not in a hurry and the education minister has already made an announcement that the department will take a call only after the Diwali vacation.” Many private schools in the city have maintained that they too are not in a hurry to call teachers back to school. The latest unlock guidelines issued by the state government on Wednesday stated that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activity till October 31. The guidelines clearly said that the online and distance learning should continue and be encouraged. But, the government has given permission for up to 50% teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to schools at a time for online teaching, tele-counseling and other related works, in areas outside the containment zones with effect from Thursday. The guidelines stated the higher educational institutions should also continue with online mode of teaching but research scholars and postgraduate students in the science and technology stream requiring laboratory work will be permitted to attend from Thursday. School principals in the city said they have already planned a schedule for their teachers and staff members who have been told to come only if there is a need. Principal of DAV Public School C V Madhavi said they are planning to call 50% staff to school from next week. Vidya Niketan College of Arts, Science and Commerce’s principal Brijesh Rathod said the laboratory practicals will now be arranged for the doctoral students with government permission. “So far, the lab was shut and there were requests from two or three doctoral students to work in the lab. Now that the government has permitted, we shall open it. Otherwise, we still do not feel the need to call teachers to school for teaching purposes as they have been managing well from home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edu-dept-will-decide-about-calling-teachers-back-after-diwali-vacation/articleshow/78670060.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 15, 2020||Business||India GDP in PPP terms more than Bangladesh’s: Government||NEW DELHI: India’s GDP in purchasing parity terms (PPP) in 2019 was 11 times more than that of Bangladesh while its population was eight times more, government sources said on Wednesday while responding to Congress functionary Rahul Gandhi’s attack on Twitter on the issue. Referring to media reports, Gandhi had taken to the micro-blogging site and said: “Solid achievement of 6 years of BJP’s hate filled cultural nationalism: Bangladesh set to overtake India.” Read Also'Solid achievement' of BJP's 'hate-filled cultural nationalism': Rahul Gandhi on IMF projectionsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took a dig at the government over IMF growth projections showing Bangladesh closing in on India in terms of per capita GDP this year and described it as a "solid achievement" of six years of BJP's "hate-filled cultural nationalism". Indian economy, severelyGovernment sources pointed out that in PPP terms, India’s per capita GDP in 2020 is estimated by IMF at $ 6,284 as compared to $5,139 for Bangladesh. They pointed out that data showed that Bangladesh overtaking India in 2020 is a temporary effect and that India will again overtake Bangladesh in 2021. IMF data showed on Tuesday that Bangladesh is set to overtake India — which is set to face a major contraction — in terms of per capita GDP in 2020-21 in dollar terms. The data showed that Bangladesh’s per capita GDP in 2020 would be $1,888 while that of India would be at $1,877. But in 2021, India would again overtake Bangladesh due to higher growth rates in dollar terms likely to be posted by New Delhi. On the issue of per capita GDP, sources pointed out that it was also important to note that under the Modi government, it has risen from Rs 83,091 in 2014-15 to Rs 1,08,620 in 2019-20, which is an increase of 30.7%. Under UPA-2, it had increased from Rs 65,394 in 2009-10 to Rs 78,348 in 2013-14 which is an increase of 19.8%, the sources pointed out. Experts said such issues should not be taken seriously and focus must be on reviving growth in the non-agricultural sector in India which has borne the brunt of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “These comparisons should not be taken seriously. We should focus on how to revive our growth. The fact that Bangladesh has been doing well is known. This year the agriculture sector in South Asia has done well. The agriculture sector has done well in Bangladesh and the sector is doing well in India also. But in India’s case the forecast is of 10.3% contraction by the IMF in GDP and 86% of the non-agriculture sector has been affected. We have to focus on the non-agriculture sector,” said Pronab Sen, former chief statistician of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-gdp-in-ppp-terms-more-than-bdeshs-govt/articleshow/78671559.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Rajkot||Morbi suicide: Two loan sharks booked||Rajkot: Two loan sharks were booked on Tuesday night for allegedly abetting the suicide of a youth in Morbi. Police said Paras Rajgor (28) had hanged himself from the ceiling fan of the room of his relative's house in Lakshmi Narayan Apartments in Rajpargam locality of Morbi on the evening of September 24. The accused, Yogesh Sabad and Baldev Kuvadia, were booked on Tuesday on the complaint of Rajgor’s father Ramesh Rajgor, a resident of Momai Mora village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district. In his complaint, Ramesh, who has a transport business, says that Rajgor had taken Rs 3.50 lakh from Sabad after pawning 12 tola ( 120gm) gold, while he had taken Rs 2.70 lakh from Kuvadia after pawning his SUV.“Ramesh alleges that Rajgor had made the full payment of his loan to both Sabad and Kuvadia and had obtained his gold jewellery and the SUV. Yet, Sabad and Kuvadia continued to ask Rajgor to pay the interest on his loan. They would threaten to kill him. Tired of this harassment, Rajgor decided to end his life,” said R B Taparia, sub-inspector with Morbi B division police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-suicide-two-loan-sharks-booked/articleshow/78668568.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||No trace of man who tried to run over cop in Jaipur's Shyam Nagar||JAIPUR: Cops are yet to arrest the person who tried to run over a traffic police constable in Shyam Nagar on Tuesday. Constable Krishna had tried to stop the motorist for flouting a traffic rule, but the driver did not stop even when the cop was on the car’s bonnet. Police are trying to trace the vehicle as well. The incident happened on Tuesday when the car driver was stopped at end of elevated road in Shyam Nagar for speeding. Traffic police ASI Harkesh Meena, who registered the case at Sodala police station, said, “We stopped the car driver for speeding and although he stopped the car, he did not roll down the window. While I was asking him to show his license and other documents, he reversed the car a bit and drove ahead. Our constable lunged at the car but the driver did not stop and drove for nearly two kilometres before slowing down following which the cop managed to escape what could have been a severe accident.” The constable suffered minor injuries, but the car driver fled and Sodala police team has been scanning the city to find him. ASI Kalu Ram, who is heading the investigation, said, “Through the car number, we traced the address of the owner but it turned out to be fake as when we reached the address, there was someone else living there. Our team is actively looking for the accused.” A case under IPC sections 353 (assault to deter a public servant from discharging his duties), 307 (attempt to murder) and others. A similar incident had happened at Prithiviraj Nagar t-point and traffic police claimed that after the penalties for various violations was increased by manifolds, the violators do not want to pay up and find ways to escape which at times puts the cops in danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-trace-of-man-who-tried-to-run-over-cop/articleshow/78668554.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR: Don’t step out of home for 48 hrs||Hyderabad: MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday asked people not to venture out of their homes for the next 48 hours as the IMD has advised caution for the next few days. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar was directed to shift people living in low-lying areas. Police officials were directed to monitor inundated areas. Health officials were asked to set up medical camps. Electricity board officials were directed to restore electricity. Relief camps have been set up across the city and 7,000 people have been rehabilitated. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-dont-step-out-of-home-for-48-hrs/articleshow/78670829.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Focus on mass contact tracing ahead of festive season, winter||PUNE: The civic and the district administration will focus more on contact tracing ahead of the festive season and winter to prevent further spread of the coronavirus cases. The administration is taking steps to reach out to various focused groups for conducting Covid-19 tests at a mass level. Tests will also be conducted on municipal and public transport service staffers. “The administration is trying to ensure better management of hospital beds for the festive season and winter,” divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told a news conference on Wednesday. “The overall recovery rate in Pune has gone up in the past few days. But citizens must follow the pandemic guidelines to improve the recovery rate even further,” he said. “Pune is witnessing a consistent decline in the (Covid-19) positivity rate since the past few weeks. We have to ensure that the positivity rate goes below 10% in accordance with the Indian Council of Medical Research standards. Citizens should use face masks and ensure regular sanitization,” Rao said. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Contracts with the private hospitals to utilize their beds for Covid-19 treatment are being renewed. We have, however, reduced the number of beds earmarked by the civic body in these private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. Instead, we are urging the patients to avail of the benefits of the civic body-run Covid treatment centres and also the makeshift jumbo hospitals.” He said, “Steps are being taken to make the citizens out in the public places more disciplined. We are strictly monitoring adherence to the face mask and physical distancing norms. The administration has so far collected a penalty of Rs11 crore from people flouting these norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-mass-contact-tracing-ahead-of-festive-season-winter/articleshow/78670101.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP, Congress gear up for bypolls||AHMEDABAD: Barring the Limbdi seat, where both the BJP and Congress have had troubles in finalizing a candidate, battle lines for byelections to eight assembly seats in Gujarat have been drawn. While the BJP has now announced all eight candidates, the Congress had not announced its Limbdi seat byelection candidate till late on Wednesday. After withholding the decision on its candidate for the Limbdi assembly seat byelection, the BJP on Wednesday announced the name of former minister and former Limbdi MLA Kiritsinh Rana as its candidate for the seat. The BJP has given tickets to five Congress turncoats who quit as MLAs and has re-nominated them from the same seats which they relinquished as Congress MLAs. On the remaining three seats, the BJP has fielded its own party leaders, who lost the 2017 assembly election to Congress candidates. For want of big names who enjoy clout in their respective areas, the Congress is concerned, it has picked local leaders who have been in the organization at various posts. The Congress held all of the eight assembly seats for which bypolls will be held on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-cong-gear-up-for-bypolls/articleshow/78670106.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Salary cut protest: Rajasthan govt employees to gherao residences of MLAs on Nov 9||JAIPUR: The All Rajasthan State Government Employees Joint Federation on Wednesday announced that they will gherao the residences of the MLAs on November 8 in protest against the state government’s decision to deduct the salaries of the government employees in view of the Covid situation. On November 11, they will stage a ‘Satyagraha Andolan’ by voluntarily getting themselves arrested. The representatives of the federation submitted a memorandum to Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra on Wednesday addressing CM Ashok Gehlot, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup and ACS (finance) Niranjan Arya. "On November 8, we will gherao the residences of the MLAs and submit a memorandum to them. On November 11, we will stage demonstrations outside the collectorates and get ourselves arrested by violating Section 144," said state general secretary of the federation (Rajasthan Rajya Karmachari Sanyukt Mahasangh) Tej Singh Rathore. "This is an undemocratic decision of the state government. The government will be recovering Rs 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh from each employee in the name of Covid from January 2020 to July 21. They will be doing this by deducting the salaries of the employees, stopping cash payment for dedicated leaves, withholding the 16 days’ salary for the month of March 2020 and holding back the dearness allowance. They should withdraw this order immediately," he added. "On one hand they are deducting our salaries citing economic slowdown and on the other, the government is increasing the allowances for the MLAs by Rs 20,000," he further said. The All Rajasthan State Government Employees Federation had earlier decided to hold a statewide protest in five phases against the government’s decision to deduct salaries of the employees. Beginning September 7, the five-phase protest continued till October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. The cabinet had earlier decided to deduct two day’s remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and one-day’s salary of other employees from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund. These decisions were taken during the meeting of the state executive body of the federation (Rajasthan Karmachari Sanyukt Mahasangh) and the district branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/salary-cut-protest-govt-employees-to-gherao-residences-of-mlas-on-nov-9/articleshow/78668548.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||‘Only time will tell if allowing exhibition will boost sales’||Pune: The state’s move to allow business to business exhibitions was met by cautious optimism on Wednesday. While some welcomed the decision, others said it may not have the desired impact on sales. “I don’t think holding a physical exhibition will increase sales; online exhibitions will work better. The fear factor will keep people away from crowds,” Credai Pune-Metro president Suhas Merchant said. Credai Pune-Metro is among the largest exhibitors in the city — typically over 10,000 people attend their exhibitions, which bring a range of projects under one roof.“Opening exhibition centres is a welcome sign, but the exact impact of the lockdown will be known only after we have had a few events happening. The impact on automotive events will be no different, but I expect good days soon,” P N R Rajan, convener, Pune Auto Expo, said.“Pune, which has a wealth of software companies, deserves the exhibition centre to be open,” Rahul Hajare, president of Computers & Media Dealers Association, Pune, said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-time-will-tell-if-allowing-exhibition-will-boost-sales/articleshow/78670084.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active Covid cases drop below 10% in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: With new cases staying lower than the number of discharged patients for the fourth day in a row in Gujarat, the share of active cases dropped below 15,000 after two months. As of Wednesday evening, Gujarat had 14,959 or 9.6% active cases of 1,55,098 total Covid-19 patients. Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot accounted for 59.6% of the active cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the state was 88% and 2.4% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Wednesday added 1,175 new Covid cases. It was the fourth straight day of below 1,200 daily tally and the first day after seven days of constantly declining cases to record a slight upwards trend. The new cases included 252 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 117 from Vadodara, 105 from Rajkot and 85 from Jamnagar. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad reached 39,554, Surat 32,848, Vadodara 13,846 and Rajkot 11,118. The state recorded deaths of 11 Covid patients – the highest in nine days – taking the total to 3,598. The deaths included four from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Rajkot, Gandhinagar and Patan. With the update, the death toll in Vadodara district reached 200. The deaths in Ahmedabad reached 1,859, Surat 810 and Rajkot 152. In all 1,414 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.36 lakh. The discharges included 267 from Surat, 200 from Ahmedabad, 157 from Vadodara, and 104 from Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-drop-below-10-in-gujarat/articleshow/78670138.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mysuru||Man held in Hassan for defrauding ATM users||Hassan: Hassan police have nabbed a conman for allegedly targeting ATM users, and taking away their cards to withdraw money from their account. Under the pretext of helping them, the accused was replacing their ATM cards with duplicate ones, and then he used to withdraw money from the victims’ accounts. The police recovered Rs 1.8 lakh, four debit cards and a four-wheeler from the accused. Vasanth,35, of Arsikere, has been arrested following a police complaint. “On September 4, Hucchegowda had visited an HDCC bank ATM near Santepete to withdraw money. After careful observation, Vasanth approached him, offering help to operate an ATM machine, using a debit card to withdraw money. He successfully convinced Hucchegowda, and took his debit card as well as his secret code number. In return, Vasanth gave him Rs 7,000 and a fake debit card,” said superintendent of police R Srinivas Gowda. After some days, Hucchegowda came to know that Rs 23,000 had been withdrawn from his account,” said the police. “On October 3, Hucchegowda visited the cyber crime, economic offences & narcotics (CEN) police station in Hassan, and lodged a complaint. After ten days, Hassan cyber police nabbed the accused on Tuesday evening near the Karnataka Bank ATM, based on a suspicion,” said R Srinivas Gowda. During interrogation, Vasanth admitted to the crime of cheating gullible ATM visitors. He also confessed that he has cheated nine people in a similar manner, and duped his victims’ to a tune of Rs 3,93,000, in different parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-held-in-hassan-for-defrauding-atm-users/articleshow/78668252.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 642 cr for piped water in Barmer||Jaisalmer: Centre has approved Rs 642 crore to connect 382 villages in Barmer district with pipeline water scheme under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). This has been made possible by the efforts of Union minister of state for agriculture and local MP, Kailash Choudhary. “This will resolve the problem of drinking water in every village identified in the district and will ensure that every house gets water through tap as per the fixed standards,” said Choudhary.The minister added that at present only 18% of rural areas in the country are getting water through pipelines. Under JJM the target is to make it 100%. Last year during the Independence Day speech Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced JJM. The state and Centre are working on this together. Choudhary said that all points were discussed with the Centre and an annual action plan was made. A target has been fixed to connect every house with a pipeline in the identified villages this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-642-cr-for-piped-water-in-barmer/articleshow/78670137.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Faulty kits cast doubt on positivity rate drop||PUNE: Doctors at Sassoon were among the first to suspect something was wrong. Over a week ago, the Covid test positivity rate at the hospital suddenly dropped from 22% to 9%. The value’s abrupt fall raised red flags. Their suspicions were confirmed this week when it was revealed the state has recalled nearly two lakh RT-PCR testing kits, purchased from a Kolkata-based company, for being “faulty”. These kits, mainly deployed at government labs, were generating a high number of false negatives. It’s believed they may have been used to test at least 25,000 samples. Healthcare activists now suspect these machines may have caused the recent dip in Pune Metropolitan Region's positivity rate. Nearly 40% of all RT-PCR tests are carried out at 58 public labs in the state. In PMR too, much of RT-PCR testing is done at government labs. “Authorities should find out if the drop in positivity rates in the PMR was because of these faulty kits,” said activist Abhijit More. TP Lahane, head of the state directorate of medical education and research, said, “These faulty kits were used only for three days at some state labs, mainly between October 8 and 10. Their use was immediately stopped.” Lahane denied the kits had caused the drop in test positivity rate. “After doctors in Nanded, Miraj, Jalana and Pune reported sudden drops at their centres, we asked them to retest samples using kits distributed by the National Institute of Virology. So every false negative was retested by the NIV kit.” However, a doctor at Sassoon hospital said the negative results were not retested using the NIV kits. Pune divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said a probe is on. “We are checking how many kits were used in PMR. This report will help us decide on re-testing.” He added the Kolkata-based supplier has been blacklisted. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health with the PMC, said, “A total of 5,000 tests are done in PMC limits daily — 2,000 are carried out at government labs. Sassoon does 500-700 tests daily and the NIV does 1,300 to 1,500. Sassoon uses kits procured by the state government, but the NIV uses kits procured by the central government." “After the kits were found faulty, Sassoon has started using NIV kits. We will investigate whether those who tested negative via the faulty kits were retested using the NIV kits or not,” Wavare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/faulty-kits-cast-doubt-on-positivity-rate-drop/articleshow/78670120.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: If air quality dips on Diwali, Covid patients may suffer||JAIPUR: Any kind of environmental pollution could deliver a deadly blow to recovered Covid patients who have residual symptoms along with breathing difficulties due to lung fibrosis. With Diwali round the corner, bursting of crackers will add more suspended particulate matter to the atmosphere and could severely affect patients with lung diseases, the doctors said. TimesViewAppeals requesting the public not to burst fire-crackers is a good initiative by the state government. But they won't be enough this festival season and bolder action is called for. The government is well aware of the fact that the alarming level of air pollution, common during Diwali, may cause difficulties for Covid patients who are on oxygen therapy as well as those who have recovered but developed lung fibrosis, a post-Covid complication. The SMS Hospital's medicine wing has already written to discourage the use of crackers as it may affect patients having pre-existing lung and heart diseases. A strict directive and, if need be, a blanket ban on firecrackers is the need of the hour. If the decision is taken early, there will be time to create public awareness and ensure that traders do not incur huge losses.Track the pollution level in your cityIn order to assess the impact of bursting of firecrackers and other predominating air pollution activities on Diwali last year, Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB) undertook a manual ambient air quality monitoring (AAQM) at several locations in the city. With a view to maintain uniformity in monitoring, the ambient air quality monitoring was conducted in accordance with Central Pollution Control Board protocol. The report showed the AAQM of 34 different locations in seven cities — Alwar, Bhiwadi, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur — from 6am to 6pm on October 21 (pre-Diwali day), October 22 and October 27 (Diwali day) and October 28. The manual ambient air quality monitoring was carried out for minimum 24 hours on both the days of monitoring. During this period, samples of ambient air for particulate matter (PM10), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) were collected and analysed. The report said in Jaipur, ambient air quality monitoring was carried out at seven locations — Jhalana, regional office, Ajmeri Gate, VKI industrial area, Malviya Industrial area, Sitapur industrial area and Baees Godam. Data revealed that the concentration of particulate matter exceeded the prescribed standards. It was 97 microgram per cubic metre (µg/m3) pre-Diwali but rose to 220 µg/m3. The standard and prescribed limit it 100 µg/m3 in Jhalana last year. At the regional office, RSPCB, the PM10 level rose to 413 µg/m3 on Diwali night last year, which was four times the prescribed limit. According to the CPCB, if the PM 10 level is beyond 300 µg/m3, the air quality will be “very poor” and may cause respiratory illness on prolong exposure. If it is more than 400 µg/m3, then the air quality will be “severe” and it will affect healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases. Health experts said some Covid patients have developed lung fibrosis and their condition will improve but it may take long time. Such patients with exisiting lung diseases might face difficulties when the air quality turns poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/if-air-quality-dips-on-diwali-covid-patients-may-suffer/articleshow/78668556.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 354 cases||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 354 fresh Covid-19 cases and 18 people succumbed to the infection since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 42,430. The death toll has now risen to 1,399. As many as 34,113 patients have recovered from the contagion and 6,918 cases are active. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil reported 92 cases including 51 from Satara town. Nagthane village added eight new patients. Karad and Phaltan tehsil registered 68 and 23 new cases, respectively, while Wai added 22 cases and Patan tehsil identified 12 new patients. In Khandala tehsil, 20 people tested positive while two tested positive in Mahabaleshwar tehsil. Koregaon and Maan tehsil reported 23 and 20 cases, respectively. Of the deceased, which includes 12 men and six women, 12 were elderly. Karad tehsil reported five deaths while Wai tehsil recorded four deaths. Satara, Khatav and Jawli tehsil recorded two deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-354-cases/articleshow/78668585.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Initial estimates place damages in Vizag at Rs 15 crore||VISAKHAPATNAM: Official machinery on Wednesday was on high alert after several reservoirs hovered near the full capacity level following heavy rainfall induced by the deep depression in the west-central Bay of Bengal which crossed the coast near Kakinada Tuesday. Crest gates of a number of reservoirs, including Srisailam reservoir, were lifted to keep water at the optimum level. As a precautionary measure, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials started releasing water from Meghadrigedda reservoir on Tuesday night after it inched close to the 59-feet level. Water level in Srisailam reservoir reached 884.7 feet as of Wednesday evening with storage level currently standing at 214 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) (99.12% of storage capacity) against a full capacity of 215.81 TMC. Nagarjunasagar reservoir, which has a capacity of 312.05 TMC, is filled with around 310 TMC, 99.3% of full capacity while Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage under the Godavari river basin has attained 95.5% of full capacity. In the Krishna river basin, the Pulichintala project has reached 173.82 feet. Current water level in the project stands at 43.94 feet against its full capacity of 45.77 feet. Another major reservoir, Yeleru in East Godavari, crossed the 86.2 meter mark against the maximum of 86.5 metres. Yeleru is currently receiving about 22,000 cusecs of inflows, while outflows stand at 16,000 cusecs. A stream on Yeleru reservoir has developed a breach, affecting villages in Pithapuram and Gollaprolu mandals in East Godavari. Officials in Srikakulam said the Gotta barrage in the district is receiving about 46,500 cusecs of water. GVMC superintending engineer (water supply) K Venugopal said around 700 cusecs of water was released from Meghadrigedda reservoir. “We are constantly monitoring the situation. All other reservoirs that supply water to Vizag city also reached peak levels,” said Venugopal. Officials of the civic body estimate damages in the city caused by the deep depression in the last two days at Rs 15 crore. GVMC chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said 111 works were damaged on Monday and Tuesday, including 25 electricity works. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate rain or thundershowers over a few places over coastal Andhra Pradesh for the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/initial-estimates-place-damages-in-vizag-at-rs-15cr/articleshow/78667127.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: More persons beat Covid-19 than new infections||JAIPUR: There were more Covid recoveries than new infections in the state on Wednesday. While 2,021 persons were found infected with the virus, 2,219 were declared recovered. This has happened for the second time in October when more patients beat the virus than contracting it. Overall, the difference between the number of persons who tested positive in October and those recovered is not much. While 29,948 persons tested positive in the first 14 days of October, 28,610 have recovered. The recovery rate is quite encouraging, which is more than 95%. A health department official said people are recovering and the requirement of oxygen for patients has also gone down in the last few days. In Jaipur, 683 persons have recovered against 387 new infections, while in Jodhpur 363 persons recovered and in comparision with 271 infections. It is a good sign that the worst-affected Covid districts are reporting more recoveries than new infections. After three days of touching new high daily in active cases, the state reported a dip in active cases. The state had 21,924 active cases on Tuesday before sliding to 21,711 on Wednesday. The total number of people infected with the virus touched 1,65,240. In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the state’s toll to 1,694. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (387), Bikaner (293), Jodhpur (271), Alwar (126), Ajmer (109), Kota (90), Nagaur (86), Churu (82), Udaipur (72), Bharatpur (60), Jhunjhunu (58), Pali (48), Rajsamand (45), Sriganganagar (44), Sikar (39), Dausa (27), Bhilwara (27), Dungarpur (24), Jalore (21), Sawai Madhopur (19), Sirohi (18), Chittorgarh (17), Tonk (12), Baran (9), Karauli (8), Barmer (6), Jaisalmer (6), Pratapgarh (5), Hanumangarh (5), Jhalawar (4), Dholpur (2) and Banswara (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 342, with two more deaths Jodhpur’s Covid-19 casualties rose to 160, Bikaner reported it 126th, Ajmer 122nd, Kota 109th, Bharatpur 86th, Pali 73rd, Udaipur 57th, Nagaur 51st, Alwar 48th, Jalore 31st, Jhunjhunu 19th and Churu reported its 18th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-persons-beat-the-virus-than-new-infections/articleshow/78668583.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Social groups oppose proposed shift of Naidu hospital to Baner||PUNE: A group of 15 social organizations have opposed the move to shift Naidu hospital from Tadiwala road to Baner. The group staged an agitation at the headquarters of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Wednesday to express its reservations. PMC officials said the Naidu hospital is to be shifted to build the PMC-run medical college. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said that a final decision on shifting the hospital is yet to be taken. “Once the construction of the medical college starts, patients will have to be shifted. But the time table for it is yet to be finalized and shifting will not take place immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-groups-oppose-proposed-shift-of-naidu-hospital-to-baner/articleshow/78670170.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Super maize harvest for Dungarpur farmers||Udaipur: Favourable weather, early delivery of inputs, single cross hybrid variety seeds and proper line sowing are the reasons attributed for a bumper maize production in this Kharif season for tribal farmers in Dungarpur district. The delightful news for the authorities is that the farmers are food secure and would remain as such for the next year. The encouraging results have renewed confidence of the marginal farmers in growing maize. The target area for maize cultivation in the district for Kharif season was 65 thousand hectare, of which single cross hybrid maize variety was sown in 40 thousand hectare, informs Sudhir Verma, district project director ATMA (Agricultural Technology Management Agency). Two lakh thirty eight thousand five hundred mini kits were distributed to farmers in all the blocks of Dungarpur under two schemes — one on the CM’s announcement and other by the Tribal Area Development programme. Normally the peasants do not use certified seeds for maize cultivation and whatever is left from last year’s produce is broadcasted in the fields without following the line sowing or plant spacing pattern which is essential for ensuring good productivity. “This time, due to the pandemic, tribal community had no labour work to do and hence most of the families were devoted to farming. Our field supervisors advised them to follow the line sowing pattern and the needed distance was maintained between plant to plant,” Verma said. A farmer Kaluram and his brother sowed 10kg of the hybrid variety in their 2 beegha land in Takari village, some 80km away from the district headquarters. They have gained 20 quintal produce. “Even if they keep 5 quintal for their year-long consumption, they will earn good profits by selling 15 quintal, as the market price is Rs 1,700-1,800 per quintal presently,” says Gauri Shankar Katara, deputy director of the agriculture department. Similar is the success story of Abhay Singh and Vikram Singh from the same village who are elated after getting high yields. On an average, the productivity of maize is 15 quintal per hectare in Dungarpur but this time, the productivity at individual levels soared and has been recorded at 30 to even 50 quintal in some fields, Katara said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/super-maize-harvest-for-dungarpur-farmers/articleshow/78670147.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Over 3,000 discharges push recoveries above 2.78 lakh in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 recoveries stayed above 3,000 for the third straight day in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, taking its cured count above 2.78 lakh. Besides, 47 more deaths pushed the region’s toll to 7,297 in the last 24 hours. As many as 3,137 recoveries were recorded in PMR on Wednesday, much higher than 1,237 new cases. With this, the tally in PMR has risen above 3.10 lakh so far. On Wednesday, the Pune municipal limits added 528 cases, while the PCMC limits recorded 289 cases. As for the rural and cantonment areas, as many as 420 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that of the total 3.10 lakh cases, about 1.55 lakh had been reported from the PMC limits. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits have recorded 84,564 cases, while 70,271 cases have been detected from the district’s rural and Cantonment areas. Health officials said a drop has been witnessed in new cases since last few days in municipal corporation limits and also in the rural parts. The region’s total sample testing reached beyond 13 lakh on Wednesday, including 8,488 tests in the last 24 hours. About 6.87 lakh samples have been tested in the PMC limits so far, 3.69 lakh in the PCMC limits and 2.50 lakh in the rural areas of the district. A PMC report stated that 839 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits, including 453 on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-3000-discharges-push-recoveries-above-2-78-lakh/articleshow/78670141.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fresh guidelines issued by health department for home isolation||JAIPUR: While majority of Covid patients are undergoing treatment under home isolation, the health department on Wednesday issued a circular on how to take care of patients under home isolation and will distribute a booklet with the instructions. The booklet with instructions will be published at district level and will be distributed with a kit of medicines including 10 tablets of paracetamol, 10 tablets of zinc sulphate 50mg and 20 tablets of Vitamin C of 500 mg. The booklet will have all details about the protocols of home isolation including instruction for patients and caregivers at home. Some of the instructions include that the patient should isolate himself in a room and use a separate toilet. Only one caregiver will provide him or her food and other necessary items from outside room. The booklet will have details of safety and precautionary measures a patient should take to avoid any risk of infecting other family members. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora issued the notification mentioning that the kit should have 10 masks for Covid patients who are under home isolation for 14 days. Doctors in war room under chief medical health officer in each district will call at least three times to a patient under home isolation to monitor his health. The doctors will provide him treatment according to his condition. If the patient develops influenza-like symptom or his condition deteriorates under home isolation, he will be shifted to hospital as advised by the doctors. After 14 days of home isolation, the patient will be informed by doctors that his isolation period is over on the basis of the health condition. In Jaipur only, more than 75% of the patients are under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-guidelines-issued-by-health-department-for-home-isolation/articleshow/78668571.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur & Sangli’s death rate continues to be high||Kolhapur: The death rate of Kolhapur and Sangli districts continues to be much above the state’s average rate of 2.64%, putting the administrations on high alert. Kolhapur’s current death rate stands at 3.4% what that of Sangli’s is 3.68%. The national Covid-19 death rate at present is 1.53%. Meanwhile, Kolhapur district reported 110 fresh coronavirus cases along with eight deaths on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 47,058, of which, 1,577 have succumbed to infection. At present, the district has 3.724 active cases while 41,757 have been discharged from various facilities. The recovery rate of the district has reached 88% from the earlier 60% at the start of the pandemic. Sangli district, on the other hand, reported 237 cases along with eight deaths. The total number of cases in the district has reached 41,994, of which, 1,546 have succumbed to infection. Currently, the recovery rate of Sangli district is 87.56%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-sanglis-death-rate-continues-to-be-high/articleshow/78668576.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Trichy||Yet another prostitution ring busted in Trichy spa||Trichy: A week after police busted a prostitution ring based in four spas in the city, the anti-vice squad (AVS) cracked down on yet another one operating in a spa in Cantonment area on Tuesday. Two people were arrested and four women rescued. Acting on a tip, a team of AVS police raided the Five Falls Massage Centre on William’s Road. The raid brought to light the prostitution thriving in the guise of providing massage service to the customers. The accused have been identified as owner of the spa, K Sridhar, 34, of Mayilampathu in Srirangam and a pimp T Ranjith, 24, of Thirupparaithurai in Trichy. Assistant commissioner of police, Cantonment range, P Manikandan said on Wednesday that the operation was carried based on exclusive information about the illegal operation of the spa for running prostitution. Inspector of police, city crime branch, serious crime squad, in-charge of AVS, V Jothimani said that the spa had been functioning for the past eight months. The modus operandi of the accused was to lure customers visiting the centre, into prostitution. Jothimani also said that there was no valid document to run the spa. Sources said that they charged up to Rs 2,000 from the customers. The women also took up the sex trade to enhance their income. On October 5, the Trichy city police busted a prostitution racket in four spas and arrested five people and rescued 10 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/yet-another-prostitution-ring-busted-in-trichy-spa/articleshow/78670186.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Collector warns against taking coercive measure to recover loans||Kolhapur: Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar has warned all the financial institutions against using coercive measures like threatening and harassing beneficiaries to recover loans. In an order issued on Tuesday night, Shambharkar said it has been brought to his attention that several banks, credit societies, small saving groups and other financial institutions were using force to recover loan from the people. “This is against the directives of the Union government and the Reserve Bank of India”, he has said in the order. Shambharkar said all small professions, industries and agriculture operations had been affected during the Covid-related lockdown and many of them were not in a position to pay the loan. He has directed the lead banks to call a meeting of all the financial institutions to take necessary steps to follow the directives of the union government and the RBI. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had already issued an order on October 1 asking to stop coercive measures taken by the financial institutions to recover the loan.  Rao has asked all the district collectors to conduct monthly review meetings for the same. He has called for legal action against such institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collector-warns-against-taking-coercive-measure-to-recover-loans/articleshow/78668618.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Power supply restored to large parts of flood-hit areas||Visakhapatnam: The state electricity department has restored about 97% of feeders in flood-affected areas and power utilities have managed to restore power supply to normalcy in West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Anantapur districts. Power supply in these districts were hit following heavy rains caused by the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal. According to officials, 170 feeders, both 11 and 33 KV, were affected, of which 165 feeders have been restored. The department has also completed restoration works in three 33 KV substations and one 132 KV substation in East and West Godavari districts and fixed distribution transformers and leaning poles. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said the electricity department has successfully completed restoration works in flood-affected areas without any interruption in power supply. “I appreciate the efforts of CMDs of discoms and field staff from village to the state-level” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/power-supply-restored-to-large-parts-of-flood-hit-areas/articleshow/78667153.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: One-year-old among 5 to succumb to Covid||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 mortality count touched 520 on Wednesday with five more deaths including that of a one-year-old boy from Ponda who had chronic kidney disease. The state reported 479 recoveries on Wednesday and 356 new cases of infection, reducing the active tally to 4,187 while Goa’s total caseload reached 39,438. “The one-year-old was brought to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, when he had a sepsis shock. Covid-19 infection was an incidental finding in him,” GMC dean and in charge of Covid hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar said. Other deaths are of three men and a woman, of which, one patient died at a private hospital in North Goa. A 65-year-old from Madkai-Ponda, a 65-year-old man from Candolim, a 76-year-old male from Chimbel and a 51-year-old woman from Sattari have succumbed to the virus during the past 24 hours. While one patient was detected with sepsis shock, two patients had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and one had covid pneumonia when admitted to the hospital indicating that they delayed seeking medical help. The 51-year-old woman had cancer as a comorbidity and two males had hypertension while one suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Bandekar said though plasma has proven effective in many patients, it is necessary that it be given within three days of a patient showing symptoms. On Wednesday, as many as 268 patients were home isolated and 85 patients had to be hospitalised. The government, through health centres, has started distribution of home isolation kits and doctors attached to health services are assigned to call patients over 50 years of age, thrice a day. Panaji had 14 new cases of Covid detected and its tally of active cases touched 215. Yet again, Porvorim which witnessed a higher incidence of Covid cases, had its tally crossing the 300-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1-yr-old-among-5-to-succumb-to-covid/articleshow/78670855.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||School removes students from online classes||AHMEDABAD: Bopal-based Satyamev Jayate International School courted controversy on Wednesday after it removed some of the students and parents form online classes even as parents continued to protest against the school’s fee collection activity, sources said. The parents have alleged that the school has been collecting more amount towards fee than approved by the Fee Regulatory Committee, which has permitted the school to collect Rs 31,500. But the school is allegedly charging Rs 44,000 from parents. This has been an issue on which the parents have been confronting the school authorities. However, as the issue remained unresolved, the parents raised the issue during online classes leading the school to remove them and their wards from virtual classrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-removes-students-from-online-classes/articleshow/78670164.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||How much schools can charge, Rajasthan high court asks govt||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Wednesday asked the state government to inform about their plan on how much private schools can charge for Covid period and thereafter by October 19. The court will hear the matter on October 20. Till then, the interim stay on the order of recovery of 70% fee of the single bench will continue. Earlier, the high court had reserved the order after completion of the hearing on Monday. But the school associations filed an application saying their side had not been heard due to network trouble. Thus the court heard the matter Wednesday. The bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma heard the appeals filed in connection with collection of private school fees. The schools maintained that the state government had no right to defer fees. It was contended that other high courts in the country had justified the recovery of entire fee. They maintained in the court that private schools are constantly teaching children through online classes, giving full salary to teachers and staff. Reacting to it, aAdditional advocate general Rajesh Maharishi on behalf of the state government objected to it and said it has full authority under the pandemic Act to take such decisions. Hearing the arguments, the bench asked the government to present an affidavit and tell how much fees the schools can charge for Covid period and how much they can charge thereafter. Also, the state government should also tell the court how the fees can be recovered by the schools so that there is no pressure on anyone. Charge 50% fees, say parents advocates During the hearing, parents’ advocates suggested that this year 50 per cent of tuition fees should be fixed for the entire session. Along with this, they requested the court to issue instructions to set fees under the Fees Act 2016 for 2021-22. However, this was opposed by the counsel for the schools. Earlier on September 7, a single bench of Rajasthan High Court had allowed schools to charge 70 per cent tuition fees which was opposed by the parents’ associations. Thus the state government and parents associations approached the high court with their appeals against the single bench order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/how-much-schools-can-charge-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/78668608.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolhapur||66% final-year graduate, PG students opt for online exams at SUK||Kolhapur: More than 66% of the final-year graduate and postgraduate students of colleges affiliated with the Shivaji University Kolhapur (SUK) have registered themselves for the online exams that will begin on October 17. The university has jurisdiction over colleges in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts. The deadline to select the exam mode ended on Tuesday. Sessions on conducting the online are currently being held for the teachers and invigilators in the university. According to the details accessed from the exam department, more than 50,000 students have opted for the online mode, while the remaining 12,526 have chosen to write the exams offline. Those who have not picked any option will automatically be considered for the offline mode. Apart from dealing with technical issues, university officials are also working hard to ensure there are no dummy students. Controller of exams Gajanan Palase said, “We have collected the details of students appearing for online exams and have verified them with the respective colleges. They have been given login ids and passwords for the mock test. They will be given codes before the start of the exam. We have hired a Pune-based agency to run the online system smoothly.” The colleges have been asked to provide computers with internet connection to the students to appear for the exams. Those who have their own computers with internet connection can give the exam from anywhere. The question paper will have multiple-choice answers. While the final-year students of graduate courses will appear for their exams from October 17, the postgraduate students will have their exams from October 24. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has directed the universities to complete the exam process of the final year students before October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/66-final-year-graduate-pg-students-opt-for-online-exams-at-suk/articleshow/78668640.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Only 16.7k seats confirmed after engg 1st round||Ahmedabad: The admission rounds for undergraduate engineering courses have begun on expected note with nearly 66% of seats remaining vacant in the centralized admission process after the first round on Wednesday. As many as 16,700 students of 24,000 students, who were allotted colleges according to the choices they had given earlier, have confirmed their admission by paying fees. Nearly 7,000 seats have remained vacant after confirmation for the first round. More than 33,000 seats remained vacant after the first round, as the total number of seats to be filled through Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) are around 50,000 in engineering institutes across the state. ACPC officials said that this is more worrisome for private colleges. According to the new norms, the self-financed colleges have got 50% quota of seats to be filled by the college managements. “When there are 33,000 seats remaining vacant after the first round of admission, there will be very few takers of the management quota,” an official said. The admission panel will start registration for admission of those students who cleared their Board supplementary test from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/only-16-7k-seats-confirmed-after-engg-1st-round/articleshow/78670182.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Spread awareness on agri reforms: BJP Kisan Morcha chief||Jaipur: BJP-backed Kisan Morcha chief Rajkumar Chahar has asked the saffron party members to reach out to every farmer in the state clearing their myths on agriculture reforms, on Wednesday. In a presser, Chahar accused the Congress of inciting farmer protests across the country. He met senior BJP leaders to discuss on the ways to connect the farmers with the e-mandi system. "Congress is spreading lies that our government will finish the MSP, which is not the case. I would like to assure the farmers of the state that MSP will never be abolished by our government," said Chahar, who asked the party workers to fight the misinformation being spread by the Congress by spreading right information on agriculture reforms. Expressing the need of the reforms, he said these changes are part of the Modi’s government policy of one nation, one market. "This is for the first time that farmers have been given the opportunity to take their produce anywhere they like and earn right sum out of their produce. They can decide the price for their produce, unlike decided by the market forces," he added. During a meeting, BJP chief Satish Poonia informed him of the campaign that the state unit of BJP is running at booth levels to highlight the important aspects of the reforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spread-awareness-on-agri-reforms-bjp-kisan-morcha-chief/articleshow/78670185.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Intern doctors demand hike in stipend||JAIPUR: Intern doctors, who took out a rally from Sawai Man Singh Medical College to Trimurti Circle on Wednesday demanding increase in honorarium, have threatened to stage a hunger strike in front of SMS Medical College if their demands were not met. The doctors claimed that they had been demanding a hike in honorarium for the past few months but the government hadn’t resolved their demand. According to Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors, the intern doctors, after completing MBBS, gets Rs 7,000 stipend per month that hasn’t been hiked for years. They claimed that while the government had increased the fee for medical courses from time to time, their stipend hasn’t been increased. They claimed that AIIMS interns were getting Rs 23,500, Haryana (Rs17,000), Karnataka (Rs 30,000) and in West Bengal (Rs 20,000).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intern-doctors-demand-hike-in-stipend/articleshow/78668624.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||New Market traders push for Bangla visitors||KOLKATA: Representatives of hotels, restaurants and other businesses operating in the New Market-Sudder Street-Free School Street-Park Street belt met the state tourism minister on Wednesday to drum up support to resume issuing of tourist visas to Bangladeshis that comprise 55%-60% of their customers. “With Durga Puja drawing near, restaurants and shops in other areas have resumed brisk business. But this belt has seen no hint of festivity other than the hawking zone around New Market. Around 200 hotels and guesthouses, with 4,000 rooms, are shut. So are restaurants as Bangladeshi customers haven’t visited for seven months. Travel agencies, foreign exchange facilities and even shops in and around New Market are in dire straits,” Calcutta Hotels, Guest Houses & Restaurants Owners Association general secretary Rajesh Sethi pointed out. At the meeting with minister Indranil Sen, the association requested that the state government take up the issue of granting tourist visas to Bangladeshis to revive the businesses in this region that appear to be still under lockdown. The total loss in business in the belt is estimated to be around Rs 1,500 crore. Sen has asked the association to send a letter to the Centre and assured the association that he would take up the matter after Durga Puja. While photographs of crowds on Bertram Street, Humayun Place and Lindsay Street have become viral on social media, the corridors of New Market are deserted with barely any customers. SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association president Ashok Gupta said only 20%-25% of the number of customers from the pre-pandemic period have been stepping in to shop. While Bangladeshis — who comprise 50% of their customer base — aren’t there, many have been avoiding the market because they do not want to negotiate the crowded streets around it in this Covid situation. “This year, shops are doing around 10% of the business they did last Puja,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-market-traders-push-for-bangla-visitors/articleshow/78668611.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Civil Lines bridge height to be capped for VIP security||Jaipur: Taking into account the security of VIPS, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will restrict the height of proposed Civil Lines Railway Overbridge (RoB) maximum up to 10 metre. It will soon invite tenders for the RoB after finalising the alignment in the Project Works Committee (PWC).The Rs 75-crore project is expected to have three legs with the first one being proposed from DLB Road, Parivahan Marg.A senior engineer at JDA said, “We have prepared the final alignment, however, waiting for PWC nod. The process will move forward, once approval is received. The height of the pillars will be 6.5 metres, it will reach 10 metres after the construction. Seeing the security point of view, the height of the RoB will not increase above this point,” he said.The proposal to construct the RoB was initiated during the previous tenure too, but was shelved citing security reasons. To reduce traffic near the crossing, the JDA had decided to construct a RoB in 2012. The decision was taken after the consultancy firm submitted the feasibility report. “The JDA had appointed Rambol Consulting Engineering Limited, a Kolkata-based company, to carry out a feasibility report. The firm had submitted six options,” said a source.In the previous report, it was proposed that the RoB over the railway line had to be constructed with a 60-degree curve. However, many opposed the move as giving such a sharp turn could have raised the possibilities of accidents on the over-bridge. Shifting the police outpost and water tank situated near the track was also challenged at that time.Sources said, “These structures will not be considered in the new design as the JDA has plans to shift them.”A JDA official said, “Out of these six options, the JDA had found that construction of the RoB from Jamnalal Bajaj Marg to Jacob Road was the most feasible option. The proposal had to be sent to the chief minister for final approval as it was proposed to be constructed near the chief minister’s and governor’s residences. However, the UDH department did not move the proposal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-lines-bridge-height-to-be-capped-for-vip-security/articleshow/78670176.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||M L Lather is DGPin-charge, Singhchairman of RPSC||Jaipur: Following the retirement of DGP Bhupendra Singh, DG (crime) M L Lather has been given additional charge as state DGP on Wednesday. Singh, whose VRS application was approved on the day, has been appointed chairman of the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC). Previously, he had planned to retire in November, but revised his application for an early VRS. Lather, a 1987 batch officer with 33 years of service, took over as DG (crime) in July 2020. Before that he was DG (law & order). He hails from Haryana and has served as an SP in Sirohi, Dausa, Dholpur and Kota Rural as well as CB-CID, among others. He was awarded the President's Police Medal in 2016 and President's Police Medal for Gallantry in 1997. A 1986 batch officer, Bhupendra Singh has had 29 postings in his 34-year career. He was awarded the President’s Police Medal in 2016 for distinguished services. The government order, accepting his VRS application with immediate effect, stated that Singh had cited personal reasons for taking early retirement. He had taken over as DG in 2019. At his farewell at the Police Headquarters on Wednesday morning, Singh said, "I have had 34 years of service and has tried to give my best in every post I served. The Rajasthan police is like a family and I am sure all police personnel will continue to do the good work. There are many police personnel whom I could not meet as they were on field, but I am glad to have served with them.” As soon as Singh applied for VRS, many names had started doing the rounds, but Lather's name had topped the list as he was the senior-most DG. Officials said that for an officer to become DGP, he/she should have at least six months of service left. Since, Lather will retire only in May 2021, the way is clear for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/m-l-lather-is-dgpin-charge-singhchairman-of-rpsc/articleshow/78670197.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Downpour spoils cotton, chilli crops in Guntur, Prakasam dists||Amaravati: Thousands of acres of agriculture fields are flooded in Guntur and Prakasam districts due to the heavy rain. With incessant rain for nearly 48 hours, water from streams and rivulets flowed into the fields in many areas by crossing channels. Chilli and cotton fields in upland areas have been damaged. According to initial estimates, crops on about 50,000 acres were damaged in Guntur district and another 10,000 acres in Prakasam. “We will enumerate crop losses after water recedes from the fields,” said Vijayabharathi, joint director (agriculture). Horticulture crops including fruit and flower nurseries in Amaravati, Thullur and Tadepalle mandals were submerged. Vegetable gardens along the Krishna river bank too were damaged. With heavy floods continuing in the Krishna river, the situation was yet to ease even on Wednesday. In Mangalagiri mandal, onion crops, too, were damaged. Although officials say the paddy crop could survive if water drains out of the fields in the delta region, chances of cotton and chilli crops recovering from the damage are remote. While cotton was cultivated on about five lakh acres, chilli was sowed on nearly four lakh acres in Sattenapalle, Gurazala, Pedakurapadu, Macherla, Prattipadu, Chilakaluripet, Vinukonda and Narasaraopet constituencies. Cotton and chilli farmers were expecting a high yield and bumper prices in the coming weeks due to anticipated demand in local and international markets. “The floods caused massive losses as farmers were yet to recover from the after effects of the floods in September,” said Jasti Veeranjaneyulu of All India Panchayath Parishad. He said that along with cotton and chilli, crops such as black gram and green gram were also submerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/downpour-spoils-cotton-chilli-crops-in-guntur-prakasam-dists/articleshow/78667184.cms||Samdani MN
October 15, 2020||Goa||Goa gets Rs 2 crore aid to propel fisheries sector||PANAJI: Goa has received Rs 2 crore under the central government’s grant for focused and sustainable development of fisheries – the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY). “The department had moved a proposal for this grant. The central government has approved of approximately Rs 14 crore for Goa. Of this, they have released Rs 2 crore to the state,” a fisheries official said. This is for various schemes such as deep sea fishing, aquaculture, building of bio-toilets in fishing vessels, among others to boost the fishing sector in the state under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. The state action plan includes 24 beneficiary-oriented schemes, of which nine are towards development of inland fisheries and aquaculture including technology infusion such as construction of brackish water ponds and biofloc ponds, recirculatory aquaculture system (RAS), open sea cages and reservoir cages. In addition to this, there are three non-beneficiary schemes like the upgradation of departmental jetties, and construction of a state of the art wholesale fish market. However, the department has not received funds for the non-beneficiary schemes. The state fisheries department has already started receiving applications for its various schemes under this grant. “We are planning to disburse the amount very soon, after we complete scrutinising the applications,” the official said. The PMMSY scheme is being launched in 21 states of the country for focused development of fisheries sector in the country with an estimated investment of ₹20,050 crore during a period of five years as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-gets-rs-2cr-aid-to-propel-fisheries-sector/articleshow/78670861.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Trichy||BDU to augment English for UG with new book, addl paper||Trichy: To enhance proficiency of under graduate students in English, the existing general English book will be replaced with a new communicative English in the colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University. Besides this, a new stream-based professional English paper has been introduced. This new professional English book will be taught to all four streams – physical science; life science; arts and social science; and commerce and management. Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education (TANSCHE) has prepared the new syllabus and came up with learning material after various rounds of consultation with experts. The new professional English book will be taught one hour per day as an add-on paper on par with the major paper. Completion of the paper is a must for students to continue their higher studies. Speaking to TOI, G Gopinath said that it was observed that students aren’t proficient in English and general English books that deal with literature and it is not helpful for them to get a job or become self-employed. Every college will have a nodal officer and the university has already initiated initiatives to equip teachers. While autonomous colleges have their own syllabus, this revision of syllabus will be applicable for affiliated colleges such as government arts colleges and self-financing arts and science colleges. Both the self-financing colleges and government colleges will have to increase the working hours by one hour to include the new stream-based professional English. In the absence of physical learning because of the Covid-19 lockdown, strategies for e-content development for the entire book have also been given by TANSCHE. About 150 to 200 modules of e-content per book with duration of 10 to 15 minutes each must be prepared. The modules will be prepared as per the content and concepts available in the book. This will be followed by a weekly test to assess, guide and handhold the individuals to get benefit out of the program. The success of the program will be reflected in the end semester English and Major and Allied paper pass percentage, which will pave way for lifelong learning. A separate committee has to be constituted for each stream to scrutinise the e-content, modules and have to certify that the modules are fit for uploading in the website of TANSCHE, university and institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-augment-english-for-ug-with-new-book-addl-paper/articleshow/78670198.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 15, 2020||Trichy||Bike rider, 20, run over by unknown vehicle||Trichy: A 20-year-old bike rider was allegedly run over by an unidentified vehicle after he was knocked down by another on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as S Arun Prasath, of Ukkadai in Ariyamangalam in Trichy. The accident happened when he was on the way to his workplace on Tuesday morning. According to the complaint from his father P Sundararaj, 54, his son was working as a carry bag vendor in Gandhi market area. On Tuesday morning, he was riding his bike to the shop, when an unknown vehicle hit him fatally near Christian cemetery near Palpannai roundabout. As he collapsed on the road, he came under the wheels of another vehicle. His head was crushed and he died on the spot. Local people found the dead body of the youth and informed the police. Traffic North investigation wing police inspector Meerabai took up the investigation and visited the spot. The police said that Prasath was not wearing helmet when the accident occurred. The police tried to collect the CCTV footage in the area but they could not trace any in the area. The body was handed over to his family after the post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bike-rider-20-run-over-by-unknown-vehicle/articleshow/78670189.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Medical oxygen demand dropped by 20% in 5 days||AHMEDABAD: Barely a month ago, the state was gasping for medical oxygen – prompting the state government to streamline the oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients. In a month’s time, the oxygen demand has shown a declining trend – from usage of 209 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen on October 7, the figure came down to 168 MT on October 12. Back on September 21, the situation was so severe that 240 MT of medical oxygen was needed in Gujarat on the day. State health & family welfare department officials said that it’s the lowest daily demand in past one month where the average daily demand hovered around 200 MT. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that oxygen is crucial for the Covid-19 patients as it’s as good as medicine. “At the moment, the occupancy of beds with patients on oxygen is about 50% - one of the lowest in the past two months,” he said. City-based hospitals said that dual factors – overall decline in number of Covid patients and decline in number of patients requiring oxygen – have been responsible for the phenomenon. “Severity of the Covid-19 infection has reduced a bit in past few weeks, resulting in slightly less number of patients that need to be given oxygen,” said Dr Nishita Shukla, group COO of Shalby Hospital, adding that the trend is also seen elsewhere in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-oxygen-demand-dropped-by-20-in-5-days/articleshow/78670194.cms||Kapil Dave
October 15, 2020||Aurangabad||MNS seeks action against schools insisting on fee||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Wednesday staged demonstrations in front of the zilla parishad office demanding action against schools that have been insisting guardians to pay fees. The MNS student wing also submitted a memorandum to the education officer pointing out the fact that he had earlier directed an international school situated in the Naigaon Sawangi area not to charge any fee from students. The school, however, in the name of online classes, made phone calls to several guardians and even sent text messages to some asking them to pay fees and buy uniforms as well as books from specific shops that the school has prescribed. “We have asked the authorities to cancel registration of schools which insist guardians to pay full fees,’’ the student wing members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mns-seeks-action-against-schools-insisting-on-fee/articleshow/78668659.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC grants anticipatory bail||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday granted anticipatory bail to an accused scamster from Bharuch, Ashish Jain, in connection with the swindling of Rs 446 crore of people’s money. Family members of Jain’s and the firms through which they were allegedly operating came under the scanner after they floated various multilevel marketing schemes. On complaints from various depositors, CID (crime) registered an FIR in August against members of the family under the Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 2003 and the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. Jain moved the HC for pre-arrest bail. For the applicant, advocate H B Champavat submitted that custodial interrogation is not necessary at this stage, and Jain will make himself available to the investigators during the course of the investigation. The state government opposed the application for pre-arrest bail citing the nature and gravity of the offence. After hearing the case, Justice R P Dholaria granted conditional bail to Jain on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-grants-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/78649136.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Spl trains to be operated to clear festival rush||Madurai: Southern Railway will operate reserved special trains to clear the extra rush during the ensuing festival season. Train no. 06019 Chennai Centrai - Madurai tri-weekly superfast special will leave Chennai at 10.30pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and reach Madurai at 7.20am the next day. The first service will begin on October 19. Train no. 06020 will leave Madurai at 10.45pm on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays and reach Chennai at 7.50am the next day. The first service from Madurai will be on October 20. The trains will have one first class AC, two 2-tier AC, four 3-tier AC, eight sleeper class and two luggage cum brake vans. Reservations for the above trains will open at 8am on October 15. Train no. 02666 Kanyakumari - Howrah weekly special train will leave Kanyakumari at 8am on Saturdays and reach Howrah at 3.10am on Mondays. The first service from Kanyakumari will be on October 24 and the last service will be on November 28. Train no. 02665 Howrah – Kanyakumari weekly special will leave at 4.10pm on Mondays and reach Kanyakumari at 10.50am on Wednesdays. The first service of the train will be on October 26 and the last service on November 30. Train no. 02666 will stop at Srirangam and Ariyalur. The trains will have one 2-tier AC, four 3-tier AC, 10 sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Reservations for these trains will open at 8am on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spl-trains-to-be-operated-to-clear-festival-rush/articleshow/78670860.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: District administration to survey 6 new sites for Purandar airport||PUNE: The district administration will conduct land surveys in six new locations in Purandar taluka to ascertain if the proposed airport project could be shifted to any of these sites. “We shall conduct the surveys and see whether land acquisition can be done smoothly at the site suitable in terms of connectivity and other logistics or not. We shall submit our report in three weeks,” said Pune’s divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Deepak Kapoor, the vice-chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC), the implementing authority of the project, said he did not wish to make any comment on the matter. Sources in the MADC said the airport project might be delayed further in view of the impending surveys. There has been no official announcement on any move to shift the airport project site. But a senior official said the state government had asked the Pune district administration to conduct these land surveys and submit a report within a month. The Purandar airport project was announced in October 2016. It was supposed to be operational within five years. Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap pressed for a site change of the airport earlier this year. He suggested Pandeshwar, Rise and Pise villages as the probable alternative sites of the greenfield airport. “The state government wants to know if shifting the site is feasible,” Jagtap said, adding that these issues were discussed at a meeting attended among others by NCP chief Sharad Pawar, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and senior officials. “A technical team gave a detailed presentation on different geographical and technical aspects about the new sites. The idea is to identify the best possible alternative in terms of the plot and the ways to ensure land acquisition. Different ways of land acquisition, including cash for land and alternative land in exchange of the plot of the landowner were discussed,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named. Earlier, seven villages — Pargaon, Khanawadi, Munjwadi, Ekhatpur, Kumbharvalan, Vanpuri and Udachiwadi — were selected for land acquisition for the project. According to the existing plan, a total of 2,832 hectares of land had to be acquired from these villages in Purandar taluka. But the land acquisition process, which usually takes almost a year’s time, is yet to begin because of the villagers’ protests. Land acquisition officers stressed that if the state government went for a new site for the proposed airport, approvals from different ministries would have to be sought all over again. Another detailed project report would delay the already delayed project further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dist-admin-to-survey-6-new-sites-for-purandar-airport/articleshow/78670205.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 15, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar: VDO accidentally kills himself while cleaning licensed revolver||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Village development officer (VDO) Satyender Sharma (52), posted at Jansath block, died when he accidentally fired his licensed revolver while cleaning it in his room. He was immediately rushed to district hospital, but died on the way. According to sources, the incident happened late evening on Wednesday in Anandpuri colony, situated in Civil Lines police station area. On hearing the sound of the bullet, family members rushed in to find Sharma lying in a pool of blood. After being informed, police reached the hospital and sent the body for postmortem and started a probe in the matter. According to deputy superintendent of police Rajesh Dwivedi, “It was an accident. The body was sent for autopsy. Action will be taken accordingly.” Neighbours said the deceased was posted at Jansath area and was on leave for the last several days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/vdo-accidentally-kills-himself-while-cleaning-licensed-revolver/articleshow/78667207.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Lawyer duped of Rs 40,000 by telephisher||AURANGABAD: A city-based lawyer was duped of Rs 40,000 after he accidentally contacted telephishers instead of the customer care number of a courier service provider. Following the latest case, cybercrime police have appealed to the citizens to take precautions while searching customer care/service number through any of the internet search engines, including Google. “The suspects have started posting their contact numbers by falsely claiming to be of some service provider. Gullible people end up dialling such numbers and get cheated,” said cybercrime inspector Geeta Bagwade. In the latest offence registered with the Mukundwadi police, the unidentified suspect has been booked on the charges of cheating and also with sections of Information and Technology Act. As per the complaint lodged by Ashish Devre-Kewat of Jaibhavaninagar, N-2 Cidco of New Aurangabad, the incident took place on October 7 when the victim was waiting for a private courier company to deliver a set of important documents. Mukundwadi police inspector Sudhakar Bavkar said that the lawyer, in his complaint, has stated that after he dialled the number initially, it went unanswered. He later received a call from the same number and the suspect asked the victim to share the reuqested details on a specific number. Sometime later, the victim received multiple message alerts about money being debited from his account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lawyer-duped-of-rs-40000-by-telephisher/articleshow/78668684.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 15, 2020||Kolkata||‘Bengalis, Gujaratis crucial for revival of domestic tourism’||KOLKATA: Six travel agents who started on a pan-India road journey from Surat, Gujarat, on September 18 to unlock domestic tourism reached Kolkata on Wednesday after covering 22 states and Union territories and clocking nearly 10,000km. The group has been halting at state capitals and key cities and towns to interact with the travel trade fraternity and motivate them to restart tourism activities. Kolkata is one of the most significant stops in their journey as people from Bengal are avid travellers. “Bengalis and Gujaratis love to travel. It is impossible for domestic tourism to take off if members of these two communities don’t travel. Therefore, a lot depends on the travel trade fraternity in the state. They need to instill confidence among people and tell them that it is possible to travel safely,” said Rajiv Sethi, a travel agent from Surat. Sethi, along with Ritesh Parekh, Sanjay Patel and Nitin Gupta from Surat; Thomas Koshy from Ahmedabad and Pawan Dubey from Mumbai intend to cover 34 states and Union territories. Barring the islands of Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep, the team will travel for 36 days, covering the four extreme corners of India — Koteshwar in Kutch, Leh in Ladakh, Tezu in Arunachal Pradesh and Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu. The team has already traversed through west, north and north-east India and covered parts of east before reaching Kolkata. “The travel and tourism trade was the first to be impacted by the Covid crisis and will be the last to recover. We are telling everyone that we need to get started now or it may be too late. Already, several travel agents have gone out of business. We want people to understand that it is safe to travel with precautions. The fatigue of waiting for the crisis to end is leading to depression. That is emerging as a new problem that travelling can help resolve,” said Koshy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengalis-gujaratis-crucial-for-revival-of-domestic-tourism/articleshow/78668683.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 15, 2020||Trichy||Illumination work at Big Temple to be completed by Nov-end||Thanjavur: The process of illuminating the Big Temple in Thanjavur with LED lamps is under way, the superintending archaeologist of archaeological survey of India (ASI), T Arun Raj (Trichy circle) told reporters on Wednesday. He also said that special attention has been taken to safeguard the structure, sculptures and inscription at the temple.After he assumed chair as the superintending archaeologist of Trichy circle, Raj visited Thanjavur Big Temple and inspected the construction and ongoing maintenance works on Wednesday.Addressing the reporters, he said that ASI is currently divided into two circles- Chennai circle and the Trichy circle. This segregation of circle has created an opportunity to focus more on the preservation of 162 ancient monuments located in the 21 districts under the circles. Of these, one of the most important is the world-famous Thanjavur Big Temple, he said.“If there are any defects in the ancient monuments in these areas, it will be immediately inspected and brought to the notice of the government and the same will be rectified. The process of illumination at the Big Temple has gained pace. The works are scheduled to be completed by the end of November,” he said.On being asked if any damage would occur to the monuments during the illumination process, he said that similar works are being taken up at various ancient monuments across the country and the process will do no harm to the ancient look of the temple.“There have been some complaints of threats by social enemies to few ancient monuments. To address the issue, the required action will be taken with the help of respective district collectors and superintendent of police. More attention would be paid to preserve and maintain the world heritage sites such as the Darasuram Iravadeeswarar Temple and Gangaikonda Cholapuram,” he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/illumination-work-at-big-temple-to-be-completed-by-nov-end/articleshow/78670202.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Home guard saves 11 from flooded factory||Rajahmundry: A home guard showed exemplary courage and dedication by putting his life at risk and rescuing 11 persons who were trapped inside a ceramic factory at Ramavaram in Jaggampeta mandal of East Godavari district on Wednesday. Arjun, who works as driver of highway patrol team’s road safety vehicle, immediately rushed to the spot after coming to know of their plight. With the highway already submerged and the ceramic factory located about 300 metres from the road, Arjun jumped into the swirling waters and managed to reach the factory. He connected all 11 people, which also included some women, with sticks and led them to safety. —Samson Raj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/home-guard-saves-11-from-flooded-factory/articleshow/78667201.cms||Samson Raj
October 15, 2020||Trichy||IndiGo to start Trichy-Delhi flight via B’luru from Oct 25||Trichy: The IndiGo Air is going to launch a one-way service between Trichy and Delhi via Bengaluru from October 25. The carrier will also launch bi-weekly service to Dubai from Trichy and Sharjah from Trichy from the last week of October, sources said.The flight 6E 2289 will leave Trichy at 7.35 pm and reach Delhi at 12.45 am. The flight will land at Bengaluru on the way to Delhi at 8.40 pm and will depart from there at 9.40 pm, airline sources said. Earlier, the flight departed from Trichy at 7.30 pm and reached Bengaluru at 8.50 pm. Earlier, Jet Airways was operating a service to Delhi via Mumbai from Trichy in 2018, which was later withdrawn by the airlines citing operational reasons.IndiGo Air is the only carrier connecting Trichy with various domestic destinations from across the country such as Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai. However, airport sources said that the few services provided by the carrier may be affected as the re-carpeting work of runway at the Trichy international airport has gained pace.Airport authority commenced the re-carpeting of the existing runway at the airport before the lockdown came into force. As of now, the work is being carried out between 11 pm and 8 am. Meanwhile, the airport authorities from Trichy have written to their headquarters to take a final decision on whether the work would be carried out during the day time and the same has to be intimated to all the stakeholders, officials said.In the case of international operations, IndiGo is to operate weekly two services between Trichy-Dubai sector under air bubble agreement. The service will start on October 27 and will continue till November 30. The airline also will operate bi-weekly service between Sharjah and Trichy from October 25 to November 30, airline sources said.Meanwhile, Air India Express will operate two additional services under Vande Bharat mission to Muscat and Kuala Lumpur from Trichy, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/indigo-to-start-trichy-delhi-flight-via-bluru-from-oct-25/articleshow/78670209.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Resolve sewage issue once and for all: Karumbalai residents||Madurai: Karumbalai residents have urged the Madurai corporation for a permanent solution to the overflowing of sewage water from manholes which has been persisting for the past five years. A thickly populated residential area, Karumbalai, comes under ward 43 of Madurai corporation. Most of the residents are domestic workers, construction labourers and sanitation employees of Madurai corporation. Residents say that the issue is not only posing a health hazard but there here have been incidents of sewage water entering into houses in low lying places. Often children and elderly people fall ill. They say that Middle Street and Santhana Mariamman Kovil areas are the worst affected.C Vicky, a resident said that the sewage water often mixes with drinking water. It is one of the reasons why people are affected by health problems frequently. “We have been raising the issue with the corporation officials and district collector. The problem has been there for more than five years. Whenever we raise a complaint, a vehicle comes to suck the water. But the issue resurfaces once in every two weeks,” he said.“The underground drainage in our area needs a complete overhaul. They should be cleaned thoroughly and flushed. If some additional infrastructure is required to sort out the issue, they need to be taken up immediately to relieve us,” said another resident.A corporation official said that the residents have raised the issue with the corporation commissioner S Visakan directly. The issue is being looked into now. For now, the sewage water will be cleared. An inspection will be conducted to check what needs to be done to solve the issue permanently and appropriate steps will be taken, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/resolve-sewage-issue-once-and-for-all-karumbalai-residents/articleshow/78670885.cms||V Devanathan
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Depressed youth ends life in Kota||KOTA: A 25-year-old youth from Patna district in Bihar hanged from the ceiling fan in his PG room in Talwandi area under Jawahar Nagar police station of the city on intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The youth was taking coaching for competitive exams in Kota for a year. “I am tired of studies and have sunk into depression and there is no one responsible for the step,” the aspirant wrote on a page of the register, recovered from his room, said CI, Jawahar Nagar police station Ramkishan Verma. The deceased youth was identified as Sarthak Kumar Singh (25), a resident of Patna in Bihar, he said. The deceased had been preparing for a competitive exam from a coaching institute for a year and was staying in a PG in Talwandi area, he added. The caretaker on Wednesday morning saw the body hanging in the room and informed the police, he said.  The body was placed in the mortuary for the postmortem to be carried out after arrival of his parents from Patna, the CI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/depressed-youth-ends-life-in-kota/articleshow/78670211.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Hubballi||Suggestions sought from public to make new beat system effective in twin cities||Hubballi: Commissioner R Dileep is planning to make the new beat system introduced in the Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissionerate more effective with the help of technology. Under the new beat system introduced by DGP Om Prakash, a cop is assigned an area from station jurisdiction for better management of law and order and to prevent crimes. As part of it, he/she has to interact with public. However, it is to meet or organise a beat meeting during the pandemic. Hence the commissioner is mulling to give a touch of technology to the beat system in order to make it more people-friendly. The police commissioner has also invited suggestions from public on effective policing. They can give the suggestion and feedback via SMS, WhatsApp, email, twitter, Facebook or by dialling the control room at 0836-2233555-2233533. Speaking to TOI, commissioner R Dileep said the idea was to collect the diverse views. “I often get complaints from the public that the beat police did not arrive or hold meetings. I immediately send the cops to the beats whenever they might have failed to turn-up. I have been monitoring the beat system and have met all the inspectors,” he said. “The best suggestions would be implemented to improve the beat system. With the help of public, police have solved several cases in the past. Their cooperation has been proved beneficial several times,” he added. The official said the work of affixing details of in-charge of the beat to houses will soon be completed. “Having details of the policeman in-charge of their area will be easy for the public to contact police in case of emergencies,” said the police commissioner. When M N Nagaraj was police commissioner, in some police station limits, especially in Gokul Road police station limits group police concept was implemented, in which cops patrol in groups to keep anti-social elements at bay, but it was discontinued, recalled a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/suggestions-sought-from-public-to-make-new-beat-system-effective-in-twin-cities/articleshow/78668345.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 15, 2020||Goa||Plea in HC against ‘exorbitant rates’||Panaji: A petition has been filed in the high court of Bombay at Goa by a doctor challenging the ‘exorbitant rates’ approved by the state government for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. Dr Aquaviva Fernandes, in his petition, has referred to the order issued by the department of public health dated September 9, 2020 and also the revised rates issued on September 21, 2020. The capping of rates for Covid -19 treatment in private hospitals with ICU facilities is Rs 10,000 per day in general ward and Rs 16,000 in private room and Rs 24,000 in ICU with ventilator facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plea-in-hc-against-exorbitant-rates/articleshow/78670902.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Homes along Krishna district go under water again||VIJAYAWADA: Outflow at the Prakasam barrage touched 7.9 lakh cusecs on Wednesday evening and irrigation authorities issued a second warning at the project. All 70 gates at the barrage were lifted and excess water released into the Bay of Bengal. Inflow into the barrage started rising from Tuesday evening following heavy rainfall in Telangana and the catchment areas of the Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects. Irrigation officials estimate water level in the barrage to touch nine lakh cusecs by Thursday morning. The Krishna district administration has issued a high alert for mandals along the banks of the Krishna. Several colonies in Ibrahimpatnam, Kanchikacherla, Yenamalakuduru, Pedapulipaka and other villages have been inundated. Officials evacuated Pamulalanka and other small islands downstream of Prakasam barrage and shifted evacuees to flood relief camps at Thotlavalluru. Parts of Ranigari Thota, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and Ramalingeswara Nagar were inundated. Ward volunteers, police and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials shifted flood victims to relief camps. Many families resisted being moved to relief camps, fearing incidents of theft at their homes. “Our lives are linked with the Krishna river. We are living on the banks of the Krishna for the last thirty years. Each and every government promised us pakka houses and later ignored their promise. We are unable to bear the problems that come with the frequent floods. This is the fourth time that officials directed us to take shelter in relief camps. We urge the government to allocate houses for us,” said K Ramulamma, a resident of Rani Garithota Katta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/homes-along-krishna-go-under-water-again/articleshow/78667212.cms||Venu Lanka
October 15, 2020||Pune||Pimpri man gets 12-year jail for sexual assault on minor||PUNE: A special court here on Wednesday convicted and sentenced a Pimpri resident to 12 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a three-year-old girl on September 3, 2015. Special judge R V Adone held the accused guilty of an offence under Section 5m (sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and also imposed a fine of Rs15,000 on the convict. The court directed that Rs10,000 of the fine amount be paid to the minor survivor as compensation as per provisions under Section 357 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Judge Adone also directed the District Legal Services Authority to decide apt quantum of compensation to be given to the survivor under the Maharashtra government’s Victim Compensation Scheme. Additional public prosecutor Leena Pathak, who examined total 11 witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case, said the incident had occurred between 4pm and 5pm on September 3, 2015, when the girl was playing in front of her house with her sister. Her father was away at work and mother was in the kitchen. The accused had taken the girl to his house and sexually assaulted her. The incident came to light when the girl returned home crying and her mother asked her why she was in such a state. The girl narrated the entire incident to her mother and the matter was reported to the Pimpri police. Sub-inspector Ratna Sawant investigated the case and arrested the man the following day. Pathak said, “The court has primarily relied upon the steady and reliable evidence recorded during the trial by the survivor, her mother and the investigating officer. Besides, the medical evidence which pointed to sexual assault.” The man has been lodged in the Yerawada central jail ever since his arrest on September 4, 2015, and he will get the benefit of set-off in the sentence for the time served so far in prison, the order stated. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-man-gets-12-year-jail-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/articleshow/78668693.cms||Vishwas Kothari
October 15, 2020||Goa||Water level of Talpona river rises, locals panic||Poinguinim: Many parts of Canacona taluka received heavy rainfall on Wednesday, causing the water level of Talpona River to rise above the danger mark. Fear gripped locals, as this brought back memories of the 2009 Canacona flash floods. On Wednesday, several parts also witnessed long hours of power disruption, starting from around 2pm. Due to the erratic power supply, which lasted upto evening, work in taluka-level government offices across Canacona was hampered. The unusually heavy rains threw life out of gear in many parts of the taluka. Water rose above the danger mark in the Talpona River, as heavy rains particularly pounded areas like Gaondongorim and Cotigao. The heavy showers also brought woes to farmers in the taluka, with several paddy fields left damaged. Regarding the prolonged hours of power disruption, Sanjay Gaonkar, assistant engineer of the electricity department in Canacona, told TOI that his department personnel had inspected the entire electricity line in Canacona and found no faults with it. He said the fault lies with the Cuncolim main feeder from where Canacona gets its supply. “Several people, who had come to get their works done in government offices, from far-flung areas in the taluka, had to return empty handed,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-level-of-talpona-river-rises-locals-panic/articleshow/78670247.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Pune||Slum residents oppose plan to move them for Metro project||PUNE: The residents of the Kamgar Putala slum pocket have opposed the proposal to relocate them to make way for the Metro project. On Wednesday, a group of residents staged an agitation and demanded that the authorities change the alignment of the Metro route rather than displacing families who have lived in the area for years. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) said it would soon meet the protesters.. “Kamgar Putala is an authorized slum. Steps were also initiated to execute a slum rehabilitation project here. Relocating us from this area will not only place a financial burden on us, but also lose us our jobs. We want to relocated in the same area,” Bhau Shinde, a resident anda member of the delegation, said on Wednesday. Rasool Shaikh, another resident, pointed out that the alignment of the Metro has undergone several changes in the past two years. “Similar changes can be executed at Kamgar Putala as well. The authorities should also consider the construction of SRA project along with the Metro infrastructure,” Shaikh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/slum-residents-oppose-plan-to-move-them-for-metro-project/articleshow/78668725.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: New BSF DG visits border, asks jawans to be on alert||JAISALMER: Newly appointed BSF director general Rakesh Asthana visited border outposts at the international border adjoining Anupgarh in Sriganganagar district on Wednesday. He said that the BSF is the country’s first line of defence and is efficient enough to foil any danger from outside. He was addressing a soldiers’ meet during the visit. During his visit at sector headquarters Bikaner and 156th battalion border outpost Majnu, he addressed a soldiers’ meet, in which BSF officers and personnel took part. He took stock of the security arrangements and operational activities. During the visit, the DG was accompanied by additional DG West Surendra Panwar, Rajasthan Frontier IG Ayush Mani Tiwari, Bikaner Sector DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore, Ganganagar sector DIG Sanjay Kumar Singh, DG PSO DIG Rajesh Kumar and other senior BSF officers. Asthana said BSF faces a lot of challenges but each time, they are alert and manage to foil any attack by the outside forces. Later, he discussed the current situation at the Indo-Pak border with senior officers and also spoke with border guards deployed at the border. He boosted their morale and praised them for doing their duty with full alertness under tough conditions. The BSF DG also lauded the efforts of BSF at the Ganganagar border, where two Pak intruders were killed and around 9kg heroin was recovered along with a night vision device, two pistols and live rounds. Asthana also visited sector headquarters, BSF Bikaner and BOP Sanchu. On his arrival, he was presented with a ceremonial guard of honour. Thereafter, Asthana, along with senior BSF officers visited BOP Sanchu, located along the Indo-Pak international border and took stock of the security arrangements. During the visit, Asthana also inaugurated a museum at BOP Sanchu and dedicated it to the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-bsf-dg-visits-border-asks-jawans-to-be-on-alert/articleshow/78670245.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Sri Sri trust asks BBMP, Karnataka govt to settle Rs 14.2 crore dues||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) owes Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir Trust Rs 14.2 crore for utilising its facilities to set up a Covid Care Centre, the trust has claimed in a communication to the civic body and the state government. It has sought early disbursement of dues. BBMP ran the centre out of ‘A’ Block at Sri Ravishankar Ayurveda Science and Research Hospital. The building was handed over to authorities on June 24 through BDO Kaggalipura and was returned to the trust through the BDO on September 28. The 250-bed facility served as a CCC for 96 days. At that time, BBMP officials had said financial terms/ compensation for occupation will be worked out after the requirement was over, but there is no documentation on record in this regard. According to rates fixed by the state government, private hospitals can charge Rs 5,800 per bed per day. Based on this rate, dues to the hospital for beds alone is about Rs 13.9 crore. In the communication accessed by TOI, the total amount due includes expenses towards restoring the building to usable condition. “Ours was the best CCC in terms of location, spaciousness and facilities,” said Lakshmi Murali from Art of Living Bureau of Communication. “The centre was always fully occupied. Patients are on record saying they had a great experience while housed there. We had yoga, pranayama and meditation sessions for patients. We did not receive any monetary assistance from the government at all. Now, we are only asking for what the government has given to all other facilities.” She went on to say, “Though the centre was vacated on September 28, it has been left in very bad shape and was rendered unusable. Even the waste generated has not been removed. We will have to spend quite a bit to ensure it can house regular patients again.” A lot of biological and medical waste including used PPE suits, have been dumped carelessly around the buildings, she said. When asked for his take, N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, said: “We are yet to pay them, but we need to check the requisition rates, which will be assessed by the public works department. We will then arrive at a conclusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-care-centre-sri-sri-trust-asks-bbmp-to-settle-rs-14-2-cr-dues/articleshow/78667967.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 15, 2020||Pune||PMPML plans to launch new mobile app in two months||PUNE: The city’s transport utility would decommission the “PMP e-connect” mobile application and replace it with a better version within two months. Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) chief Rajendra Jagtap, said the agency running the service had not been paid for one-and-a-half years. “The application has not been functioning properly and uploading real-time inputs in terms of bus routes and timings became difficult because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Former PMPML head Tukaram Mundhe had launched the application having several features, including a panic button for women, in June 2017. Jagtap said the new application would have a grievance redressal system. “The PMC Care software has been doing an impressive job. We plan to create a completely new grievance redressal method through the agency which created the PMC Care software. Another agency has been mapping the PMC, PCMC limits, developing the real-time bus routes and a journey planner for passengers,” he said. Kallol Ingle, a frequent user of PMPML buses, said, “Passengers are not interested in these applications. They just need the basics to be right. Why is PMPML bent on introducing a new app when an old app exists? They can simply modify it. This seems to be a waste of resources.” Sanjay Shitole of the PMP Pravasi Manch echoed Ingle. The PMPML is developing an application for the special airport bus service, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-plans-to-launch-new-mobile-app-in-two-months/articleshow/78668705.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-DGP Singh is new RPSC chairman||Ajmer: The state government on Wednesday appointed former DGP Bhupendra Singh as the new chairman of Rajasthan Public Service Commission replacing Deepak Upreti.Four new members were also appointed to complete the quorum of seven members. The RPSC now has the task to complete RAS 2018 examination process along with the selection of candidates for 9,000 posts in various government departments.Singh, who retired from the post of DGP on Tuesday night, is the sixth IPS officer to become the chairman of the commission. The others are Habib Khan, LK Panwar, Mahender Lal Kumawat, Devender Singh and PS Yadav.The four newly appointed members are Manju Sharma, Sangeeta Arya, Jaswant Rathi and Babulal Katara. The other members of the commision are Shiv Singh Rathore, Rajkumari Gurjar and AR Raika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-dgp-singh-is-new-rpsc-chairman/articleshow/78670232.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Decade gone, but process to shift dairy complexes yet to take off||Ludhiana: Even after passing of over a decade, the shifting of dairy units has become a Herculean task for the civic body. Whenever the question of pollution level in Buddha Nullah is raised by activists, the authorities first of all start the process to shift the dairy units at Haibowal and Tajpur road to outside city limits. But till date the exercise has remained restricted to finding land where these units could be shifted. However, the dairy unit owners claimed that they want the government to provide modern dairy complexes and instead of shifting the existing units it will be better if new complex could be established with all required facilities. For the past 10-12 years the shifting of dairy units has been going on, but except for locating a few sites in far-off villages the authorities could not do much in this regard. Some 10 years ago the authorities had located land in villages like Gorsian Kadar Baksh, Dhanansu and Khasi, but now even these villages are not that far from city. Still search is going on for a suitable piece of land where these units could be shifted because the dairy owners have demanded they should be shifted within 10 to 12 km radius of the city limits. Another prominent demand this time is allowing the change of land use (CLU) for the existing units as most of the dairy farmers claimed that if they will be allowed for CLU, then many of them are ready to shift outside on their own. However, discussion over these issues is still going on as the state government had formed a committee, in which mayor Balkar Sandhu had been made the chairman, for a detailed report about shifting of dairy units. The mayor said, “I am not aware what was done during the previous government’s time but since the day I have been made the chairman of this committee I have been holding meetings regularly. We have met the dairy farmers about their demands and we will submit the detailed report to the government for a final decision.” However, president of Haibowal Dairy Farmers Association Paramjit Singh Bobby said, “Our dairy complex was fully functional in 1982 and every dairy farmer was allotted 500 sq yds, where 45 to 50 heads of cattle can be kept. But over the years the number of cattle increased by 70 to 75. It also created problems in handling the waste of cattle as well. So, shifting of dairy units is required.” He said the issue of locating sufficient land to shift the dairy units was a tough task. Meanwhile, president of Tajpur Road Dairy Farmers Association DS Oberoi said, “Our dairy complex was established in 1983 and it is comparatively small as compared to Haibowal complex. We have been listening about shifting of units for a long time but nothing could be done on ground.” He said instead of shifting the existing units the government should plan new modern dairy farms, where younger generation could be encouraged to do dairy farming as it is not ready to carry forward this profession. Setting up of CNG gas plant, ETPs on hold There was proposal to set up a CNG gas plant at Tajpur road for the waste coming from dairy units and for that Punjab Energy Development Authority had started some process to float tenders as well. Similarly, under Buddha Nullah rejuvenation plan too the proposal to install effluent treatment plants for both dairy complexes was proposed. But after the process to shift dairy units was started these proposals seem to have been put on hold. Dairy complex shifting linked to pollution The shifting of dairy units has been linked directly to Buddha Nullah pollution because whenever the issue of the drain pollution gets highlighted the government becomes worried about shifting of dairy units as well. This time there is pressure of the National Green Tribunal to curb the pollution in water bodies, especially Buddha Nullah and Satluj. For this reason only a committee was formed and the mayor was made its chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/decade-gone-but-process-to-shift-dairy-complexes-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/78664237.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 16 hospitals get notice for not refunding excess amount||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has served show cause notice to 16 private hospitals for not reducing bills and refunding excess amount to Covid patients. These hospitals have allegedly refused to follow the civic body’s orders despite bills being scrutinized and letters issued by auditors. Approved by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma issued notices to 11 hospitals on Wednesday. They are Nucleus Mother and Child Super Specialty, Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences, Grace Ortho, Medicare Multispecialty, Sengupta, Sushrut Institute of Medical Sciences, Central Hospital, Ganga Care, Samarpan Hospital and Research Institute, CIIMS and Ever Shine. Notices were served to five other hospitals-- Shree Bhavani Multispecialty, SevenStar, Sunflower, Viveka and Zenith in last couple of days. Sharma warned of action if they failed to submit reasons behind non-compliance with notices issued by auditors directing to refund excess amount to the patients. Sharma told TOI notices were issued to 16 hospitals of which first five submitted their replies. “Appropriate action will be taken against them if they do not refund excess amount to patients,” he said. TOI on Tuesday had reported the private hospitals continued to charge far higher rates than those approved by the state government and relatives of patients running from pillar to post to find auditors appointed by the NMC and get bills cross-checked. Sharma added, “Training has again been given to pre-auditors appointed at 64 private hospitals on Wednesday. They are thoroughly checking bills before hospital issues them to patients. Auditors have checked 2,494 bills at 64 hospitals from September 21 to October 13. They found discrepancies of Rs 77 lakh in 488 bills. Thirty three hospitals reduced bills by Rs 13 lakh after being pointed out by the auditors.” Sharma also said, “We ensured reduction in bills as per government’s rates in over 100 cases even without issuing notices. Hospitals realized their mistake and corrected it.” President of NGO Together We Can Joseph George said, “Government through notifications dated April 30, May 21 and August 31 had fixed rates for Covid as well as non-Covid patients. Main motive was to prevent loot of people already facing financial distress. There are provisions like levying penalty, cancelling the licence, registering FIR etc if hospitals charge more. NMC should take action as per provisions and not issue notice.” Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar said the association had already submitted its objections to the ‘unconstitutional’ audit initiatives of the NMC. He said a feeling was being fed into the minds of all discharged patients by vested interests that if they just filed a complaint with NMC or police, they would get some refund. “When government caps the rates, it should have paid the bills of all patients. No compensation was ever given to any private hospital for utilization of manpower, infrastructure, material etc and serving under pressure in capped charges. Full taxes, and commercial charges for biomedical waste, electricity and water are being recovered from hospitals. Hospitals that contributed for Covid care are feeling hurt by the behaviour of authorities and public and they have landed in fiscal mess. Even non-Covid patients are treating them as untouchables,” Marar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-hospitals-get-notice-for-not-refunding-excess-amount/articleshow/78668752.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||Covid diagnosis to death takes just 5.6 days on an average in Bhopal||BHOPAL: On an average, diagnosis to death took 5.6 days for COVID-19 victims who succumbed to the virus in the state capital. In the last seven months, about 440 lives have been lost due to the contagion in Bhopal, according to health department data. “More patients’ lives could be extended if there is early detection and doctors get more time to administer medical care to critical COVID-19 patients. Unfortunately, in a place like Bhopal, patients are dying in five days of hospitalisation on an average,” said a senior consultant, seeking anonymity. Findings of the death analysis also concurs with the sero-survey recently carried out in Bhopal. It found 18.4% citizens with COVID-19 antibodies. “Most people have been lucky to be asymptomatic and did not require hospitalisation. Only 3 lakh people in Bhopal have been tested for COVID-19,” the consultant said. He explained that death after hospital admission has to be understood. Typically, people have been admitted for about a week in places like Bhopal. In Europe and USA, average COVID-19 hospitalisation and deaths is about a fortnight. The difference can be linked to two factors. It could be late presentation of case or treatment protocols not being up to international standards in the COVID-19 ICUs. Government hospitals have been more burdened with critical COVID-19 cases, but have performed better than private care centres, the consultant added. Aishbagh, Jehangirabad, Shahjehanabad, Talaiya, Ashoka Garden, Kotwali and Koh-e-Fiza accounted for 41% of the deaths. These were areas, which were hotspots in the initial months, before monsoon set in. With the opening of lockdown, 60% of the positive cases are now attributed to other areas of the city. Statistically, 235 or 53.5% of all COVID-19 deaths in Bhopal have taken place in Piplani, TT Nagar, Habibganj, Ayodhya Nagar, Bairagarh, Kamla Nagar, Nishatpura, Bagh Sewania, Govindpura, Hanumanganj, Kolar Road, Shahpura, Gautam Nagar, Misrod, Awadhpuri, among 14 other police station areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-diagnosis-to-death-takes-just-5-6-days-on-an-average-in-city/articleshow/78668757.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 15, 2020||Trichy||NASA to launch Karur college students’ TD satellite||TRICHY: Three college students from Karur district have won a global engineering design competition for their technology demonstrator satellite (TDS) that will be launched by National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) next year as part of its ‘Cubes for Space’ programme. A partner firm of NASA organises the programme for students across the world to propose experiments to launch into space or a near-space environment. Adnaan M and Arun V of the physics department of government arts college, Karur, along with M Kesavan of SNS engineering college, Coimbatore, decided to conduct research on graphene, which is the finest part of carbon. The students’ team was among 80 teams selected from among 20,000-odd participants from across 72 countries. The team has built a 3cm cube satellite, claimed to be one of the world’s smallest, weighing 64 grams using reinforced graphene polymer. “Graphene being 100 times stronger than metal and much lighter in weight, we decided to experiment if it can be used for making aerospace vehicles,” said Adnaan, a second year BSc Physics student. Their idea was recognised by NASA and the satellite made at a cost of Rs 1.35 lakh approved to be launched in June next year. Chennai-based Space Kidz India (SKI), an organization encouraging space research for students, had helped them develop the TDS. The satellite structure is made of reinforced graphene polymer which has been implanted with 13 censors, says Kesavan. “The censors will help us calculate 20 parameters like temperature, humidity, UV value of reinforced graphene polymer and its effect in outer space at a distance of 120 km from earth surface,” he said. It has its own radio frequency communication to transmit and receive signal from earth to outer space. It has solar cells embedded on top of the TDS for power requirement. Adnaan and Kesavan, being classmates in class XII, had made an unsuccessful attempt for the Cubes for Space’ programme. “Learning from our mistakes and guidance from Space Kidz India helped us succeed in our second attempt,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nasa-to-launch-karur-college-students-td-satellite/articleshow/78670236.cms||K Sambath Kumar
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Song on ill-effects of stubble burning released||LUDHIANA: In a novel way to create awareness among farmers regarding ill-effects of burning paddy straw/stubble, MLA Gill constituency Kuldeep Singh Vaid and DC Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday, released a Punjabi song narrating consequences of burning paddy residue left in the field. The song has been penned by Gurbhajan Singh Gill and sung by Fatehgarh Sahib-based singer Ram Singh Albela while the music was given by Raju Dhiman. On the occasion MLA Vaid and DC also flagged off 11 awareness vans, which will go from village to village while playing this song to encourage farmers to refrain from burning paddy straw. The awareness vans are the initiative of the ATMA and agriculture department under “Paraali Sambhal Muhim-2020” and will cover all villages in the district. MLA Vaid and Deputy Commissioner honoured singer Ram Singh Albela and music composer Raju Dhiman, while appreciating the efforts of Gurbhajan Gill for penning a song for a social cause. MLA Vaid urged farmers to manage stubble with mechanical way rather than burning it. The DC said that the purpose of sending these 11 awareness vans to villages was to sensitise farmers against stubble burning. Project director, ATMA ,Jaspreet Singh Khera said that besides spreading awareness through these vans, they were also distributing pamphlets carrying information regarding side-effects of stubble burning to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/song-on-ill-effects-of-stubble-burning-released/articleshow/78664213.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Private hospital in Vijayapura offers Covid treatment at half the cost||Vijayapura: At a time when private hospital managements are being hauled up for fleecing Covid-19 patients, BM Patil Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, the constituent college of Bijapur Lingayat District Educational Association (Deemed to be University) in Vijayapura, is offering treatment at half the cost fixed by the government. MB Patil, chairman, BLDE Association, said: “Our hospital [a private facility] has been a charity-based and service-oriented institution and has been providing world-class treatment at very economic prices. This is not first time that we are offering 50% concession. We have been responding to grievances of common people during floods, earthquakes, drought and other natural calamities.” Dr MS Biradar, vice-chancellor, BLDEDU, the decision was taken after seeing many middle-class and poor patients being deprived of quality treatment due to high costs. “Many are hesitating to get admitted and people are dying,” Biradar said. “That’s why we have reduced charges. Rent in our general ward for Covid is now Rs 5,000 instead of Rs 10,000 and Rs 10,000 instead of Rs 15,000 for oxygen beds. Charges of ICU and ventilator wards have been slashed to Rs 15,000 instead of Rs 25,000. All procedures and treatment will be conducted as per government guidelines.” Dr Ravikiran Metri, a resident of Jath, Sangli district, said his uncle’s saturation level had dropped to 70 last month. “We took him to BLDE in the middle of the night and they admitted him immediately, allowing us to do the documentation the next day. Considering his economic condition, they waived 50% of the bill. People in Sangli, Solapur and other districts of Maharashtra always prefer BLDE.” Vijaykumar Halkude, a retired PWD engineer in Vijayapura, who recovered from Covid, said BLDE has always been a front-runner in providing treatment. “They have separate wards and staff for Covid and non-Covid patients,” Halkude said. “Specialists are kind and treat us with dignity. They also provide quality food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/private-hospital-in-vijayapura-offers-covid-treatment-at-half-the-cost/articleshow/78668032.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 15, 2020||Goa||Tribunal cannot legalise illegalities: NGT to Goa govt||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said that in a case of illegal laterite quarrying, Goa government officials have issued a notice seeking recovery of environmental compensation of Rs 25,000. The tribunal noted that state officials have fixed this amount while admitting that there is no parameter to fix environmental compensation in cases of illegal laterite quarrying. Recovering compensation in such a manner means indirect permission to the illegal activity and the tribunal is not meant for legalising illegalities, NGT said in its order on an application of Jayashri Rajebhosal. The tribunal said application in this particular case has been pending before it since 2014 and, based on the tribunal’s directives, Goa government officials also carried out an inspection and found that the quarry did not have permission, yet action was not taken. It has named Goa State Pollution Control Board and the mines department as authorities which could have but did not take action in this case. “There are regulations, laws and internal administration, but mischievous persons are continuing illegal mining operation. and when the original application is filed in the year 2014, it is pending. In spite of that, no action has been taken by the state authorities,” the tribunal said. The NGT transferred the case to the principal bench in New Delhi, as it has done with two more recent cases related to Goa after Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority failed to file replies in time before the tribunal. “In most of the cases, authorities at Goa are not in a habit of submitting the reply or the report well within time,” the NGT noted. The tribunal also said that with regards to Goa officials, there are ‘examples of not only illegal mining but indirect permission to continue’ such illegal mines. “Our view is that, if in the original application, which is pending from 2014, laterite stone extraction is continued without any consent to operate and without legal permission and calculation of environmental compensation to the tune of Rs 25,000 is proceeded, it is indirect permission to legalise the illegalities,” the NGT said in its order. This is not the manner in which environmental compensation should be fixed, the tribunal said. “This tribunal is not meant to legalise the illegalities and this is not the way either to recover the environmental compensation or to measure for prevention of illegal mining and laterite stone extraction…we are also of the view that the matter should be decided by principal bench of this tribunal on the point of the quantum of environmental compensation in the cases of laterite stone extraction so that a fixed parameter be adopted,” the NGT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tribunal-cannot-legalise-illegalities-ngt-to-goa-govt/articleshow/78670259.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Women in khaki more cautious? 694 policemen, 34 women cops positive||BHOPAL: As per the data prepared by police department, 728 cops including 694 male cops and 34 women cops tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal till October 9 . The data also suggests that women cops are more cautious while working in the field and follow Covid-19 protocols much more seriously than their male counterparts. The data also suggests that immunity of women cops is much stronger than the male cops. Women cops maintain that while working on the field, they are extra cautious not only for their own safety but also for the safety of their families as they depend on them. Speaking on the issue ,SHO Ayodhya Nagar, Renu Murab, said that women cops also work in the field like the male cops. Citing an example of a recent case in which a newborn girl’s body was stabbed multiple times and recovered from Ayodhya Nagar area, she said, during the investigation of the blind murder, she had to go to the densely populated slum areas and even had to walk in a nullah. She added that she used so much sanitiser during the murder investigation that she had a skin irritation. Murab said, “I apply mustard oil with peepal leaf on my hands, nose and ears apart from wearing mask and using sanitiser. That is probably it is the reason I have not been infected till now.” Mahila Thana SHO Ajeeta Nair said that during lockdown she was deployed in Kotwali area, which was one of the Covid hotspots. She added, “I took all the precautions but it is a fact that immunity in women is stronger. That could be the reason that not many women cops got infected by the disease.” A woman cop posted in Govindpura division said that senior officers also supported women cops during lockdown and deployed them in field only when it was necessary, due to which they were not infected. ASP Rajat Saklecha said, the ratio of male cops, compared to women cops in police force is more and that is the reason they were infected more by coronavirus. He said, “As most of the criminals are male, so more male cops got infected when they nabbed them in the field. Moreover, men were deployed in various containment areas and other places where the interaction with people was more, so they were infected in large numbers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/women-in-khaki-more-cautious-694-policemen-34-women-cops-positive/articleshow/78668773.cms||Sudeept Mishra
October 15, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: After threats, Tanishq store puts up apology||RAJKOT: The social media backlash over the TV commercial of jewellery brand, Tanishq, had an echo in Kutch district where its showroom in Gandhidham town displayed a hand-written apology following threat calls. The showroom started getting threat calls from Kutch and other parts of the state on October 12 over the advertisement that was aired last week. The company has already withdrawn the advertisement ‘Ekatvam’ which shows a Muslim family celebrating the baby shower of their Hindu daughter-in-law. A video of a man identified as Shamji alias Ramesh Ahir asking the showroom employees to paste the apology on the entrance door, send the same on his mobile number and make it viral on October 12 was also widely circulated on social media on Wednesday. “As the advertisement of Tanishq aired on TV is shameful (sic), Gandhidham Tanishq apologizes to the entire Hindu community of Kutch,” the note in Gujarati pasted on the showroom's entrance read. It was removed later. Tanishq is owned by Titan Company Ltd, a part of Tata Group. The staff members reported to the police that they had received several threatening calls on the landline number. An employee said on the condition of anonymity, “The two persons who barged inside on Monday were using abusive language in front of women employees too.” Mayur Patil, superintendent of police, Kutch (east), said patrolling has been intensified near the showroom after the manager started getting threat calls from Kutch as well as other parts of Gujarat on October 12 when the advertisement was aired. “Two persons had come to the showroom and demanded that an apology in Gujarati be pasted. After being informed about the threats on October 13, we had increased our vigil.” On his part, Ahir told TOI, “I had gone to the showroom with my cousin brother, but we did not threaten the owner or employees. I only requested them to issue an apology to the Hindu community of Kutch district. I am a Hindu and the advertisement has hurt our sentiments. Talking to TOI, Prakash Gupta, franchise owner of the showroom said, “Some people came to us on October 12 saying that the Hindus have been hurt by the advertisement. At that time, I did not know about the advertisement at all. They demanded an apology and put up the board.” Gupta denied any vandalism at the showroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/after-threats-tanishq-store-puts-up-apology/articleshow/78667300.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents hold protest non-construction of road||LUDHIANA: Residents of Baba Nand Singh Nagar staged a protest against non-construction of a road in the locality on Wednesday. The residents claimed that for almost one year they have been passing through tough times when the area sarpanch got the road dismantled for construction of a new road, but work was never completed and this had restricted their movement. The residents also rued that when work had started some 10 days back, again it was stopped and the authorities claimed that due to non-availability of material the work had been stopped. An area resident, Sukhwinder Sekhon, complained that after the residents had raised a hue and cry work was started 10 days ago, but now for the past few days nothing much was happening. He said when they talked to the officials concerned about the work not being started, they were informed that there was shortage of construction material. He said the residents were very disturbed with this work because they were almost locked in their houses. Another resident of area Jagmohan Gulati said, “Now our patience has given up and we are unable to bear this any more. We staged a protest in the area on Wednesday and in case the authorities did not complete the work in time, then we have decided to march towards the house of sarpanch or outside the offices of officials and will sit there on protest.” He said there was no way to move out and they were left with no other option but to stay inside. Meanwhile, yet another area resident Gurmeet Singh complained that they had collected Rs 1 lakh and got the road constructed in the locality and when the sarpanch started constructing road from government expenses, the road which they had constructed was dismantled. He said they had even offered to provide the construction material, which had fallen short, but even then officials did not listen to them and work was not started. However, on the other hand block development officer Dhanwant Singh Randhawa said, “For the past two-three months there was shortage of sand and when it was available it was higher than government rates, so we were unable start the work. But now the matter has been sorted out and I think in a day or two work will start again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-hold-protest-non-construction-of-road/articleshow/78664257.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Trichy||Union min inaugurates pilot plants at IIFPT||Thanjavur: Union minister for agriculture and food processing, Narendra Singh Tomar, inaugurated the new food processing pilot plants at the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT), Thanjavur, through video conferencing on Tuesday. He also laid the foundation stone for a students’ residential complex on the institute’s premises. The pilot plants for food beverage processing and virgin coconut oil processing were established for skill development of farmers, self-help groups, farmer producer organizations and food industry stakeholders. The upcoming student’s residential complex with state-of-the-art facilities will be able to accommodate 200 students. After inaugurating the facilities, Tomar said that food processing has been identified as a priority sector by the Indian government and as one of the focus sectors under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat initiative. The minister of state for food processing industries, Rameswar Teli, who participated in the virtual event congratulated the institute for being ranked as the 74th among all engineering colleges in India in the NIRF rankings 2020. Secretary for ministry of food processing industries, Pushpa Subrahmanyam, in her address said that there is a need for interdisciplinary research fields, to develop end-to-end technology packages for the Indian food processing sector.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/union-min-inaugurates-pilot-plants-at-iifpt/articleshow/78670265.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: At 28 deaths, 3-months low in fatality count||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,892 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 7,67,465. The toll increased to 6,319 as 28 more people succumbed to the virus. This is the lowest single-day fatality count in the last three months since July 13, when 37 casualties were registered. The state recorded an average of 85 deaths per day in August, which came down to 62 deaths in September. It further came down to an average of 35 deaths in the last two weeks in tandem with the declining case numbers. As many as 5,050 Covid-19 patients recovered on Wednesday. There are currently 41,669 active cases with 7,19,477 cumulative recoveries, a recovery rate of 93.7%. East Godavari recorded 607 new cases, followed by West Godavari (518). All other districts reported fewer than 500 cases with Kurnool reporting only 104 cases. East Godavari has a caseload of 1,07,888 cases, followed by West Godavari (76,759) and Chittoor (71,725). Nine districts have at least 50,000 infections each. Of the 28 deaths registered in the last 24 hours, four each are from Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam, three each from East Godavari, Guntur and Prakasam, two each from Anantapur and Srikakulam, and one each from Kurnool, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 67.72 lakh samples, including 69,463 people tested on Wednesday. The overall positivity rate stands at 11.3%, while mortality rate is 0.82%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-28-deaths-3-mnth-low-in-fatality-count/articleshow/78667251.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Pay Rs 16 lakh to families of boys killed in quarry: NGT||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the Goa government to pay compensation of Rs 16 lakh to the families of four teenage boys, who died due to drowning two years ago in an illegal quarry. The state mines department has been asked to recover this compensation amount from the persons who were involved in operating the illegal quarry. The tribunal has also told Goa government officials to ensure that mined out pits are filled and landscaped. The compensation amount to be paid to the families has been worked out by the tribunal by multiplying the per day government fixed minimum wages into 25 years. “The family member of the deceased are entitled to Rs 16 lakh as a compensation to be paid by the state government (department of mines which can be recovered from the polluters with interest). The amount should be paid, plus interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of this order,” the tribunal has said. It has said if the state has already paid any compensation to the families, the amount may be deducted from the Rs 16 lakh payable. “It requires that reasonable compensation should be paid to the persons who died due to falling in the pit of mining due to negligence of the administration and polluters,” the NGT noted while granting compensation to the families of the four deceased boys. The tribunal said that state authorities should provide a mechanism for redressal of such grievances within its departments and that citizens should not be compelled to knock on the doors of courts or tribunals for payment of compensation. The NGT also said collectors in Goa should immediately take up the work of filling pits and replenishment. “The collector is at liberty to recover the damages according to law and also the cost of the restitution. The collector is further directed to initiate legal action against the polluters in accordance with law,” the NGT has said. If any material or machinery is found at the site where there is illegal mining, Goa State Pollution Control Board is at liberty to seize and confiscate and proceed in accordance with law, the tribunal has said. In its order, the NGT has also set guidelines for sand mining in Goa. No quarrying of sand in any river bed or adjoining area should take place within 500m radial distance of any bridge, water supply system, infiltration well or pumping installation, it has said. “The sand quarrying shall not be carried out below the groundwater table under any circumstances. In case, the groundwater table occurs within the permitted depth of 1m, quarrying operation shall be stopped immediately. Sand mining should not disturb in any way the turbidity, velocity and flow pattern of the river water,” the NGT order states. It has asked such mining activity to be monitored by a taluka-level force once a month by conducting physical verification. The mines department has been asked to recover this compensation from the persons who were involved in operating the illegal quarry. NGT also told officials to ensure that mined out pits are filled and landscaped||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-pay-rs-16l-to-families-of-boys-killed-in-quarry/articleshow/78670267.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP accuses Congress of plotting attack on Sharma||Chandigarh: Punjab unit of BJP on Wednesday accused the state’s Congress government of orchestrating the attack on party’s state president Ashwani Sharma. A delegation of BJP leaders comprising Madan Mohan Mittal and Manoranjan Kalia submitted a memorandum to Punjab governor V P Badnore, in which the party has stated that the law and order situation in Punjab is deteriorating and no attention is being paid by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and his government. Sharma was attacked on Pathankot Road in Jalandhar on October 12 and his car was damaged in the attack. The BJP leadership stated that although farmers were protesting at the toll plaza, to date, no farmer union has attacked anyone. “The absence of any security personnel at the scene raises suspicion that the attack had been carried out under a well-planned plot. If Ashwani Sharma’s security personnel had not shown promptness on time, there could have been an untoward incident,” said Mittal. He further said Captain Amarinder Singh had recently given a statement that the atmosphere in Punjab is deteriorating and several Congress ministers and legislators had also said that the BJP leaders and workers would not be allowed to enter villages. Congress MLA Rajkumar Verka crossed all limits and said if BJP leaders enter villages, they would have to face serious consequences, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-accuses-congress-of-plotting-attack-on-sharma/articleshow/78670264.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Jaipur||Shourie at CBI court in Laxmi Vilas Palace case||Jodhpur: Former Union minister Arun Shourie appeared before the CBI court here on Wednesday and furnished a bail bond and two sureties in the case related to disinvesting Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel of Udaipur. The court had issued an arrest warrant to all the five accused in the case, which was challenged before the high court. The court gave them relief and converted the arrest warrants into bailable warrants and directed all the accused to furnish bail bonds and sureties at the CBI court.Shourie and four others, including the then disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal, were held guilty by the CBI special court of conniving to sell Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in a disinvestment process in 1999-2002 to Bharat Hotels Ltd for just Rs 7.52 crore by adopting a faulty valuation procedure and causing a loss of Rs 244 crore to the national exchequer.Speaking to the media after appearing before the court, Shourie reiterated that there was no irregularity in the disinvestment deal and the entire process had been carried out by strictly following all procedures.“We adopted a strict procedure under Atalji’s supervision," he said, adding that “the matter first went to the inter-ministerial committee, then to the committee of secretaries and then the cabinet committee on disinvestment, which was headed by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee”.Shourie, who reached Jodhpur on Wednesday, furnished a bail bond of Rs 2 lakh while two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each were furnished by Manvendra Singh Jasol and his wife Chitra Singh, son and daughter-in-law of Jaswant Singh Jasol.Baijal has already been granted exemption from appearance by the Supreme Court due to illness. The CBI court has listed the matter for hearing on October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shourie-at-cbi-court-in-laxmi-vilas-palace-case/articleshow/78670268.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Not just Covid-19, correct hand hygiene can help keep multiple diseases at bay||VISAKHAPATNAM: While Global Handwashing Day is observed on October 15, the simple act of washing one’s hands has never assumed as much importance as it has this year due to the pandemic. In the absence of vaccines, maintaining proper handwashing practices is the one of the key safeguards against Covid-19. At no other time has the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) slogan, ‘Clean hands, Save lives,’ proved to be as true as at the current moment. According to experts, washing hands the right way and hand hygiene can prevent at least a dozen common viral and bacterial diseases but public awareness on the issue is still not satisfactory, though there has been improvement this year. Consultant general physician from the city and Padmashree awardee Dr Kutikuppala Surya Rao said, “As per our studies done a few years ago in Vizag and India-wide observations, over 60% do not follow handwashing practices. However, now the number has improved and around 75% people are following these practices but there is still a long way to go. People need to be aware that handwashing should include soap (at home) or preferably liquid soap (in public places like hotels) for at least 20 seconds and it should reach the palms, fingers, fingertips, back of the palm, wrists so that any dead or inactive virus is discarded. Only if water is unavailable, sanitizers should be used, say, when one is outside the house and multiple people should not use the same soap.” Doctors point out that just washing hands with water is not effective, as the running water will remove dirt, dust and mud but is ineffective against viruses and bacteria unless soap or liquid handwash is used. “People must wash hands every time they touch a new person or object, or go out, are about to handle infants, children or elderly people, about to eat, or immediately after using the toilet and handling currency notes and coins. Municipal authorities should carry out educative propaganda through public health experts demonstrating proper hand hygiene practices and ensure that street food vendors and eateries adhere to it as well,” added Dr Rao, who has emphasised on public education about handwashing for over a decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/not-just-covid-19-correct-hand-hygiene-can-help-keep-multiple-diseases-at-bay/articleshow/78667270.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||FIR against 3 youths for stunt video in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Performing stunts on the parapet of a highrise and shooting videos for social media proved costly for three youth. Kandivli police on Wednesday registered a case against them after their videos went viral. The clip, shot from the 22nd floor of an SRA building at Laljipada three days back, showed a youth seated on the parapet, guzzling an energy drink. He then hops over the wall on to the outer ledge and does a headstand. His friend followed him, while the third stood on the other side to shoot. As soon as the videos went viral, police were alerted and tracked down the youth’s homes. “The trio got wind of it and left for Pune. We will arrest them on their return. We have made inquiries with their parents,” a police officer said. All three are dancers and some performed on dance shows on TV. Police registered a case under section 336 of IPC (rash or negligent act to endanger human life or personal safety of others), which is bailable. Police appealed to youth to desist from performing such stunts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/case-against-3-youths-for-stunt-videos/articleshow/78669065.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Ashu asks DC, MC commissioner to get streetlights repaired in 2 days||LUDHIANA: Even as municipal corporation officials and National Highway Authority of India officials shifted the onus on each other with regard to fixing of the non-functional streetlights on Ferozepur road, where an elevated road project is going on, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has written letters to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal about these lights. The cabinet minister mentioned that in the coming days festivals would start and with these roads covered in darkness, it would not look good and besides, these would be dangerous for commuters. The minister gave two days to the officers for rectifying the problem. In the letter to the DC, the minister mentioned that all streetlights on roads where development works were being carried out by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) were lying dysfunctional in the city. “In my constituency of Ludhiana (west), the streetlights under the upcoming Ferozepur elevated road project are also non-functional and a large number of people have been complaining about it. This should be checked on priority basis so that the Ludhiana residents may not suffer,” he said while adding that festival season was about to start and due to non-functional streetlights, a large number of residents would be inconvenienced, people would suffer and it can also lead to several accidents. Meanwhile, in the letter to the MC commissioner, the minister mentioned that the streetlights on roads being developed by the National Highways Authority of India, such as Ferozepur elevated road project, upcoming smart Malhar road and several other areas where development works are going on, have been lying non-functional in the city for the last several months. He said that the roads where development works had started, the existing streetlights were removed, ‘so kindly state as to under whose control are those streetlights and why are these areas under darkness’. The minister asked both officers to look into the matter and get the non-functional streetlights operational in the next two days and strict action should be taken against erring officials who had ignored the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ashu-asks-dc-mc-commissioner-to-get-streetlights-repaired-in-2-days/articleshow/78664276.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Private hospital gets notice for CLU violation||LUDHIANA: In an ongoing drive to recover the pending change of land use (CLU) charges from commercial units, the municipal corporation officials have served seven notices to a private hospital. The owner of hospital was told to either clear the dues or MC would seal all eight units. Fearing the sealing notices, now the owner has given in writing to the officials that he was ready to pay all charges. The civic body officials had served the first notice (copy of which is with TOI) for the main hospital building as the building plan of this building was approved for establishing a commercial unit but on the spot a hospital was constructed. Moreover, all three floors of the building were in violation of the approved building plan due to which parking became an issue and people were facing difficulties while finding space for parking their vehicles. Then another notice was served for the parking lot that was established on a residential plot opposite the main hospital. The officials claimed that no building plan was approved for the parking lot and it was also built without paying the change of land use charges. Similarly, more notices were served with regard to a drug store, a kidney centre, a child-care hospital and diagnostic lab. No CLU was paid and no building plans were sanctioned for all of these. Three days were given to the owner to clear dues and he was also asked to give reasons why the MC should not seal these buildings. The municipal town planner SS Bindra said, “We are serving notices to all such commercial establishments and this private hospital was also one of prime defaulters. The owner has given an assurance to clear all dues and has given it in writing. As far as the illegal floors of the main hospitals are concerned, those will be regularised under the one-time settlement scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pvt-hospital-gets-notice-for-clu-violation/articleshow/78664268.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Only 16% aspirants clear computer test for govt posts||Panaji: Only 16 percent candidates cleared the Goa public service commission’s (GPSC) computer-based recruitment test (CBRT) for 208 positions at various government departments. GSPC chairman, Jose Manuel Noronha said that the commission conducted the test for which 1,667 applications were received from October 9 to 11 October 2020 at the Don Bosco college of engineering, Fatorda. Only 1,075 candidates appeared for the exams and 182 qualified to appear for the interview. There has been a marked improvement in the performance of candidates who attempted the test conducted by the commission, compared to previous years’ results. Ninety-three positions were advertised for Directorate of Higher Education (DHS) for which 1,018 applied and 590 appeared for the test - only 93 were declared successful. In the institute of nursing education 19 positions for tutors were advertised and 76 applications were received, 51 appeared and 14 were declared successful. In the Goa dental college, twenty nine positions in nine departments were advertised for which 182 applications were received and 125 appeared, while 69 were declared successful. Other positions where candidates qualified for the interview stage were principal (ITI), junior scientific officer (drugs), assistant professor architecture, planning officer and medical officer (DHS). For a total of forty eight positions no candidate qualified at the CBRT, these being; geologist (mines), assistant agricultural officer, assistant director social welfare, assistant director education, assistant professors in Geography, Marathi, Hindi, Botany, Mathematics, Physics, Fine Arts among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-16-aspirants-clear-computer-test-for-govt-posts/articleshow/78670284.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||GIDC hopes to auction 5 lakh sqm SEZ land by Jan||Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) hopes to auction off at least 5 lakh sqm of the erstwhile SEZ land at either Verna or Sancoale by January-end next year, for which it has sought the services of a property consultant. The consultant will have to assess the current market value of the reclaimed SEZ land and also identify growth factors and obstacles while assisting GIDC in the e-auction. GIDC has floated a request for proposal (RFP) for economic planning and strategy development for commercialization of 24 lakh sqm of land which was reclaimed from five SEZ promoters. The property consultant will be paid a percentage of the amount received by GIDC after auctioning the entire land. Public and private consultancy firms which have been operational for ten years and have international exposure have been given till October 30 to show their interest in the project. “The firm is expected to prepare a study in this regard on the above matrix and has to furnish cost benefit analysis as also a SWOT analysis considering the likely appreciation in near future,” the RFP states. The consultant will have to assess the market value of the property based on the available floor area, location availability of necessary services, infrastructure and alternate uses of the land. GIDC wants a team of at least eight to help identify relevant sectors or companies who would be willing to invest in Goa. Though the main activity of GIDC is to create basic infrastructure at industrial estates, the government-backed corporation is struggling under heavy debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-hopes-to-auction-5-lakh-sqm-sez-land-by-jan/articleshow/78670275.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Pernem cops conduct two drug raids||Panaji: In two separate raids, Pernem police arrested a Russian national for illegal possession of drugs at Mandrem, while a cannabis plantation was seized at Arambol. PI Jivba Dalvi said that after receiving a tip-off regarding a drug peddlar at Sawantwada, Mandrem, a search was conducted in which charas and ganja was recovered from 37-year-old Oleg Nazarov. The charas was valued around Rs 25,000, while the ganja was valued at around Rs 1.6 lakh. An offence under Section 20(b)(ii)(A) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered, Dalvi said Later in the evening, another raid was conducted at Madhlawada, Arambol, during which cultivation of cannabis plant was seized. The substance was valued at around Rs 1.7 lakh The raid was carried out from afternoon till late evening. An offence under Section 20(a) of the NDPS Act has been registered against unknown accused for cultivating cannabis plant illegally in the property. Police are investigating this case to ascertain the owner of the property and have sought details from the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-cops-conduct-two-drug-raids/articleshow/78670280.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||Citizens casual about Covid, roam unmasked in shops, malls in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Though the administration has asked citizens and business owners to strictly follow the standard operating procedures issued for COVID protection, malls and shops have literally stopped following them. During a reality check, TOI spotted a casual approach in fighting the pandemic. Major objections have come from those following the norms to fight COVID. “While visiting a mall, I found that several people were roaming inside without wearing masks. I was wearing a mask, but what about those not wearing masks? I could have been infected. As I did not have any choice, I gave up the idea of buying stuff from there,” said Ankit Sharma, a resident of Kolar. Citizens have questioned how such people were allowed to enter the mall. “It was clearly stated in the SOP that shop owners and mall authorities would ensure that the guidelines must be followed by them while opening their ventures. Unfortunately, it is missing in several places,” said Sharma. Citizens also objected to the absence of sanitisers in places. “I carry a sanitiser with me, but I forgot last time and went inside a supermarket. When I asked about it, I was told that it has been exhausted and I need to wait. I am afraid of how others who went inside before me were allowed to enter,” said Ashish Vishwakarma. When we asked a shopkeeper why he had not put a sanitiser outside his shop, he gave a shocking reply. “I used to put it earlier, but people stopped using it. They carry their own sanitiser with them. Why to waste money?” However, several shops and supermarkets were also seen properly following the COVID norms. “Lot of people come to my shop every day. I can’t put them in trouble. Even if they carry sanitisers with them, I ensure that they use it before entering the shop,” said Ashu Sikarwar, a shopkeeper. When a person not wearing a mask inside a mall was asked the reason for not wearing a mask, he reacted, “Who are you to ask me? Are you any authority? I have a mask in my car, but I forgot to wear it.” When contacted, PRO, Bhopal collectorate, Arun Rathore, said that a fine of Rs 5,000 has been imposed against the violators. “District administration has made it clear to every commercial venture to follow the norms properly. Else, they will be penalized,” said Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/citizens-casual-about-covid-roam-unmasked-in-shops-malls/articleshow/78668836.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Goa||Heavy showers strong wind likely today in Goa: IMD||PANAJI: Goa will continue to receive heavy rain till October 15, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. With the depression over Telangana moving over South Maharashtra and the Konkan region, the state is likely to experience extremely heavy rainfall, exceeding 20.5 cm, in 24 hours. Thunder or lightning and strong wind, with speeds reaching up to 30-40kmph, are very likely over North and South Goa districts till October 16, IMD has said. An advisory has also been issued for fishermen against venturing into the sea. “Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off coast of Goa-Maharashtra and into East central Arabian sea from October 14 to 18.” the warning issued by IMD read. Continued and increased rainfall can affect areas vulnerable to weather-related disasters in the form of localised water logging, flooding, swelling of rivers, mudslides, rock falls et, IMD said, calling for the constant monitoring of vulnerable areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-showers-strong-wind-likely-today-imd/articleshow/78670290.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mumbai||Not harassing executive producer in Sushant Singh Rajput death case, says NCB||MUMBAI: The prosecution has opposed the bail plea of executive film producer Kshitij Prasad, arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The prosecution denied his claims that he was harassed into falsely implicating actors, including Ranbir Kapoor, and filmmaker Karan Johar. “In the applicant’s statements, there is no mention of Dino Morea, Arjun Rampal and Ranbir Kapoor. The allegation against NCB (Mumbai) officers is false, baseless and meant for media propaganda, and are mala fide in intention,” NCB said. The bail plea will be heard on Friday. Prasad had said he was coerced into making self-incriminating statements which he had later retracted. But the prosecution replied that he had given statements voluntarily. “While in NCB custody he was totally non-cooperative, adamant, arrogant and refused to sign statements given by him. He was trying to bargain hard for putting his signature on the statement in lieu of removal of section 27A of NDPS Act,” the reply said. The charge of illicit trafficking and harbouring of offenders under Section 27A attracts 10 to 20 years’ imprisonment and makes it tougher for an accused to secure bail. NCB submitted that Prasad was “part of a chain of drug dealers engaged in illicit traffic of drugs”.  “The applicant has purchased hashish/ganja from (jailed accused) Ankush Arneja. Arneja used to facilitate procurement of drugs from accused Anuj Keshwani. Hence, Prasad is part of a conspiracy for drug procurement and distribution with Arenja and co-accused persons,” NCB said. It said drugs, including commercial quantity LSD, were seized from Keshwani. “It is clear the case of commercial quantity and criminal conspiracy with others is clearly made out,” NCB said. The investigating agency also said that when Prasad’s house was searched a rolled joint, believed to be remains of smoked ganja, was found. Prasad said it was a cigarette. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-denies-harassing-producer-in-ssr-case/articleshow/78669068.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Agra||ED questions 4 men arrested on sedition charges in Mathura for 5 hours||AGRA: For five hours on Wednesday, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) team that has been in Mathura for three days questioned the four men who had been arrested when they were on their way to Hathras last week. The ED is investigating alleged “international” financial links of the men who face terror and sedition charges. The four men — journalist Siddique Kappan, civil services aspirant Masood Ahmed, PhD applicant Atikur Rehman and driver Aalam — have been detained at a temporary prison set up at Ratan Lal Phool Katori Devi Inter College, awaiting Covid-19 test results. The ED had sought permission from the chief judicial magistrate to question them on Monday, which came through on Tuesday. The Supreme Court, meanwhile, has advised the Kerala Union of Working Journalists to approach the Allahabad high court with a bail plea for the body’s Delhi unit secretary Kappan. The habeas corpus petition the union had filed has been adjourned. “The bail application is under process,” PK Manikandhan, former secretary of the union, told TOI. “The process has been delayed because police are not allowing the legal counsel to meet Kappan and take his signature on the vakalatnama, citing Covid-19.” The union has organised a candlelight vigil in Delhi on Thursday, seeking Kappan’s release. The Campus Front of India, PFI’s student wing, has launched an email campaign demanding release of all four. ED’s deputy director Vinay Kumar and two other members of the team visited the prison on Wednesday to question the men who, the police claim, are members of the Popular Front of India, an Islamic organisation banned in Kerala that UP had also tried to ban last year. A prison official said they will inform the court about the execution of the order allowing ED to question them. Asked if the ED team will be back, the official added, “A fresh permission will be required from the court to meet them again because they are in judicial custody.” Senior superintendent of Mathura district jail, Shailendra Maitrey, said the team spoke to the four men in the presence of doctors, all Covid-19 precautions in place. “All of them will be moved to the district jail soon.” There are 98 people lodged in the temporary jail, with 10 staying in a room each. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ed-questions-4-men-arrested-on-sedition-charges-in-mathura-for-5-hours/articleshow/78667286.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves employment plan 2020-22 to provide 1 lakh government jobs||CHANDIGARH: In a bid to fulfill the government’s promise of providing 1 lakh government jobs to the youth in the remaining term, The Punjab Council of Ministers, on Wednesday, approved the State Employment Plan 2020-22. This is meant to fill vacant posts in government departments, boards, corporations and agencies in a phased, time-bound manner. The cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, decided that recruitment will be conducted on central government pay scales, in line with the earlier cabinet decision to this effect. It has been decided to hold a state-level function presided over by the chief minister on Independence Day, 2021 for formal joining of selected candidates on government posts in the year, 2020-21. All departments will advertise their respective vacancies by October 31 to take the process of recruitment forward. In March, Amarinder announced that 50,000 direct quota vacant government posts would be filled in the financial year 2020-21 and another 50,000 posts would be filled in the 2021-22 fiscal as part of his flagship programme, “Ghar Ghar Rozgar.” According to the employment generation, skill development and training department, direct quota fillable vacant posts include Group A (3,959), Group B (8,717) and Group C (36,313). Interviews will not be required for recruitment to Group C posts. However, candidates selected on the basis of tests shall present themselves for counselling, to be organised by the department concerned for physical verification of candidates and their documents. All engineering posts at the level of junior engineer (JE) and above in all departments/boards/corporations/authorities shall be filled through Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) by organising a common exam. If certain posts are to be withdrawn from the purview of the Staff Selection Board or the PPSC, it would be done only under exceptional circumstances by following the established process. The departments had been asked to refer Group-A and Group-B fillable posts to PPSC for recruitment by October 31 and the recruitment process of these posts shall be completed by June 30, 2021. In the meantime, the employment generation, skill development and training department will collect fillable direct quota vacancies for 2021-22 from all the departments category-wise by June 30, 2021. All the departments whose vacancies are to be filled for the financial year 2021-22 will complete the process of advertisement regarding recruitment by October 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cabinet-approves-employment-plan-2020-22-to-provide-1-lakh-govt-jobs/articleshow/78670285.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Chandigarh||33% reservation to women in PCS direct recruitment||CHANDIGARH: The cabient also approved 33% reservation for women in the Punjab Civil Services (PCS) through direct recruitment. It approved the Punjab Civil Services (Reservation of Posts for Women) Rules, 2020, to provide such reservation for women for direct recruitment to posts in government, as well as recruitment to boards and corporations in Group A, B, C and D posts. Retiring doctors get 3-month extension The cabinet also gave nod to grant three months extension or re-employment to doctors and medical specialists from October 1. The decision has been taken as Covid cases in the state had been increasing and the state currently accounts for more than 1.25 lakh of the country’s nearly 72 lakh cases. Though recruitment of doctors and para-medical staff is on, this would take time and hence the state government has decided to continue availing the services of existing doctors and specialists. Staff nurses’ promotional quota reduced The council of ministers approved amendments to the Punjab Health and Family Welfare Technical (Group-C) Service Rules, 2016, to cut the prescribed promotional quota from 25% to 10% for the post of staff nurse, and reduce the sanctioned permanent 4,216 posts of staff nurse to 3,577. This will help provide jobs to eligible candidates through direct recruitment against vacant posts and 639 posts surrendered to the department of research and medical education. Recruit legal clerks in Punjab secretariat To pursue court cases in a timely manner, the cabinet approved amendment to the Punjab Civil Secretariat (State Services Class-III) Rules, 1976, to create clerk (legal) cadre for the Punjab Civil Secretariat. The recruitment will be done by taking 100 posts out of the general clerk cadre, thus ensuring no financial implications. The cabinet also gave a go-ahead to increase the quota reserved for promotion to clerk cadre from Class IV or Class III (whose scale of pay is less than that of clerk) from current 15% to 18%. PCS (executive branch) officers to get higher pay scale in 13 years The cabinet approved placement of all officers working in the PCS (executive branch) cadre in the higher pay scale of 37,400-67,000+8,700 (grade pay) on completion of 13 years of service, instead of 14. It also gave its nod to revoke the order dated July 8, 2003, with effect from December 6, 2008, regarding placement of PCS (executive branch) officers working against the first 90 posts of PCS cadre in the higher pay scale of 14300-18600 on completion of 12 years of service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/33-reservation-to-women-in-pcs-direct-recruitment/articleshow/78670291.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru city to have a dedicated impound yard||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police commissionerate limits will soon get a dedicated impound yard. This move comes after a delay in several years, due to the increasing load of seized and towed vehicles, which are usually junked at police stations or beside the road. According to the Mangaluru city traffic police, they have identified an acre of land near Padil, which will be dedicated as an impound yard. Currently, the city seizes or tows tens of vehicles every day from a dozen police stations, including from four traffic police limits. The piling up of seized or towed vehicles is eating up space, and also choking traffic near police stations. M A Nataraj, ACP (traffic) told TOI that the city lacks an impound yard compared to other cities which have dedicated ones. In Manglauru, both in law and order as well traffic stations, vehicles are parked outside the premises. Over the years, there is a big pile up of vehicles, and motorists have raised safety concerns. Further, a towing facility added another woe to park these towed vehicles. “The concern was raised during a recent meeting with the deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada. He has given a green signal to allot land near Padil under the Mangaluru South traffic police station limits,” he said. Earlier, the government had identified 1.5 acres near the APMC yard for an impound yard. The plan did not take off as it is far from the city. “The new identified place in Padil is close to the city and also convenient,” pointed out Nataraj. Several traffic policemen expressed that parking of towed vehicles is becoming a tedious job for them. “At times, there is no place to park police vehicles. Some owners get their vehicles a few days later. Till then it has to remain in the station premises,” said a traffic cop. Traffic police to clear defunct vehicles parked on road The Mangaluru city traffic police, after a recent accident, where a fish seller died after his vehicle rammed a stationary truck, are now doing a survey to clear such defunct or seized vehicles, parked beside the road in the city. Interestingly, the seized stone laden truck which was involved in the accident that killed the fish seller and caused two persons to get grievously injured, was parked beside a national highway at Bikarnakatte, three years ago. M A Nataraj said that the seized truck was cleared to be towed away from the spot, on the day of the accident. “We are also surveying for similar defunct or seized vehicles which pose a risk to motorists or pedestrians,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-city-to-have-a-dedicated-impound-yard/articleshow/78666232.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 15, 2020||Madurai||Thevar man killed over dispute on temple festival in Madurai||Madurai: Tension prevailed in Soolapuram village, around 23km away from Usilampatti, after a farmer belonging to the maravar community, a sub-sect of thevar, was found murdered in a farm on Tuesday night. Police said the deceased, S Chelladurai, 43, could have been murdered due to an ongoing dispute over conducting the Chellandiamman temple festival. They suspect the involvement of people from the scheduled caste pallar community in the killing. Police have booked 12 people from the community for murder. Chelladurai was on his way to Soolapuram from his farmhouse when he was attacked. Hundreds of people gathered around the body preventing police from shifting it to hospital for autopsy. The protesters cut down bushes and blocked the road to prevent vehicle movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thevar-man-killed-over-dispute-on-temple-festival-in-madurai/articleshow/78670917.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal girl to conquer Antarctic, selected for 2021 expedition||BHOPAL: City girl, Ishani Palandurkar, has been selected for the Antarctic expedition, which is scheduled to be organized in 2021. She will be a part of the 80-member Climate Force Antarctic Expedition 2021 squad, selected from across the globe. After completing school from Carmel Convent, BHEL, Bhopal in 2013, Ishani did her higher studies from Kirori Mal College, New Delhi, and later joined the field of environment. “Though I come from a commerce background, I found a greater scope to work in environment after completing my studies. I was associated with Leadership of Environment and Development, Centre for Advanced Research and Development (CARD) and Climate Reality project,” said the 25-year-old. She later came back to Bhopal and started working on different environment projects in the state capital. About the Antarctica expedition, Ishani said, “Sir Robert Swan, a renowned explorer, environmentalist, and the first person to have walked on both the poles, leads the initiative 2041 Climate Force that works extensively in developing leadership across the globe to encourage climate action and conserve Antarctica. Each year, he invites 80 people across the globe to join him on a 12-day expedition to Antarctica.” She added that the goal of the expedition is educating its participants on climate change through exploration and learning. “The expedition includes an extensive corporate program named ‘Leadership on the Edge’, proven and implemented in more than 23 expeditions in 15 years,” said Ishani. She added that Antarctica is truly the perfect setting for this expedition. “It is the most beautiful, untouched, and pristine location on the planet. It also contains 90% of the ice and 70% of the fresh water of the whole world. Therefore, we need to protect it. I am excited about the expedition,” said Ishani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-girl-to-conquer-antarctic-selected-for-2021-expedition/articleshow/78668870.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Bermo battle stirs up political heat as rival candidates start campaign||BOKARO: The Bermo assembly constituency turned into a political battleground on Wednesday, with both the mahagathbandhan and the NDA candidates filing their nominations and top state-level leaders of the rival camps descending in the constituency to campaign in favour of their nominees. Congress organised a rally at Jainamoad, while BJP held theirs at the Bokaro Thermal area. Addressing the Congress rally, chief minister Hemant Soren termed the erstwhile BJP government of Raghubar Das as “nalayak sarkar”, while Congress state president Rameshwar Oraon said that BJP harbours “napak” intention against labourers and farmers. At the Bokaro Thermal area rally, BJP state president Deepak Prakash branded the mahagathbandhan as “thugbandhan”. Prakash also hinted that if NDA wins the two seats, then they will dislodge the JMM-led government in the state. “I promise that we will change the government if you give us these two seats (Bermo and Dumka),” Prakash told the gathering. More than half a dozen MLAs, ministers and MPs were present at both the political functions. Ajsu Party Giridih MP Chandraprakash Chaudhary targeted Soren by alleging that corruption has reached its peak and illegal mining of sand and coal was rampant during the present dispensation. Whereas Soren said: “The BJP-led Union government is giving a step-motherly treatment to Jharkhand by not providing any help during the Covid-19 crisis.” There is a direct contest between BJP and Congress in the bye-election to the Bermo assembly seat, which fell vacant following the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Singh in May. Congress has fielded his son Kumar Jaimangal. After filing his nomination, Jaimangal said he will carry forward the work done by his father. He said that his father has worked in this assembly segment for the last 50 years. Jaimangal’s principal rival, BJP’s Yogeshwar Batul, said: “People are feeling cheated in the nine months of JMM-Congress government. Therefore, we are confident that in this election, the voters will repose their faith in us.” Both the NDA-backed BJP candidate Yogeshwar Batul and Kumar Jaimangal alias Anup Singh of the Congress (UPA) filed their nominations at the Bermo subdivision office in Tenughat on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bermo-battle-stirs-up-political-heat-as-rival-candidates-start-campaign/articleshow/78668869.cms||Divy Khare
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jurassic-era fossils used as deities in Sahibganj||KOLKATA: Days after the fossilised leaves from the lower Jurassic era were found at Rajmahal Hills, geologist Ranjit Kumar Singh has requested the Sahibganj district administration to convert the entire hill into a protected place. His request comes after he found similar fossils placed at puja corners in homes of the locals living in the vicinity. Speaking to TOI, Singh, an assistant professor at Sahibganj PG College, said, “Fossils can take us through the different ages the Earth has gone through. By studying them, we can understand how the planet was millions of years ago. When I saw people using these fossils into objects of faith and religion, I thought it should be brought to the notice of the administration and the practice be stopped immediately. I am not against religious practices, but studying these fossils will be better than to smear them with vermillion,” he said. Singh and his team, in collaboration with the Lucknow-based Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, have been searching for fossils on the hills under a project launched by the Union government’s science and technology department. The team found two fossilised leaves of the genus Ptilophylum, measuring 20cm by 5cm, on Dudhkhol hill in Taljhari area recently. More than people turning the fossils into deities, Singh is worried about rampant mining in the area. “Mining will not only affect the ecology of the area, but also ruin the fossils, erasing a large chunk of the Earth’s history,” Singh said. In his appeal to the administration, Singh asked them to stop mining in the area and convert the place into a tourist destination. “A museum of fossils can be built here. This will not only help the tourism sector, but also help those pursuing geology. The hills will also serve as a natural laboratory for students.” Singh also believes, a visit to the Rajmahal Hills will be like a “holy pilgrimage” for geologists. Earlier, Singh had said he will not be surprised if the team stumbles upon fossilised dinosaur eggs upon further excavation. “The leaves we found were consumed by herbivorous dinosaurs,” he said. Newly-appointed Sahibganj deputy commissioner Ramniwas Yadav said, “I am yet to receive the professor’s request, but we will definitely work upon it and ask the district forest officer to help. I will also speak with Singh and find out what can be done to protect the fossils at Rajmahal Hills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jurassic-era-fossils-used-as-deities-in-sahibganj/articleshow/78667950.cms||Utsav Basu
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Marandi says BJP will form govt in state after twin bypolls||DUMKA: BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi on Wednesday said his party will form the government in the state after the conclusion of bypolls to the Dumka and Bermo assembly seats. Speaking to reporters in the state sub-capital, Marandi said the delay over his appointment as the leader of opposition in the Jharkhand assembly does not have significance anymore. “The deadlock over the issue of leader of opposition does not hold significance any longer for me and for BJP at large. Instead, the formation of a new government will be on the anvil after the results of the two bypolls are announced,” Marandi said in reply to a question. Speaking along with Marandi, BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash had on Tuesday told the party functionaries that the results of the bypolls will be crucial towards its objective to replace the government with a new one spearheaded by BJP. “The only way to get rid of this government is to replace it,” Prakash had said. “In the Rajya Sabha election on June 19, the BJP candidate (Prakash) bagged 30 votes, just one lesser than what JMM candidate Shibu Soren managed to get. If this (the number of crossover votes that went to BJP) is taken into consideration, we will not be far from reaching the magic number (41) in the assembly to form a government on our own,” a senior BJP functionary said on condition of anonymity. BJP functionaries, who were in Dumka to attend Lois Marandi’s nomination, said several legislators from JMM and Congress camps are ready to crossover to BJP. If BJP wins in both the seats, their seat tally will rise to 27, just one less than JMM. JMM had won 30 seats in last year’s assembly elections, but the tally was reduced to 29 after CM Hemant Soren vacated the Dumka seat and retained Barhait. With Madhupur MLA and minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari dying due to a post-Covid cardiac arrest earlier this month, JMM now has 28 seats in the house. Meanwhile, Congress, a mahagathbandhan constituent, won 16 seats, but the number reduced to 15 after the death of Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh. The mahagathbandhan currently has 48 MLAs, seven more than the required figure. Two MLAs who won the polls on JVM-P tickets have joined Congress and the lone RJD MLA is a minister in the state cabinet. The lone MLAs from NCP and CPI-ML-L are also backing the mahagathbandhan. On the other hand, the BJP-led NDA has 30 MLAs, including two from Ajsu Party, and is eyeing two more win the bypolls. Asked if BJP will bring a no confidence motion against the government anytime soon, Marandi said, “Everything will be clear at the right time.” BJP’s national leadership is also keenly watching the developments in the state, party sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/marandi-bjp-will-form-govt-in-state-after-twin-bypolls/articleshow/78669193.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: 6 deaths take Cov toll to 811, cases near 95k-mark||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported six Covid deaths, 633 new infections and 1053 recoveries on Wednesday, the cumulative case of Jharkhand to 94,639 cases. Of these, 7,191 are active cases, 86,367 have recovered and 811 have died. Among the casualties on Wednesday, Ranchi and Dhanbad reported two deaths each while East and West Singhbhum reported one each. On Wednesday, 2.33% the 27,063 samples tested returned a positive result.Ranchi accounted for almost 42% of the new cases as the capital continued to report a three-figure rise in fresh infections with 263 cases. East Singhbhum was second on the list with 59 cases reported on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-deaths-take-cov-toll-to-811-cases-near-95k-mark/articleshow/78669153.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: 14-yr-old rape survivor’s uncle, 2 others booked for thrashing accused||GUMLA: Three men, including a rape survivor’s uncle, were booked on Wednesday for thrashing five men accused of gang-raping a 14-year-old girl under Chainpur police station on Saturday. Three of the five accused are minors. On Saturday, the girl, a resident of Harra Dipa village, did not return and stayed at an empty house in the village where the five — Ilyas Minz (25), Subhash Baraik (26) and three minors — gangraped her. The girl returned home the next day and narrated her ordeal to her parents. Officer in-charge of Chainpur police station Sudama Ram said the survivor had visited Ilyas on Saturday evening to bring back a bluetooth speaker which the later had taken from her a few days ago. “When the survivor visited Ilyas, the minor arrived at the spot along with Subhash and two other minors and forcibly took the girl to a desolate place around 7 pm where they took turns to rape her,” he said. Meanwhile, Ilyas and one of the minor accused reached the girl’s house and asked her family members to not complain to the police and threatened them of dire consequences. After Gopal Baraik, the girl’s uncle, came home and learnt about the threat, he informed Govind Baraik and Tulsi Baraik and reached the accused’s home with sticks and axes. After a brief verbal exchange, the three thrashed Ilyas and the minor. After police were informed, they took the five accused in custody and admitted Ilyas and the minor to the community health centre. Ram said, “Two of the rape accused were arrested while the three minors were detained. Ilyas and the minor were taken to Chainpur CHC, from where the minor was referred to Gumla sadar hospital on Wednesday.” Ram said a case against the five accused has been lodged under sections of the IPC and POCSO Act while another has been lodged against the girl’s uncle and two others under Section 326 of the IPC. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/14-yr-old-rape-survivors-uncle-2-others-booked-for-thrashing-accused/articleshow/78669421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Preps nearly over, big-budget puja committees unable to follow SOPs||JAMSHEDPUR: The big-budget Durga Puja committees in Adityapur are fuming at the state government for issuing the guidelines — some of which are “impractical” — at the “eleventh hour when most of their preparations are done”. Some organisers like S Type and Singhbhum Boys Cricket Club held a meeting on Tuesday where they have decided not to adhere to the guidelines unless the government modifies them. Besides defying the rules, they have even threatened to launch an agitation, along with the devotees, if the guidelines are not altered. S Type puja committee president Bablu Singh said, “We have no issues following rules like using sanitisers, wearing masks and allowing only a limited number of devotees inside the pandal. But how can the government expect us to follow rules like constructing only 4ft-tall idols when we have already placed orders months ago. Most of the idols are nearing completion and it is impossible to change the measurements now.” He further said, “Even constructing open pandals (as per the guidelines) now is a problem since most of them are ready and we just have a few days left before the puja begins.” Maa Bhawani Youth Club president Ambuj Kumar echoed Singh’s views and said construction of the idols is almost done and only 30% of the work is left. “We started preparing for puja three months ago and it is not possible to follow such impractical guidelines now,” Kumar said. He added that either the administration imposes a blanket ban on organising public pujas this year or allow it to take place like before. “The administration has no right to toy with the religious sentiments of the devotees,” he said. Jai Ram Sporting Club, another big-budget puja committee in Adityapur, had decided months ago to construct its usual-sized idols and a theme-based pandal and they will not compromise on that, said club chief and former MLA Malkhan Singh. “Our volunteers will ensure social distancing norm is followed but there will no changes made to the idols’ size,” Singh said. An administrative official preferring anonymity said action will be taken against the violators at the right time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/preps-nearly-over-big-budget-puja-committees-unable-to-follow-sops/articleshow/78669009.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Rims OKs 184 grade 3, 4 appointments||RANCHI: Putting an end to all speculations over some controversial agendas being put up in the 49th governing body meeting of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Wednesday, chairman-cum-state health minister Banna Gupta said the three-hour-long meeting concluded with 23 out of 35 points being approved by the general body. For instance, on Monday the hospital authorities had raised a few eyebrows when they said they would a buy a vehicle from the hospital’s fund as a gift for Banna. However, Banna refuted such speculations while speaking to media persons after the meeting and said, “I haven’t asked any official to purchase a vehicle for me from the hospital resources and that was the first agenda which was dropped in today’s meeting. We have sanctioned the purchase of a van and a mini-bus for the blood bank and for the students respectively, besides an official vehicle for the dean.” “I am only concerned about providing the best patient care and improving the hospital’s services,” said Banna Gupta, adding, “A total of 35 agendas were brought before the governing body, of which 23 were approved and 12 dropped.” The governing body has approved the appointment of 184 grade three and grade four staff to overcome the manpower crisis at the state-run hospital. “We have confirmed the appointment of 25 lab and 16 operation theatre technicians, along with 145 grade four support staff. I have asked the director to ensure their joining at the earliest as Rims is facing a staff crunch,” Banna said.  It was also decided in the meeting to provide healthcare facilities to all its employees and gave its assent for purchasing equipment through the GEM portal for the hospital. The health minister further said, “We have also approved the appointment of a consultant who will study the hospital’s architecture, make a note of its shortcomings and submit a plan for rectifying them.” The governing body has agreed to improve the hospital’s infrastructure for the benefit of the patients visiting the tertiary care centre. It has also approved a proposal to strengthen the infrastructure and the facilities being provided at central emergency and the new trauma centre. “The current central emergency will be refurbished and we will equip it with all kinds of facilities. The proposed pathological and radiological departments at the new trauma centre will be set up at the earliest to develop the centre along the lines of the one in AIIMS, New Delhi,” he said. When asked about the appointment of the nursing staff, Banna said, “The previous advertisement for the appointment of 362 nursing staff has been cancelled by the governing body as there were problems related to roster clearance. We have asked the director to issue a new advertisement for appointing 370 nurses.” When enquired about the proposed appointment of a contractual lab technician by relaxation of the eligibility norms since the person concerned is not qualified for the position and delaying the joining of an assistant professor by more than six months after terming his appointment as faulty, Banna said, “Both these agendas have been dropped from today’s meeting after speaking to all the members of the governing body. I have asked the officials concerned to be extremely careful while preparing agendas for the GB meeting. If it comes to my notice that the scrutiny and selection committee members have made a mistake in the selection process, they will be asked for a clarification.” Meanwhile, Ranchi MP and governing body member Sanjay Seth raised doubts on the functioning of the hospital’s officials. He said: “I am wonder how the officials are going to run the hospital when the management has changed the agendas thrice in the last four days. I mentioned in the meeting that except all unavoidable agendas, the rest must be deferred until the new director takes over.” Meanwhile, earlier in the day, BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo turned up at the administrative building to attend the meeting despite his invitation being cancelled at the last minute on Tuesday night. Needless to say, he was not allowed to attend the meeting and was asked vacate the premises. An exasperated Pratul, “I was nominated by Ranchi University’s VC to attend the meeting in his absence and the manner in which my invitation was revoked shows that the health minister isn’t happy with my presence and is trying to hide things.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-oks-184-grade-3-4-appointments/articleshow/78668932.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi admin to launch job-hunt app this month||RANCHI: The Ranchi district administration will soon launch a mobile application to aid job-seekers with employment both within the state capital and outside. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said Apna App will be launched on October 27. The district administration on Monday has formally signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a private placement agency — Apna Time Tech Private Limited — for the app. Ranjan said, “The pandemic coupled with a lockdown led to depletion of job opportunities after many focussed on cutting costs to sustain in their businesses. While the government is working on various measures to put economy back on track, from our end, the district administration is walking the extra mile to facilitate job-seekers proper links to find the right kind of work.” He added that the app will be available for android/ios phones through Google play store. “The district employment exchange will be working closely with this firm to take this mission ahead,” said Ranjan, adding that all job-seekers will have to first get registered through the app to avail the services. “After we launch the app, we have decided to run a 20-day special placement drive across the district. We have also asked the agency to train employment exchange officials as well as those at the block levels on how to effectively handle the app for better results,” he said, adding that the district administration will keep a daily tab on the process for necessary intervention. On the availability of jobs in the present scenario, business head of Apna Time, Pranay Mehrotra said, “Our surveys indicate that Ranchi alone has around 2,000 across different sectors. In other places too, jobs exist for those who have the right skills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-to-launch-job-hunt-app-this-mnth/articleshow/78667863.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Left parties march to Guv house, submit memorandum||RANCHI: Left parties, including CPI, CPI(ML) CPI(M) and the Marxist Coordination Committee, on Wednesday staged a march to the Raj Bhavan to oppose various central government policies, especially the recently-approved farm laws. They also demanded an all party meeting at the state level to discuss issues such as food security, land issues and problems of MGNREGA. Addressing the gathering, state secretary of CPI(ML) Janardhan Prasad said, “The farm laws are death warrants for the farmers. The changes in law will turn capitalists into new landlords in the agriculture sector while farmers will become contractual workers.” The parties also demanded immediate withdrawal of the farm laws, dropping of the amendment in the labour laws, cancellation of commercial mining, a stop on privatisation of important public sector undertakings and transfer of Rs 7,500 from the PM-Cares fund to the accounts of all who fall out of the income tax limit. The parties also asked the state government to improve its public health system and stress on making Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences better. After the procession, a memorandum was submitted to the governor expressing hope that the latter would forward the suggestions to the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/left-parties-march-to-guv-house-submit-memorandum/articleshow/78669490.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Four minors sent to JJB for raping, killing 13-year-old||DUMKA: Police in Sahibganj said on Wednesday that they have held all the four minors accused of gang raping and murdering a 13-year-old tribal girl in a village under Ranga police station area. SP Anuranjan Kispotta said the accused have been handed over to the Juvenile Justice Board. “The girl’s body was sent to the Patliputra Medical College and Hospital in Dhanbad for an autopsy after it was exhumed from the grave,” he said, adding that all the accused have confessed to the crime. The victim’s body was buried by her parents on October 10 after it was found abandoned near an under-construction building. The crime triggered widespread resentment among the locals.  “I have ordered a probe to be conducted by the sub-divisional police officer of Barharwa on the role of the Ranga Police Station. There are reports that the local police station refused to lodge an FIR relating to the girl’s death,” the SP added. The girl was reportedly intercepted by the five minors on October 9 when she and a friend were on their way home from Taljhari village. The girl’s friend managed to escape and has identified the minors involved in the crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-minors-sent-to-jjb-for-raping-killing-13-year-old/articleshow/78669301.cms||---
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: 90-year-old super-dadi is state’s ‘oldest’ Cov survivor||RANCHI: A 90-year old woman was discharged from a private hospital in Ranchi on Wednesday afternoon, nine days after she was tested positive for Covid-19. In all likelihood, Bela Samanta is the oldest person to have recovered from the illness in Jharkhand. Samanta, mother of four and grandmother to six, was upbeat as she left Bhagwan Mahaveer Medica Superspecialty Hospital and expressed her gratitude to the healthcare staff. “I am happy with the treatment and care provided to me. I was a bit nervous because I am hypertensive, but my confidence returned with the way they looked after me,” said Samanta. During her time time at the hospital, she was in ICU for two days. Samanta, a resident of Burdman Compound in Lalpur, has lived in Ranchi since the 1970s and chose not to leave the city even after she lost her husband in 2000 and all her children settled in various parts of the country. She lives here with a domestic help and a few members of her extended family live in the vicinity. Her family members said she still makes it a point to visit a coffee shop in her neighbourhood at least once a week, due to which her grandchildren often refer to her as “super dadi”. When her test result returned positive, her family managed to get her shifted to the hospital. Her son Surojit Samanta son said, “I live in New Delhi and the doctors advised us against travelling to Ranchi. Friends and some family members helped us get her admitted to the hospital on October 6.” Medica Hospital medical director Dr Vijay Mishra, who was treating her, said: “She has a history of hypertension and gastro-intestinal ailments. After a CT scan, we diagnosed her with moderate Covid pneumonia. She was shifted to ICU and was on non-invasive ventilation support, but she recovered very quickly and was shifted to a room after two days.” Mishra added: “When I asked her how she was feeling at the time of discharge; she said that she does not want to spend any more time in hospital and will be going home soon. It is very hard to find such enthusiasm in a Covid patient of this age. She is special for all of us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/90-year-old-super-dadi-is-states-oldest-cov-survivor/articleshow/78669369.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jurassic-era fossils used as deities in Sahibganj||Kolkata: Days after the fossilised leaves from the lower Jurassic era were found at Rajmahal Hills, geologist Ranjit Kumar Singh has requested the Sahibganj district administration to convert the entire hill into a protected place. His request comes after he found similar fossils placed at puja corners in homes of the locals living in the vicinity. Speaking to TOI, Singh, an assistant professor at Sahibganj PG College, said, “Fossils can take us through the different ages the Earth has gone through. By studying them, we can understand how the planet was millions of years ago. When I saw people using these fossils into objects of faith and religion, I thought it should be brought to the notice of the administration and the practice be stopped immediately. I am not against religious practices, but studying these fossils will be better than to smear them with vermillion,” he said. Singh and his team, in collaboration with the Lucknow-based Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, have been searching for fossils on the hills under a project launched by the Union government’s science and technology department. The team found two fossilised leavesof the genus Ptilophylum, measuring 20cm by 5cm, on Dudhkhol hill in Taljhari area recently. More than people turning the fossils into deities, Singh is worried about rampant mining in the area. “Mining will not only affect the ecology of the area, but also ruin the fossils, erasing a large chunk of the Earth’s history,” Singh said. In his appeal to the administration, Singh asked them to stop mining in the area and convert the place into a tourist destination. “A museum of fossils can be built here. This will not only help the tourism sector, but also help those pursuing geology. The hills will also serve as a natural laboratory for students.” Singh also believes, a visit to the Rajmahal Hills will be like a “holy pilgrimage” for geologists. Earlier, Singh had said he will not be surprised if the team stumbles upon fossilised dinosaur eggs upon further excavation. “The leaves we found were consumed by herbivorous dinosaurs,” he said. Newly-appointed Sahibganj deputy commissioner Ramniwas Yadav said, “I am yet to receive the professor’s request, but we will definitely work upon it and ask the district forest officer to help. I will also speak with Singh and find out what can be done to protect the fossils at Rajmahal Hills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jurassic-era-fossils-used-as-deities-in-sahibganj/articleshow/78669003.cms||Utsav Basu
