October 16, 2020||India||With an eye on China, India hands over submarine to Myanmar||NEW DELHI: In a major move that comes amidst the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh, India has handed over one of its diesel-electric submarines to Myanmar to counter China’s strategic inroads in the region. Myanmar has commissioned the 3,000-tonne submarine INS Sindhuvir, rechristening it UMS Min Ye Thein Kha Thu, and even deployed it during the country’s “Bandoola” fleet exercise, which was inspected by commander-in-chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing on Thursday. TOI in December last year had reported that all decks had been cleared for Myanmar to commission INS Sindhuvir, with its sailors set to train in the complex art underwater combat operations on the submarine from March-April onwards this year. The external affairs ministry on Thursday officially announced the decision to deliver INS Sindhuvir to Myanmar. The Russian-origin submarine is 31 years old but underwent an extensive refit and modernization upgrade at the Hindustan Shipyard Limited in Visakhapatnam last year. “Cooperation in the maritime domain is a part of our diverse and enhanced engagement with Myanmar. This is in accordance with our vision of SAGAR – Security and Growth for All in the Region, and also in line with our commitment to build capacities and self-reliance in all our neighbouring countries,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The announcement came after Army Chief General M M Naravane and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla visited Myanmar on October 4-5. India has already supplied a wide variety of military hardware and software to Myanmar, which ranges from Islander maritime patrol aircraft, naval gun-boats, light-weight torpedoes and radars to 105mm light artillery guns, mortars, night-vision devices, grenade-launchers and rifles, as earlier reported by TOI. The submarine transfer is significant in the backdrop of China supplying two Ming-class diesel-electric submarines to Bangladesh in 2016. It will also deliver a Yuan-class submarine to Thailand in 2023, with two more to follow. China, of course, is also going to supply Pakistan with eight Yuan-class diesel-electric submarines with air-independent propulsion for greater underwater endurance, four Type-054A multi-role stealth frigates and other naval platforms and weapons under deals worth over $7 billion from next year onwards. India, of course, cannot match China, both in terms of economic muscle as well as a strong domestic defence production base. But New Delhi has slowly and steadily cranked up military ties with countries like Myanmar, which is the only ASEAN country with which India shares a 1,643-km land as well as a maritime border. India now also regularly holds exercises, coordinated naval patrols and service-to-service staff talks with Myanmar. The Indian Navy has also been training Myanmar’s sailors at its submarine school INS Satavahana at Vizag as well as sending “mobile training teams” to Yangon for the last couple of years. The armies from the two countries have also worked closely to smash several insurgent operating bases and apprehended dozens of militants along their borders under “Operation Sunrise” since January this year, as earlier reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-an-eye-on-china-india-hands-over-submarine-to-myanmar/articleshow/78689336.cms||Rajat Pandit
October 16, 2020||Business||Indian companies may get nod to list in 7 countries||NEW DELHI: Paving the way for a global listing by the likes of Reliance Jio, LIC and Indian start-ups, the government is set to notify seven countries and the Gujarat International Finance-Tec (GIFT) City where these companies can go public, while easing several norms to facilitate the process. The ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) and the department of economic affairs have agreed to do away with the contentious clause of dual listing, which required a company to list in India as well as overseas. As a result, a company can directly list in one of the seven markets including – the US, the UK and Japan. While the list will be expanded later, Hong Kong is notable exclusion and comes in the midst of India’s border tension with China. Several companies have opted to list in Hong Kong, which is a financial hub in the region. Exchanges operating in the International Financial Centre at GIFT City, which have tie-ups with overseas bourses, can facilitate the stock being traded abroad as well, sources told TOI. For instance, if NSE or BSE ties up with SGX, it can help share of an Indian company to be traded on the exchange in the GIFT City as well as Singapore. “It will really help start-ups which may not be profitable but are looking to raise money and list at a premium,” said a market player. Allowing global listing of Indian entities is seen as a major change in government stance as policy makers were earlier wary of letting companies tap global capital markets directly. As a first step the Modi administration has amended the Companies Act, which will be followed by umbrella guidelines by the finance ministry and rules for unlisted companies by MCA and those for listed entities by Sebi. The revenue department is separately going to address the tax issues as the government is seeking to ensure the first listing by an Indian entity in the early part of next year. To facilitate global listing, the government will prescribe norms in a way that the company has to be either profitable, or report operating profits during the preceding three years or should have paid-up capital, funds in the security premium account and tangible and intangible assets above a specified value. Besides, the proposal piloted by MCA, is also expected to ensure that there is no insistence on premium listing on foreign exchanges and a standard listing will do. Sources said the ministry has already held discussions with investment bankers, Indian companies as well as bodies such as US-India Business Council. Buoyed by the amendment, foreign exchanges are courting Indian companies as well as the government to list some of the companies abroad in what will be seen as a powerful message that India is open to doing business with the world. In recent years, several Chinese companies have listed abroad. Watch Indian companies may get nod to list in 7 countries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-companies-may-get-nod-to-list-in-7-countries/articleshow/78689690.cms||Sidhartha
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Cartist Festival 2020 to pay tribute to Covid frontliners, to also highlight climate change||The Cartist Festival 2020 is all set to showcase its digital avatar. The virtual event which will be held from November 27 to 29 will have a special focus on Covid frontline workers and will be more of a tribute to the doctors. The annual event highlights current topics/issues through automobile art and moving art culture. As per the programme detail release, special art car installation 'Future is now', created by junk car, will be dedicated to the doctors who lost their lives in Rajasthan due to Covid-19. While workshops, installations, live painting, music and virtual art exhibition will remain key attractions of the event, the issue of climate change will also be highlighted through the event. The theme of the festival this year is sustainability. A range of activities are planned for all these days and the event will convene artists, designers, automobile experts, students from multiple institutes, etc on a common platform to share and discuss art, inspirations and others. According to the organiser Himanshu Jangid, as part of our virtual event lineup, there will be various workshops. These workshops are beyond theoretical aspects and will provide an experiential learning opportunity for people to adapt to a sustainable lifestyle and learn more about dying art and automobile art and design. Few workshops planned are 'Beyond Green' by Ritu Dua, 'Upcycle the toy world' by Vaishali khude-kagde, 'Calligraphy: Play with words' by Shipra Rohatgi, 'Street Typography' by Akhlaq Ahmed, 'Madhubani Art' by Abdhesh karn , 'Gond Art' by Venkat Raman, 'Know your paper' by Spriha, 'Art of Upcycling' by Meenakshi Sharma. The art car installation created by junk Car 'Future is now' is an automobile art piece by Cartist. It will draw attention to the seriousness of Covid 19 and climate change globally. The artwork will also honour the sacrifices of doctors who lost their lives in the pandemic in Rajasthan. The artwork will depict portraits of doctors who gave their lives while serving mankind (Dr SL Tolani of Jaipur, Dr Rashmi Sapra of Alwar, Dr KC Garg of Jodhpur, Dr Akbar Ali of Rangwala Kota, Dr Ajay Sharma). Himanshu added, "If one pandemic can destroy economies, disturb life, then it is a signal we need to rethink and start living sustainably." The organisers are also looking to help artists who have suffered a lot due to pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cartist-festival-2020-to-pay-tribute-to-covid-frontliners-to-also-highlight-climate-change/articleshow/78689729.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||In Farooq’s courtyard, Gupkar reunion sets J&K spl status as goal||SRINAGAR: The Farooq Abdullah-led National Conference on Thursday cobbled together a formal seven-party conglomerate called the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, including Mehbooba Mufti's PDP and Congress, to fight for the restoration of J&K's special status. All the parties in the alliance are the original signatories to the 2019 declaration initiated by NC at Farooq's Gupkar Road residence to resist the Centre's move to nullify Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution. The birth of a non-BJP alliance to campaign for a return to what J&K was before August 5, 2019, comes within 48 hours of the administration releasing former CM Mehbooba from 14 months of detention, the second half of which was under the stringent Public Safety Act. Farooq and his son Omar Abdullah, also former CMs, had visited Mehbooba at her residence in Srinagar on Wednesday to invite her to Thursday's meeting at the NC chief and Srinagar MP's private residence. J&K PCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir was the only one to miss the meeting because of a medical emergency. Besides Mehbooba, CPM state secretary Yousuf Tarigam, Sajjad Lone of the J&K People's Conference, Awami National Conference representative Muzaffar Shah and Javed Mustafa Mir of the J&K People's Movement were part of the Gupkar reunion. Soon after the meeting, Farooq told reporters that the People's Alliance would pick up from where the Gupkar Declaration signatories had left off under extraordinary circumstances last year. "We decided to name the resolution as People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration to make it clear what our goal is. Our motive is to fight for the restoration of J&K's position till August 4, 2019," he said, flanked by Mehbooba and Omar. Farooq said the campaign wasn't just about J&K's erstwhile status as a state, but also the "rights that were snatched" from the people of the Valley and Ladakh. "We also want steps to be taken for the resolution of the Kashmir issue with all the stakeholders on board." Countering speculation about the alliance being a common political springboard for the Abdullahs and Muftis, Mehbooba tweeted later in the day, "Beg to differ....The greatest disservice would be reducing it to PDP/NC or two political families." The date for the next meeting of the alliance is yet to be decided. Farooq said all the decisions taken by the constituents and the way forward would be made public on the day of the meeting. Watch Leaders gather at Farooq Abdullah's residence for Gupkar meeting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-farooqs-courtyard-gupkar-reunion-sets-jk-spl-status-as-goal/articleshow/78689936.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 16, 2020||India||TRP scam: News channel ratings paused for 3 months||Exactly a week after Mumbai police announced it had busted a scam to manipulate TRP ratings and boost advertising revenues by Republic TV and two Marathi channels, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on Thursday paused its weekly rating for all news channels for the next three months. In a statement, BARC said the period would be used to bring the ratings system to global standards and discourage “unlawful inducement of its panel home viewers”. It said it would “review and augment the current standards of measuring and reporting the data of niche genres to improve statistical robustness and significantly hamper potential attempts to infiltrate panel homes”. TRP system flawed, needs to be overhauled: Editors Guild secyThe police have already arrested five persons it alleges were involved in a racket to bribe households with bar-o-meters to keep the three channels switched on so as to fraudulently show higher viewership. The News Broadcasters Association said the suspension period should “be utilised to implement important reforms at BARC”. “The corrupted, compromised, irrationally fluctuating data is creating a false narrative on What India Watches,” Rajat Sharma said. BARC’s exercise to review and rectify will extend to all English, Hindi, regional and business news channels. It will, however, continue to release weekly audience estimates for news by state and language. “Starting with the news genre, BARC will stop declaring individual channel ratings for news channels while this reworking of the rule sets is being done. This exercise will take around 8-12 weeks, including validation and testing under the supervision of the Tech Committee,” BARC said. NBA’s Sharma said in a statement, “Recent revelations have brought disrepute to the measurement agency and by extension the broadcast news media. The corrupted, compromised, irrationally fluctuating data is creating a false narrative on What India Watches and has been putting pressure on our members to take editorial calls that run counter to the journalistic values and ideals of journalism.” “The earlier (system of calculating TRPs) was imperfect and flawed, and needed to be overhauled a long time ago,” said A K Bhattacharya, secretary, Editors Guild of India. He said the possibility of manipulation existed in the earlier system, but the bigger problem was that the sample size of judging any viewership trend in the earlier system was too small to arrive at any meaningful inference about viewership habits. He also suggested that the number of meters in homes that calculate TRPs should be increased from the current 44,000. “The TRAI targets of 1,00,000 meters are also too modest in a TV home universe of 193 million. While increasing the meters to a substantially higher level, technology too should be harnessed. There is no reason why the viewership days available from 70 million DTH subscribers cannot be used by the new rating system... So, an ideal solution would be to use viewership trends available from DTH subscribers, and a higher number of meters installed in non-DTH homes,” he added. The TRP scam has sent shockwaves through the media, advertising and corporate sectors. Two major companies, Bajaj and Parle-G, have announced they will not run advertisements on toxic news channels that stoke hatred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-news-channel-ratings-paused-for-3-months/articleshow/78690237.cms||Swati Mathur
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||#UnlockingTheatres: First day first show with Koneenica!||With her little baby, Antahkarana, and elderly parents, Koneenica Bandyopadhyay had to resist her urge to step out in the midst of the pandemic. But when the theatres opened their doors finally on Thursday, she could not stop herself. Clad in a fuchsia anti-fit kaftan and complementing pink mask, the actress was spotted at Inox Swabhumi at 10 am to catch the first show after the complete shutdown for months. “It is like a whiff of fresh air, like oxygen. I was waiting forever for the cinema halls to start operation. Every time there was a possibility, my heart gave a thump. But then it got deferred. And finally, the wait is over,” she told us as she approached the ticket counter. Getting into the theatres is a long process in the new normal. There are no physical tickets. Koneenica shared her mobile number and the e-ticket was sent through a text message. The staff at the ticket counter also insisted on e-payment. “Cash is the last option if all other modes fail,” said the personnel. Then there was thermal screening, sanitisation and frisking before entering the building. The first show that started at 10:15 am screened Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan. As Koneenica walked towards the popcorn counter, she quipped. “It is a film that I watched before. But who cares!” With a bucket full of popcorn that came in a covered tub, she settled into her seat. Following the SOP, every second seat is now blocked so that physical distancing is strictly maintained. The Ayushmann Khurrana film had Koneenica a tad emotional. “It is not the film. I’ve watched it multiple times. But in these dark days, I had almost lost the faith that I could ever get back to the normal life. Today is a day of restoring that lost faith. I am so happy that theatre halls are back to business. I am happy that I could step out just to watch a film and I am happy because there is a queue of new films waiting to be released. This is the life that I lived all my life. Today is a happy day,” she said as she left for a shoot with her daughter. The #NewNormal film outingMasks mandatory, PPE kits available for purchase Digital payments are encouraged Floor markers to maintain physical distancing Adjacent seats will be left vacant, not exceeding 50% occupancy in the auditorium Use of the Aarogya Setu app encouraged Designated bins for disposing of used masks, gloves etc Temperature check mandatory, only asymptomatic individuals allowed Provision for hand wash and sanitisers. Six-feet distance to be maintained in the premise outside auditoria There is a 20% enhancement of fresh air. Auditoriums are disinfected and sanitized after every show. Ticket prices now flat Rs 79 on weekdays and weekends till further notice. Food available at the counter. There is no seat service available in the auditorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unlockingtheatres-first-day-first-show-with-koneenica/articleshow/78690340.cms||Ruman Ganguly
October 16, 2020||Business||After TV sets & tyres, govt bans AC imports||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday banned the import of air conditioners in its latest bid to boost domestic production by checking the entry of “non-essential” goods into the country. A notification issued by the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) moved split and “other” ACs with refrigerants into the “prohibited” category from the “free” list. They join the list of products such as tyres, TVs sets and agarbattis where import restrictions have been imposed. While this means that an imported can’t fill refrigerant or gas outside and bring into the country, in reality it translates into a ban. ACs have been identified as potential items for focus on domestic manufacturing as components are imported in large quantities. The domestic market is said to be worth $5-6 billion with a large chunk of ACs being imported into the country. Separately, depending on the segment, 85-100% of the components, where the market is estimated to be around $2 billion, are imported. As part of the plan prepared for the commerce and industry ministry by a group of CEOs led by Mahindra Group’s Pawan Goenka, a duty hike and reworking of the trade agreement with Thailand had been proposed. As reported by TOI on June 3, import restrictions and support to domestic industry were part of the plan to turn India into a hub for manufacturing. On June 30, TOI had reported that rising tension with China was also prompting the government to evaluate licensing of some imports including those of ACs. Watch To encourage domestic manufacturing, govt bans AC imports||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-tv-sets-tyres-govt-bans-ac-imports/articleshow/78690471.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||Bhanu Athaiya, India’s first Oscar winner, passes away||Bhanu Rajopadhye Athaiya, a colossus of costume design who became India’s first Oscar winner for her work in Richard Attenborough’s, Gandhi (1982), and whose chic couture in blockbusters like Waqt (1965) blazed fashion trends, passed away in Mumbai on Thursday. She was 91. Her daughter Radhika Gupta told TOI on phone that Athayiya died in her sleep. “In 2012, she was diagnosed with a brain tumour. She had been bedridden since 2016 when her right side got paralysed,” she said. She was cremated at Chandanwadi in south Mumbai. In the foreword to her autobiography, The Art of Costume Design (2010), Attenborough described her as “the revered doyenne of costume designers.” It took me “17 long years to set up Gandhi, my dream film” and just 15 minutes to make up my mind that Bhanu Athaiya was the right person (for the job),” he wrote. The Kolhapur-born costume designer’s career, spanning 56 years and over 100 films, reads like a catalogue of Bollywood’s best and biggest: Shri 420, Sahib Biwi aur Ghulam, Sangam, Guide, Waqt, Ek Duuje Ke Liye, Nikaah, Lagaan. “According to Yashji (Yash Chopra), girls in Delhi bought movie tickets for their tailors so that could see the designs and replicate them,” wrote Athaiya, was married to film lyricist Satyendra (Anhonee, Naubahar, Radha Krishna), who passed away in 2004. It is both sad and shameful that Athaiya didn’t even receive the Padma Shri. “Being a proud Indian, she was very disappointed that her own country didn’t recognize her,” Gupta said. Athaiya’s work reflects her versatility, her ability to painstakingly authenticate any period or people. For Lagaan, she framed the 19th century colonial India’s look. Always eager to learn and forever inquisitive, she was dedicated to her work. On Guru Dutt's advice, she visited Calcutta's old mansions for Sahib, Bibi aur Ghulam and travelled to desert Rajasthan for Sunil Dutt's Reshma aur Shera. Athaiya’s father was a self-taught artist. Books on Leonardo Da Vinci, Rembrandt and other European painters lay scattered in her home. "They were my comic books," she told this reporter in an interview in 2010. Her arts teacher noticed her gift for painting. She earned her diploma and a gold medal at JJ School of Arts in 1952. She also exhibited her paintings alongside FN Souza, MF Husain and SH Raza. But slowly she moved away from painting, started working as an illustrator in fashion magazines and then starting her own boutique. That's where she met heroine Kamini Kaushal and launched into designing outfits for movies beginning 1953 (Shahenshah and Aas). What made her stand out was her meticulousness and attention to detail. For Gandhi, "I went to as many museums and libraries as I could, gathered photographs which helped me reproduce what the script demanded," she once said. Attenborough “was astounded by the amount of detailed research she had undertaken” and the way “she had pieced together and brought alive the historic journey to be undertaken by the script’s main characters.” In 2012, this reporter spoke to her again, this time on the phone. It was about returning the Oscar. The statuette was couriered in a special container to its original owner, the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences, Los Angeles. “It was a burden. I wanted the trophy to be safe in future and in the right hands,” she said over the phone. In an emailed press release she further explained, “If Tagore’s Nobel medal could be stolen, what is the guarantee my trophy would be safe? In India, no one values such things and we lack a tradition of maintaining our heritage and things pertaining to our culture. ” Watch India's first Oscar winner Bhanu Athaiya passes away at 91||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bhanu-athaiya-indias-first-oscar-winner-passes-away/articleshow/78690573.cms||Avijit Ghosh
October 16, 2020||Goa||Goans unite in London to form football club of their own||PANAJI: You can take a footballer out of Goa, but you can never take football out of a Goan. Goan footballers who have emigrated to United Kingdom after obtaining Portuguese passports have now got together to form a football club of their own, not surprisingly called Goan United FC. They will make their debut against North London FC reserves in the Cherry Red Books Middlesex County Football League on Saturday. The 12-team Cherry Red Books Middlesex County Football League is the ninth tier of English football, championed by the Premier League at the top. The team with half of its 26 registered players having experience of playing in the top-tiers in India believes they won’t stay there for long. “We want to keep Goa’s tradition alive. We have so many good Goan footballers and we can make good progress. It was natural for all of us to come together and start playing organised football again,” said former India striker Dawson Fernandes, instrumental in forming the club. Dawson was among the more promising strikers in the country when he donned colours for Salgaocar FC and Sporting Clube de Goa. Injuries, however, cut short his career, prompting him to pack his bags for the UK, three years ago. He chose London. Once he had settled down, football started to occupy his mind. “We play a lot of seven-a-side tournaments here during the summer, so the idea of forming a club was mooted. Everyone liked it, and two years later we have our own team,” said Dawson. Besides Dawson, who made his debut for India against Tajikistan in 2013, there are other established players. Goalkeeper Tyson Caiado won two I-League titles with Dempo SC, while others like Don Bosco Fernandes, Rohan Sheikh, Lloyd Mascarenhas, Estevan Mendes, Naveen Mendes, Alvito Miranda, Sneden Rodrigues, Elvis Barreto, Treyson D’Costa, Alfex D’Souza and Michael Faleiro have all played for top clubs in Goa. The team will play their home games at the Cranford Community College ground. The first three games, though, will be played at Spikes Bridge due to Covid-19 restrictions at Cranford. “The league matches will be played on Saturdays, so all of us who are working will take a day off. We have to make these adjustments,” said coach Cedric Peixoto, formerly with Sporting Clube. The team trains once a week on Wednesdays with whoever can make it for the session. There are possibly better players in other parts of UK, particularly Swindon, home to approximately 20,000 Goans. There is former FC Goa midfielder Gabriel Fernandes and former Kerala Blasters striker Milagres Gonsalves. Both of them, however, cannot be included in the squad because travelling, training and playing games, while balancing their existing jobs, would be too much of an ask. “We now have enough players to make up two teams. For now, we are focusing on our main team. There are plans to have a reserves team next year,” said Peixoto. The team has shown promise. Goan United narrowly lost the first of their three friendlies against a higher-ranked club, but have since then notched two victories in a row. Over the next few months, there will be 22 league games and additional Cup matches for Goan United. They will aim to show everyone that they haven’t forgotten the art of winning football matches. Team: Dawson Fernandes, Reygon Antao, Elvis Barreto, Joson Barreto, Agnelo Cabral, Tyson Caiado, Niall Cardozo, Ryan Coutinho, Treyson D’Costa, Alfex D’Souza, Michael Faleiro, Saurab Faterpekar, Aliston Fernandes, Rohan Sheikh, Don Bosco Fernandes, Jolan Fernandes, Jonas Fernandes, Rekson Fernandes, Loyed Mascarenhas, Estevan Mendes, Naveen Mendes, Alvito Miranda, Samward Pereira, Elson Rodrigues, Roy Rodrigues, Snedden Rodrigues; coach: Cedric Peixoto, assistant coach: Shaun Lobo, chairman: Cavy Silva, manager: Scanbert Pereira, treasurer: Stalin Rodrigues, administrator: Henry Lobo, social media manager: Myron Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-unite-in-london-to-form-football-club-of-their-own/articleshow/78690769.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 16, 2020||Business||Wage relief for those who lost jobs in lockdown||NEW DELHI: The government is launching a campaign, Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana (ABVKY), to ensure that Employees’ State Insurance Corporation-registered workers who had lost their jobs during the lockdown can claim of 50% of their wages for up to three months as unemployment relief even if they have resumed work. ESIC is going to deploy its Rs 44, 000 crore kitty with a formal notification on Friday. “So far the response has been weak but we expect it to pick up. We are planning to advertise and reach out to more beneficiaries,” a labour ministry official told TOI. The move is seen as an outreach to those displaced by the lockdown and blunt the criticism that the government did not take care of migrant and factory workers, who were the worst hit. Sources said that the documents will need to be submitted physically as the beneficiaries are not linked to Aadhaar. The benefit can also be availed by ESIC members who may lose jobs in December. Read AlsoIndia's services sector slump eased in September, but job losses balloonThe plunge in India's services sector activity eased considerably in September after the government lifted some coronavirus restrictions, but demand continued to contract, prompting firms to cut more jobs, a private business survey showed on Tuesday.Ministry sources said the scheme has started to receive nearly 400 claims daily since the labour ministry and ESIC decided to extend ABVKY last month, when it also decided to bump up the rate of unemployment relief from the existing 25% of wages to 50% of wages. In light of the job losses during coronavirus, the government has also relaxed eligibility conditions for insured workers. While unemployment benefits could only be available following submissions through employers, the labour ministry has now permitted claims to be made directly to designated ESIC branch office. ESIC services nearly 3.4 crore families through medical insurance cover and cash benefits to almost 13.5 crore beneficiaries. Under the new social security code law, the government has also decided on extending ESIC services to all 740 districts of the country, for which labour ministry officials said they have tied up with hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme and 3rdparty service providers. Watch Wage relief for those who lost jobs in lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/relief-for-those-who-lost-jobs-in-lockdown/articleshow/78690957.cms||Swati Mathur
October 16, 2020||India||PM calls for ramping up of Covid testing, sero surveys||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for ramping up of testing and sero-surveys even as he reviewed the ongoing research to develop drugs, vaccines and newer tests for Covid-19 as well as the deployment ecosystem for faster delivery of the vaccine once it is ready. Stressing on continued vigilance and high state of preparedness against the pandemic, the PM told a review meeting that the facility to get tested regularly, speedily and inexpensively must be available to all at the earliest. He also underscored the need for continuous and rigorous scientific testing and validation of traditional medicine treatments. The PM took stock of the health ministry’s comprehensive distribution and delivery mechanism for the vaccines including for adequate procurement, and technologies for bulk-stockpiling, filling vials for distribution and ensuring effective delivery. The meeting was attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, NITI Aayog member for health Dr V K Paul, the principal scientific advisor, senior scientists, and other top officials. The PM lauded the efforts made by Indian vaccine developers and manufacturers to rise to the Covid-19 challenge, and committed to continue government facilitation and support for all such efforts. He also stated that regulatory reform was a dynamic process, and experts in every current and emerging domain should be used by the regulator pro-actively, as many new approaches have emerged. He appreciated the efforts of the AYUSH ministry for conducting evidence-based research and providing reliable solutions in this difficult time. The Prime Minister reiterated India’s resolve to provide cost effective, easily available and scalable solutions for testing, vaccine and medication, not only for the country but for the entire world. Meanwhile, India’s active Covid-19 cases continued to edge lower as recoveries outpaced the increase in fresh infections. On Wednesday, there were 8.12 lakh active Covid cases in the country after 67,708 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours. Overall case tally now stands at 73.07 lakh, which includes 63.83 lakh cured and 1.11 lakh fatalities. Watch PM Modi calls for scaling up of Covid testing, sero surveys||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-calls-for-ramping-up-of-covid-testing-sero-surveys/articleshow/78691140.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||Two get death for rape, murder of 12-year-old||MEERUT: Two men convicted of gang-raping and murdering a 12-year-old girl in Hapur two years ago were on Thursday handed the death sentence by the court of special judge (Pocso Act) Veena Narayan. “Her minor brother was the key witness in the case. The assailants had abandoned him, taking him for dead. Because of the injury to his neck, he could not speak but gave his statement in writing during the initial investigation and in the trial,” special public prosecutor (Pocso court) Harendra Tyagi said. The convicts, Ankur Teli and Sonu, had been engaged as domestic help at the girl’s house. On September 9, 2018, the children’s parents were out for work and the girl and her 10-year-old brother were alone. The two gang-raped the girl and when her brother tried to raise an alarm, they slit his throat and left him to die. Then, they killed the girl and hid the body in a fodder godown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-get-death-for-rape-murder-of-12-year-old/articleshow/78691162.cms||Piyush Rai
October 16, 2020||India||LAC face-off: Our border infra not your business, India tells China||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday pushed back against China’s criticism of its development of border infrastructure, as well as reminding Beijing that Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh were integral parts of India. Responding to questions, MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava said, “Careful and specific attention is given to improvement of infrastructure in the border areas in order to facilitate economic development of these areas as also to meet India’s strategic and security requirements.” Read AlsoIndia, China exchange serious proposals for LAC disengagementAfter seven rounds of meetings between Indian and Chinese military commanders in eastern Ladakh, the two sides have exchanged serious proposals for disengagement that are currently being studied by the top echelons of the Indian govt. Though sources are tight-lipped about it, India is looking for aReiterating that J&K, Ladakh and Arunachal were “integral” parts of India, Srivastava reminded Beijing that if China wanted India to respect the red lines of its sovereign territory claims, it would have to respect India’s sovereignty as well. “China has no locus standi to comment on India’s internal matters. We hope that countries will not comment on India’s internal matters, as much as they expect the same of others,” he added. China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian had openly criticised India’s building of infrastructure as the cause of the current conflict. He was quoted as saying on Tuesday: “For a while, the Indian side has been stepping up infrastructure building and military deployment along the border with China. This is the root cause of tensions. We urge the Indian side to earnestly implement the consensus reached by the two sides, refrain from taking actions that will complicate the situation, and take concrete measures to safeguard peace and tranquillity along the border.” In addition, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi had hit out against the Quad, describing it as an “Indo-Pacific Nato”. Both Indian and Chinese spokespersons lectured the other side on how to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas. On Thursday, Srivastava said, “Restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas is best done by scrupulously observing all relevant agreements in their entirety.” China has been building its own border infrastructure since 1950, with Mao’s famous line when he ordered the PLA to “advance while building roads”. That has informed Chinese strategy for decades, particularly where Tibet was concerned — building roads to link Tibet to Xinjiang, Yunnan, Sichuan and Qinghai. In recent decades, China has built roads and railway lines to expand its reach to the borders of India, Nepal and Bhutan. In fact, the Doklam crisis of 2017 started with China building roads on the plateau, threatening India’s Siliguri Corridor. Watch Conveyed several times to China that Arunachal Pradesh is integral part of India: MEA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/our-border-infra-not-your-business-china-told/articleshow/78691265.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 16, 2020||India||India strongly denies sending any message seeking talks with Pak||NEW DELHI: The government strongly denied Thursday it had sent any message to Islamabad for dialogue noting that PM Imran Khan's security adviser was commenting on India's "internal matters" and reiterated that Pakistan continued to support, aid and abet cross-border terrorism against India. The government also said that Pakistan had been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations to support terrorist infiltration. There has been no substantive bilateral engagement between India and Pakistan since December, 2015, when the two sides revived the dialogue process as comprehensive bilateral dialogue. India had held that the previous process did not focus enough on terrorism. This though was put paid to in just a few weeks by the Pathankot terror attack carried out by forces from across the border. Pakistan PM Imran Khan’s security adviser Moeed Yusuf had said in an interview Wednesday that Islamabad had received a message from India seeking talks. He had also claimed that Pakistan would talk to India if Kashmiris were also included in the dialogue process. The claim, however, failed to generate any traction. This expectedly invited a pointed snub that these were "internal matters" which did not concern Pakistan. ``The official is well advised to restrict his advice to his establishment and not to comment on India’s domestic policy. The statements made by him are contrary to facts on the ground, misleading and fictitious,’’ said the official. ``As regards the purported message, let me make it clear that no such message was sent from our side,’’ he added. ``We have seen reports on the interview by a senior Pakistani official to an Indian media outlet. He has commented on India’s internal matters,’’ said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, adding that, as always, this was Pakistan’s effort to divert attention from domestic failures of the present government and to mislead its domestic constituents by pulling India into headlines on a daily basis. Reiterating that the Pakistani leadership continued to indulge in inappropriate, provocative and hateful speeches against India, the government said such support to terrorism against India and use of derogatory and abusive language was not conducive to normal neighbourly relations. Yusuf had said that Pakistan was also ready to discuss the issue of terrorism. “We have got to think strategically. These are two countries, have terrible relations, we need to sit down like adult. There are fundamentally two issues: Kashmir and terrorism. I want to talk about both,’’ he was quoted as saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-strongly-denies-sending-any-message-seeking-talks-with-pak/articleshow/78691327.cms||---
October 16, 2020||World||Trump's election-eve drug discounts for seniors get snagged||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump's plan to mail millions of seniors a $200 prescription savings card has hit legal and budget roadblocks, making it unlikely the government can carry it out before Election Day. Democratic lawmakers have raised questions about whether the administration has the authority to order on its own billions of dollars in Medicare spending for what the Democrats say are political reasons. Administration and congressional officials say such questions have bogged down review of the plan by agencies, including the Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the White House Office of Management and Budget. A White House official had no comment on the status of the prescription cards, which Trump announced with a flourish last month during a health care speech in Charlotte, N.C. The Medicare agency, or CMS, said in a statement: ``We know that many seniors struggle to afford their medication and because of these high costs may forgo treatment. The administration is committed to lowering out-of-pocket costs for our nation's seniors. We will provide more information about the prescription drug cards soon.'' One administration official said the odds are 75-25 the plan will not happen. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss back-and-forth internal deliberations. Earlier this month, Reps. Frank Pallone, D-N.J., Richard Neal, D-Mass, and Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., questioned the legality of Trump's plan, saying in a letter to HHS Secretary Alex Azar that ``the president now appears to be attempting to buy votes just weeks before the election using taxpayer dollars.'' The lawmakers' objections appear to have hit a nerve in the administration. Among them: _ The White House asserted that Medicare could legally send out the discount cards under its authority to conduct ``demonstration programs'' testing new ideas. The $200 would test if extra cash made seniors more likely to stay on their medications and avoid costly hospitalizations. But sending cards to nearly all Medicare recipients is not a test, the lawmakers said. For example, there wouldn't be a control group against which to measure any results. Therefore, such a mass mailing would not meet legal standards for a Medicare demonstration program testing new ideas. _ The cost to taxpayers has been estimated as high as $7.8 billion, not counting administrative expenses. The money would come from Medicare's Supplemental Medical Insurance Trust Fund. But spending for the cards has not been authorized by Congress, which has the power of the purse. A congressional official said that if the Trump administration approves the plan, it in effect would create a budgetary "trap door'' through which future administrations could try to spend billions of dollars without congressional oversight. The official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal analysis. When Trump announced the plan as part of a Sep. 24 speech calling attention to his health care agenda, it seemed like the discount cards were about to go in the mail. People wondered if they would bear the presidents' name. The cards would allow seniors to save $200 off their prescription copays. Trump initially said 33 million Medicare recipients would get the cards, but administration and congressional officials said the latest estimate is 39 million. "Nobody has seen this before," the president said, with trademark salesmanship. "These cards are incredible. The cards will be mailed out in coming weeks. "I will always take care of our wonderful senior citizens," Trump added. "Joe Biden won't be doing this." The plan came as a surprise to rank-and-file officials at HHS and CMS who were expected to carry it out, said the administration official, adding that it was directed by the White House. The agencies are trying to move ahead on Trump's plan, but the official said it first has to pass the legal and procedural checks that would apply to any similar idea. Tricia Neuman, a Medicare expert with the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation, said the cards would help a lot of people a little bit but that doesn't address the underlying problem of high prescription drug costs. "It would do relatively little for seniors with truly catastrophic prescription drug expenses," she said. Trump long ago backed off his 2016 campaign idea for Medicare to negotiate drug prices, an approach his Democratic rival Biden is now pushing. But he supported a bipartisan Senate bill that would have capped out-of-pocket costs for Medicare recipients and required rebates if drugmakers raised prices above inflation. Senior Republican senators were cool to the legislation, though, and Democrats coalesced around House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's more ambitious bill empowering Medicare to negotiate prices. Ultimately, nothing passed Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trumps-election-eve-drug-discounts-for-seniors-get-snagged/articleshow/78691346.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||Work on 6 new tunnels in J&K and Ladakh to start in next 2 years: Gadkari||NEW DELHI: At a time when troops are engaged in a confrontation in eastern Ladakh and the government is shoring up border infrastructure, road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari has unveiled a plan to construct half a dozen new tunnels in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh that would help in movement of troops and reinforcements. The works of these tunnels and a few highway projects will start in the next two years. While initiating the ceremonial blasting for Zojila Tunnel in J&K through video conferencing, Gadkari said the detailed project reports (DPRs) of 10.2 km Singpora-Vailoo tunnel on Kishtwar-Anantnag road, two tunnels totalling 8 km on Sudhmahadev-Goha-Khelani stretch, a 2.4 km tunnel at Khelani bypass in J&K have been prepared. Similarly, four major tunnels with combined length of nearly 45 km on Manali-Leh have been planned. These include a 12.7 km tunnel at Shinkun La and three more at Lachung La (12 km), Taglang La (10 km) and Baralacha-La (10 km). The construction of these tunnels will make the connectivity between Manali and Leh seamless round the year. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the Atal Tunnel on this stretch. Officials of the NHIDCL, a company under the road transport and highways ministry, said they were conducting air-borne electromagnetic survey using specialised helicopters through these tough terrains. Road transport secretary, Girdhar Aramane said the DPR of the crucial Sinkhun La tunnel will be ready next month and work would start soon. Meanwhile, highlighting the saving of around Rs 4,000 crore by reworking the 14.15 km Zojila tunnel, Gadkari said this proved how the Narendra Modi government has set an example. “Political leaders, officers and government are often blamed for cost escalation of projects and there is corruption. I am happy that we have saved over Rs 4,000 crore in this project. This has happened under our government,” he said. Gadkari said that the changes made in the project did not compromise with the safety features. The minister also said the construction of Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Greenfield Expressway at a cost of Rs 21,000 crore will also start by this year end, which will reduce the distance to only 650 km and people can travel this distance in eight hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/work-on-6-new-tunnels-in-jk-and-ladakh-to-start-in-next-2-years-gadkari/articleshow/78691393.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 16, 2020||India||Probe into SSR death case still on, says CBI||NEW DELHI: The CBI on Thursday denied it had completed its probe in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The agency said its investigations into the actor’s death are still on. In a statement, agency spokesperson R K Gaur said, “CBI continues to investigate the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. There are certain speculative reports in media that CBI has reached a conclusion. It may be reiterated that these reports are speculative and erroneous”. Earlier, CBI had said that it is looking into all angles in the case. “No aspect has been ruled out yet,” it had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/probe-into-ssr-death-case-still-on-says-cbi/articleshow/78691400.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Patna||Six more die as Covid tally inches closer to 2 lakh-mark in state||PATNA: Altogether 1,326 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,99,549. Officially, six more Covid deaths were reported, taking the toll to 967. However, with 1,87,998 recoveries, there were only 10,582 active cases in Bihar. The state government claimed 96,685 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1375 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 94.21%. Among the six deceased was former TOI scribe Ravineshwar Dayal (66), who passed away at AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday. Dayal had a medical history of hypertension and he was admitted on October 11, AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. “He had been suffering from a fever for a long time. On Wednesday morning, he was put on ventilator support, but died after some time,” Dr Kumar said. He further said even cabinet minister Kapil Dev Kamat is on ventilator support. Apart from Dayal, three more deaths were reported at AIIMS, including a 52-year-old man of Gola Road, who was admitted on October 4. The other deceased included a 75-year-old man of Araria and another 65-year-old male from Chandi in Bhojpur. Twelve patients were admitted and 15 got discharged from there on Wednesday. There were 188 Covid patients undergoing treatment in the hospital.NMCH reported the death of a 55-year-old man from Aurangabad district. He died on Tuesday. As per the information shared by NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, four patients were admitted and two discharged on Wednesday. There were 19 Covid patients in the hospital. As per the health department’s data, two deaths were reported from Nalanda, taking the toll to 44 in the district. One death each was reported from Muzaffarpur, West Champaran, Patna and Saharsa. Patna remained on top with 301 new cases, taking the tally to 31,522 in the district. However, with 28,937 recoveries and 233 deaths, there were 2352 active cases in Patna. Covid-19 cases reported from other districts included Araria (81), Supaul (53), Madhepura (52), East Champaran (46), Purnia (46), Nalanda (41) and Jamui (39).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-more-die-as-covid-tally-inches-closer-to-2-lakh-mark-in-state/articleshow/78669088.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||Patna||Dropped, BJP MLA invokes Atal in revolt||BETTIAH: From being one of India’s top civil servants to being elected an MLA from Bagaha in his native West Champaran, Raghaw Sharan Pandey’s public life was snipped short when the BJP dropped him on Wednesday night. All it took him was one term in the Bihar assembly to metamorphose from an obeying, disciplined Babu to an outspoken, combative neta. Overnight, after being discarded by the BJP, Pandey took to Facebook live on Thursday and invoked late PM Atal Behari Vajpayee’s combative poetry in Parliament – ‘haar nahin manoongaa, raar nai thanoonga, kaal ke kapaal pe likhta mitata hoon, geet naya gaata hoon (I’ll not concede defeat, will not engage in altercations/ rather will take on new engagements, I write and erase on the forehead of time, I sing a new song).’ A former chief secretary of Nagaland who went on to become a secretary to the government of India in the ministries of parliamentary affairs, petroleum and natural gas, Pandey on retiring was made chief interlocutor of the Naga peace talks. He was also appointed chairman of HPCL Sugars when the public sector company set up two greenfield sugar-cum-ethanol plants in Champaran. HPCL’s CSR initiatives under his helm had given indications of his political ambitions.  “In 40 years of civil service, I’ve tried to achieve excellence. I was even rewarded. Then, with your blessing, I became a public servant and got an opportunity to represent people of Bagaha,” he said, adding, “I thought Bagaha’s issues were of development, farmers and reservation for adivasis... I put my blood and sweat into work.... built roads, bridges and raised issues of ‘Ghat-tauli’ (Weight-cutting of sugarcane by sugarmills)....mera ticket cut gaya.” Pandey alleged that farmers’ cane produce were under-weighed and the money reached politicians. Deepak Yadav, owner of Bagaha Sugar Mill, reacted strongly. Yadav, an Harvard Business School alumnus who had fought the 2019 LS polls on BSP ticket, has joined the BJP recently. “Pandeyji’s allegations are frivolous. He has carried his baggage of corruption to politics. He leveraged his position as a former babu and current neta to get cases instituted by the SDM. Let them probe the cases honestly,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dropped-bjp-mla-invokes-atal-in-revolt/articleshow/78689854.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
October 16, 2020||Patna||Violation of Covid-19 norms in poll rallies worries health experts||PATNA: Bihar is the first state in the country going to the polls amid Covid-19 pandemic, but health experts have expressed concern over violation of Covid safety protocol due to mass gatherings in election rallies and other political activities. While on one hand, authorities have barred all activities involving mass gathering during Durga Puja and schools (below class VIII) and colleges are still closed, overcrowding is witnessed in poll-related activities of almost all parties. As per the guidelines recently issued by the Election Commission, there is an upper limit of 200 people or 50% of seating capacity in closed-door political events. However, as electioneering has gained momentum, most such Covid protocols have gone for a toss. Apart from people jostling with each other in public meets, safety norms are also violated during filing of nominations by candidates, health experts said. According to them, such events can turn into ‘super spreader’. “There is complete violation of Covid protocols in almost all political events these days. This has happened in a systematic manner owing to gradual relaxations in political activities. The government wanted elections at any cost and it even downplayed the pandemic. It is ironical that at a time when Europe and America are seeing fresh waves of Covid cases, the figures in Bihar reduced despite such ‘super spreader’ political events,” Muzaffarpur-based public health expert Dr Arun Shah said. Another public health expert, T Sundaram, said the way political events are being organised in Bihar, there is a threat to lives of people. “Spike in Covid cases is imminent in Bihar owing to the present scenario. The system of reporting of Covid morbidity as well as mortality is very weak in Bihar. The way overcrowding is happening in political events and basic rules are being flouted, it will lead to a very dangerous situation,” Sundaram, former director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre, an advisory body to the Union health ministry, said. An Election Commission official said electoral officers and district authorities should take action in case of violation of Covid protocol. “District authorities have been authorised to give permission for political gatherings in identified open and closed spaces in adherence to Covid guidelines. Detailed norms have been circulated to officials concerned and they are required to take action in case of any violation,” Bihar’s deputy chief electoral officer Baiju Nath Singh said. FIR against Nadda’s rally: An FIR has been lodged with Gaya Civil Lines police station for violation of Covid-19 norms during an election rally of NDA at Gaya on October 11. BJP national president J P Nadda and a number of other leaders of BJP, JD(U) and HAM (S) had addressed the rally at Gaya’s Gandhi Maidan in support of NDA candidates. Gaya town block circle officer Rajiv Ranjan has lodged the FIR, alleging that social distancing norms were violated during the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/violation-of-covid-19-norms-in-poll-rallies-worries-health-experts/articleshow/78689826.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 16, 2020||Patna||BJP drops 5 sitting MLAs in third phase of Bihar polls||PATNA: The BJP on Wednesday released the list of its candidates for 35 seats going to the assembly polls in the third phase on November 7. It retained its three ministers and 12 other MLAs and dropped former petroleum ministry secretary Raghav Sharan Pandey, besides four others. The party has also fielded six women candidates. Among the ministers retained are Pramod Kumar for Motihari seat, Krishna Kumar Rishi for Banmankhi (reserved) constituency and Suresh Kumar Sharma from Muzaffarpur. The party has also fielded public health and engineering department minister Vinod Narayan Jha, who is an MLC, from the Benipatti seat in Darbhanga district. Jha had earlier represented the seat. Among those dropped, Pandey has been replaced by Ram Singh in Bagaha and Ajay Kumar Singh by Pramod Sinha in Raxaul. Similarly, sitting MLA Amit Kumar of Riga has been replaced by Moti Lal Prasad, while Bathnaha (reserved), MLA Dinkar Ram has also been dropped making way for Anil Ram to contest it. Jai Prakash Yadav will contest the Narpatganj seat, instead of sitting MLA Amit Kumar Yadav. Among the women candidates, the party has retained Bhagirathi Devi from Ramnagar (reserved) seat and Gayatri Devi in Parihar. The four other women candidates in the fray are Rashmi Verma (Narkatiaganj), Sweeti Singh (Kishanganj), Nisha Singh, wife of the deceased minister Binod Kumar Singh, at Pranpur, and Kavita Paswan from Korha. Among the sitting MLAs retained are Bhojpuri singer Vinay Bihari (Lauria), Lal Babu Prasad Gupta (Chiraiya), Neeraj Kumar Singh Babloo (Chhatapur), Vidyasagar Keshri (Forbesganj), Vijay Mandal (Sikti), Vijay Khemka (Purnia), Tarkishor Prasad (Katihar), Sanjay Sarawagi (Darbhanga), Jiwesh Jha (Jale) and Kedar Prasad Gupta (Kurhani). The new faces fielded by the party are Ram Singh (Bagaha), Pramod Sinha (Raxaul), Arun Shankar Prasad (Khajauli), Hari Bhushan Thakur (Bisfi), Ranjit Yadav (Jokihat), Vinod Yadav (Baisi), Kavita Paswan (Korha), Nisha Singh (Pranpur), Alok Ranjan Jha (Saharsa), Ram Chandra Sah (Hayaghat), Murari Mohan Jha (Keoti) and Lakhinder Paswan (Patepur). The JD(U) has ceded two of its seats to BJP. Accordingly, the latter has fielded Ranjit Yadav from Jokihat and Ram Chandra Sah from Hayaghat. The party has chosen its old warhorse Ram Surat Rai from Aurai. BJP is in the fray against the candidates from the RJD and Congress from the grand alliance. Overall, the BJP is contesting the assembly seats falling in Araria, Kishanganj, Purnia, Katihar, Saharsa, Darbhanga, East Champaran (Motihari), West Champaran, Madhubani, Sitamarhi and Vaishali districts. Linguistically, the districts lie in the Maithili, Bhojpuri, Bajjika and Angika speaking zones. They together have populations of Muslim, Yadav and Koeri caste groups from the OBC category, Vaishya (trader) groups, extremely backward caste sections, and Mushahars from the Dalit castes in significant numbers. The party has given five seats to the Brahmin candidates and slightly more number of seats to the Vaishya caste candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-drops-5-sitting-mlas-in-third-phase-of-state-polls/articleshow/78675877.cms||Abhay Singh
October 16, 2020||---||BJP drops 5 sitting MLAs in third phase of Bihar polls||PATNA: The BJP on Wednesday released the list of its candidates for 35 seats going to the assembly polls in the third phase on November 7. It retained its three ministers and 12 other MLAs and dropped former petroleum ministry secretary Raghav Sharan Pandey, besides four others. The party has also fielded six women candidates. Among the ministers retained are Pramod Kumar for Motihari seat, Krishna Kumar Rishi for Banmankhi (reserved) constituency and Suresh Kumar Sharma from Muzaffarpur. The party has also fielded public health and engineering department minister Vinod Narayan Jha, who is an MLC, from the Benipatti seat in Darbhanga district. Jha had earlier represented the seat. Among those dropped, Pandey has been replaced by Ram Singh in Bagaha and Ajay Kumar Singh by Pramod Sinha in Raxaul. Similarly, sitting MLA Amit Kumar of Riga has been replaced by Moti Lal Prasad, while Bathnaha (reserved), MLA Dinkar Ram has also been dropped making way for Anil Ram to contest it. Jai Prakash Yadav will contest the Narpatganj seat, instead of sitting MLA Amit Kumar Yadav. Among the women candidates, the party has retained Bhagirathi Devi from Ramnagar (reserved) seat and Gayatri Devi in Parihar. The four other women candidates in the fray are Rashmi Verma (Narkatiaganj), Sweeti Singh (Kishanganj), Nisha Singh, wife of the deceased minister Binod Kumar Singh, at Pranpur, and Kavita Paswan from Korha. Among the sitting MLAs retained are Bhojpuri singer Vinay Bihari (Lauria), Lal Babu Prasad Gupta (Chiraiya), Neeraj Kumar Singh Babloo (Chhatapur), Vidyasagar Keshri (Forbesganj), Vijay Mandal (Sikti), Vijay Khemka (Purnia), Tarkishor Prasad (Katihar), Sanjay Sarawagi (Darbhanga), Jiwesh Jha (Jale) and Kedar Prasad Gupta (Kurhani). The new faces fielded by the party are Ram Singh (Bagaha), Pramod Sinha (Raxaul), Arun Shankar Prasad (Khajauli), Hari Bhushan Thakur (Bisfi), Ranjit Yadav (Jokihat), Vinod Yadav (Baisi), Kavita Paswan (Korha), Nisha Singh (Pranpur), Alok Ranjan Jha (Saharsa), Ram Chandra Sah (Hayaghat), Murari Mohan Jha (Keoti) and Lakhinder Paswan (Patepur). The JD(U) has ceded two of its seats to BJP. Accordingly, the latter has fielded Ranjit Yadav from Jokihat and Ram Chandra Sah from Hayaghat. The party has chosen its old warhorse Ram Surat Rai from Aurai. BJP is in the fray against the candidates from the RJD and Congress from the grand alliance. Overall, the BJP is contesting the assembly seats falling in Araria, Kishanganj, Purnia, Katihar, Saharsa, Darbhanga, East Champaran (Motihari), West Champaran, Madhubani, Sitamarhi and Vaishali districts. Linguistically, the districts lie in the Maithili, Bhojpuri, Bajjika and Angika speaking zones. They together have populations of Muslim, Yadav and Koeri caste groups from the OBC category, Vaishya (trader) groups, extremely backward caste sections, and Mushahars from the Dalit castes in significant numbers. The party has given five seats to the Brahmin candidates and slightly more number of seats to the Vaishya caste candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-drops-5-sitting-mlas-in-third-phase-of-state-polls/articleshow/78668895.cms||Abhay Singh
October 16, 2020||Patna||Caste holds key in RJD’s stronghold||GAYA: The electoral battle in Belaganj assembly constituency which shares border with Jehanabad district is largely considered to be fought based on caste equations. So far, it has been a challenge for NDA to win the seat, which Surendra Prasad Yadav of RJD has won on seven occasions, including five times in a row. It can be termed as a high-profile seat of Gaya district, where dominance of Surendra Yadav has been intact since 1990. Even in 2010, when NDA won nine out of 10 seats of the district, Surendra remained unbeaten. He won this seat as Janata Dal candidate in 1990 and 1995. Since 2000, he has won five times in a row as RJD candidate. The image of Surendra is also of a strongman and a close aide of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. This time, Abhay Kumar Sinha alias Abhay Kushwaha has shifted his constituency to challenge the dominance of Surendra. Abhay, outgoing MLA from Tekari, is also state president of JD(U)’s youth wing. He had been elected from Tekari in 2010 and 2015 as JD(U) candidate. Belaganj comprises nearly 65,000 Yadavs and about 50,000 Muslim voters and M-Y equation too holds the key in this constituency. Manjhi, Bhumihar, Rajput, Brahmin and Kayastha voters are also in good number. In the erstwhile elections, NDA has frequently changed its candidates to beat Surendra. The ruling alliance fielded Amjad Ali as LJP candidate in February 2005. Ali again contested as JD(U) candidate in 2010. In 2015, NDA fielded Sharim Ali, who too lost by a margin of 20,341 votes. On his plan to turn votes in his favour, Abhay said, “I will be seeking vote on the agenda of CM Nitish Kumar, which is ‘development with justice’. My priority will be to ensure proper irrigation facility in each village. Apart from this, development of Pretshila and the Vanavar hills and the pre-independence period Yadunandan Sharma ashram in Neyamatpur is also on priority list. I will be working to make youths, women and the backward class people aware about the government schemes for self-employment.” Sudhir Kumar Sinha, a businessman of Bhalua village, said, “Vanavar hills, just 4km from Belaganj railway station, has great tourist potential. If developed, this place can fetch large number of tourists who come to Bodh Gaya. The history of architectures like granite rock cut seven caves, Lomas Rishi cave and others at Vanavar dates back to the Ashokan period and have connection with Buddhism”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caste-holds-key-in-rjds-stronghold/articleshow/78689906.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Allahabad||Syed Iqbal offers namaz fivetimes, trains Ramleela artists||With pix Prayagraj: Syed Iqbal Ahmed is an ardent Muslim who religiously fasts during the holy month of Ramzan and offers namaz five times in a day. However, setting a perfect example of Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb, Iqbal has been imparting training to artists of the Katra Ramleela Committee to play their role with perfection and teaches the importance of face expressions and dialogue delivery. Katra Ramleela is commencing from October 16. And it’s not new, Iqbal has a long association with Ramleela, spanning past three decades, and has even played various roles in the Ramleelas at Daraganj and Rambagh. “I have been associated with different Ramleela groups since 1980. I don’t act any more but right now I am teaching acting basics to actors playing various characters in the Ramleela at Katra,” said Iqbal. “Apart from staging Daraganj ramleela, I had also played key role in taking out Hanuman Dal and performing Maa Kali swang at Daraganj,” he added. Currently associated with Akashwani (Natak division) as an actor, the 70 year old artist, Iqbal Ahmad is still energetic and quite enthusiastic as he guides Ramleela artists to play their roles with perfection and leave a lasting impression on audience. “For me, all people and religions are equal. I am still trying to be a good human being,” said Iqbal, who despite his age still actively participates in staging of Ramleela and has been doing so since the last 30 years. Iqbal had also worked in several Bollywood movies, including Mohalla Assi, in which he played the role of a priest. He also played a lead role in the movie ‘Holy Fish’. Old timers still remember the role of Kevat which Iqbal had played in Ramleela and left such an impression that people started calling him “Kevatraj”. Besides, Iqbal has also acted in over 5,000 plays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/syed-iqbal-offers-namaz-fivetimes-trains-ramleela-artists/articleshow/78686503.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Business||Sensex tanks 1,066 pts on global selloff||Mumbai: A combined effect of profit-booking after a 10-session rally, global selloff due to fresh lockdowns in Europe amid spiking Covid infections and fading stimulus hopes in the US before the November 3 election resulted in the sensex getting dragged by 1,066 points to below the 40k mark on Thursday. Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Infosys and TCS accounted for most of the index’s fall, while Asian Paints was the only company among the 30 sensex constituents that closed in the green. Despite a lower close in the US market on Wednesday night, the day’s session on Dalal Street started on a flat note with the sensex opening near its previous close of 40,795 points. However, after European markets opened weak and started sliding, the selloff started in the Indian market too, with the sensex finally settling at 39,728 points, down 1,066 or 2.6%. Data showed that domestic institutions were net sellers at Rs 808 crore, and foreign institutions too were net sellers at Rs 604 crore. The day’s session also left investors poorer by about Rs 3.3 lakh crore with BSE’s market cap now at Rs 156 lakh crore. Market volatility also spiked with NSE’s India VIX rising by 9% on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-tanks-1066-pts-on-global-selloff/articleshow/78690411.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Petition to reinvestigate case filed in Himachal HC||Shimla: Raising questions over the CBI probe into Kotkhai rape and murder, the minor girl’s parents approached Himachal Pradesh high court to seek reinvestigation. They have filed a petition seeking justice for their daughter, who was brutally killed in the first week of July 2017. Parents said for the last three years, CBI has failed to catch the real accused. A minor girl studying in Class 10 went missing on July 4, 2017 while returning home from school. Her body was recovered from Dandhi forest area of Kotkhai in Shimla district on the morning of July 6, 2017. This led to a public outburst and protests across the state. Speaking to media persons, the girl’s father said only a charani (woodcutter) has been arrested by CBI, while the other accused are free. The way the crime was committed shows the involvement of multiple persons, he said. “If the crime was committed by the charani alone, he would not have killed my daughter,” he said. He alleged that CBI has failed to do justice as some reports of the forensic science laboratory (FSL) from Gujarat, including narco analysis tests, were not presented in the court. “Neither the state police nor the CBI has been able to tell where my daughter’s missing socks and hair clips are,” he added. He said they have been struggling for justice for the last three years to see those who brutalised their daughter behind bars. The girl’s mother said people took to the roads for justice before and might have to do the same again. Unhappy with the outcome of the CBI probe, the parents met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur at Shimla last December and demanded reinvestigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/petition-to-reinvestigate-case-filed-in-himachal-hc/articleshow/78690383.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Meerut||A year after 32-day ‘jal andolan’, pontoon bridge construction begins over Ganga||Bijnor: Exactly a year after residents of 25 villages stood in swelled up river Ganga for 32 days as a mark of protest against state administration's neglect of the demand for a pontoon bridge, the empty oil storage vessels used in the construction of such bridges have begun to arrive in Mandawar region of Bijnor. As of now, 13 drums have reached. The area has witnessed a number of deaths due to accidents like capsizing of boats. Several villages are located on the other side of the river and there was no other way to cross it. Villagers are upbeat with the development as the bridge will contribute immensely towards alleviating the problems of more than 25 dozen villages. Notably, the river here changes its course every monsoon, and, with it, the fate of thousands of farmers, mainly for the worse. The river, swollen with rain water, swallows thousands of acres of farmland, apart from submerging houses and claiming lives mostly of women and children. Two years ago, a boat carrying 27 people capsized. And 10 women drowned. After several protests didn’t yield much results, they decided to start a unique protest - ‘jal satyagrah’ - last year in October. The protest lasted 32 days on the bank of Ganga at Daibalgarh village. Demanding embankments and a bridge, over 100 villagers were taking turns, on a daily basis, to stand in neck-deep water of the river as part of the protest. It ended only after the local administration sent a proposal to state authorities for the sanction. Proposal got the state authorities' nod in December last year. Raw materials for the construction of the temporary bridge have begun to arrive from Tuesday evening. Around 13 drums reached Daibalgarh village under Mandawar police station. The construction work was assigned to PWD. Executive engineer of PWD, Sunil Sagar, said, “Pontoon bridge worth Rs 2.09 crore is to be constructed by October-end. Around 330 metre-long pontoon bridge will be constructed by connecting 66 empty drums which are being carried from PWD’s Prayagraj store.” Talking to TOI, 55-year-old Ramwati said, “Women are helping hands of families. They go to the fields across the river to fetch fodder for cattle. Unfortunately, most of them do not know how to swim. Two years ago, 10 women drowned when their boat capsized. Once the pontoon bridge is complete, we will not have to put our lives at risk.” Rajendra Singh, mandal president of BKU who was leading the agitation, said, “It is the victory of unity of the villagers. Our years old demand is going to be fulfilled. Once the bridge is constructed, villagers will be able to ferry their crop in tractor-trolley across the river. The bridge will connect this area with Muzaffarnagar district as well. Villagers need to cover a distance of 80km to reach Muzaffarnagar now. The bridge will reduce the distance to 40km.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-year-after-32-day-jal-andolan-pontoon-bridge-construction-begins-over-ganga/articleshow/78686672.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar education department to reduce school syllabus||PATNA: The state education department has decided to reduce the syllabus from Class I to XII, for the academic year 2020-21, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) which frames the syllabus for government schools are revising it. Principal secretary, education department, Sanjay Kumar said, “Few chapters will be omitted in every subject to reduce the syllabus. We have already lost more than six months of the current academic session and by the time, things will normalise, it will not be possible for us to complete the whole syllabus. Hence we are planning only to cover the important chapters.” Even the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has also also sent a proposal to the state education department to reduce the syllabus for Class X and XII. “Both Class X and XII board exams are very important. Hence, the SCERT is reducing the syllabus of these two classes on priority basis. The dates for Class X and XII exams have also been announced by the state board,” the principal secretary added. While Class X board exams will be held from February 17 to 24, Class XII board exams will be held from February 2 to 13. An official from the academic department of SCERT told this newspaper that a team of experts has revised the textbooks by reducing 30% syllabus from each subject. “We have covered all the major subjects, however there are few language and vocational courses, of which we have no experts, including Persian, Pali, Prakrit, home science and history. After the approval of SCERT director Giriyar Dayal, the revised syllabus will be forwarded to the department for final approval,” the official said. Schools in Bihar have been shut since mid-March following the Covid outbreak. School reopeningThe state education department is yet to take decision on reopening of schools in Bihar amid the Covid pandemic. Principal secretary Sanjay Kumar said on Wednesday that the decision of reopening of schools for regular classes would be taken in consultation with all the stakeholders. “We are still analysing the standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening of schools,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-edu-dept-to-reduce-school-syllabus/articleshow/78669071.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 16, 2020||Business||‘Led by jewellery, biz has recovered 75%’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com It has been a baptism by fire for C K Venkataraman, who took charge as MD at Titan in October last year — after a long innings by Bhaskar Bhat at the watches-to-jewellery company — and within six months had to face the full fury of the pandemic. He says that while business has been hampered due to demand slowdown, the company expects to return to pre-Covid levels by the fourth quarter of the current fiscal... How far has business returned to normal? Our business has recovered to about 75% of pre-Covid levels, led by the jewellery category, which has recovered to about 98% in the second quarter, compared to the revenue in the same period last year. We are targeting to reach 100% of pre-Covid levels by Q4 of the current fiscal year. What are the challenges that you still face? Some of our businesses are hampered by a demand slowdown, which is due to the absence of socialising and the near total work-from-home situation, aggravated by the anxiety over stepping out and shopping. We are working to create desire and demand even in such circumstances and, of course, continue to offer the gold standard in shopping safety. How much cost increase are you grappling with? Cost increase is not really a challenge. We have an aggressive cost-erosion programme, which was started before the pandemic struck. Has Covid-19 impacted remuneration or resulted in downsizing? We believe that people are our biggest asset and they will get the company back to full recovery the fastest. Our remuneration decisions are driven by this philosophy and have been quite light of touch. What is the key learning from this crisis? It is critical to be a very efficient business enterprise all the time — in management of costs and capital. How are you maintaining work-life balance? I don’t really connect with the phrase ‘work-life balance’. But if the question is about how I am maintaining my sanity in these challenging times, the answer is: By keeping a very good balance between my family time, work and my passions — singing, running and cooking. Having the maturity to distinguish between pressure and stress, and not worrying a bit about a crisis that is not at all our making also helps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/led-by-jewellery-biz-has-recovered-75/articleshow/78690415.cms||Avik Das
October 16, 2020||Surat||New lizard gets named after young researcher||Surat: A new species of lizard, which was discovered around two decades ago in Gujarat, has been christened after a young reptile expert as a recognition for his extensive pan-India work. The specie of snake-eye lizard found in the plateau of Ratanmahal Wildlife Sanctuary by experts - Harshil Patel and Raju Vyas - has been named Ophisops Agarwali after Ishan Agarwal, who is credited with finding nearly 40 new species of reptiles across India in the past one decade. However, this lizard species is now believed to be ‘lost.’ “The single known specimen of the new species was found in 2000. But our recent surveys at the same locality and surrounding areas failed to yield a surviving population which reflects the possibility that Ophisops Agarwali might have been lost before any understanding could be gained about its existence or identity,’ Patel told TOI. Patel is associated with Surat-based Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) The duo’s research paper titled: “Lost before being recognized? A new species of the genus Ophisops (Squamata: Lacertidae) from Gujarat, India,” was recently published in the international science journal: Ecologica Montenegrina. “Dr Agarwal’s contribution to the study of reptiles, especially of geckos and lizards of south Asia, is significant. We named the new lizard after him to recognize his contribution,” Vyas told TOI. According to the researchers, the new species belongs to the group of lizards known as ‘snake-eyes’ (Ophisops) which differentiates it from other closely related species in head scalation and other morphological features. Detailed comparison of morphology and scalation of closely related species highlight the distinctness of the new species. Even as hopes of finding this particular lizard are fading, the discovery itself and the confirmation of it being endemic (not seen anywhere else) to Gujarat hugely reflects the state’s rich habitat diversity and a unique and diverse fauna. “However, the reptilian diversity is poorly documented in the state. The present study demonstrates that the reptiles of Gujarat are still far from being fully known,” added Vyas, a retired zoologist and a renowned reptile expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/new-lizard-gets-named-after-young-researcher/articleshow/78687685.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 16, 2020||---||Misa Bharti gives RJD a miss as polls near||PATNA: Even though assembly elections are less than a fortnight away in the state, incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest daughter Misa Bharti has so far stayed away from political activities. Misa, according to RJD sources, is absent from the 10, Circular Road, residence of her mother and former CM Rabri Devi. She is also inactive on social media unlike her brothers Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap. Asked about Misa’s absence so from political activities, RJD MLA and Lalu’s close aide Bhola Yadav said, “She is one of the star campaigners of the party. The question of her discontinuance from politics does not arise.” RJD’s state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said Misa would soon campaign for the party candidates in the state. In the list of star campaigners released by RJD this week, Misa was placed at the fourth position. Her mother occupies the top spot and two brothers second and third spots. RJD sources said even though Misa is in Delhi, she is keeping a close watch on activities in the party. “She has helped her close aides get RJD tickets to contest elections. It was on Misa’s backing that Masaurhi MLA Rekha Devi managed to get a ticket,” said an RJD leader. Lalu has nine children – seven daughters and two sons. Among them, three are active in Bihar politics – Misa, Tej Pratap and Tejashwi. In fact, Misa was the first to enter politics. She had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 parliamentary election from Patalipura Lok Sabha constituency. After her defeat at the hands of Ram Kripal Yadav, Misa was sent to Rajya Sabha in 2016. In 2019 parliamentary elections too, Misa lost to BJP’s Ram Kripal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/misa-gives-rjd-a-miss-as-polls-near/articleshow/78689792.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||Business||Lower travel costs boost margins of top-tier IT companies||CHENNAI: Increased digital adoption and deal wins has helped the performance of the IT industry to bounce back in the July-September quarter. What has also benefited the margins of the top tier IT giants is the reduction of travel expenses of more than 70% year-on-year. Travel costs at TCS, Wipro and Infosys — companies which declared their results by Friday —reduced by 65%, 72% and 75% year-on-year respectively in the quarter ended September. The development comes as companies switched to online calls for sales pitches and employees took to remote solving of problems. Despite this, TCS noted healthy deal wins worth around $8.6 billion, and Infosys saw $3.15 billion of large deal wins. Cost savings-led margin growth has been a common factor across sectors during the pandemic and is expected to taper off as things return to near normalcy levels. Savings in travel costs have made a significant difference to the margins of IT firms in the July-September quarter. While this may not be sustainable for future quarters, IT outsourcers are getting less dependent on travel and more adept in virtual sales and delivery, analysts said. “Travel expenses have reduced significantly for large Indian service providers like TCS, Infosys and Wipro — from 2-3.5% of revenue throughout 2019 to 0.8-0.9% over the last two quarters, contributing to margins,” Everest Group director Prashant Shukla said. While in the quarter ended June, service providers had to substitute travel expenses with WFH infrastructure, the full benefit of remote work passed through in the September-ended quarter margins, he added. At TCS, travel expenses clocked at 0.7% of revenue during July-September compared to 2.1% last year. Similarly at Infosys, this figure stood at 0.6% in September 2020 vis-a-vis 2.6% in September 2019. “During the 2008 crash, it (travel costs) made a huge difference to Indian heritage IT outsourcers and kickstarted the great growth years for the industry,” HFS Research founder and CEO Phil Fersht said. “Savings were 5%-10% of revenue during 2008-09…I’ve seen as much as 10%-15% of cost take out already (this time), and this may go higher as we adapt to our new virtual era,” he added. Most industry trackers say margin benefits due to reduced travel costs will also fade away over time as restrictions are lifted, but the quantum of travel in the sector may not go back to pre-Covid levels either, they added. Analysts at Kotak wrote in a note that clients are increasingly comfortable with remote working, and “it is not difficult to imagine that clients would be receptive to higher level of location agnostic delivery”. “Once travel restrictions are lifted, this will start putting pressure on margins, especially because service providers will still maintain disproportionate WFH infrastructure owing to fear of a second wave, while travel expenses will add to cost,” Shukla said. For now, the IT giants have also passed on benefits of cost savings. TCS rolled out salary hikes from October 1, Infosys announced hikes from January, and Wipro said it will do it in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lower-travel-costs-boost-margins-of-top-tier-it-cos/articleshow/78688557.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: BJP chief JP Nadda takes a swipe at Tejashvi Yadav||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Thursday took a swipe at Grand Alliance CM candidate and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on the latter’s recent announcement that government jobs will be provided to 10 lakh people if his party was voted to power. “It is easier to make public speeches, but very difficult to fulfil the promises and follow the path of development. For this purpose, you need a man with a 56-inch chest,” Nadda said at Karakat in Rohtas district. Without taking the name of Lalu, the BJP chief said even the son of the man, who is serving sentence in a Ranchi jail in connection with fodder scam cases, has now started talking about development of the state and giving employment to the youths. “The credit for the change in perception of the man in question goes to PM Narendra Modi for making him know what the development means,” he added. Slamming the RJD for poor law and order in the state during its regime, the BJP president said even Shahabuddin remained a free bird till Nitish Kumar took over the reins of the state. “A Dalit IAS officer, G Krishnaiah, was killed during the Lalu-Rabri regime in Muzaffarpur district. He was posted as DM of Gopalganj when the incident happened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nadda-takes-a-swipe-at-tejas/articleshow/78713532.cms||Ramashankar
October 16, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Biryani lovers prefer Seeraga Samba for perfect taste, aroma||TRICHY: As a number of biryani outlets are mushrooming in the city, there is a good demand for the dish cooked with Seeraga Samba. The rice has the quality of absorbing the entire essence of spices used for biryani and gives out the perfect aroma, making it a hit among biryani lovers, hoteliers said. According to hoteliers, there are around 50 established exclusive outlets for biryani in Trichy city. Most of them are using Seeraga Samba for cooking biryani. The rice has the ability to absorb large quantities of water without turning mushy, making it ideal for biryani apart from its unique aroma, said V Prasanna, Al Munnas’ Biryani, Thillai Nagar Trichy. “It absorbs the flavour of the masala instead of lending the dish a strong flavour as Basmati rice does. The rice blends well into the biryani. Fragrance and taste after cooking are incomparable,” he said. Beyond its aroma and taste, it easily digests, he further said. “I eat biryani at least twice a week. My favourite is Seeraga Samba biryani. Even if I have no option, I never go for basmati biryani,” said R Sridhar, a biryani lover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/biryani-lovers-prefer-seeraga-samba-for-perfect-taste-aroma/articleshow/78689266.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 16, 2020||Patna||Misa Bharti gives RJD a miss as polls near||PATNA: Even though assembly elections are less than a fortnight away in the state, incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s eldest daughter Misa Bharti has so far stayed away from political activities. Misa, according to RJD sources, is absent from the 10, Circular Road, residence of her mother and former CM Rabri Devi. She is also inactive on social media unlike her brothers Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap. Asked about Misa’s absence so from political activities, RJD MLA and Lalu’s close aide Bhola Yadav said, “She is one of the star campaigners of the party. The question of her discontinuance from politics does not arise.” RJD’s state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said Misa would soon campaign for the party candidates in the state. In the list of star campaigners released by RJD this week, Misa was placed at the fourth position. Her mother occupies the top spot and two brothers second and third spots. RJD sources said even though Misa is in Delhi, she is keeping a close watch on activities in the party. “She has helped her close aides get RJD tickets to contest elections. It was on Misa’s backing that Masaurhi MLA Rekha Devi managed to get a ticket,” said an RJD leader. Lalu has nine children – seven daughters and two sons. Among them, three are active in Bihar politics – Misa, Tej Pratap and Tejashwi. In fact, Misa was the first to enter politics. She had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 parliamentary election from Patalipura Lok Sabha constituency. After her defeat at the hands of Ram Kripal Yadav, Misa was sent to Rajya Sabha in 2016. In 2019 parliamentary elections too, Misa lost to BJP’s Ram Kripal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/misa-gives-rjd-a-miss-as-polls-near/articleshow/78693140.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||Trichy||Woman farmer revive traditional Seeraga Samba in Trichy||TRICHY: Changing food habits and marketing preference have made a woman farmer from Pikshandarkoil village in Trichy try cultivating Seeraga Samba - a fine variety exclusively used for cooking Biryani - on 5 acres. The variety is usually cultivated on the foothills of Pachamalai. Subathra Krishnan has raised the superior variety rice at Pikshandarkoil near Mannachanallur in Trichy district after doing a trial on a small portion of land for three years. “I was fed up with cultivating the latest varieties of rice, which require chemical fertilizers, pesticides in large quantity and finally we harvest chemical-rich rice. So, I decided to switch over to our old way of cultivating traditional varieties,” she said. She also tested a few other traditional varieties. After getting good result, she has taken up traditional farming method with the help of agriculture officials. “Unlike other varieties, Seeraga Samba will not respond to chemical fertilizers. Manure and some organic mixtures are enough. So, it will not incur much input cost,” she said. Wholesale as well as the retail price for the variety is high. The ruling varieties would yield 40 to 45 bags (60 kg each) per acre. In the case of Seeraga Samba, we get up to 30 bags. The cost of a bag of ordinary Ponni is around Rs 1,200 to Rs1,400. However, for Seeraga Samba we get up to Rs 3,000 per bag, she said. The difficult part is labour scarcity and drawback is lodging. As the crop grows up to 160 cm, it easily lodges during rain and strong wind, Subathra said. “I supply the fine variety to my relatives and friends. We are using it daily. Now, a few more farmers also have started cultivating the variety,” she said. Farmers from Mannachanallur traditionally cultivate Ponni rice. Now some of the farmers have started cultivating Seeraga Samba and other traditional varieties such as Mappillai Samba, Kouni, Poongar etc, officials said. “Most of the traditional varieties take around 140 to 150 days to mature. Seeraga Samba’s duration is like that of modified varieties, 130-135 days. While most of the traditional varieties are red rice, Seeraga Samba is pure white and very fine in quality,” said A Tagore, assistant director of agriculture, Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-farmer-revive-traditional-seeraga-samba-in-trichy/articleshow/78689265.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Housing societies reserve pre-Puja weekend to finalize guidelines for safe celebration in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Food packets sent to residents’ homes, cultural programmes in empty community halls in front of a camera, just a handful of chairs at Puja mandaps and curbs on entry of outsiders — housing societies across Kolkata are planning a slew of measures to the Puja days safe. For members and residents of housing societies, the weekends leading up to the Puja that were usually reserved for planning how to make their festivities grand are now devoted to fixing the rules to prevent crowding and maintaining the pandemic protocol while keeping the festive spirit alive. “This year we are trying to keep the festivities as low key as possible as there is some report of Covid infection in our complex every day. At present, 16 people are still infected and we cannot risk making grand plans for the Puja in such a scenario,” said Debjani Mukherjee, director, Urbana Facility Maintenance and senior VP of Bengal NRI Complex Ltd Urbana, which usually has air-conditioned pandals, will have a smaller and open-air structure this year, she said. At South City, community lunch and dinners have been scrapped and only a handful of chairs will be kept at the pandals to ensure only a limited number of residents can sit around the area at a time. “We will allow people time slots and engage queue managers at the time of bhog distribution. But at other times, there will be volunteers and guards to ensure people don’t crowd around the pandal,” said Manak Daga, president of South City Welfare Association. Cultural performances on Puja nights are also going to see some change this year. Almost all housing societies will either scrap them or take the virtual route. Upohar condominium will screen the programmes on a giant LED screen set up near the pandal. The performances will be recorded and shown online at the same time. “Many of our flats have balconies overlooking the greens and residents will be able to watch the screen from there. Flats without balconies on this side will be able to watch the show on their smart gadgets on social media,” said Sudeep Ganguly, spokesperson of the Puja committee. At Silver Spring, online competitions have been slotted and residents have started registering. “We will have multiple virtual competitions, like antakshari, a selfie competition with the goddess in the background of the frame and a photography competition,” said Ashok Baid, a senior resident of the complex on EM Bypass. An 11-point guideline for Durga Puja was issued by the state last week specifying that the festival will be spaced out over eight days beginning Tritiya. Based on these, several puja organizers are also set to finalize their programmes by this week. Meetings have been slated at Ruchira Residency and Abhishikta apartments this weekend. “We have cut down drastically on the rest of the expenses and there is no question of allowing people to sit together and watch performances like in the previous years. However, Covid has taught us how to connect virtually and seamlessly. We will use that to our advantage instead,” said Kaushik Mitra of Ruchira Residency. At New Town, representatives of complexes have been meeting NKDA officials for a final blueprint of the protocol that will be followed across the township.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-societies-reserve-pre-puja-weekend-to-finalize-guidelines-for-safe-celebration/articleshow/78690413.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways to run 12 pairs of festive special trains||PATNA: The railways has decided to run 12 pairs of special trains from different places falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) between October 20 and November 30 to cope with the huge rush of passengers during the festive season. Of these, two pairs of trains will operate every day whereas three will run bi-weekly and seven weekly. “People can either book tickets on the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation or at the passenger reservation system counters,” Danapur senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Adhar Raj told this newspaper on Wednesday. While the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi special (03293/03294) and Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Howrah special (02351/02352) will run every day, the Patliputra-Chandigarh (02355/02356), Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Jammu Tawi (02355 ‘A’/02356 ‘B’) and Patna Junction-Mumbai (08235/08236) specials will operate bi-weekly. Similarly, the railways will run weekly trains between Raxaul and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (02545/02546), Rajendra Nagar Terminal and Ahmedabad (02395/02396), Darbhanga and Mysuru (02577/02578), Barauni and Ernakulam (02521/02522), Patliputra and Yeshwantpur (02351/02352), Patna and Bandra (02353/02354) and Gaya and Chennai (02389/02390) during the festive period. “The railways has geared up to cope with the rush of passengers during festivals. It has alerted the RPF personnel in Danapur division and asked them to ensure the safety of passengers,” Raj said, adding that the Railway Board had directed the ECR to follow social distancing norms on the platforms from where special trains would originate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-to-run-12-pairs-of-festive-spl-trains/articleshow/78669031.cms||Kumod Verma
October 16, 2020||Patna||Buxar woman not gang-raped: SP||PATNA: Police investigation revealed that the 28-year-old Dalit woman was not gang-raped as had been alleged by her father in the FIR, Buxar SP Neeraj Kumar Singh told TOI on Wednesday. The woman’s father had alleged that seven people gang-raped her after killing her five-year-old son. The investigation revealed that she had gone to her male friend’s house to meet him one last time before being sent with her husband. Her father alleged that the incident took place on October 10 and he lodged an FIR with Murar police station the next day. Police had arrested one Meena Ram (50). Incidentally, the victim’s husband had come to take her back to his home two days before and was staying at his in-laws’ house. The woman left home with her son saying she was going to a bank. Buxar SP said her friend, aged around 40 years, is evading arrest. “Police has arrested a man who had taken her to Koran Sarai on a bike for helping to meet her male friend. Police also arrested another person at whose residence the accused friend had taken the victim at Rajpur on October 10,” the SP said. He, however, refused to disclose the accused’s identity. He said during investigation, it surfaced that the accused called the victim as she was set to return with her husband to her in-laws’ house on October 11. “The accused had threatened to commit suicide if she did not meet him. The victim told the police that the accused identified himself to be a single but she came to know that day that he was married and had four children,” the SP said. He said both had a scuffle as the victim wanted to marry him. He quoted the woman that the accused later told her father had fallen ill and arranged an autorickshaw for taking her back. “The victim told police that the accused pushed her in the pond near her residence and her son drowned and died,” he said. He said the police have recorded before judicial magistrate the statements of autorickshaw driver, a woman of the house where the victim had her male friend stayed for the night and the one who had taken her on a bike recorded to corroborate the facts. Singh said the medical report confirmed sexual assault, which was committed actually by the friend and not by any other person as per investigation conducted till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buxar-woman-not-gang-raped-sp/articleshow/78669027.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Patna||‘Atmanirbhar Bihar will be my first priority’||India’s ace shooter and Commonwealth gold medallist Shreyasi Singh is a BJP candidate from Jamui assembly constituency. She tells Faryal Rumi about her career in sports, decision to join politics and vision for Bihar. Excerpts: You had a bright career in sports. So, why politics? I come from a family where service to humanity is service to God. I grew up idolizing my father (late Digvijay Singh) for his work in Jamui and Banka. The Covid-19 made us realize the extent of vulnerability of Bihari workers in other states. For two months, my family distributed ration and survival kits among the people from Bihar, who reached us primarily because of our background. It pushed me to become officially capable of helping them. Are you going to sacrifice your career in sports for politics? I am not leaving sports. An Olympics medal is still my dream. All my winning qualities come from being a sportsperson. I will always remain one. In fact, I will be using my platform to enable sports infrastructure in Jamui. Who inspired you in politics and why? My father, first and foremost. He was a charismatic leader who was hand-picked by former PM Chandrashekhar to be a part of his cabinet in 1990. I have not seen anyone like him. He could be addressing the UN General Assembly one day and the village gram sabha the next. After he passed away, my mother (Putul Kumari) joined politics and I noticed the kindness with which she approached the public. These qualities inspired me the most when it came to connecting with people. What are your priorities and plans for Jamui? PM Narendra Modi’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ has inspired me to make ‘Atmanirbhar Bihar’. That’s my first priority. I intend to start it from Jamui. People demand a university so that students do not have to move from Jamui to other places for higher education. Girls tend to drop out due that. We need to set up manufacturing and food processing units and ensure women participation in them. These will be my first areas of attention. What are the challenges? Do you think development work has been done in Jamui? One thing I have heard repeatedly from people is the demand for educational and healthcare infrastructure. The pandemic has worsened the situation, particularly for the vulnerable sections. The region has seen some improvement, but requires more work, of course. Do you think caste politics is over for youth in Bihar? The youths in Bihar want education, development and job opportunities. Caste is still a part of Bihar politics. One cannot deny that. But the youths choose development over it any day. How you are campaigning in the Covid times? I always make sure to wear my mask and sanitise my hands. I also ensure that my team does the same. This pandemic will remain in our lives for some time, so we must adapt to it. We are focusing on virtual rallies for the senior leaders and emphasizing on social media to reach out to voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/atmanirbhar-bihar-will-be-my-first-priority/articleshow/78689204.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Vadodara||Cops suspect deeper plot in Kaniyo’s killing||Vadodara: Three prisoners of Vadodara Central Jail who have been accused of killing dreaded gangster Azharuddin Sindhi alias Ajju Kaniyo inside the jail on Wednesday, will be presented before a local court on Friday. Police said that the trio – Sunil alias Sahil Parmar, Kiran Solanki alias Bodiyo and Shiva Mahalingam Pillai alias Aftab – were questioned inside the jail on Thursday. “We will seek their custody through a transfer warrant,” said a police official. “So far we have questioned them not as part of their official statement, but to understand about Wednesday’s crime better,” he added. Cops are, however, yet to reach a conclusion as they suspect a deeper foul play in Kaniyo’s killing as somebody like Parmar would not dare to kill the gangster. On Thursday too Parmar and Bodiyo kept repeating their Wednesday statement that they killed him because of their frustration out of Kaniyo’s bossy attitude. “The third accused Shiva alias Aftab said that he had no relations with Kaniyo nor did he spoke much to Parmar and Bodiyo either in jail,” the police official said. However, it was Shiva who intervened in the verbal spat between Parmar and Kaniyo on October 12 and ensured that it did not reach a flash point asking Parmar not to escalate the issue. Police sources said that Kaniyo and Shiva never had any conflict inside the jail but there was an underlying tussle of egos. “When two gangsters are kept together, there is always an effort from both sides to gain dominance,” a jail staffer said. While Kaniyo faced 41 cases of attempt to murder, extortion, assault, rioting among others, Shiva is involved in 20 serious crimes including murder, attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity, assault, violation of arms act, violation of prohibition act, peddling of narcotics and extortion in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cops-suspect-deeper-plot-in-kaniyos-killing/articleshow/78687218.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Patna||Noted lensman K M Sharma dies of Covid||PATNA: Senior city-based photojournalist Krishna Mohan Sharma, who was admitted to AIIMS with Covid-19 infection, died on Thursday. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. The 63-year-old noted lensman was associated with the Patna edition of Times of India in various capacities since its inception in 1986 and continued to contribute even after his retirement. CM Nitish Kumar, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Union minister Aswani Choubey among other senior leaders and fellow journalists mourned his demise. “I have been greatly saddened at the demise of photojournalist Krishna Mohan Sharma. He had made a special place and identity for himself as a photojournalist. His death is a huge loss to journalism,” the CM said and prayed that his family members would have the strength to bear his loss. Sharma, who belonged to a family of photographers in Patna, had first started as a freelancer around mid-1980s and initially joined a Hindi-language daily. Next year, he joined the Patna edition of The Times of India launched in May 1986 and remained associated with it as staffer till his retirement. Known for his news and feature photography, he rose in the ranks and finally headed the bureau of photojournalists. Always ready to track and pursue the photo news story both in Patna and other parts of the state, reporters working with him loved to go out on field reporting with him. Among his notable field photography was the drive against the dreaded dacoits of Gangetic ‘diaras’ launched by then SP of Munger D N Gautam in 1986. He also covered the police raid on the house of now incarcerated Anand Mohan Singh in his village in Saharsa district. Thanks to his nose for news, and his reputation as a photo-news hound, he had built a reserve of stock photos and continued contributing to TOI till a fortnight before his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/noted-lensman-k-m-sharma-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78688286.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Doon-Delhi Shatabdi resumesoperation with 'low occupancy'||Dehradun: After a gap of seven months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Doon- New Delhi Shatabdi special express has resumed its operation on Thursday with "low occupancy". The super fast train resumed during the ongoing Unlock-5 phase.The Dehradun-bound '02017' Shatabdi express reached "on time" at 12.55 with 110 commuters. A total of 86 passengers were scheduled to leave for the national capital on the same evening."After a long time gap, Shatabdi express resumed its journey on Thursday. It will run daily from today. It had low occupancy - both ways. However, it will improve gradually," Doon station master Sitaram Sonkar said.He added, "Keeping in mind, ahead of festivals, Moradabad division has urged the railway board to run more than five trains along with the Mussoorie express."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-delhi-shatabdi-resumesoperation-with-low-occupancy/articleshow/78687761.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
October 16, 2020||Patna||Teachers want MLCs to fulfil their demands||PATNA: As the Bihar legislative council elections for graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies draw near, the candidates in the fray are trying to woo the voters, mainly school, college and university teachers by promising ‘equal pay for equal work’, service conditions for contractual teachers and better pension schemes for professors. Teachers, however, are closely monitoring the campaign trail and speeches of the candidates of mainstream political parties in order to select their representatives. There is an uproar among teachers regarding Bihar State Municipal Primary School Service and Bihar State Panchayat Primary School Service (Recruitment, Promotion, Transfer, Disciplinary Action and Service Conditions) Rules, 2020, which had been implemented in August. Teachers are unhappy with the new service conditions for contractual teachers. Abhishek Kumar, former spokesperson of Bihar State Secondary Teachers’ Association, said, “There is unity among all teachers when it comes to polling. The state government did not consider our demands while framing the service conditions even though over 4 lakh teachers protested for months.” “In his recent speech, CM Nitish Kumar only talked about midday meal and cycle yojana. However, these are not enough for the development in education sector. The CM did not say a single word about teachers’ plight.” Manoj Kumar, secretary of Bihar State Primary Teachers’ Association, said they would vote for the candidate, who can raise their demand in the House and fight for their rights. “The teachers would only vote for the candidate who gives space to teachers’ demands in their manifesto. This time we are not going to be fooled by the fake promises of the leaders. The sitting MLCs have done nothing for the teachers,” he added. Jainandan Kumar, a senior teacher at Sarvodaya High School, said the new service conditions should be revoked. “RJD leader Tejaswhi Prasad Yadav’s announcement regarding our long-standing demand of pay parity is really appreciable. However, we are waiting to see the party’s manifesto. RJD was also in power for two years with JD(U), but did nothing for us,” said Ajay Kumar Tiwari, a teacher at Government High School, Fatuha. Altogether 1,20,450 electors, including 28,848 women and four transgender, will vote for candidates contesting from graduates’ seats at 181 polling stations in Patna, Nalanda and Nawada. Similarly, 9,555 voters, including 2,808 women, and a transgender would exercise their franchise at 80 polling booths to elect their representatives from teachers’ constituency on October 22. Shankar Kumar, a physics teacher at Patna Science College, said, “No party come up with a road map for education sector. We can’t vote for candidates based on their verbal speeches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/teachers-want-mlcs-to-fulfil-their-demands/articleshow/78689869.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 16, 2020||Business||Adani Green transfers 3 solar assets to Total JV for Rs 1,632cr||Mumbai: Adani Green Energy has transferred three solar power assets, which it had acquired from Essel Group, to its joint venture company with France’s Total, for Rs 1,632 crore. The three solar assets, with a combined capacity of 205MW, are located in Punjab, Karnataka and UP. These assets have long-term power purchase agreements (about 21 years) with various state electricity distribution companies. Total has invested Rs 310 crore in the JV after the transfer of the three assets. Including this transfer, the total renewable portfolio under the 50:50 joint venture stands at 2,353MW. Adani and Total formed the JV in April with an aim to have a portfolio of 2,148MW solar power assets in India. The JV was formed with an enterprise value of Rs 17,385 crore. “The (latest) step is in line with our ambition of achieving 25GW of renewable power capacity by 2025 and becoming the world’s largest renewable power company by 2030,” said Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/adani-green-transfers-3-solar-assets-to-total-jv-for-rs-1632cr/articleshow/78690530.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP BJP chief campaigns from Dalit’s home||Lucknow: UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh kicked off the campaign in bypoll-bound Bulandshahr assembly seat by camping at the house of a Dalit party worker on Thursday. Singh visited the house of Tejpal Jatav, a booth president in Bulandhshahr, in what is seen as BJP’s Dalit outreach at time when the opposition is trying to corner it over the murder and alleged gang rape of a dalit woman in Hathras. Singh said the pro-poor and farmer-centric policies of BJP governments at Centre and in state would ensure a resounding victory of the party in the byelections on seven seats next month. In Bulandshahr, BJP has fielded Usha Sirohi, the widow of Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Virendra Sirohi whose demise necessitated the bypoll. He accused opposition of nepotism, casteism and community appeasement. “The electorate has time and again voted to support BJP’s Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas agenda. The opposition is trying to disturb peace and causing law and order problem but its attempts would be foiled,” he said. While participating in a chaupal at Kudaina village, Singh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been working to double the income of farmers. The hike in minimum support price, issuance of soil health cards and Kisan Samman Nidhi are part of BJP government’s agenda to bring prosperity in the lives of farmers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-bjp-chief-campaigns-from-dalits-home/articleshow/78691057.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Business||Tatas on SP: Still no separation request||MUMBAI: The Tata Group said on Thursday that it hasn’t received any formal request from the Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group on its desire to separate from the $113-billion conglomerate. The statement comes more than three weeks after SP, the largest minority shareholder in Tata Sons, informed the Supreme Court about its intention to exit from the holding company of the Tata Group. SP, the country’s second-largest construction company, has an 18.4% stake in Tata Sons on the back of a seven-decade long relationship. “Tata Group states that they have till date not received any formal request or proposal from SP on this matter,” it said in a press statement. “In any event, since the matter is sub judice before the Supreme Court, they will wait for the court proceedings to resume, which is scheduled for October 28.” SP was looking to raise Rs 11,000 crore by pledging its Tata Sons shares in order to deal with the crisis arising from the Covid pandemic. But this effort was blocked when the holding company of the automotive-to-aviation conglomerate told the SC on September 22 that it was open to buying their 18.4% stake if they required funds. Later that day, SP said in a media statement that it was ready to part ways from the Tata Group. On Thursday, the Tata Group said, “This statement has resulted in considerable confusion and speculation in the media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-on-sp-still-no-separation-request/articleshow/78690489.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 16, 2020||Patna||Charges filed against Mokama MLA in AK-47, grenade recovery case||PATNA: The special MP-MLA court in Patna framed charges against sitting Mokama MLA Anant Singh on Thursday in connection with the recovery of an AK-47 assault rifle and explosives from his private residence at Barh in Patna last year. The don-turned-politician, who has filed his nomination papers as an RJD candidate this time, is lodged in Beur central jail along with co-accused and caretaker of his ancestral house Sunil Ram. The state government has appointed Shyameshwar Dayal as the special public prosecutor in the case who would be assisted by additional public prosecutor Ajay Mishra of Patna high court. Dayal had also conducted the trials in the murder cases against former MPs Mohammad Shahbuddin, and Anand Mohan Singh and MLA Rajballah Yadav in minor’s rape case and all these cases had resulted in their conviction. APP Mishra said charges against the duo were framed under the relevant sections of Arms Act and Explosives Substances Act and Section 414 and 120B of IPC. “Charges under Section 13 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were not framed as the charge sheet was not filed under the specific law,” he said, adding, the daily trial would be conducted in the case as per the direction of the high court. “After framing of charges, the court fixed October 21 as next date of hearing when the informant’s deposition would be recorded,” Mishra said. Barh police station SHO Sanjeet Kumar was an informant in the case and police had also invoked the stringent UAPA against Singh and Ram in its FIR. An AK-47 assault rifle and 26 live cartridges along with two military-grade hand grenades were recovered by Patna police hidden inside Singh’s private residence at village Nadwan on August 16. Singh’s caretaker Sunil Ram was arrested from the spot as he had the keys of the house. Police had also conducted a raid on Singh’s official bungalow in Patna but he was not found there. Singh surrendered before a metropolitan court at Saket in New Delhi on August 23 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/charges-filed-against-mokama-mla-in-ak-47-grenade-recovery-case/articleshow/78689283.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Business||RBI injects Rs 20,000 crore into banking system via OMO||MUMBAI: The RBI on Thursday infused Rs 20,000 crore into the banking system through an open market operation (OMO) purchase of government securities (G-Secs) worth an equal amount, the first under the enhanced limit announced last week. This liquidity infusion measure will mainly help in checking the current trend of rising yields, market players said. Data from the central bank showed that it has bought G-Secs of six-year tenure worth Rs 6,600 crore, of eight-year tenure worth Rs 5,177 crore, of 10-year tenure (the old benchmark) worth Rs 3,475 crore and of 13-year tenure worth Rs 4,748 crore. The RBI bought the 10-year papers at a yield of 5.86%. After the OMO, the benchmark yield closed at 5.9%, not far from its previous close.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-injects-rs-20000cr-into-banking-system-via-omo/articleshow/78690445.cms||---
October 16, 2020||---||Bihar elections: BJP chief JP Nadda takes a swipe at Tejashvi Yadav||PATNA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Thursday took a swipe at Grand Alliance CM candidate and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on the latter’s recent announcement that government jobs will be provided to 10 lakh people if his party was voted to power. “It is easier to make public speeches, but very difficult to fulfil the promises and follow the path of development. For this purpose, you need a man with a 56-inch chest,” Nadda said at Karakat in Rohtas district. Without taking the name of Lalu, the BJP chief said even the son of the man, who is serving sentence in a Ranchi jail in connection with fodder scam cases, has now started talking about development of the state and giving employment to the youths. “The credit for the change in perception of the man in question goes to PM Narendra Modi for making him know what the development means,” he added. Slamming the RJD for poor law and order in the state during its regime, the BJP president said even Shahabuddin remained a free bird till Nitish Kumar took over the reins of the state. “A Dalit IAS officer, G Krishnaiah, was killed during the Lalu-Rabri regime in Muzaffarpur district. He was posted as DM of Gopalganj when the incident happened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nadda-takes-a-swipe-at-tejas/articleshow/78689327.cms||Ramashankar
October 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 tally crosses 2L-mark, toll mounts to 972||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally crossed two lakh-mark on Thursday with 1,276 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid cases in the state has now jumped to 2,00,825. Officially, five deaths were recorded on Thursday, taking the state’s toll to 972. AIIMS-Patna reported six deaths, including that of senior photographer Krishna Mohan Sharma, who was associated with TOI, and four other residents of the state capital, on Thursday. According to the state health department, 1,88,802 people have so far recuperated from the virus. Active cases in the state, therefore, stand at 11,049. Of six deaths recorded at AIIMS-Patna, five deceased were from Patna, including a 55-year-old man from Patna City Chowk, a 63-year-old man from Ashiana Mor, a 65-year-old man of Buddha Colony, a 87-year-old man from Begum Ki Haveli in Patna City and TOI photographer K M Sharma. The sixth deceased was a 65-year-old man from Khorimoh village in Banka district. As per the information shared by Covid-19 nodal incharge of AIIMS-Patna Dr Sanjev Kumar, 11 patients were admitted to the hospital and 16 discharged on Thursday. Among those discharged was also a newborn male child. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported one death and the deceased was a 50-year-old man from Kartaha Buzurg in Vaishali. One new patient was admitted to the hospital and four were discharged on Thursday. Of the 1,276 new Covid-19 cases registered on Thursday, 290 were from Patna. With this, the state’s Covid tally has risen to 31,816. However, with 29,104 recoveries and 235 deaths, active cases in the district stand at 2,477. Among other districts, Saharsa recorded 66 new cases, Purnia 60, Bhagalpur 55, Araria 49, Muzaffarpur 48 and Jehanabad 46. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 804 people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s recovery rate has improved to 94.01%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-19-tally-crosses-2l-mark-toll-mounts-to-972/articleshow/78687749.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||Patna||GA allies release joint list of 49 candidates||PATNA: The Congress on Thursday declared the names of its 49 candidates for the second and third phases of assembly elections in the state. It also announced the candidature of Pravesh Kumar Mishra, who will be contesting the bypolls from Valmikinagar Lok Sabha constituency. The Congress has fielded 34 forward caste candidates, 13 Dalits and 10 OBC and minority communities in the second and third phases. Congress MLA from Kadwa Shakil Ahmad Khan, on whom the party has reposed its faith, said, “This fight is not between two major alliances, but between people of Bihar and NDA.” After distribution of tickets, Mahagatbandhan partners came on one platform to officially announce the names of their candidates. Though Left parties had already made an announcement, RJD and Congress made it official on Thursday. The RJD has given tickets to 58 Yadav candidates, 21 to the ones from different extremely backward caste, 20 to general, 17 to Muslim, 15 to scheduled caste, 11 to OBC and two to scheduled tribe candidates. Among general, it has given tickets to seven Rajputs, four Brahmins and one Bhumiar. Five from Vaishya caste which come under EBC category have also managed to get tickets. Other in EBC category includes Mandal (4), Nonia (4), Chaurasia (2), Sahni (3), Chandravanshi (1) and Lohar (1). Among Left partners, CPI (ML) has got maximum 19 tickets, out of which it has given nine tickets to OBCs, two to EBCs, five to SCs and three to Muslims. CPI has given two seats to forward caste (both Bhumiar), two to Yadavs, one to Paswan (SC) and one to OBC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-allies-release-joint-list-of-49-candidates/articleshow/78693007.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||---||GA allies release joint list of 49 candidates||PATNA: The Congress on Thursday declared the names of its 49 candidates for the second and third phases of assembly elections in the state. It also announced the candidature of Pravesh Kumar Mishra, who will be contesting the bypolls from Valmikinagar Lok Sabha constituency. The Congress has fielded 34 forward caste candidates, 13 Dalits and 10 OBC and minority communities in the second and third phases. Congress MLA from Kadwa Shakil Ahmad Khan, on whom the party has reposed its faith, said, “This fight is not between two major alliances, but between people of Bihar and NDA.” After distribution of tickets, Mahagatbandhan partners came on one platform to officially announce the names of their candidates. Though Left parties had already made an announcement, RJD and Congress made it official on Thursday. The RJD has given tickets to 58 Yadav candidates, 21 to the ones from different extremely backward caste, 20 to general, 17 to Muslim, 15 to scheduled caste, 11 to OBC and two to scheduled tribe candidates. Among general, it has given tickets to seven Rajputs, four Brahmins and one Bhumiar. Five from Vaishya caste which come under EBC category have also managed to get tickets. Other in EBC category includes Mandal (4), Nonia (4), Chaurasia (2), Sahni (3), Chandravanshi (1) and Lohar (1). Among Left partners, CPI (ML) has got maximum 19 tickets, out of which it has given nine tickets to OBCs, two to EBCs, five to SCs and three to Muslims. CPI has given two seats to forward caste (both Bhumiar), two to Yadavs, one to Paswan (SC) and one to OBC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ga-allies-release-joint-list-of-49-candidates/articleshow/78689755.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||Patna||BJP’s Nitin Nabin files his nomination papers||PATNA: BJP sitting MLA Nitin Nabin filed his nomination papers for the Bankipur assembly constituency in Patna on Thursday. Congress candidate Luv Sinha will complete the nomination process on Friday, which is the last date for filing papers for the second phase. Before filing his nomination, Nitin sought the blessings of his elders in the family and visited the Hanuman Mandir. He also released his report card, highlighting the works he had done during his five-year tenure. He talked about door-to-door garbage collection, timely payment to civic body employees, installation of street lights and construction of sump houses and drains to tackle the problem of waterlogging. Nitin has been representing the Bankipur seat for the last three terms. He jumped into the poll fray for the first time in 2006, after his father and senior BJP leader Nabin Kishore Prasad Sinha died and a bypoll for Patna West was held. After delineation, Bankipur came into existence in 2008. Nitin won with a huge margin in the 2010 and 2015 assembly elections. He said he would focus on providing quality education and complete the ongoing civic works. “Others have come from a glamorous world, but I stay here among the people,” said Nabin, hitting at his contenders without taking any names. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who is also Patna Sahib MP under which Bankipur falls, sought votes for Nabin. He hit at Luv without taking his name and said, “I had defeated his father and now Nitin will defeat him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-nitin-nabin-fileshis-nomination-papers/articleshow/78689363.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 16, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu CM urges to announce reopening of theatres||TRICHY: Theatres and multiplex owners are likely to meet chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on October 19, seeking reopening of cinemas citing Centre’s nod to reopen the theatres recently. Some of the states have reopened theatres with 50% occupancy from Thursday based on the direction from central government. However, Tamil Nadu is yet to take a call on the same. There is a dire need to reopen theatres considering the livelihood of many, the owners stated, adding that ensuring 50% occupancy wouldn’t be an issue. “We sincerely request the CM to reopen the theatres because the livelihood of people associated with theatres including workers are badly affected,” said joint secretary of Tamil Nadu theatres’ association, S Srither. They approached Kadambur Raju, minister for information and publicity, a few days back to consider reopening of theatres. “We are planning to meet the CM on Monday and are expecting an announcement the same day,” he said. On the rule to ensure 50% occupancy, Srither said large number of people thronging the theatres during the pandemic is unlikely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-urged-to-announce-reopening-of-theatres/articleshow/78689263.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Business||Jhunjhunwala holds 1.3% in Tata Motors worth Rs 508 crore||MUMBAI: Billionaire investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala holds four crore shares of Tata Motors, translating into a 1.3% stake worth Rs 508 crore in the company, the auto major’s shareholding disclosures for September showed. This is the fourth Tata Group company in which Jhunjhunwala holds a stake of more than 1%. He, along with his wife Rekha, holds 10.3% in Rallis India and a little over 5.5% in Titan. As of June this year, he also held a nearly 1.1% stake in Indian Hotels that runs the Taj group of hotels. Jhunjhunwala holds 4.9 crore shares of Titan, 2 crore shares of Rallis India and over 1.2 crore shares of Indian Hotels. Along with Tata Motors, the Jhunjhunwalas’ four holdings in Tata Group together are worth about Rs 7,100 crore currently. Soon after the Tata Motors disclosure to the exchanges in Thursday’s mid-session, the stock jumped over 1% on the BSE. However, due to the strong selling that followed, it finally settled 2.8% lower at Rs 127. According to market rumours, Jhunjhunwala’s purchase of a stake in Tata Motors was partially funded by the reduction of his holdings in Escorts. BSE data showed that till September 2019, the widely followed investor was holding 1 crore shares of Escorts. However, between October and December 2019, he reduced his stake in Escorts by 5.3 lakh shares to just under 95 lakh and by another 3.8 lakh shares between January and March this year to his end-June holding of about 91 lakh shares. Since October 2019, Jhunjhunwala’s stake in Escorts had fallen from 8.2% to 7.4%, currently worth nearly Rs 1,100 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jhunjhunwala-holds-1-3-in-tata-motors-worth-rs-508cr/articleshow/78690442.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: Ex-DGP is like a ‘brother’ to BJP’s Buxar candidate||BUXAR: Launching his election campaign from the Nariyare Baba Temple at Barkagaon under Umar panchayat recently, BJP’s Buxar candidate Parshuram Chaturvedi urged his supporters to vote for him in the upcoming state assembly polls so that he may emerge victorious. “You must have seen how the NDA ticket for the Buxar assembly seat became a national news. Now that I have got it, my victory or defeat depends on you. Make me win,” Chaturvedi pleaded in rustic Bhojpuri. Fondly called Parshuram Baba, he had left the job of an assistant sub-inspector in the Bihar police 12 years ago to work for the BJP. At present, he is a national executive member of the party’s Kisan Morcha. Deafening slogans hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar rent the air as Chaturvedi and his supporters went around the village seeking votes. He greeted everyone with folded hands and touched the feet of the elderly. On seeing his childhood friend Ramji Mishra, who retired from the police department recently, he hugged him tightly. Mishra told the villagers that Chaturvedi had always been grounded even as his career graph in politics went up. “He has stood with us in times of our joys and sorrows. He actively worked at the grassroots level during the floods and Covid-19 pandemic,” Mishra said, adding that Chaturvedi was a workaholic. A native of Mahadah, situated 4km from Barkagaon, Chaturvedi told this newspaper that he got a BJP ticket because of the party’s policy to “recognize even its most common worker”. “Be it the leaders or the workers, everyone is equal in the eyes of the party leadership,” he claimed. Asked if he enjoyed the support of ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who is also a Buxar native and now a member of the JD (U), Chaturvedi said they had “a brotherly relationship”. “I touch Gupteshwar Baba’s feet. I am sure his blessings are with me,” he added. Chaturvedi also paid obeisance to Deeh Baba, the village deity, during his three-hour campaigning at Barkagaon. Later, he left for neighbouring Sonbarsa in a red car that was followed by two other four-wheelers. Buxar, incidentally, is a Brahmin-dominated constituency. Chaturvedi is pitted against Congress sitting MLA Sanjay Kumar Tiwari. Besides the two, there are 14 other candidates in the fray, including RLSP’s Nirmal Kushwaha and social activist Akash Kumar Singh. The constituency will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-dgp-is-like-a-brother-to-bjps-buxar-candidate/articleshow/78675826.cms||K Kamlesh
October 16, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Ex-DGP is like a ‘brother’ to BJP’s Buxar candidate||BUXAR: Launching his election campaign from the Nariyare Baba Temple at Barkagaon under Umar panchayat recently, BJP’s Buxar candidate Parshuram Chaturvedi urged his supporters to vote for him in the upcoming state assembly polls so that he may emerge victorious. “You must have seen how the NDA ticket for the Buxar assembly seat became a national news. Now that I have got it, my victory or defeat depends on you. Make me win,” Chaturvedi pleaded in rustic Bhojpuri. Fondly called Parshuram Baba, he had left the job of an assistant sub-inspector in the Bihar police 12 years ago to work for the BJP. At present, he is a national executive member of the party’s Kisan Morcha. Deafening slogans hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar rent the air as Chaturvedi and his supporters went around the village seeking votes. He greeted everyone with folded hands and touched the feet of the elderly. On seeing his childhood friend Ramji Mishra, who retired from the police department recently, he hugged him tightly. Mishra told the villagers that Chaturvedi had always been grounded even as his career graph in politics went up. “He has stood with us in times of our joys and sorrows. He actively worked at the grassroots level during the floods and Covid-19 pandemic,” Mishra said, adding that Chaturvedi was a workaholic. A native of Mahadah, situated 4km from Barkagaon, Chaturvedi told this newspaper that he got a BJP ticket because of the party’s policy to “recognize even its most common worker”. “Be it the leaders or the workers, everyone is equal in the eyes of the party leadership,” he claimed. Asked if he enjoyed the support of ex-DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who is also a Buxar native and now a member of the JD (U), Chaturvedi said they had “a brotherly relationship”. “I touch Gupteshwar Baba’s feet. I am sure his blessings are with me,” he added. Chaturvedi also paid obeisance to Deeh Baba, the village deity, during his three-hour campaigning at Barkagaon. Later, he left for neighbouring Sonbarsa in a red car that was followed by two other four-wheelers. Buxar, incidentally, is a Brahmin-dominated constituency. Chaturvedi is pitted against Congress sitting MLA Sanjay Kumar Tiwari. Besides the two, there are 14 other candidates in the fray, including RLSP’s Nirmal Kushwaha and social activist Akash Kumar Singh. The constituency will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ex-dgp-is-like-a-brother-to-bjps-buxar-candidate/articleshow/78668955.cms||K Kamlesh
October 16, 2020||Patna||UGC’s recognition to DDE extended for another year||PATNA: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the University Grants Commission (UGC) will continue to grant recognition to the Directorate of Distance Education (DDE) of Patna University (PU) for one more year (2020-21). “The directorate was derecognized by the UGC three years ago on account of various shortcomings. However, recognition was restored last year only for one session on the condition that it would meet all the requirements within the given time frame,” DDE chief Javed Hayat told this newspaper on Thursday. The most important condition was that PU must be accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council with at least a 3.26 CGPA. The university, however, scored only 2.55 CGPA and B+ grade. Later it approached the UGC with a request to consider its demand for extending the period of recognition in view of the fact that the university had already met most of the other conditions and also applied for reaccreditation. Welcoming the UGC’s decision, PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said, “Now, the university will try its best to improve its NAAC score by streamlining the academic activities and modernizing the infrastructure. The process of admission to various undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses run by the DDE will also be started soon.” Courses under the DDE are mostly preferred by working professionals as they are not required to attend regular classes daily. Besides, students, who fail to compete in the written entrance test for admission to the three-year degree courses in different colleges of PU, also secure admission in the directorate. Established in 1974 as Institute of Correspondence Courses, it runs UG courses in history, geography, English, Hindi, Urdu, computer applications and commerce as well as PG diploma courses in marketing management, financial management, library science, journalism and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ugcs-recognition-to-dde-extended-for-another-year/articleshow/78687671.cms||B K Mishra
October 16, 2020||Patna||HC seeks Centre’s reply on funds for tribal welfare in Bihar||PATNA: The Patna high court on Thursday directed the Centre to respond with details of fund allocation for the welfare of tribal people in Bihar. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by Bihar Adiwasi Adhikar Forum on the deplorable condition of the government-run Yugal Shah tribal girl’s high school at Harnatand in West Champaran, the lone school for tribal girls in the entire state. The forum has stated in its PIL that Classes VI and VII were abruptly discontinued in 2018-2019. The hostel with a capacity to accommodate 75 girls was shut last year and systematically the enrolment of tribal girls has been reduced and there is gross mismanagement in running the school even when the state government took over the school on July 29, 2013. Education department principal secretary submitted a counter-affidavit on Thursday apprising the high court that the hostel was running till last year in cooperation with the local people and that it was them who decided that the hostel be closed due to Covid-19 pandemic.Counsel Vikash Kumar Pankaj appearing for the forum submitted that when the government has taken over the school then how can local people in West Champaran take decisions on running or closing the hostel. The bench was irked with the education department’s affidavit blaming the people in West Champaran for the closure of the hostel. The HC later ordered impleading the Centre, through the Union ministries of tribal affairs, woman and child development and social justice and empowerment as respondents in the matter and sought a reply on fund allocation to the state for the welfare of tribal people and fixed November 5 as the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-centres-reply-on-funds-for-tribal-welfare-in-bihar/articleshow/78687734.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 16, 2020||Patna||Now, pay hefty fine for causing noise pollution||PATNA: Bursting of firecrackers in marriage processions, public rallies and religious events will now invite a fine of Rs 10,000 if it emanates noise beyond the permissible limit. If firecrackers are burst in a silent zone, the amount of fine will double up to Rs 20,000. The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) on Thursday said the National Green Tribunal, New Delhi has framed rules and fixed penalties for violation of the rules on the proposal of the Central Pollution Control Board. BSPCB public relations officer Birendra Kumar said the fine against the noise made by the diesel generator (DG) set of more than 1000 KVA was Rs 1 lakh and sealing of the set while that for 62.5 to 1000 KVA and up to 62.5 KVA, it’s Rs 25,000 and 10,000, respectively. The maximum permissible sound pressure level for new DG sets with rated capacity up to 1,000 KVA, manufactured on and after January 1, 2005 shall be 75 db (A) at one metre from the enclosure surface. Kumar said the first violation of ruled at public functions, marriages and institutional events would invite a fine Rs 20,000 and in case of repeat violation, the amount would go up to Rs 40,000. In case of the violation more than two times, the penalty would shoot to Rs 1 lakh and sealing of the premises under the Environmental Protection Act. In all the three events, fines would be paid by owners and organisers of the premise. Individuals or households living in residential and commercial areas found guilty of bursting firecrackers of sound beyond the permissible limit would have to pay a fine of Rs 1,000. In silent zones, the violation of rules will invite a penalty of Rs 3,000, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-pay-hefty-fine-for-causing-noise-pollution/articleshow/78687636.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hubballi||Software will provide route map to voters to reach polling station||Dharwad: The Election Commission, for the first time, has developed a software to provide a route map so voters can reach the polling station during the election to the legislative council scheduled for October 28. Regional commissioner (Belagavi division) Amlan Aditya Biswas, who is also the returning officer for the West Graduates’ constituency, told reporters here that the software will also provide information to the voters about Covid-19 protocol, voting method, and the time and place of voting. “West Graduates’ constituency covering Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts will have 146 polling stations with each of them being manned by health staff, security personnel and officers on election duty,” the RO said, adding: “The voters will be provided a slip containing information about the voter’s number and the place and time of voting. They should compulsorily follow Covid-19 norms like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and use sanitiser. Each voter will have to undergo health check-up. If any voter is found to be having cough, fever, etc, (s)he will be provided an opportunity to vote during the last one hour.” Each assembly constituency will have three special flying squads to prevent violation of election code of conduct. People seeking to file complaints about such violations can call 1077, the helpline set up at the DC’s office. They can also lodge the complaint with the ZP CEO, who is the chairperson of the model code of conduct monitoring committee, by calling 9480864000 or the assistant commissioner on 9731008189. The complainant will have to provide his/ her name, address, phone number and other details. Amlan also held a meeting with the representatives of political parties and the candidates and explained to them the rules and the model code of conduct to be followed by them during the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/software-will-provide-route-map-to-voters-to-reach-polling-station/articleshow/78687743.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Business||LVB to raise capital up to Rs 500 cr via rights issue||Chennai: Board of private sector bank Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), on Thursday, approved to raise capital for up to Rs 500 crore via rights issue. LVB board, which met on Thursday, had considered and approved the raising of funds by issuance. The terms of the issue will be decided by the Board or a duly constituted committee of the Board. In dire need of funds LVB said it will raise capital in parallel to improve its tier I capital position. LVB’s total capital adequacy ratio and tier I CAR stood as low as 0.17% and -1.83% respectively, as on June 30, 2020. Deposits declined by 27% from Rs 29,729 crore as on March 31, 2019 to Rs 21,161 crore as on June 30, 2020. Shares of LVB closed down 2.73% at Rs 17.8 apiece on Thursday on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-to-raise-capital-up-to-rs-500-cr-via-rights-issue/articleshow/78688717.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 16, 2020||Business||Rane Brake buy back at Rs 825 a share||The board of Rane Brake Lining (RBL) on Thursday approved buyback of equity shares at Rs 825 a share aggregating to a maximum of Rs 22 crore. The company’s share price closed at Rs 678, up nearly 6% in a falling Mumbai market which dropped nearly 3%. RBL’s total revenue for the quarter ended September 2020 stood at Rs 108 crore compared to Rs 112 crore in the same quarter last year. Net profit was Rs 11.5 crore for the quarter, rising 55% compared to Rs 7.5crore in the quarter ended September 2019. “With the gradual opening of the economy, we saw a pickup in the demand andOEMs production levels gained momentum anticipating festive sales. The plant operations team effectively handled the production ramp up despite the supply chain and labour availability challenges,” L. Ganesh,chairman, Rane Group, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rane-brake-buy-back-at-rs-825-a-share/articleshow/78688756.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Rajkot||Two loan sharks booked for abducting, threatening builder||Rajkot: A builder living on Sant Kabir Road was abducted and threatened by two moneylenders asking him to pay them Rs 40 lakh against Rs 20 lakh which he had borrowed. The builder Munna Joghava used to regularly borrow money from Dinesh Mundhwa and his brother Haresh Mundhwa for his construction business. He had initially borrowed Rs 5 lakh from Dinesh for constructing a house and had promised to return money as soon as house is sold off. Meanwhile, he continued to pay interest to Dinesh. Joghava borrowed another amount of Rs 6 lakh as he needed some cash. However, the house that Joghava had built could not be sold and he was not able to return money to Dinesh. Later Joghava borrowed Rs 9 lakh from Haresh and used to pay 10% interest every month. Although Joghava was paying them interest, the duo pressurized to return their money. On September 22, the duo abducted Joghava and took him to a deserted place near Aji Dam for threatening him. They asked Joghava to repay Rs 40 lakh within a month or else be ready to face consequences. As the threats continued, Joghava approached police and an offence of extortion, abduction and criminal intimidation was registered at Thorala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-loan-sharks-booked-for-abducting-threatening-builder/articleshow/78688372.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Patna||Jewellery worth several lakhs stolen from shop in city||PATNA: Gold and silver ornaments worth several lakhs were stolen from a jewellery shop located on Bhoothnath Road under the Agamkuan police station area in Patna City on the wee hours of Thursday. Ironically, the theft took place when there is deployment of forces on roads due to the upcoming polls. Police sources said that jewellery and other items of precious metals worth Rs 15 lakh have been stolen. However, police are awaiting a written complaint from the shopowner. Agamkuan police station SHO Abhijeet Kumar said that the shop is owned by one Murari Kumar. “The shop is located on the ground floor of a building where other shops are also located but no other shop was targeted,” he said. The SHO said that investigations are on and police are trying to ascertain the identity of the thieves with the help of CCTV footages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jewellery-worth-several-lakhs-stolen-from-shop-in-city/articleshow/78687702.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Business||Unacademy plans Rs 30cr ESOP buyback||Bengaluru: Edtech startup Unacademy has said that it will spend Rs 25-30 crore to buy back employee stock option plans (ESOPs) from up to 145 current and former employees after it achieved unicorn status last month. The ESOP buyback is expected to completed by the end of the year, and this will be its second buyback of employee shares in as many years. Unacademy joins over half a dozen startups and technology companies, including India’s largest stock broking company Zerodha, online food delivery major Zomato, home services company Urban Company, social commerce platform Meesho and auto classifieds player CarDekho, that have announced employee share purchases this year, spending a total of over Rs 400 crore and potentially benefiting over 1,000 employees across these companies. Some of these companies like CarDekho and Urban Company had announced these purchases before the pandemic in March, others like Zerodha and gaming company Mobile Premier League have announced these after the lockdown, underlining resilience and recovery in the digital economy. For Unacademy, The buyback comes after it raised $150 million from SoftBank, tripling its valuation to $1.5 billion from February, when it got funding from social networking giant Facebook. This comes as the five-year-old startup, which also recently became one of the sponsors for IPL, has seen its annualised revenue run rate increase four times since February, from $30 million to $120 million. It has 18,000 educators and over 350,000 subscribers. “Thank you everyone for playing an important role in helping us reach where we have reached,” Unacademy’s co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal told employees. ESOP purchases by these companies, done when they are flush with capital, are typically done either by incoming investors buying shares directly from employees or through a buyback from the funds raised. One big exception among these companies is Zerodha, which started about a decade ago and has been bootstrapped, generating profits to fund its growth and not raising investor money. The company last year formed an ESOP pool of Rs 200 crore for 850 employees. Zerodha’s co-founder Nithin Kamath confirmed to TOI that 800 employees participated in its buyback of shares recently, which was pegged at Rs 60-65 crore. He said that the company plans to offer buyback to employees on an annual basis and will also expand the ESOP pool later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/unacademy-plans-rs-30cr-esop-buyback/articleshow/78690469.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||‘No material to show release of juvenile inappropriate’||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high has ordered the release of a juvenile in conflict with law, making it plain that there has to be some material before the competent authority on the basis of which it can be said that it would be inappropriate. Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa of the HC has made these observations while setting aside the order passed by the principal magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board and the additional session judge Bathinda denying bail to a juvenile offender. While interpreting Section 12 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2000, Justice Dhindsa observed that a bare reading of the provisions would make it apparent that an exception has been carved out for declining bail to the juvenile who is in conflict with law i.e. he or she is likely to come in association with any known criminal or upon release on bail would expose such juvenile to moral, physical or psychological danger or that release of the juvenile would defeat the ends of justice. “For invoking such an exception, there has to be some material before the competent authority on the basis of which it can be held that the release of the juvenile in the present case would fall within the exception recognised under Section 12," observed the judge. The matter had reached before the Hhigh court in the wake of a petition filed by a juvenile from Bathinda. He was booked on January 31, for rape, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. A case was registered at police station Sangat in Bathinda district and the petitioner was arrested. The main allegations were that he forcibly committed sexual intercourse with the minor girl. As the petitioner was a juvenile, he had filed an application for release on bail but the principal magistrate, Juvenile Justice Board, Bathinda in its March 17 order declined his plea observing that the allegations against the juvenile are serious and if he is granted the concession of bail, there will be a threat to his life from the complainant’s side and he would be exposed to moral and psychological danger. The petitioner had then approached the high court seeking his release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-material-to-show-release-of-juvenile-inappropriate/articleshow/78690379.cms||Ajay Sura
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Fish, veggie price surges after strike in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The impact of the three-day truck strike was felt across the city retail markets even after goods vehicles resumed delivering essentials on Thursday. The supply chain disruptions led to a spike in prices of some items, which may persist till the Puja. The supply of fish, egg, onion, tomato, beans, capsicum, cabbage and cauliflower was especially hit, leading to a sharp upswing in prices. The price of onion, which had stabilized a bit, went up again. The wholesale price rose from Rs 40 a kg to Rs 50 a kg, making it as costly as Rs 70 a kg in the retail market. “Supply from Nashik has been erratic. As trucks were stopped at the Bengal-Odisha border due to the strike, many went off to other states, fearing rot,” said Kamal Dey, member of the market task force and president of West Bengal Vendors’ Association. Supply of other perishable items, like cabbage, cauliflower, tomato, beans, capsicum and tomato, was also affected. Most of the retail markets finished off the old stock at a premium, using the strike as an excuse. “Only 30% of the vendors turned up to sell vegetables on Thursday,” said Sanjay Rakshit of Bariaha market. Prices of these commodities may get higher after sorting since the price of the rotten vegetables will be absorbed in the cost, he explained. This is typically a lean period for Bengal’s agriculture production. The winter produces are only a fortnight away. This is the period when Bengal becomes dependent on other states. Cabbage and cauliflower come from Maharashtra, and tomato, capsicum and beans are brought from the southern states. The truckers’ strike at this juncture proved detrimental to the supply, said Dey. Apart from vegetables, the retail markets across the city, as well as Howrah, also had a scarcity of fish. And whatever was available was became costlier. Locally caught rohu, both big and small varieties, and some other local fish, like bhola, pangash and mourala, were all that most markets had. Very few fishermen could bring in hilsa and those who did, brought fish under 600 grams. The price of katla (full fish) was allegedly nearly double the usual at Gariahat Market. “I don’t buy rohu because of the bones and stick to katla, But instead of paying Rs 260 a kg, I had to pay Rs 340 a kg on Thursday,” said Sukharanjan Bagchi, a retired professor who lives on Kankulia Road. Suhrid Chandra Paul, a retired BSF officer who lives in Kasba, said he did not see good quality prawn anywhere in the Kasba or Bosepukur markets. “Even the slightly smaller variety that is sold for Rs 350 a kg could not be seen anywhere. Only the extremely small prawn normally used to make pakoras at roadside stalls were available. But I decided against buying them because it is tough to clean them properly,” he said. The big variety of pomfret was missing almost everywhere while the small variety, that normally sells at Rs 250, went for Rs 300 on Thursday, sources said. “The supply is unlikely to improve in the next couple of days even if the strike normalizes because the demand has peaked and so has the price,” said Ranjan Jati, owner of a stall at Lake Market. The escalating prices have affected Lake Market and Maniktala Market so much that many vendors chose not to open shops on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fish-veggie-price-surges-after-strike/articleshow/78689255.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Most multiplexes, swimming pools in Doon to open after 1 week to prep up for Covid norms||Dehradun: Even though the state government has given its permission to re-open public entertainment and recreational spaces like multiplexes and swimming pools in Dehradun from Thursday, most of these places have been reticent to open citing lack of preparedness to comply with the Covid-19 guidelines. Many businessowners said they would take an additional one-week time in order to implement the standard operating procedures (SOPs) like social distancing guidelines and mandatory masks before opening. Talking to TOI, Nikhil Bhatia, manager of the multiplex at Pacific Mall in the city, said, "Though we have the clearance from the government, it will take a week for us to fix everything as the premises had been locked for more than eight months. The training of staff, preparing the seating facility and getting sanitisation done would take this much time." Sharing similar concerns, Iqbal Wasu, owner of Crossroads Mall in the city said, "There is no point in opening the cinema halls and multiplexes immediately as there are no movie releases happening right now. Also, we will need time to ensure that the guidelines are followed in letter and spirit to avoid any adverse situation in the near future". Similarly, several club and farm owners, who have swimming pools at their premises, are also wary of allowing regular guests and tourists in the swimming pool. "The premises are ready, but we are analysing the guidelines as in the last eight months, the coronavirus has caused enough damage to everyone. We are being extra careful so that no one gets infected at our facility."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/most-multiplexes-swimming-pools-in-doon-to-open-after-1-week-to-prep-up-for-covid-norms/articleshow/78687791.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Day 7: Voda-Idea network crash causes havoc in NU online exams||NAGPUR: The crashing of Vodaphone-Idea (VI) network and cascading effect on other networks crippled Nagpur University’s online examinations on Thursday. While the administration has decided to conduct cancelled BPharm paper in Friday morning batch, it would take a call on whether postponing other papers after that. The VI network crash has also affected other universities, with Pune deferring their exams for two days. “The problem started in the morning during commerce paper. The 10.30am paper actually started at 10.48am as many students couldn’t login. Over 10,000 then logged in suddenly at 11.17am when connectivity slightly improved. As the first paper started late, other papers subsequently got affected and BPharm paper scheduled at 4.30pm couldn’t take place,” Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. Except Saturday and Wednesday, NU’s attempt at online MCQ tests, prodded by the government, turned out to be a complete disaster in its first week, even though officials deny it. The technical snags related to server and app affected five out of seven papers held so far from October 8. The university was forced to cancel October 9 BSc paper, which it plans to re-conduct on Sunday. On Thursday, the VI network crash increased load on other service providers like Airtel, Jio etc and even their data speed was reduced significantly. Many students using the VI network switched to other service providers and also used the mobile hotspots and broadband of their near and dear ones for appearing in exams. However, as speed became an issue, many of them couldn’t login into the app while several couldn’t access question papers. Sable informed that congestion in the network lasted till evening and as a result they couldn’t even access the report on number of students who appeared in Thursday’s exams, for which over 23,000 had registered. After a break on Wednesday, NU helplines rang constantly on Thursday as well, as panicked students started calling them after facing troubles. Many of them faced problems of paper getting automatically shut-off at scheduled time, even as they logged in late due to slow connectivity. Some of them restarted the exams and were successful, but their papers couldn’t be submitted till late evening. “As first batch papers couldn’t reach the server due to slow speed, the papers accumulated till afternoon. It brought a huge load on the server at Hyderabad. Even now, papers are lined up, as the entire route is jammed. We told examinees to cancel earlier attempts and reappear for exams, but it too wasn’t successful,” Promarc officials told TOI. The officials had suggested to NU top brass to defer the exams like Pune, as VI network problems were expected to continue for a couple of more days. “We’ve come to know that due to floods in Pune and Hyderabad, offices of VI suffered heavy damage and it would take at least two days to restore normalcy. Accordingly, we had suggested NU postpone the exam, but they weren’t ready.” What’s next for NU * It will conduct BPharm exams on Friday morning * About 850 students are registered for the exam * It will review whether exams were held smoothly * If problems persist, top officials will meet after exams * NU may postpone all papers meant for Friday & Saturday * Even Sunday’s paper of BSc students could be rescheduled * All papers would be re-conducted on any Sunday or after Oct 31||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-7-voda-idea-network-crash-causes-havoc-in-nu-online-exams/articleshow/78689319.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Chinmayanand case: Accuser student gives hearing a miss||LUCKNOW: The 23-year-old law student who had accused former Union minister Chinmayanand of sexual assault did not appear before the special MP-MLA court here at Lucknow on Thursday to respond to the plea moved by the prosecution seeking proceedings against her under section 340 of CrP C for perjury. The court will now hear the matter on October 19. The student had retracted her statement -- accusing Chinmayanand of sexual exploitation -- made earlier before police and the judicial magistrate concerned under section 164 of CrPC against Chinmayanand, who also sought exemption from personal appearance on Thursday. Exempting the personal appearance of the law student and Chinmayanand, the special MP-MLA court set November 11 as the next date of hearing in the matter. The prosecution had moved the court on Tuesday to persecute the law student for perjury after declaring her hostile. The court had asked her as well as Chinmayanand to respond to the prosecution’s plea. Meanwhile, the prosecution produced two witnesses against the law student and her associates in another case lodged by a lawyer, Om Singh with Kotwali police in Shahjahanpur. The government counsel said that this case is also being tried before the same special MP-MLA court, which fixed October 19 as the next date of hearing in the matter. The police had filed a charge sheet in this case on November 4, 2019 against the student and other accused — Sanjai Singh, DP Singh, Vikram Singh and Sachin Singh — for the offences of extortion, threatening under section 385, 506, 507 and 201 of IPC and section 67-A of IT Act. The special court had taken cognizance of the offences on November 6, 2019. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chinmayanand-case-accuser-student-gives-hearing-a-miss/articleshow/78691063.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Man accused of luring, raping minor girl arrested from Ajmer||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun police arrested a man who was accused of luring and raping a minor. He was arrested from Rajasthan’s Ajmer. On October 12, the complainant had approached Raipur police station and alleged that his minor daughter was missing since October 9 and he suspected that she had been kidnapped. The police team then lodged an FIR and started a probe into the matter. During the investigation, it came to the fore that the accused, who is identified as 21-year-old Mohammad Akeel, a Saharanpur resident, had fled to Ajmer. Following which a police team was rushed to Rajasthan and Akeel was arrested from Ajmer Railway Station. The girl was also found at the spot. On basis of the medical report and the statement of the victim, the charge of rape under section 376 of the IPC was added in the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-accused-of-luring-raping-minor-girl-arrested-from-ajmer/articleshow/78687775.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 16, 2020||Allahabad||HC directs DGP to file affidavit on implementation of Covid norms||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the director general of police (DGP) of the state to file his affidavit mentioning the steps taken to ensure cent percent wearing of masks by the people and also maintenance of social distancing across the state in order to check Covid-19. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “It was informed to the court that not only in Prayagraj but all over the state of UP, people were not taking seriously the wearing of masks and they were not maintaining social distancing. It was informed that buses, tempo and auto-rickshaws were loading people to an extent which defies any kind of social distancing. We have seen that the police and the administration have worked together tirelessly but yet they have not been able to achieve the desired results. It may be here mentioned that the time has now come when the Director General of Police (DGP) of the state of UP should take the call and come up with a definite modus operandi by which he proposes to see that 100 per cent people would wear masks and they would also maintain social distancing. This matter has to be taken up at the highest possible priority.” Taking a serious note of the fact that people have again re-encroached those places after the leaving of the team of Nagar Nigam and Prayagraj Development Authority, the court directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj to see that all re-encroachments are removed. Besides, on an information given that the work of fogging and sanitization by the Nagar Nigam was not being done properly, the court has directed that the work of fogging and sanitization be done properly not only in Allahabad but it should be done all over the state. While directing to place this case on October 21, 2020 for the next hearing, the court directed that a copy of this order shall be made available to the chief secretary of the state, the director general of police (DGP), Uttar Pradesh and all the district magistrates, senior superintendents of police/ superintendents of police and the chief medical officers of all the districts of the state through registrar general of this court forthwith. The court passed this order on October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-directs-dgp-to-file-affidavit-on-implementation-of-covid-norms/articleshow/78686546.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||HC admits lawyer’s email as habeas corpus petition||Jalandhar: Admitting an email from advocate Jaspal Singh Manjhpur to know the whereabouts of Hoshiarpur’s Noorpur Jattan village resident Makhan Singh Gill as habeas corpus petition, the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice to Punjab and fixing hearing for October 16. Mahilpur Police Station SHO has also been made respondent in the case. On October 4, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had claimed to have busted a major terror module with the arrest of Gill and seizure of arms and ammunition. According to the FIR, Gill was arrested on October 3 night. However, Manjhpur’s email sent at 4.51pm on October 3 had stated that Gill was already in police custody and could be implicated in a false case. Issuing a notice, Justice Mahabir Singh Sandhu also asked the petitioner to file an affidavit in support of averments made in the complaint. HC has directed the police to file an affidavit, stating when they arrested Gill and if he was released before the issuance of notice. Manjhpur’s email stated Gill’s nephew Daljit Singh, resident of Nurpur Jattan village in Hoshiarpur district had called him on telephone around 3pm, saying that his uncle had left home for some work on October 2 around 5pm and had remained incommunicado after that. Daljit said that he had tried calling his uncle several times on October 3 morning, but his phone was switched off. According to the mail, “Daljit Singh also told me that on 03-10-2020, at about 12 noon, the Punjab Police came in 2 vehicles and most of them were not in uniforms. They came along with my chacha Makhan Singh, who was handcuffed, and searched the house. Nothing incriminating was recovered and they returned back after taken the second phone of my chacha. Police was from Kapurthala district and gave no information about any facts and details of any case... may be implicated in false cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-admits-lawyers-email-as-habeas-corpus-petition/articleshow/78690393.cms||IP Singh
October 16, 2020||Shimla||‘Will reinstall missing plaque with Sonia Gandhi’s name at tunnel’||SHIMLA: Congress will reinstall the missing foundation stone plaque bearing party chief Sonia Gandhi’s name at the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang after coming to power in 2022, if it is not put back in place now. Alleging that the plaque was removed ahead of the inauguration of the tunnel, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said while the idea of the project was first conceived by late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi had laid the foundation stone during the UPA regime on June 28, 2010. BJP, on the other hand, claims that on June 3, 2000, then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, then Himachal chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and party’s incharge for the state Narendra Modi had visited Keylong, where people had raised the demand for tunnel construction. In response to the public demand, Vajpayee had announced in Keylong itself that the tunnel would be constructed. On May 26, 2002, PM Vajpayee, along with then defence minister George Fernandes, had laid the foundation stone for the tunnel, the party says. While inaugurating the tunnel on October 3, PM Modi had also narrated this incident and also accused the previous UPA regimes of slow pace of tunnel work. Talking to TOI, Agnihotri said at the time of inauguration of the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, the Congress legislators present there were surprised to find that the foundation plaque bearing Sonia Gandhi’s name was missing. He said the BJP leaders should tell the people of the state and the country why that plaque was removed. He said the Congress party wants the original plaque placed beside the inaugural plaque of PM Modi. “If this is not done, we are going to organise a mass agitation in the coming days,” he said, adding that his party on returning to power in 2022 would put the missing plaque back to its original place, as the tunnel is a result of contributions made by successive Congress regimes at Centre. Lahaul-Spiti Congress president Gialchhen Thakur had complained at the Keylong police station that Sonia’s stone had vanished from Dhundi under a conspiracy. Claiming that the district party committee was hurt, Thakur asked for a case against those responsible. The Keylong cops have forwarded the complaint to Manali, where the block Congress has lodged another complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/will-reinstall-missing-plaque-with-sonias-name-at-tunnel/articleshow/78690388.cms||Anand Bodh
October 16, 2020||Shimla||Two police stations proposed for Atal Tunnel’s security||SHIMLA: For security, maintaining law and order and traffic management of Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, two police stations have been proposed at Dhundi or Solang (Kullu district) near South Portal and at Sissu (Lahaul-Spiti) near North Portal. It has been further proposed that each police station should have staff including one inspector, three sub-inspectors, six head constables and three constables. Each police station will also have vehicles which could be used even during snow for effective policing in their respective jurisdiction. To review the security arrangements, Himachal Pradesh DGP Sanjay Kundu had formed the board of officers headed by inspector general of police (CID) Dalit Kumar Thakur. Before submitting its report with regard to security arrangements to be put in place for the Atal tunnel, the board of officers had visited Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Tunnel which is also known as Chenani-Nashri at Udhampur in Jammu and Kashmir. Sources said after receiving the report from the board of officers, DGP Sanjay Kundu has submitted the report to additional chief secretary (home) for further required action on the part of government. They said it has also been suggested that one platoon of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) each should be stationed at Dhundi and Teling to deal with any disaster or emergency situation in the tunnel. There is also proposal to deploy one company each of Central Armed Police Force at the South and North portal of Atal Tunnel Rohtang for anti-terror operation. It has also been proposed to designate one additional SP of Himachal Pradesh police as nodal officer for the security, traffic management, law and order, crime detection and investigation works of Atal Tunnel Rohtang. According to sources, the board of officers in the report for Atal Tunnel Rohtang has proposed to set up one multipurpose police barrier at Solang (near South Portal) to be manned by one sub-inspector, eight head constables, 16 constables and 4 officials of transport department to act as vehicle surveillance team. Sources said for each police station at Dhundi or Solang beside Sissu, it has been proposed to provide 2 Tata Safari Storme SUVs (4WD), 2 Scorpio (4WD), 3 motorcycles and 3 all-terrain vehicles. The board has suggested SP Kullu to identify 5 bighas of land at Dhundi or Solang for the station, while SP Lahaul-Spiti should identify at Sissu for same. Similar, a multipurpose barrier has been proposed at Teling village (near North Portal) to be manned by one sub-inspector, eight head constables, 12 constables and 3 officials of transport department to check unauthorised and mechanically unfit vehicles. Two more barriers have been proposed to be set up near the South and North Portals of the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-police-stations-proposed-for-atal-tunnels-security/articleshow/78690390.cms||Anand Bodh
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar starts radio-collaring ‘rogue’ jumbos to protect pilgrims during Maha Kumbh||Dehradun: Ahead of the Maha Kumbh in Haridwar next year, the Uttarakhand forest department has identified 10 “rogue” elephants and started radio-collaring them to monitor their movements and keep them away from the 100-odd ghats in the holy town that will witness a congregation of devotees. On Thursday, the state radio-collared its first jumbo — a 40-year-old elephant in Rasiyabud forest range — who was tranquillised by a team of 30 experts, including scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India, senior veterinarians and forest officers. Forest officials said that 70 elephants have been identified as rogue, based on their behavioural history by the forest department. About 10 of them are being radio-collared. The collars have been provided by GIZ, a German development agency. “Monitoring their movement can help avoid any untoward incident if they stray into the mela area from the nearby protected forests of Rajaji Tiger Reserve,” said an official. He added that January to April — the period during which the mela would be held — is also the heat period for the pachyderms during which they may turn aggressive and pose a threat to pilgrims. Chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand J S Suhag said the move would help reduce man-animal conflict in the area. The tracking collars would stay on long after the mela is over to help experts study animal movement. “It will be a two-year exercise. It took us four months to narrow down on 12 elephants that would be radio-collared. Monitoring their movement will give us insights into the species' behaviour,” said Neeraj Verma, DFO, Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-starts-radio-collaring-rogue-jumbos-to-protect-pilgrims-during-maha-kumbh/articleshow/78687813.cms||Shivani Azad
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP releases its star campaigners’ list||Chandigarh: While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) coalition failed to announce its candidate for the Baroda by-poll, despite the deadline for filing the nomination papers is less than 24 hours, the saffron party, however, released a list of 30 star campaigners on Thursday. The list include senior leaders of the state, Union ministers from the state, party’s MPs in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The party has also considered social engineering factor while preparing the list so that these leaders can focus on particular caste or community while seeking votes. The list of star campaigners include state chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Rajya Sabha MP, Dushyant Kumar Gautam, former minister Captain Abhimanyu, Union ministers Rao Inderjit Singh, Rattan Lal Kataria and Krishan Pal Gujjar, BJP MP from UP, Sanjeev Balyan, state BJP president O P Dhankhar, state ministers including Anil Vij, Moolchand Sharma, Kanwarpal Gurjar, Ranjeet Singh Chautala, J P Dalal, Banwari Lal, Sandeep Singh and Kamlesh Dhanda. Rajya Sabha members D P Vats and Ramchandra Jangra and Lok Sabha MPs Sunita Duggal, Ramesh Kaushik, Dharamveer Singh, Brijendra Singh, Nayab Saini, Sanjay Bhatia. Former Union minister Birender Singh, former ministers Rambilas Sharma, former state BJP president Subhash Barala, Bawani Khera MLA Bishamber Balmiki and former minister Krishan Panwar are also in the list. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-releases-its-star-campaigners-list/articleshow/78690394.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||‘Nari Shakti’ events to mark Navaratra||LUCKNOW: An exhibition of rare documents that scripted making of laws empowering women, a competition of folk songs dedicated to the divinity, performances dedicated to the nine incarnations of the devi at important temples of the state and display of artifacts and sculptures of the shaktya tradition… different entities under the state culture department have come together to celebrate the nine virtues of the divinity that combine to create the invincible Durga. “A series of events, that begin on October 17, will be organized under a special initiative called Nari Shakti – kala sanskriti aur virasat mein nari suraksha,” principal secretary, culture and tourism, Mukesh Meshram said adding: “The purpose of efforts is to highlight that culturally too, women have been respected and revered. And to remind that each generation needs to carry the tradition forward.” The concept and its presentations were approved by the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath at a high-level meeting held last week in the presence of minister Neelkanth Tewari and departmental top brass. An aim of the effort is to extend help to artists who have been rendered almost jobless since March on account of the pandemic. “In some of these competitions, the best performances would be awarded which will naturally help the artists,” stated Meshram. The artists community also welcomed the move. “It is a laudable effort. It speaks for the intent of the government. Also from time immemorial, culture and art have been a reflection of the way a society thinks besides playing a vital role in shaping mindset of people,” said Kathak danseuse Surabhi Singh who would be presenting her composition ‘Aaj Ki Draupadi’ to throw light on the independent thinking of women thousands of years ago in one of the programmes on October 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nari-shakti-events-to-mark-navaratra/articleshow/78691067.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 16, 2020||Hubballi||Adopt modern modes of vegetable cultivation, expert tells students||Dharwad: Pointing to the abundance of opportunities in cultivation and marketing of horticulture crops, chief executive officer of I and B Bengaluru Praveen Bhat called on students to focus on these disciplines in the vast field of agricultural sciences. He also advised them to explore opportunities to launch start-up companies that revolved around use of advanced methods for the cultivation of these crops. Bhat, who participated at a workshop ‘Start-Up Opportunities in Hi-Tech Vegetable Production’ organised at the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) in Dharwad as part of the Instituional Development Plan (IDP) recently, said that start-ups focussing on horticulture crops could be launched with as little as Rs 10 lakh. “The government is also willing to extend financial and technical assistance to such projects. Cultivation of horticulture crops either under shelter or in the open using modern technology is the need of the hour to increase productivity and quality of the produce,” Bhat said. Adopting greenhouse technology, micro-irrigation, fertigation, micro-propagation, et al, had become vital to meeting targets of agricultural production, he said. UAS vice-chancellor MB Chetti opined that horticulture could help bolster India’s flagging economy, given the blow that Covid-19 had dealt on her fortunes. “The total area under cultivation for horticulture crops in India is far less compared to the huge contribution they make to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). There is a lot of potential in horticultural produce to increase the country’s revenue in foreign exchange,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/adopt-modern-modes-of-vegetable-cultivation-expert-tells-students/articleshow/78687793.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-MP Saini files nomination papers||Rohtak: Former Kurukshetra MP and senior leader of Loktantar Suraksha Party (LSP) Raj Kumar Saini on Thursday filled his nomination for the Baroda assembly byelection. Two other party leaders of his party Krishan Lal Panchal and Rajinder Saini also filled the form as candidates. Talking to the media before the nomination process, Saini said two of the candidates of the three from his party including himself would withdraw the form after consultation with the party workers. He said a bad precedent had been set during Jind bypoll when his party candidate was bribed by national political parties, but this time they would try to avoid any such situation this time. The former BJP MP said he had been campaigning for his party for the last three months and has been facing severe criticism for raising the voice of the weaker section of the society. “I had to wear a helmet in public meetings after receiving a threat of stone pelting. The fault of our party was that it represented the weaker and downtrodden section,” he claimed. Saini said Congress and BJP both have ruled the state, but Baroda is crying for basic facilities like drinking water, higher educational institutes, health facilities and industries. “It is high time voters take a decision on who can really raise their voice and get development done,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-mp-saini-files-nomination-papers/articleshow/78690396.cms||Sat Singh
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Tanwar dares Hooda, Khattar to contest||Karnal: Former Congress leader Ashok Tanwar on Thursday dared chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda to contest the Baroda assembly byelection. Addressing a press conference in Karnal, Tanwar said, “Khattar and Hooda speak against each other on development of Baroda only to get space in the media. I throw a challenge at Khattar and Hooda that if present chief minister and former chief minister contest the byelection, I will also file the nomination against them and see how much development works they have been done.” Attacking both leaders, Tanwar said Congress and BJP are playing a friendly match in Baroda. The result of this nexus would be exposed soon, he added. He alleged that both parties would ignore their loyal and hard worker activists in this election. He said after the death of MLA Shri Krishan Hooda, the first right on Congress ticket is of his (Krishan) family. But some people don’t want this, and they are trying to hit their interest. Similarly, famous wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt had quit his job for Bharatiya Janata Party, but now he is running from pillar to post to get the ticket, Tanwar stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tanwar-dares-hooda-khattar-to-contest/articleshow/78690399.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Another ‘Chipko Movement’ in Uttarakhand as residents against felling of 10,000 trees||DEHRADUN: Residents and wildlife conservationists in Uttarakhand have announced a ‘Chipko Movement’ to save 10,000 trees in Shivalik Elephant Reserve, one of the premier reserves for pachyderms in the country, which are proposed to be felled for expansion of Dehradun airport. Citizens will tie “protection threads” around the trees over the next few days to register their protest. The move is meant to invoke memories of the famous ‘Chipko Andolan’ in the 1970s in the hill state when villagers in Chamoli district hugged trees to prevent contractors from felling them. The new ‘Chipko’ movement will have a digital footprint as well, with citizens starting online signature campaigns to garner support for their cause. Aanchal Sharma, a 28-year-old dentist, whose campaign on change.org urging the government to roll back its decision has garnered over 10,000 signatures within two days, said, “We don’t want our town to become a concrete jungle where there is no space for trees or animals.” The campaign addressed to the chief minister said that the area must be preserved as it is the “green lung of the city” and home to elephants, leopards and over 125 species of birds. TOI had earlier reported that the trees would be felled as Uttarakhand forest department has decided to give up 215 acres of land of the reserve which also has notified elephant corridors within a radius of 3 km. Another city-based activist Ayush Joshi added that his team would carve out an elephant out of solid waste and install it in the city to urge others to join the cause. Others are exploring legal options as well. Himanshu Arora, secretary, Citizens for Green Doon, said the forest is home to pangolins which are already on the verge of extinction due to intensive poaching. The area is also visited by migratory birds, he said, adding that they would “certainly take the legal route if needed.” Wife of Chipko activist Sundarlal Bahuguna, Vimla Bahuguna — who was herself actively involved in the movement — said it is heartening to see that the new generation is also concerned about the environment. The move to transfer forest land for airport development comes soon after the Doon valley is on the verge of losing 2,500 British-era sal trees to facilitate a 4-km-stretch of the Delhi-Dehradun expressway which was reported by TOI earlier. It also comes in the wake of rising man-elephant conflict due to shrinkage in space for elephant movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/another-chipko-movement-starts-in-ukhand-as-residents-up-in-arms-against-felling-of-10k-trees-in-elephant-reserve/articleshow/78687802.cms||Shivani Azad
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Will Congress cross the Rubicon, declare Priyanka Gandhi Vadra CM candidate?||LUCKNOW: Now that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is the AICC general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh and making her presence felt by hitting the ground frequently in the state, will she be formally anointed as the chief ministerial candidate of the party? There are strong voices emerging from within the state unit who are of the view that the Congress foundation day could be the right occasion for making a formal announcement. Without making a direct comment in this regard, UPCC spokesperson Surendra Rajput said:"Under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the party would launch a full-fledged campaign for 2022 assembly elections after two months." As the party high command is planning a grand celebration on its foundation day, with the main focus on Uttar Pradesh, the party is caught in a dilemma: whether to formally make her the CM candidate or keep using her as the star campaigner and the mentor of the party organisation. The demand to make her the CM choice, however, is getting stronger. Despite the party's decimation in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, in which Priyanka was made an office-bearer for the first time and was in charge of eastern Uttar Pradesh, there is no denying that her arrival has galvanised the party, says a political analyst. She has constituted the UPCC, Youth Congress, Mahila Congress, all frontal organisations and district and city Congress committees in the past one year. Deviating from the past tradition, she has avoided having a jumbo-sized UPCC, preferring to have a lean and mean machinery comprising only 55 office-bearers, with an average age of 45-50 years. Taking a leaf out of the late 70s revival plan of Sanjay Gandhi, who had raised an army of young leaders as Sanjay Singh, Arun Kumar Singh Munna, Nirmal Khatri and Harish Rawat at a time when the Congress was languishing out of power after the Emergency, Priyanka has given prominence to youth leaders, who have been groomed in the party's ideology. No wonder, the state Congress, under an energetic UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lalloo, has been the most visible face on the ground, holding protest and challenging the government, be it the Sonbhadra massacre or Hathras alleged gang rape. “By December end, we are confident of the constitution of the block, village and booth- level organisation of the party,” Rajput said. Party insiders told TOI that a majority of leaders in Delhi are advocating for a formal anointment of Priyanka as the Congress CM candidate. The move has to be approved by the Gandhi family, which is weighing all pros and cons in this regard, they say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/will-congress-cross-the-rubicon-declare-priyanka-cm-candidate/articleshow/78691073.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-CMs’ dues: HC issues show-cause notice to additional secy on why former CM Nishank had paid Rs 10L when his dues were over Rs 40L||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday issued show-cause notice in a civil contempt petition to additional secretary Deependra Chaudhary. The notice was issued in connection with a contempt petition dealing with Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank.Nishank, through an affidavit, had informed the HC that he has paid over Rs 10.77 lakh for the services he used after demitting the office of the Uttarakhand CM. However, the counsel appearing for the petitioner, who has filed the contempt petition objected, saying that the HC had directed Nishank to deposit over Rs 41.64 lakh. The petitioner alleged that Chaudhary has recalculated the amount that Nishank owed, which goes against the order of the HC division bench.“We told the court that the additional secretary has illegally recalculated the amount. In this case, the division bench of the HC had directed the minister to pay the amount and, therefore, the amount cannot be reduced like this,” said Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), a Doon-based NGO which is the petitioner in the case.The bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma has directed the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Dehradun to ensure that the notice is delivered to Chaudhary. The court has given Chaudhary a week’s time to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him. The case will now be heard next week.As reported by TOI earlier, the Uttarakhand HC, through its May 2019 order, had directed the former CMs to pay the dues they owed for availing facilities like bungalows, cars, subsidised electricity, among others. However, the state government brought an ordinance effectively giving the former CMs a relief. The ordinance was then ratified by the state assembly and became an Act.The division bench of the HC headed by then Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan, however, struck down the provisions of the Act on the ground that it violated Article 14 of the Constitution as well as the doctrine of separation of powers.As the state government and former CMs failed to comply with the May 2019 order, RLEK had filed contempt petitions against them. The two former CMs - BC Khanduri and Vijay Bahuguna - moved the Supreme Court which stayed the contempt proceedings. Nishank, though, did not approach the apex court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-cms-dues-hc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-additional-secy-on-why-former-cm-nishank-had-paid-rs-10l-when-his-dues-were-over-rs-40l/articleshow/78687816.cms||Prashant Jha
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana fights back: Active Covid cases at 3-month low||Ludhiana: In yet another indication that the Covid-19 situation is improving continuously in Ludhiana, the district has recorded the lowest count of active cases compared to the cases in the last over three months. A government data on Wednesday put the number of such cases at 413.According to the state’s Covid bulletin released on Wednesday, on July 1 the number of active cases was only 248 in Ludhiana, which jumped to 444 the next day and hit 500-mark on July 3. On July 9, there were 548 active cases in the district.The state health department data since July 10 suggests that the number of such cases, which was 647 on that day, went up to 1,149 by July 31 and further to 2,028 by August 15. Even as the active cases hit the peak of 3,867 on August 22, it slipped to 2,392 on August 31.Between August-end and mid-September, the active cases witnessed a further fall and were recorded at 1,579 on September 15 and came down to 1,054 by September 30. On October 10, the count of such cases decreased by more than half to 489 before falling to the latest value.Meanwhile, as per the bulletin containing data till Wednesday evening, Ludhiana was at number six spot among the districts of the state as far as the active cases are concerned. While SAS Nagar occupied the number one place with 954 active cases, SBS Nagar was at the bottom of the chart with only 95 such cases. Jalandhar and Amritsar were at second and third positions with 831 and 569 cases, respectively. Going by the trend, Ludhiana health authorities feel the active case count would decrease further in the district in the coming days. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga reiterated that various indicators suggest that the pandemic has crossed the peak in Ludhiana and the only way the disease would move now is downward.Dr Bagga, however, cautioned one and all to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols like wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene to ensure that the situation continues to improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-fights-back-active-covid-cases-at-3-month-low/articleshow/78687818.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||HC directs state to file response to suggestions by Covid panels||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday directed the chief standing counsel (CSC) representing the state government to file its response to the suggestions made by the district level Covid monitoring committees from Dehradun, US Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar within a week.The direction came while the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani was holding the weekly hearing on the status of Coronavirus in the state.“The court has directed the government to file its response to the suggestions made by the district level committees from the districts of Dehradun, US Nagar, Nainital and Haridwar since these four are the most affected in the state. The court has given the government time till Wednesday to respond, when the case will be heard next,” said Shiv Bhatt, the counsel appearing for one of the petitioners in the case.As reported by TOI earlier, the Uttarakhand HC had formed district level monitoring committees in each of the 13 districts to visit the hospital, quarantine centres and other medical institutions of the state and present their reports on their status.Till now, three reports have been filed by each of these panels on how the districts are handling the Covid situation with also a bunch of suggestions. While the committee from Dehradun had suggested, in its very first report, that a complete 15-day lockdown should be imposed in Doon, the committee from Nainital, in its second report, had advocated limiting the number of tourists coming to the Lake Town to not more than 500 per day.The committees have also suggested a slew of other measures that range from increasing the fine for not wearing a face mask to availability of oxygen in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-directs-state-to-file-response-to-suggestions-by-covid-panels/articleshow/78687828.cms||Prashant Jha
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||81 down with virus & 3 succumb in district||tnnLudhiana: Three patients from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 81 tested positive on Thursday.As per the local media bulletin, the virus has claimed the lives of a 68-year-old man of Sham Nagar with lung cancer; an 80-year-old diabetic woman of Arjun Nagar; and a 29-year-old woman of Basant Nagar, who had jaundice.The day also saw a patient from outside Ludhiana succumbing to the disease and 22 outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally now stood at 812 and that of outsiders at 293.To date, 3,40,189 people have been tested.Of the 81 positive cases from Ludhiana, 25 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 12 were positive cases’ contacts, 34 from OPD, one pregnant woman, six through tracing process, and three severe acute respiratory illness cases.The district case count has increased to 19,484 and that of outsiders to 2,543.To date, 18,279 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.81% of the total cases.There are 390 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,745.On Thursday, 133 persons were home quarantined and 3,910 samples collected.The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH.Fifteen patients, including eight from Ludhiana, are on ventilators here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/81-down-with-virus-3-succumb-in-district/articleshow/78687810.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Diwali gift: Ladhowal bypass to ease jams||Ludhiana: Ladhowal bypass, which will reduce traffic congestion in the city, is likely to be ready around Diwali. Earlier, August-end was the deadline. The project will help decongest traffic as vehicles going from Jagraon, Moga, Ferozepur and other cities towards Jalandhar and Amritsar, among others — which otherwise enter the city on the way to Ladhowal — will take this route.One of the workers of the private agency executing the 17-kilometre-long road project said, “Because of Covid-19, work remained suspended for around two months and after that there was a shortage of labour as many of them left for their native places.”A National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) official said the work was complete on most of the road stretches and at present, construction was going on at a bridge near Ladhowal. Work was also under way in the area around 5 kms from Ferozepur Road. Minor works would continue even when the road is open, he added.“If all goes well, we hope to complete the project around Diwali. We faced labour shortage during the unlock period. As of now, we have around 550 workers against the requirement of 700. A few land issues created problems for the project,” the official said.“After the road is opened for traffic, toll collection will start at the plaza near Chahal village. Toll rates are fixed as per the length of the road, among other factors,” he said.City residents, especially those living in South City, Ayali, and surrounding areas, are awaiting the completion of the project.“Usually, it takes us around 40 minutes to exit the city on the way to Jalandhar or Amritsar, but once this road is completed it will take around 15 to 20 minutes. As major part of the traffic going from Jagraon, Ferozepur, Barnala and Bathinda towards Jalandhar side will go on this road, it will reduce congestion in Ludhiana as well,” said Raunak Malhotra, a businessman of South City.Residents said the road construction agency should comply with the safety measures as the stretch has witnessed many accidents in the past.“There have been many fatal accidents on the South City road, with vehicles falling into the canal. Therefore, all road safety measures should be followed to prevent such accidents,” said Surjeet Singh, a resident of the area.Areas it will pass throughThe road construction agency said the road would pass through South City, Ayali, Malakpur and Jainpur before joining with the highway at Ladhowal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/diwali-gift-ladhowal-bypass-to-ease-jams/articleshow/78687833.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||PWD constructs alternate route to resumeYamunotri yatra after nine-day closure||Uttarkashi: The much-awaited 'yatra' to Yamunotri shrine has been reopened for pilgrims by the Uttarkashi administration on Thursday. Yamunotri pilgrimage was temporarily on hold for the past nine days due to landslides at Bhindiyaligaad area of Janki Chatti-Yamunotri trek route. To restore the yatra, the Public Works Department (PWD) has constructed a 300-m-long alternate trek route.Notably, a massive landslide occurred at Bhindiyaligaad area on October 6, blocking the Yamunotri route. Due to this, the administration decided to halt the yatra for safety purposes.The PWD, meanwhile, started the construction work of alternate route and completed it on Wednesday. After this, the administration reopened the yatra to Yamunotri shrine from Thursday morning, to the delight of both pilgrims and the priest community.Yamunotri priest Pyare Lal Uniyal said, “Char Dham yatra is the main source of income for locals. We are pleased that the yatra has finally started, after facing hindrance from lockdown and landslide.”He also urged the administration to find a permanent solution of the landslide issue, so that it may not disrupt the pilgrimage again.According to inspector DS Kohli, In-charge of Barkot police station, more than 150 pilgrims reached the shrine, after the resumption of the yatra. He said, “We have deputed sufficient number of police and SDRF jawans on the yatra route, particularly at the landslide affected area, for the safety of pilgrims.”PWD site in-charge Ravindra Chauhan said, “The department has planned to construct a 400-m-long trek route and a 60-m-long bridge for Yamunotri, to resolve the landslide issue permanently. We will start the work as soon as the government approves the proposal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pwd-constructs-alternate-route-to-resumeyamunotri-yatra-after-nine-day-closure/articleshow/78687836.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
October 16, 2020||Srinagar||Punjab: Create milk grids to help dairy sector emerge from Covid shadow, says study||CHANDIGARH: There is a need to create local milk grids in Punjab and linking those grids to vendors, organised dairies as well as milk processors across Punjab and adjoining milk deficient regions of Jammu and Kashmir, and Rajasthan so as to help the dairy industry to deal with the Covid-19 like situation. This policy suggestion has been made in a study conducted on the impact of Covid-19 on Punjab’s dairy industry by Naresh Singla, assistant professor in the department of economic studies in central university of Punjab at Bathinda. He has highlighted that milk procurement through dairy cooperatives tends to be more resilient than vendor-driven milk markets and losses to the milk producers are more in vendor-driven markets during the Covid-19 pandemic. The study has found that during the Covid-19 lockdown, due to lower price for milk, effect on milk productivity, lack of assured procurement, unavailability of animal feed and lack of veterinary services, there has not only been reduction of income from dairying but also in irregularity of income. This has had serious implications for the milk producers, particularly landless and small farmers, as milk production is largely carried out as complimentary activity along with crop production. Therefore, the milk producers have been unable to pay or clear off their dues. It has also been recommended that there is a need to strengthen and expand the capacity of Milkfed, private milk plants and producer companies through easy financing from commercial banks, cooperative banks and other financial lending agencies to meet working capital requirements of dairy plants. This would help in increasing their operational capacity and meeting the challenges posed during Covid-19 like situation. Similarly, the study suggests revamping of the functioning of village level dairy cooperatives to ensure uninterrupted supply of cattle feed, provision of veterinary and technical services besides other inputs at milk producers’ door steps. Setting up of a milk price stabilization fund can pave the way for stabilizing the income of the dairy producers, which in turn can help to sustain the dairy sector post-Covid, the study has recommended. It has also been suggested that milk producer companies can play a much greater role than cooperatives during the Covid-19 period by ensuring fair prices for milk, transparent transactions, ensuring participation of landless and small land holders and women, diary inputs and technical services. This study is a part of policy series on Punjab economy by Patiala-based Punjabi University’s centre for development economics and innovation studies. Decline in milk sale, procurementThe Milkfed faced difficulty to handle the additional milk procurement due to a surge in fresh milk supply and a concurrent major drop in demand for milk and milk products during Covid-19 lockdown. The daily milk procurement was 26.5 lakh litre per day as on April 1, which was around 32% cent higher than their installed capacity. Some private milk plants agreed to procure milk from the farmers on the condition of deferred payment, while others started to practice a weekly milk holiday. The Milkfed had to reduce procurement rate by Rs 3 per litre for cow milk and Rs 4.50 per litre for buffalo milk during Covid-19. The sale of dairy products had gone down due to health concerns, there was reduction of income of the dairy households, migration of labour to home states and closure of sweet shops and eateries. The small milk producers, who mainly supply milk to unorganised milk vendors suffered more than those who sold to the well organised cooperative system of Milkfed and various private diaries. Dairy sector in Canada, US during Covid-19The study reveals that in Canada, milk producers had resorted to dumping of milk as the processing facilities were closed due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, the supply chain of milk was found to be more resilient to the impacts of Covid-19 than other sectors as milk producers were financially more stable, losses were pooled, and production or marketing efforts were relatively well coordinated. Similarly, in the US, the impact of Covid-19 had led to a shift in demand due to unpredictable and dramatic societal changes, which had lowered the milk prices, disrupted the supply chain, and left the dairy industry without any government support. Dairy industry in PunjabPunjab has annual milk production of nearly 12,599 thousand tonnes which accounts for 6.7% of the milk production in the national milk basket. About two-third of the milk produced in Punjab is marketed and one-third is retained for home consumption. The study says that major share of milk in Punjab is handled by unorganised sector which is largely dominated by private milk traders, vendors and milkmen who buy milk directly from producers and supply it further either directly to the urban consumers or to informal institutional buyers like restaurants and tea stalls or wholesalers and local retailers such as sweet shops, creameries and city-based private dairy shops. The state also has a network of milk cooperative societies at village level, which started in 1973 on the pattern of Amul model under the apex Body namely Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Ltd or Milkfed. As a result, Punjab has developed a vast network of milk cooperatives with 8,018 village level dairy cooperative societies, with about 4.10 lakh milk producers as its members, affiliated to 11 district milk producers’ unions with 10 milk processing plants, which on an average procure about 17.66 lakh litres of milk per day against a consolidated milk handling capacity of around 21.85 lakh litres per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/create-milk-grids-to-help-dairy-sector-emerge-from-covid-shadow-says-study/articleshow/78693485.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab schools reopen from October 19 with clear SOPs||CHANDIGARH: After a gap of over seven months, schools outside containment zones, both private and government, from Class IX to XII will reopen from October 19 in Punjab. The schools will open for three hours a day and no student of any other class will be called to attend classes. According to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) framed by the education department, in case of large strength of students, heads of such schools can take a decision on whether to hold classes in two shifts or to call students on alternate days. As per the SOPs, there must be at least six feet distance between students and schools have been advised to mark the seats that students have to occupy. To ensure proper social distancing, only one student will be allowed to sit on a bench, while other protocols like using sanitisers and wearing masks will be followed strictly. Sanitisation of school transportation on a regular basis at least twice a day - once before children board the transport and once after has been made mandatory. School managements have been asked to ensure proper cleaning and sanitation facilities in the schools. Arrangements have to be made for cleaning and disinfecting all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, storage places, water tanks, kitchens, canteens, washrooms, libraries on the school campus. Each school has been asked to ensure availability of key supplies like infrared digital thermometers, disinfectants and soaps. For maintaining social distancing at the entry and exit points of the schools, the school heads have been asked to stagger the timings for students of different classes and earmark different lanes. To avoid overcrowding, all school gates will remain open at the time of entry and exit. Display of signages and posters for enforcing physical distancing and safety protocols has been made mandatory for all schools. Ban on spitting will be strictly enforced. Prior to reopening of the schools, heads have been asked to sensitise teachers, parents, staff and members of school management committee through online\offline modes on Covid appropriate behaviour such as required dos and don’ts including maintaining hand hygiene, respiratory hygiene and disinfection of frequently touched surfaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-schools-reopen-from-oct-19-with-clear-sops/articleshow/78690406.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Pandemic makes $1tn goal an arduous climb for UP||LUCKNOW: Even as a high-powered committee is all set to consider bids from eight consultants to advise the UP government to achieve its goal of 1 trillion dollar economy, the pandemic-hit slowdown has made an already tough job even more arduous. In order to support Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s promise to make India a 5 trillion dollar economy, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while speaking at the Investors Summit in 2018, had announced to take the state’s economy to 1 trillion dollar-mark. It is in this regard that the state government had floated global tenders to select the best consultant for drawing a roadmap for the state to head towards this task. On October 12, the tenders were opened and eight consultants were shortlisted. Now ,the state government has to direct its high-powered committee with the chief secretary as the chairman and additional chief secretaries, and principal secretaries of key departments as its members, to take a final call to evaluate their technical and financial bids to work for the state and assign them their role. However, experts point out that much has changed since 2018. When the CM had announced the goal, it sounded too ambitious, but appeared doable with some extra-mile walking. But the sudden spread of the pandemic leading to crippling of the global economy, this sounds a tall order. One could gauge the impending challenge from the fact that for achieving this goal, the GSDP growth has to be propelled from the existing 8.8% to 45% for the next year, an expert said. Finance minister Suresh Khanna and additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal, had themselves announced at a press conference that in view of the widening chasm between the budgetary targets and the actual collections this financial year due to Covid, the state government will have to recalibrate its projections. Despite the fact that revenue collection in the past two months has surpassed the previous year's monthly collection, the targets for FY 2020-21 are still far away due to total lockdown of the economy in four months. Apart from the low revenue collection, the denial of the GST compensation to the state and contraction in the economy poses another challenge to the state in accomplishing its goal, said a senior officer. “Given the level of the GSDP at about 17.5 lakh crore in FY20 and its expected contraction in FY21, the required rate of growth to achieve the targeted GSDP by 2024-25 comes to 45% per annum," said economist Yashveer Tyagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-makes-1tn-goal-an-arduous-climb-for-up/articleshow/78691077.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Major fire breaks out at Khanna plywood factory||tnnLudhiana: A major fire broke out at a plywood factory near Bija in Khanna on Thursday morning. Nobody was injured in the incident.Suresh Kumar, owner of Vidhata Industries Private Limited, said, “I received a call in the morning that the factory had caught fire. I immediately sounded the fire department. When I reached there, flames had engulfed the unit. I have suffered huge losses.”Firemen from Khanna, led by fire officer Yashpal Rai, reached the spot.Rai said, “After we received the information around 5am, our team comprising 15 fire fighters reached the unit. Three fire tenders, including two from Khanna and one from Samrala, were pressed into service.” Firemen said the flames were controlled by 9am. “Employees working in the factory ran out of the premises in time,” said a fireman.“The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, though it seems short circuit triggered it. The owner claimed that the factory has a fire certificate, but he is yet to produce it,” Rai added. The flames gutted plywood kept in the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/major-fire-breaks-out-at-khanna-plywood-factory/articleshow/78687826.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jammu||Punjab: Create milk grids to help dairy sector emerge from Covid shadow, says study||CHANDIGARH: There is a need to create local milk grids in Punjab and linking those grids to vendors, organised dairies as well as milk processors across Punjab and adjoining milk deficient regions of Jammu and Kashmir, and Rajasthan so as to help the dairy industry to deal with the Covid-19 like situation. This policy suggestion has been made in a study conducted on the impact of Covid-19 on Punjab’s dairy industry by Naresh Singla, assistant professor in the department of economic studies in central university of Punjab at Bathinda. He has highlighted that milk procurement through dairy cooperatives tends to be more resilient than vendor-driven milk markets and losses to the milk producers are more in vendor-driven markets during the Covid-19 pandemic. The study has found that during the Covid-19 lockdown, due to lower price for milk, effect on milk productivity, lack of assured procurement, unavailability of animal feed and lack of veterinary services, there has not only been reduction of income from dairying but also in irregularity of income. This has had serious implications for the milk producers, particularly landless and small farmers, as milk production is largely carried out as complimentary activity along with crop production. Therefore, the milk producers have been unable to pay or clear off their dues. It has also been recommended that there is a need to strengthen and expand the capacity of Milkfed, private milk plants and producer companies through easy financing from commercial banks, cooperative banks and other financial lending agencies to meet working capital requirements of dairy plants. This would help in increasing their operational capacity and meeting the challenges posed during Covid-19 like situation. Similarly, the study suggests revamping of the functioning of village level dairy cooperatives to ensure uninterrupted supply of cattle feed, provision of veterinary and technical services besides other inputs at milk producers’ door steps. Setting up of a milk price stabilization fund can pave the way for stabilizing the income of the dairy producers, which in turn can help to sustain the dairy sector post-Covid, the study has recommended. It has also been suggested that milk producer companies can play a much greater role than cooperatives during the Covid-19 period by ensuring fair prices for milk, transparent transactions, ensuring participation of landless and small land holders and women, diary inputs and technical services. This study is a part of policy series on Punjab economy by Patiala-based Punjabi University’s centre for development economics and innovation studies. Decline in milk sale, procurementThe Milkfed faced difficulty to handle the additional milk procurement due to a surge in fresh milk supply and a concurrent major drop in demand for milk and milk products during Covid-19 lockdown. The daily milk procurement was 26.5 lakh litre per day as on April 1, which was around 32% cent higher than their installed capacity. Some private milk plants agreed to procure milk from the farmers on the condition of deferred payment, while others started to practice a weekly milk holiday. The Milkfed had to reduce procurement rate by Rs 3 per litre for cow milk and Rs 4.50 per litre for buffalo milk during Covid-19. The sale of dairy products had gone down due to health concerns, there was reduction of income of the dairy households, migration of labour to home states and closure of sweet shops and eateries. The small milk producers, who mainly supply milk to unorganised milk vendors suffered more than those who sold to the well organised cooperative system of Milkfed and various private diaries. Dairy sector in Canada, US during Covid-19The study reveals that in Canada, milk producers had resorted to dumping of milk as the processing facilities were closed due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, the supply chain of milk was found to be more resilient to the impacts of Covid-19 than other sectors as milk producers were financially more stable, losses were pooled, and production or marketing efforts were relatively well coordinated. Similarly, in the US, the impact of Covid-19 had led to a shift in demand due to unpredictable and dramatic societal changes, which had lowered the milk prices, disrupted the supply chain, and left the dairy industry without any government support. Dairy industry in PunjabPunjab has annual milk production of nearly 12,599 thousand tonnes which accounts for 6.7% of the milk production in the national milk basket. About two-third of the milk produced in Punjab is marketed and one-third is retained for home consumption. The study says that major share of milk in Punjab is handled by unorganised sector which is largely dominated by private milk traders, vendors and milkmen who buy milk directly from producers and supply it further either directly to the urban consumers or to informal institutional buyers like restaurants and tea stalls or wholesalers and local retailers such as sweet shops, creameries and city-based private dairy shops. The state also has a network of milk cooperative societies at village level, which started in 1973 on the pattern of Amul model under the apex Body namely Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Ltd or Milkfed. As a result, Punjab has developed a vast network of milk cooperatives with 8,018 village level dairy cooperative societies, with about 4.10 lakh milk producers as its members, affiliated to 11 district milk producers’ unions with 10 milk processing plants, which on an average procure about 17.66 lakh litres of milk per day against a consolidated milk handling capacity of around 21.85 lakh litres per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/create-milk-grids-to-help-dairy-sector-emerge-from-covid-shadow-says-study/articleshow/78693484.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Create milk grids to help dairy sector emerge from Covid shadow, says study||CHANDIGARH: There is a need to create local milk grids in Punjab and linking those grids to vendors, organised dairies as well as milk processors across Punjab and adjoining milk deficient regions of Jammu and Kashmir, and Rajasthan so as to help the dairy industry to deal with the Covid-19 like situation. This policy suggestion has been made in a study conducted on the impact of Covid-19 on Punjab’s dairy industry by Naresh Singla, assistant professor in the department of economic studies in central university of Punjab at Bathinda. He has highlighted that milk procurement through dairy cooperatives tends to be more resilient than vendor-driven milk markets and losses to the milk producers are more in vendor-driven markets during the Covid-19 pandemic. The study has found that during the Covid-19 lockdown, due to lower price for milk, effect on milk productivity, lack of assured procurement, unavailability of animal feed and lack of veterinary services, there has not only been reduction of income from dairying but also in irregularity of income. This has had serious implications for the milk producers, particularly landless and small farmers, as milk production is largely carried out as complimentary activity along with crop production. Therefore, the milk producers have been unable to pay or clear off their dues. It has also been recommended that there is a need to strengthen and expand the capacity of Milkfed, private milk plants and producer companies through easy financing from commercial banks, cooperative banks and other financial lending agencies to meet working capital requirements of dairy plants. This would help in increasing their operational capacity and meeting the challenges posed during Covid-19 like situation. Similarly, the study suggests revamping of the functioning of village level dairy cooperatives to ensure uninterrupted supply of cattle feed, provision of veterinary and technical services besides other inputs at milk producers’ door steps. Setting up of a milk price stabilization fund can pave the way for stabilizing the income of the dairy producers, which in turn can help to sustain the dairy sector post-Covid, the study has recommended. It has also been suggested that milk producer companies can play a much greater role than cooperatives during the Covid-19 period by ensuring fair prices for milk, transparent transactions, ensuring participation of landless and small land holders and women, diary inputs and technical services. This study is a part of policy series on Punjab economy by Patiala-based Punjabi University’s centre for development economics and innovation studies. Decline in milk sale, procurementThe Milkfed faced difficulty to handle the additional milk procurement due to a surge in fresh milk supply and a concurrent major drop in demand for milk and milk products during Covid-19 lockdown. The daily milk procurement was 26.5 lakh litre per day as on April 1, which was around 32% cent higher than their installed capacity. Some private milk plants agreed to procure milk from the farmers on the condition of deferred payment, while others started to practice a weekly milk holiday. The Milkfed had to reduce procurement rate by Rs 3 per litre for cow milk and Rs 4.50 per litre for buffalo milk during Covid-19. The sale of dairy products had gone down due to health concerns, there was reduction of income of the dairy households, migration of labour to home states and closure of sweet shops and eateries. The small milk producers, who mainly supply milk to unorganised milk vendors suffered more than those who sold to the well organised cooperative system of Milkfed and various private diaries. Dairy sector in Canada, US during Covid-19The study reveals that in Canada, milk producers had resorted to dumping of milk as the processing facilities were closed due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, the supply chain of milk was found to be more resilient to the impacts of Covid-19 than other sectors as milk producers were financially more stable, losses were pooled, and production or marketing efforts were relatively well coordinated. Similarly, in the US, the impact of Covid-19 had led to a shift in demand due to unpredictable and dramatic societal changes, which had lowered the milk prices, disrupted the supply chain, and left the dairy industry without any government support. Dairy industry in PunjabPunjab has annual milk production of nearly 12,599 thousand tonnes which accounts for 6.7% of the milk production in the national milk basket. About two-third of the milk produced in Punjab is marketed and one-third is retained for home consumption. The study says that major share of milk in Punjab is handled by unorganised sector which is largely dominated by private milk traders, vendors and milkmen who buy milk directly from producers and supply it further either directly to the urban consumers or to informal institutional buyers like restaurants and tea stalls or wholesalers and local retailers such as sweet shops, creameries and city-based private dairy shops. The state also has a network of milk cooperative societies at village level, which started in 1973 on the pattern of Amul model under the apex Body namely Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation Ltd or Milkfed. As a result, Punjab has developed a vast network of milk cooperatives with 8,018 village level dairy cooperative societies, with about 4.10 lakh milk producers as its members, affiliated to 11 district milk producers’ unions with 10 milk processing plants, which on an average procure about 17.66 lakh litres of milk per day against a consolidated milk handling capacity of around 21.85 lakh litres per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/create-milk-grids-to-help-dairy-sector-emerge-from-covid-shadow-says-study/articleshow/78690416.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 16, 2020||Allahabad||Family cremates eve-teasing victim||Pratapgarh: The last rites of the 17-year-old girl, who allegedly died by suicide by jumping into a well at Puwasi village under Baghrai police station of Pratapgarh district on Tuesday afternoon after being fed up of eve-teasing, was performed at Shringverpur ghat in Prayagraj district on Thursday morning amidst tight security. Inspector general of police (Prayagraj range) K P Singh told TOI that the the family members buried the girl’s body near Shringverpur ghat on the banks of the Ganga. He added that local police, on the complaint filed by family members of the deceased, had registered the FIR under Sections 354 and 306 of IPC against three persons, Guddu Singh, Dabbu Singh and Gunnu Tiwari, all residents of the same village, on the day of the incident. Two of the accused named in the FIR—Guddu Singh and Dabbu Singh—have already been arrested and police teams are looking for Gunnu Tiwari who has been evading arrest. The family members of the girl had alleged that Gunnu Tiwari and his aides had barged into their house late on Monday night and made an abortive attempt to molest the girl. They had also threatened the family of dire consequences if they dared to report the matter to the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/family-cremates-eve-teasing-victim/articleshow/78686565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Jail lab technician held with intoxicating tablets||TNNLudhiana: Police on Wednesday arrested an employee of the central jail after intoxicating tablets were recovered from his possession. The accused, identified as Ranjit Singh of Ayali Kalan, worked as a laboratory technician at the jail. In his police complaint, Jagraj Singh, jail’s assistant superintendent, said when the accused reported on duty at 10.20am on Wednesday, a CRPF official searched him at the entry and recovered a mobile and a packet of 1,750 intoxicating tablets Alprax. The accused had hid the tablets in shoes and turban. The police were informed as the accused had violated the jail rules. Cops from Division seven reached the prison and booked him under the NDPS Act and the Prisons Act. Investigating officer ASI Rajinder Singh, who is in charge of Tajpur police post of the division, said the accused was arrested and produced before a local court that sent him in one-day police remand. The accused was being questioned about the source of the tablets, he said, adding that it was also being ascertained how many times he took such a consignment inside. Cops said the accused had been working at the jail for the past four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jail-lab-technician-held-with-intoxicating-tablets/articleshow/78687837.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||23 yrs on, Hong Kong woman gets molestor-tutor arrested||KOLKATA: Twenty-three years after she was molested repeatedly by her tutor in Darjeeling, a 37-year-old finance lawyer based in Hong Kong has got the schoolteacher arrested after hearing stories of him being an alleged serial offender preying on a succession of students over more than two decades. A team from Darjeeling Sadar police station picked up Jitesh Ojha, a married father of one, from his home in Siliguri on October 5 after months of investigation on the basis of a complaint emailed by the woman in September last year. The police said it took them more than a year to verify the allegations levelled by the woman and back it up with evidence of other instances of assault on students of the 46-year-old accused. The complainant had learnt to live with the trauma of being molested as a 14-year-old, only to have her #MeToo moment more than two decades later when she heard that the perpetrator may have done the same to several other girls, including some from her alma mater. “As a teen in the small town of Darjeeling in the 1990s, I didn’t have the knowledge or tools to cope with an abuser,” she told TOI from Hong Kong. While she moved on and carved out a career, a random conversation many years later with some school friends revived the wounds of her past. While following up on the case over the past year, she allegedly received threats from the teacher’s family members. Darjeeling deputy SP (town) Rahul Pandey said it wasn’t possible to go after the accused immediately because of his public reputation. It turned out the accused had changed 20 schools in over two decades||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23-yrs-on-hong-kong-woman-gets-molestor-tutor-arrested/articleshow/78691377.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 16, 2020||Vadodara||ACB’s remand plea for graft-accused rejected||Vadodara: The executive magistrate and his deputy who were arrested by anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh were sent to jail on Thursday. The executive magistrate G D Bariya and the deputy executive magistrate K G Pargi were produced before special ACB court on Thursday after they were formally arrested on Wednesday. ACB sleuths had requested their custody for five days, but the court turned down their plea. The investigating officer told the court that the duo did not cooperate during preliminary interrogation and a lot of time was wasted during their Covid-19 test. The court was also told that the two accused are yet to be questioned if any other official was also involved in taking the bribe or not. The court did not uphold their request and sent the duo to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/acbs-remand-plea-for-graft-accused-rejected/articleshow/78687232.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||After Covid pause, Delhi Metro is up to speed on airport line extension||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s high-speed Airport Express corridor is all set to extend deeper into Dwarka sub-city by next year. Construction for the extension, which had earlier been stopped due to the Covid-19 lockdown, is back on track now. A 1.7-km underground section would extend the standalone corridor from Dwarka Sector 21 to Dwarka Sector 25, linking it with the upcoming India International Convention and Exhibition Centre (IICC). In fact, an underground station is planned inside IICC complex with its connectivity to the convention centre through subways. Construction work for the Rs 310 crore project started in 2018 and was expected to be completed by 2021 and operationalised by March 2022. Though the novel coronavirus pandemic put a spanner in DMRC’s work, it is now working on a war-footing to complete the project by December 2021. “Work on the Dwarka Sector 21 to IICC corridor is progressing well. About 80% of the tunneling work, as well as 70% of station civil work has already been completed,” said Anuj Dayal, DMRC’s executive director (corporate communications). “Tunneling on this section is being done by the cut- and-cover method, while Urban Extension Road-II is being crossed through the box-pushing technique. This will be an important extension of the Airport Express Line as IICC is expected to attract visitors from across the world,” Dayal claimed. DMRC also plans to procure 24 special coaches, which will be turned into four six-coach trains and operated on the high-speed corridor. These extra trains will help DMRC maintain adequate frequency on the corridor once the extension is complete. The new coaches will be different from the usual coaches used in the Delhi Metro network. As DMRC plans to deploy additional trains on the Airport Express Line with the commissioning of this extension, it will construct three additional stabling lines at its Dwarka depot. Apart from the special coaches, DMRC also plans to engage a firm for providing the train control and signalling system on the stretch. Currently, the high-speed corridor connects New Delhi Railway Station with Dwarka Sector 21, with four stations in between — Shivaji Stadium, Dhaula Kuan, Delhi Aerocity and IGI Airport (Terminal 3). The IICC, coming up in Sector 25 of Dwarka, is a major project and would be the first-of-its-kind facility in west Delhi. The centre would be on the lines of both Pragati Maidan and India Habitat Centre. The state-of-the-art centre is expected to host seminars, conventions and large-scale exhibitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-covid-pause-metro-is-up-to-speed-on-airport-line-extension/articleshow/78689410.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 16, 2020||Rajkot||IAF sergeant hurt after his rifle goes off||Rajkot: A 35-year-old sergeant at Naliya airbase of Indian Air Force was injured by a shot fired from his own rifle on October 13 night. According to police, sergeant Sachin Kumar was on duty when a fellow sergeant Om Prakash Yadav found him lying on ground bleeding. Yadav had rushed to check on Kumar hearing the gunshot and later alerted the higher-ups. Kumar was flown to Bhuj from where he was taken to Army hospital in Pune by air. Police said that Kumar had suffered injuries on his chest. “Whether the gun fired accidentally, or it was a suicide attempt can only be known after he regains consciousness and we can take his statement,” said sub-inspector H H Jadeja of Kothara police station. The rifle has been seized by police and has been sent to the forensic lab for investigation.Kothara said that they are investigating after registering a non-cognizable case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/iaf-sergeant-hurt-after-his-rifle-goes-off/articleshow/78688384.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||Four endemic reptile species found||Surat: The repitalian diversity is becoming rich with the discovery of new species from the state in the last few years. Experts say that Gujarat is one of the most diversified states in India with respect to biodiversity. The new species snake-eyes’ (Ophisops) is the fourth endemic species of reptile discovered from Gujarat in the last 12 years. Earlier in 2009, a new species of Gecko was discovered from Girnar hills in Junagadh and was named as Gujarat Gecko (Hemidactylus gujaratensis). Moreover, a new species of snake named as Wallace’s Racer (Wallaceophis Gujaratensis), a species of colubrid snake that is found in central Gujarat and Saurashtra, was discovered in 2016. Scientists discovered another lizard species from Kutch in 2018 and named it ‘Kutch Snake-eye’ (Ophisops kutchensis). This species of lacerta is occurring in the parts of Kutch and Saurashtra and endemic to the state. Expert say that this lizard is brown in colour and have stripes running drown its body. “Various types of habitats from dry desert to moist deciduous forests, and seashore along the coastal islands with mangrove forests and mud flats are available in Gujarat. This provides a conducive environment for many organisms,” Raju Vyas, a reptile expert from Vadodara, told TOI. According to a research paper authored by Raju Vyas and Harshil Patel titled ‘Reptiles of Gujarat, India: Updated checklist, distribution and Conservation status’, the present number of reptile species of Gujarat now stands at 131, a number that includes 22 erroneously or dubiously reported species and one non-native species. In 2000, a total of 107 species reptiles were recorded. They have now increased to 131 species. Researchers recorded one species of crocodile, nine species of chelonians belonging to five families, 43 species of lizards belonging to seven families, and 54 species of snakes belonging to 10 families from the state. “The study also revealed that among the regions of Gujarat, South Gujarat was found to have the highest reptilian diversity among the five regions (75 species), followed by Saurashtra (74 species), Central Gujarat (71 species), Kutch (52 species), and North Gujarat (51 species),” said Patel. “Diverse habitats of the state are rapidly changing due to the new developmental projects such as irrigation projects and industrial projects. Forest areas are being denotified for the implementation of development projects such as mining, industry, communication and tourism. This is resulting in shrinkage, fragmentation, degradation and destruction of natural habitats and threat to reptilian species,” explained Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-endemic-reptile-species-found/articleshow/78687934.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Plans under way for storage of vaccine||Ludhiana: With the Union health minister indicating that more than one Covid-19 vaccine may be ready by early next year, the local health department has started making plans to ensure sufficient facilities for its storage whenever it comes.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “We have all the facilities for the storage of the vaccine whenever it comes. For it, a cold chain is to be maintained. We are handling highly-sensitive vaccines of polio and measles and can handle that of Covid-19 too.” Echoing the same, district immunization officer Dr Kiran said, “We are already working on the plan and have started vaccine intelligence monitor. In it, stock and other aspects related to vaccination will be checked. We will be able to cover Ludhiana district in time.”The health department officials said data collection for vaccination, which would be done as per the government guidelines, has started.A health department officer said, “Preparations are under way. We have sufficient capacity and extra deep freezers and ice line refrigerators at district vaccine store. The storage capacity of the store must be in lakhs as we will cater to a population of around 45 lakh. If need be, we can also increase the capacity.”“We can even handle five-lakh vaccines. The vaccines, however, will come in gradually,” he added.A senior health department officer said, “It is not the question of storage capacity. Vaccination will be done stage-wise. First, the frontline workers will get it, those with cormobidities will be second and then the others.” Sufficient staffDistrict immunization officials said they had staff in hundreds to carry out vaccination in the district and if need be they could rope in staff nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMS) for the process. Micro planning would be done when the vaccine comes, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/plans-under-way-for-storage-of-vaccine/articleshow/78687846.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Body of dalit girl found, autopsy confirms rape||LUCKNOW: The body of an 18-year-old Dalit girl was recovered from the fields with her hands tied in Satrikh area of Barabanki district late Wednesday. The autopsy conducted by a panel of doctors confirmed rape and death due to strangulation. Police are yet to establish the motive for rape and murder. Her father began scouring the fields after he found her daughter missing till late evening.  “After a two-hour search, the girl was found in a dishevelled and unconscious state and police were informed. A police team reached the spot and took her to a local health centre, where doctors declared her brought dead,” said SHO, Satrikh, Brijesh Kumar. On the complaint of victim’s father, a murder FIR was registered against unidentified persons and a probe was launched, said Kumar. The FIR stated the girl had gone to the fields around 4 pm on Wednesday. “When it got late and dark, I decided to search for her and later found my daughter with her hands tied, 1.5km off our house,” victim’s father told police. TOI spoke to the girl’s father, who said he only wants justice. “Money or compensation can’t bring my daughter back to life. I have no enmity or property dispute with anyone in the village,” he said. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police, Arvind Chaturvedi, said, several teams have been formed to crack the case. “We will incorporate the penal section of rape in FIR after the post-mortem report,” he said. Police had sent a dog squad and forensics team to the crime scene and cordoned off the spot for gathering of evidence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/body-of-dalit-found-autopsy-confirms-rape/articleshow/78691080.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Positivity rate down by 5% in a month, recovery up||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The positivity rate of Covid-19 tests in the city has further reduced to 20%, even as a lower number of tests are being done. This means that fewer people are testing positive for Covid-19 now compared to those in the month of August and September. During the second half of September, the positivity rate was 25% and it has dropped by 5%. At the same time, the number of tests being conducted in the city daily has reduced from 2,500 tests per day to 1,500 and 2,000 tests daily now. NMC officials said that till the last month, there would be at least 100 people in queue to give throat swabs at the hospital. The queue has become shorter now and sample collection is faster. Officials said that their focus since beginning of the pandemic was on tracing people with possible Covid-19 symptoms and getting them tested. Early detection of patients helps in providing timely treatment and recovery, the officials said. “We traced around 35 high and low risk contacts of each patient and this also yielded a good result. The number of recoveries increased from 75% by August-end to 92% so far. Moreover, the Covid-19 death rate has also reduced from 1.92% by August end to 1.41% so far,” said NMC officials. Officials said that a health survey of the city residents hsa been started under the state government mission- ‘My Family, My Responsibility’. “We have conducted a health survey of over 17.5 lakh population in the city and have detected 578 Covid-19 patients,” he said. In September, an average of over 850 patients were testing positive per day, but the number of new cases per day has dropped to 478 cases so far in the current month of October, said NMC officials. The number of active patients, which were around 6,000 during last month, has also reduced to 3,553 patients so far, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/positivity-rate-down-by-5-in-a-month-recovery-up/articleshow/78690443.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 16, 2020||Varanasi||KVT-Gyanvapi mosque: Next hearing on Oct 20||Varanasi: The hearing of Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi mosque dispute could not take place in the court on Thursday due to a condolence meeting. The next date of hearing was fixed on October 20. Owing to the demise of two lawyers, the Bar association decided to remain away from legal works on Thursday. The court of additional district judge (first) Rajeev Kamal Pandey fixed the next date of hearing on October 20. Earlier, after hearing the pleas of the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and Swayambhu Jyotirlinga Bhagwan Vishweshwar on October 13, the court had fixed the next date of hearing on Thursday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvt-gyanvapi-mosque-next-hearing-on-oct-20/articleshow/78690153.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Allahabad||Visitors from several districts throng Anand Bhawan on first day of reopening||Prayagraj: After a gap of around seven months, locals and visitors from different districts including Kanpur, Aligarh and Mirzapur poured in on the first day of the reopening of the historical Anand Bhawan. Anand Bhawan, the ancestral home of the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, which is now a museum, and Jawahar Planetarium witnessed handsome attendance on Thursday. Anand Bhawan and Jawahar Planetarium are two of the most prominent tourist attractions of Prayagraj which had remained closed for the last seven months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Gates of Anand Bhawan opened at 10 am, while Jawahar Planetarium, which allowed only 50 % occupancy of its total capacity, ran six shows from 11 am to 4.30 pm. There are 96 seats in the planetarium, but only 48 tickets were sold in each of the shows. “People of all age groups—kids, adults and senior citizens—thronged the museum. By 2pm, we had 110 visitors at Anand Bhawan while Jawahar Planetarium had 80 people watching the shows. Masks are mandatory for all visitors and entry is allowed only after thermal screening at the entrance gate,” said Anand Bhawan director, Y Ravi Kiran. “We also made the visitors aware about the importance of following social distancing norms and keep themselves safe. Announcements were also made from time to time in this regard,” said the director. Tourists visiting Anand Bhavan on the first day of its reopening included Sandeep Baudh and Manoj Gautam from Kanpur Dehat, Basant Lal and Reshma from Mirzapur, advocates Kushal Pratap and Lokesh Pratap from Aligarh. Pihu and Jahnavi from Kanpur also visited the planetarium with their maternal grandparents. “I am thrilled to see the items on display at the ancestral home of our country’s first PM. The show at the planetarium was beautiful,” said Nirbhay Sachdeva, who had come to visit his grandparents in Prayagraj from Jaunpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/visitors-from-several-districts-throng-anand-bhawan-on-first-day-of-reopening/articleshow/78686625.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Varanasi||Man killed in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia; SDM, CO suspended||VARANASI: One person was sprayed with bullets by his rival during an open-air meeting to allot a fair price shop in Bairia area of Ballia district in the presence of senior officers, including the SDM and the circle officer of the area. The accused, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, is absconding. Victim Jaiprakash Pal's son claimed that the alleged assailant was a BJP worker and a close to local party MLA Surendra Singh. The MLA denied that Dhirendra was his associate or relative but accepted that he was a BJP worker. “People from the entire area are close to me. But, it's a fact that Dhirendra is a BJP worker,” MLA Surendra Singh told TOI. The daylight killing sent a shock wave across the region and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suspended Bairia SDM Suresh Kumar Pal, Bairia CO Chandrakesh Singh, station officer, Revati police station, and entire police force present at the spot, said DIG Azamgarh Range, Subhash Chandra Dubey. Ballia police chief Devendra Singh said two groups were taking part in the fair price shop allotment process in Durjanpur village in the district on Thursday. “After a dispute cropped up, the SDM postponed the allotment process after which both the groups started leaving the venue. In the meantime some, people from the two groups clashed and indiscriminate firing started in which Jaiprakash was killed.” More details of the case are coming to light in the ongoing investigation, he added. According to villagers, the process of allotment of the fair price shop of Durjanpur started in front of over 500 villagers after the SDM and CO reached there in the afternoon. About 50 yards away from the tents in which officials were sitting, a heated argument took place between some people after which Dhirendra opened indiscriminate fire in which Jaiprakash was killed. The firing led to chaos and Jaiprakash was immediately rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared him 'brought dead'. His son Abhishek Kumar Pal said: “Dhirendra Singh alias Dabloo Singh talked to Revati SO and later started quarreling with my father and suddenly opened fire. He must have fired at least 25 rounds of which at least three bullets hit my father. " The incident sent senior officials into a tizzy and district magistrate Hari Pratap Shahi and SP Devendra Nath rushed to the village. Watch UP: One person killed in front of SDM and CO in Ballia, CM Adityanath orders suspension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-killed-in-ballia-sdm-co-suspended/articleshow/78691083.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Corona-hit Dussehra to see shorter Ravanas going up in flames in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The Covid-19 pandemic cutting down the size of economies across the globe is also reflecting in the reduced height of Ravana effigies in the city. Even though burning of the effigy on the Dussehra day remains the top attraction for the young and old alike, this year the committees have decided to go for smaller effigies—down from 80ft to around 30ft—just to mark a ritual. The Ravana effigies of Daresi ground have always been the tallest ones in the city, but this time, the management has decided to celebrate the festival only symbolically and therefore, a smaller Ravana will be set on fire this Dussehra. Dinesh Marwaha, president of Sri Ramleela Dussehra Committee at Daresi, said, “It is like performing a ritual only. This time we have asked for 30ft-high effigy of Ravana. The artisans for making the effigy come from Agra and they are expected to reach the city shortly.” Raju Thapar from Upkar Nagar Dussehra Committee said, “The Ravana effigy will not be more than 25-feet-tall this time and we have placed the order as well. In case the effigy is no ready in time, we will go for one made of simple flex and other materials.” He said the decision to go for small-scale Ravana Dahan has taken as they are not sure about the permission for a large public gathering. Besides, when the pandemic has hit the country’s economy so badly, it only makes sense to go for low-key celebrations instead of splurging on huge effigies. However, the artisans, who prepare the effigies at various locations, are not happy with the decision of various Dusshera committees, saying it would not fetch them enough to see them through until the next Dussehra. An artisan from Agra, Asgar Ali, said making effigies are not going to be a profitable affair this time, because the committees are not going to pay much, as there are no large-scale celebrations this year. But, they would make effigies even this time to earn whatever they can to meet the family necessities. He said, “We have received orders from three-four committees in Ludhiana and by Thursday we will be reaching the city. We have prepared the bases of effigies and it will not take too long to give those the final touches. Since not much time is left, we have increased the number of labourers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/corona-hit-dussehra-to-see-shorter-ravanas-going-up-in-flames/articleshow/78687855.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
October 16, 2020||Varanasi||Arranging idols for Durga Puja an uphill task||Varanasi: The district administration on Wednesday evening granted permission to set up Puja pandals and install idols in prescribed sizes, but arranging idols has become an uphill task for the Durga Puja organisers of the district at a short notice. After waiting for long for the administration’s decision, artisans from West Bengal have returned to their native state and preparing idols in three-four days is nearly impossible for many organisers. According to an estimate, less than 25% of 503 Durga puja organisers will be able to install idols in their pandals, although they are not worried as they were initially demanding only ‘kalash’ (urn) puja. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and SSP Amit Pathak issued guidelines for Durga Puja celebration on Wednesday evening, making it clear that puja organisers will install idols of less than 5 ft, do lighting and play devotional numbers but no nightlong celebrations will be allowed. The size of pandals were also prescribed by the DM, who made it very clear that maximum 100 people will gather at a pandal created in an open area at a time, while in campuses with controlled access maximum 200 people would congregate. Thermal scanning of people at the time of entry, wearing mask and social distancing will be a must, said DM adding, puja organisers will engage their own volunteers. Covid-19 awareness message will be played with devotional numbers at each puja pandal, where no mass feast will be allowed. Participation of a maximum 10 people in the immersion procession will be allowed. Kendriya Puja Samiti president Tilakraj Mishra said, “We are happy with the decision of the administration as we were sure that no mass celebration will be possible in view of Covid-19 menace. Hence, we were seeking permissions for Kalash Pujan only instead of installing idols. By allowing idol installation administration gave much more than our demand and expectation, but as no idol maker has been given order, arranging idols by puja organisers will be a difficult task. We are expecting that less than 40% puja pandals will be able to arrange idols.” As per the records of district administration, a total of 503 idols, including 259 in city areas, are installed at Durga Puja pandals every year. When TOI took stock of idol makers in the areas like Pandeya Haveli on Thursday, it came to light that idols will be hardly arranged for less than 100 puja organisers. Prominent artisan Abhijit Biswas said, “We used to make around 60 idols of Goddess Durga for Durga Puja celebration till 2019 Navratra. As there was no order from puja organisers, we asked the artisans who come here from WB every year to make idols to return home. Now, the administration has permitted idol installation after which puja organisers have started contacting us. But, we have only 12-13 structures ready and they can be finished in the coming week for installation.” At another prominent workshop of Nirmal Da his junior Jaideo said, “We make around 50 idols every year. But, as everyone was sure that no celebration with idols will take place no artisan from WB was called. To meet expanses of wages of our regular labourers, we had started creating 8-10 small idols by expecting that somebody will purchase it to perform puja at their home. The idol makers have said that even if they start making idols with raw materials available with them, giving finishing will be impossible before October 23.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/arranging-idols-for-durga-puja-an-uphill-task/articleshow/78690167.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||Woman cop suspended for thrashing woman||Jhansi: A woman police constable, posted at city Kotwali, was suspended on Wednesday following a video that went viral in which she is seen thrashing a woman, who is said to have come to the Kotwali with other family members to meet the accused who was brought to the Kotwali for creating ruckus on road.  The 15-second video is said to be of late Tuesday night when police had brought few persons to Kotwali on charges of creating ruckus on the road. Following this, other family members of the accused too came to the Kotwali and asked police to allow them to meet the accused but police refused to give them permission. This led to heated argument among the members and police after which a woman police constable Seema thrashed the woman. The entire incident was filmed by the woman’s relative who later on made it viral.  SP (city) Vivek Tripathi said, “SSP Jhansi, after taking cognizance of the video, suspended constable Seema and asked me to inquire into the incident. As per preliminary inquiry, it came out that the woman who came to meet the accused had first hit the police constable following which the woman constable retaliated”. We are inquiring the entire incident and will initiate action accordingly, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-cop-suspended-for-thrashing-woman/articleshow/78690256.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||Call to reduce dependence on imported crude oil||Kanpur: National Sugar Institute (NSI), Kanpur on Thursday organized a national webinar on topic ‘A step Ahead Toward a Future fuel’. The webinar was organised in collaboration with the Indian Sugar Mills Association. Inaugurating the webinar, secretary, (food & public distribution), Government of India, Sudhanshu Pandey, stressed upon reducing dependence on imported crude oil. He said that Indian government has chalked out the EBP program in a phased manner, i.e., by 2022 the blending target is 10% and by 2030 it is to be raised to 20%. He also mentioned that in order to achieve the goal of EBP 10 and subsequently of EBP 20, there is need for adding ethanol capacities and developing alternate feed stocks. “The potential of maize abundance availability can be harnessed for ethanol production which will help the farmers in getting good rates of their produce,” he added. Joint secretary (sugar), Government of India, Subodh Kumar Singh, in his address said that in order to boost ethanol availability during the last one year or so, 362 proposals for a loan amount of over Rs 18,000 crores have been approved which may result in adding about 600 crore litre ethanol capacity per annum. Director, National Sugar Institute, Professor Narendra Mohan, suggested that without inviting ‘Food vs Fuel’ debate, surplus grains - that is - rice and maize can be used for production of ethanol. “With rice and maize, it is possible to attain average ethanol yields of 450 litre/ton and 380 litres/ton with a valuable by-product, Distillers Dried Grain with Solubles (DDGS) to be used as cattle feed. Since only a limited quantity of ethanol can be produced using molasses from sugar industry, development of alternate feed stocks like surplus grain, sweet potato, sugar beet, sweet sorghum and cassava is important,” he added. President, Indian Sugar Mills Association, Vivek Pittie, while appreciating the efforts made by the government in encouraging ethanol production suggested that for using feed stocks other than molasses, the distilleries are to be converted into ‘Dual Feed Stock Based Distilleries’ and thus government may consider grant of financial assistance besides ensuring good prices of the ethanol made from such feed stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/call-to-reduce-dependence-on-imported-crude-oil/articleshow/78690184.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Varanasi||Tripathi files papers for Deoria bypoll||Gorakhpur: BJP on Wednesday evening declared a Brahmin, Dr Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi, as its candidate for Deoria Sadar by-election. He filed nomination papers on Thursday afternoon. The seat became vacant after the demise of BJP MLA Janmejay Singh. All major parties like BJP, SP, BSP and Congress have declared Brahmin candidates. The candidates are Brahamshankar Tripathi, SP; Abhay Nath Tripathi, BSP and Mukund Bharkar Mani Tripathi, Congress. Dr Satyaprakash Tripathi is head of the department of political Science at Sant Vinoba PG College in Deoria. He has been working for BJP for a long time. Dr Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi is a native of Udopur village of Baitalpur area and he was also zila panchayat member from 2000 to 2005. In 2002, he contested Gauribazar assembly election as Independent and was zonal convener of BJP Prabuddh Prakosth. His elder brother Dr Sri Prakash Mani Tripathi is VC of Amarkantak University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tripathi-files-papers-for-deoria-bypoll/articleshow/78690176.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Meerut||Labourer buried alive as heap of soil falls on him during construction work||Bijnor: A labourer buried alive as a heap of soil fell on him during the construction work of a house in Jageer village under Seohara police station area in Bijnor. Soon after the incident, police rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. Family members the victim, Vijaypal Singh, created a ruckus after the incident and demanded strict action against the owner who had hired him. Police somehow pacified the agitators and sent the body to the district hospital for autopsy. Seohara station house officer Narendra Kumar said police were probing the matter thoroughly. “A case is being registered against the accused based on a complaint filed by the victim’s kin,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/labourer-buried-alive-as-heap-of-soil-falls-on-him-during-construction-work/articleshow/78686773.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 16, 2020||Pune||Signs of a colder winter, worries of nCov spread||Pune: Winter in the country could be colder this year, coupled with an almost 90% probability of a moderate La Nina event over the equatorial Pacific in the coming months. Though health experts have already warned about a second wave of Covid-19 in the cold months, some of them feel it could be exacerbated with a harsher winter. Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and Skymet Weather Services said India could record relatively below-normal temperatures during the approaching winter. The IMD, however, is yet to issue an official forecast. D S Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune said, “The impact of La Nina is more over winters in the northwest part of the country, as it tends to trigger below normal winter temperatures in that region. But much also depends on the strength of La Nina around December 2020 and January-February 2021. With La Nina around, winter temperatures are generally expected to be slightly below normal over the Indian region this winter.” Skymet Weather Services president G P Sharma told TOI, “With this year being an evolving La Nina year, the coming winter season could be a little harsher than normal and prolonged, especially for north India. Also, whenever temperatures dip below normal in North India, parts of central region, including Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha, also feel the chill and the dipping temperatures because the cold winds tend to travel all the way from north to these areas.” He said, “Pune tends to experience single digit minimum temperatures on some days even during ‘normal’ winters. With La Nina into play, it could mean a further dip of a degree or two than that here, along with prolonged spells of chill on some days.” A harsher winter could however be a red flag for Covid-19 spread, said health experts. Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “There are some geographies in India, including Pune, which have extreme winter temperatures with a drop to below 10ºC in minimum temperatures. With a harsh winter, there is also an increase in pollution, respiratory viral illnesses causing surge in breathing-related ailments and crowds huddling together in enclosed spaces. All this could make Covid-19 transmission more conducive.” He said, “This is, however, only a prediction, though there is no clear link between Covid-19 and temperatures. We need to be ready for a Covid-19 second wave in winter, especially in geographies in India where temperature tends to dip below 10ºC, including Pune.” Subhash Salunkhe, member of the state’s technical committee on Covid-19, told TOI that winter may pose a challenge on the pandemic front. “More severe the winter, higher are the chances of viral infections, including Covid-19, propagating. Apart from the higher transmission factor, winters often cause people to remain indoors in enclosed spaces. This increases the possibility of infection spread,” said Salunkhe. A state health department official said, “An Australian study has indicated that the SARS-CoV-2 virus tends to sustain for 28 days on a surface if the average temperature is below 20C. If the average temperature increases to 30ºC, it sustains on a surface for seven days. A severe winter could increase the possibility of the virus sustaining for a longer duration on surfaces.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/signs-of-a-colder-winter-worries-of-ncov-spread/articleshow/78689409.cms||Neha Madaan
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Clear all dues before Diwali: Uttar Pradesh CM tells departments||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed all government departments to release all pending dues ahead of Diwali. The CM on Thursday issued directions that all departments should determine how much is owed to various organisations and employees and, based on the availability of the budget, should release this amount before the festival. He has asked the finance department to coordinate with other departments to ensure that the payments are made smoothly and in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/clear-all-dues-before-diwali-cm-tells-depts/articleshow/78691085.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: In 5 years, areas 100m inland may go under the sea||CHENNAI: Beachfront luxury villas and other structures along Neelankarai beach and Adyar estuary could be under seawater before the end of this century due to rising sea levels if carbon emissions are not brought under control. Marina Beach, on the other hand, may stop growing and may be relatively less affected. A study by city-based National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) has projected that land lying within 100m from Chennai’s coast may be inundated by 2025 if sea levels rise by around 7cm due to climate change in these five years. If emissions are not brought under control and measures are not taken to protect the coast, then by 2100 localities more than 1km inland from the coast could go under water as sea level along Chennai may rise by 77.88cm. The researchers came up with future sea level rise along Chennai coast and resulting inundation projections based on low to worst warming scenarios in the study conducted on a 21.48km stretch from Chennai Port to Neelankarai. “We found the maximum effect was near Neelankarai and near Adyar river mouth. In Neelankarai, there is a gentle slope of the land so if the sea levels rise, water will move inland. Similarly, in Adyar, the river mouth is open and so water can enter and cover the low-lying areas,” said R S Kankara, group head, coastal processes and shoreline management, NCCR, who conducted the study with fellow scientist Dhanalakshmi Silamban. “Some mild erosion is already seen in these areas, if the same persists for the next 100 years and the climate is also changing, we could see inundation up to 350m and the worst-case warming scenario it could be 1,100m and under moderate warming scenario it may be 500 to 700m of inundation,” he said. Experts said as oceans warm, the water expands leading to rise in sea level, which could push seawater into the land inundating portions of the coast. An analysis of satellite and field data of Chennai’s shoreline showed that 36.7% of the coast is eroding. Researchers said the rough sea already eating into the coast coupled with a rising sea level will have a cumulative effect of climate change contributing to inundation. Researchers said Marina Beach, which has been growing due to accumulation of sand obstructed by the Chennai Port, may reach an equilibrium and stop expanding. A long-term analysis in the study found that 60% of the study region falls under stable to low accretion. “There may be two opposite forces at play in Marina. Accretion has been pushing water towards the sea and if the sea levels rise, water pushes towards land. So, the accretion process will reduce. Accretion rate is not constant, it will be more in the beginning, then stabilises and then reduces. The accretion rate now along the coast is at 3mm a year,” Kankara said. “There may be episodic erosion if there is a cyclone or the monsoon is severe.” In contrast, Thiruvottiyur and Ennore, previously recorded to have seen maximum erosion due to Chennai Port obstructing sediment movement from south to north, may be safe from rising sea levels due to measures like seawall and groyns put up to protect the coast from further erosion, researchers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-5-years-areas-100m-inland-may-go-under-the-sea/articleshow/78687890.cms||U Tejonmayam
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Malegaon PSI, accomplice caught taking Rs 60,000 bribe||NASHIK: The Nashik range anti-corruption bureau on Tuesday arrested a police sub-inspector (PSI) and a private person for accepting a bribe of Rs 60,000 near the Malegaon taluka police station. The arrested PSI is Sandeep Thakre, of Malegaon police station, and the private person has been identified as Abdul Rehman Abdul Kadir, also of Malegaon city. A release by the ACB said a person had approached the ACB with a complaint that Thakre and Kadir had sought Rs 80,000 to help in a case registered with the Malegaon taluka police station. The complainant said that he had paid Rs 20,000 initially, but the duo were demanding Rs 60,000 more. The ACB officials set a trap in front of the taluka police station on Tuesday, where Kadir accepted the bribe from the complainant on behalf of the PSI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-psi-accomplice-caught-taking-rs-60000-bribe/articleshow/78690448.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Allahabad||WiFi in all railway stations of Prayagraj division||PRAYAGRAJ: Passengers can now avail free WiFi facility at all 111 railway stations of Prayagraj division. “Earlier, only major stations of the division has a WiFi facility, but when the frequency of train operations subsided during lockdown, the unfinished work of installing the facility in smaller stations was also accomplished. Now, 111 stations of the division have been fitted with WiFi facility,” said public relations officer (PRO), Prayagraj division, Keshav Tripathi. He said along with this, the division has decided to install CCTVs at all the manned level crossings to keep a vigil on those who flout the norms. “Incidents of breaking the gate boom by commuters at level crossings are increasing. To deal with such incidents, the board of signal and telecommunication department has installed CCTVs on 110 level crossings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/wifi-in-all-rly-stations-of-prayagraj-div/articleshow/78686654.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mumbai||Chile, UN agencies & global health groups back India on IP waiver of Covid-19 therapies||Mumbai: Major UN agencies and over 380 global public health and advocacy organisations, including Oxfam, Health Action International, Médecins Sans Frontières and Third World Network have backed a ‘landmark’ joint submission by India and South Africa at the World Trade Organisation, seeking a waiver of intellectual property (IP) on Covid-19 therapeutics. The proposal, submitted on October 2, was formally tabled on Thursday, and waiver on TRIPS obligations is on the agenda item 15 before the TRIPS Council, sources told TOI. Besides, Chile became the first country globally perhaps to pledge support, having passed a resolution internally backing the proposal, while UN agencies including UNAIDS and UNITAID have rallied around it. The organisations support the proposal to waive intellectual property rules on patents and trade secrets for Covid-19 technology such as medicines, vaccines, masks and ventilators, for an equitable and unrestricted access of these products globally. While the proposal has been tabled today, the TRIPS Council will take a minimum of 90 days to consider it before submitting a report to the Ministerial Conference – the highest decision-making body that consists of all WTO members – for a decision. The next few months will be crucial, with the two countries being engaged in a huge diplomatic effort to garner support of other nations, similar to other trade negotiations. The proposal may be put to vote if there is no consensus amongst the WTO members for the waiver. “Seven months into the pandemic, there is no meaningful global policy solution to ensure access. Instead, there is an inequality of access to critical technologies that are needed to address the pandemic. Many countries, especially developing and least developed countries struggling to contain Covid-19 are facing acute shortages of medical products, including access to diagnostic testing. Further, wealthy nations, representing only 13% of the global population, have locked up at least half the doses of the world’s five leading potential vaccines.” The waiver has become important for all governments as they face challenges to ensure timely, sufficient and affordable access to effective medicines, vaccines and diagnostics. The problem becomes magnified for many developing countries that face limitations developing and scaling up manufacturing capacity due to IP barriers. “The unprecedented situation today requires that all IP, knowledge, technology and data related to Covid-19 health technologies can be utilised by everyone to ensure uninterrupted production and supply by any competent country or manufacturer worldwide,” an MSF statement said. The Covid-19 Technology Access Pool (C-TAP) launched by WHO (to voluntarily share knowledge, IP and data), has been rejected by the pharmaceutical industry. Instead, companies continue to sign secretive and restrictive licensing agreements,” the letter signed by 379 entities says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chile-un-agencies-global-health-groups-back-india-on-ip-waiver-of-covid-19-therapies/articleshow/78690463.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 16, 2020||Business||Cyient Q2FY21 PAT down 15%||Hyderabad: Global engineering and technology solutions player Cyient Ltd on Thursday said it has posted a 14.8% drop in consolidated profit after tax for the second quarter ended September 30, 2020, at Rs 83.9 crore as compared to Rs 98.5 crore in the corresponding quarter of last fiscal. This was on a 13.4% degrowth in consolidated revenues for the second quarter of FY21 at Rs 1003.3 crore as against Rs 1158.9 crore in Q2 FY20. While services revenues fell 14.3% YoY to Rs 848.7 crore during the quarter, DLM (design-led manufacturing) revenues fell 8.4% to Rs 154.6 crore, the company said. Commenting on the results, Cyient managing director & CEO Krishna Bodanapu said the Q2 results were in line with expectations with growth in growth in services business across transportation, communications and portfolio BUs being offset by aerospace & defense BU decline. “We are focused on building a strong pipeline with large opportunities and rigor on account mining across key clients. This quarter we also restructured the organization to realign ourselves to the market opportunities and focus on growth in key industries. The new structure will enable us to function in a more agile and efficient manner. We also made significant investments in strengthening our business through strategic partnerships and M&A,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cyient-q2fy21-pat-down-15/articleshow/78689453.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||DPCC will call in cops to shut illegal e-waste units||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has sought assistance from Delhi Police in order to shut down illegal e-waste processing units in north and northeast parts of Delhi, stating such units were in narrow and congested lanes with people often crowding out its inspection teams when they went to close them. In a report prepared for National Green Tribunal (NGT), DPCC said post lockdown, a fresh survey was carried out with 218 premises surveyed by the teams till September 23, of which 120 were found to be carrying out illegal e-waste storage and disposal. “Since the inspecting teams are required to follow social distancing norms and the areas are highly congested with narrow lanes and people often crowding the inspecting teams, the survey is progressing at a slow pace,” said DPCC in its report. In the report, DPCC officials said that a majority of these units are extremely tiny and operating in an area ranging from 20 to 50sqm, with work being carried out manually without the use of any machine. “Many of them have closed down the operations due to the lockdown and very dull economic activity is currently going on in these areas. In most cases, it was observed that the owner(s) themselves are carrying out the labour work. Further action for effective closure has been planned once the survey is completed. Delhi Police has been requested to provide sufficient force for carrying out the task of effective closure and to avoid any law and order situation, as the areas are sensitive in this aspect,” said the report. The committee began its survey against illegal units following an NGT order last year, shutting down 36 such illegal units in Bhagirathi Vihar in May and June of 2019. Another 57 illegal e-waste units were shut down in Old Seelampur in July 2019, while 31 units were closed down elsewhere across Delhi and a fine of Rs 7.30 lakh was imposed on these 31 units. DPCC said the survey will continue over the next couple of months, however police assistance was required. “As per the latest report, a number of units have been identified but shutting them down will require some help. Further action will be taken as soon as the help is provided to us,” a DPCC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dpcc-will-call-in-cops-to-shut-illegal-e-waste-units/articleshow/78689456.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Power generation at Eklahara begins after 6 months||Nashik: The sudden power cut in Mumbai on October 13 has forced the state power generation utility — Mahagenco — to restart its operations at the Nashik-based thermal power station at Eklahara Colony. “On Wednesday night, we received orders to immediately re-start one of the three 210 MW plants at Eklahara Colony. Accordingly, the same has been re-started and power generation and supply is now going on,” sources at the Nashik Thermal Power Station (NTPS) said. The NTPS power generation was shut down on March 26 following a drop in power supply demand after the announcement of lockdown. Moreover, the generation cost of power produced at Eklahara Colony was higher than that approved by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC). Hence, the system was generally put on stand-by mode. Besides, rumours were rife that after already having closed down two power generation units of 175 MW capacity each, the government was also planning to close down the rest of the three 210 MW units step by step. Meanwhile, employees unions have been demanding that not only the units be kept running, but, at the same time, the 610 MW plant that has been already decided to be constructed in Nashik should be given nod so that the NTPS keeps running. According to former senior officials of Mahagenco and Transmission company (Mahatransco), the unprecedented situation in Mumbai had forced the state to keep the NTPS unit running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/power-generation-at-eklahara-begins-after-6-months/articleshow/78690462.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tirusulam-airport link in limbo, passengers suffer||CHENNAI: The city airport is perhaps the only one in the country that can be accessed through suburban trains, metro rail and buses, but the intermodal link has not taken off barring a metro rail line and a station linked to the terminals through a tube. A 2011 plan, discussed among Southern Railway, Airports Authority of India and metro rail, envisaged extending the subway from GST Road to metro rail station or having an integrated passage for passengers. New domestic and international terminals opened in 2013 and metro rail services began in 2015 but the Tirusulam suburban railway station-terminal link was forgotten. With suburban services not open, the subway now presents a picture of neglect, with the lift not working and wooden debris dumped in front of the door. T K Pandian, a frequent traveller, said people getting off trains at the station struggle to reach the airport. “The subway is often dark and has water on the floor. Outside the subway, there is no dedicated pathway where flyers can roll their trolley bags and they need to cross traffic inside the airport.” After renovating the station and the subway following opening of the new terminals in 2013, railways lost interest in pursuing an effective link to the airport and plans for baggage-handling facilities at the subway/railway station and baggage drop facilities at the metro station too didn’t take off. On Thursday, TOI found people hopping over steel fencing near the metro station to reach the terminals. An airport official said pathways were laid and marked for people exiting the subway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tirusulam-airport-link-in-limbo-passengers-suffer/articleshow/78687926.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: For second straight day, Rajasthan reports more recoveries than new infections||JAIPUR: For the second straight day, the state reported more recoveries than new infections as the recovery rate rose to 86% on Thursday. According to a health department report, 2,149 persons recovered from Covid while 2,039 were found infected with the virus across the state, taking the state’s overall tally to 1,67,279. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died, which pushed the state’s toll to 1,708. Though the recovery rate is on the rise, there are 28 districts which currently have more than 100 active cases. Recoveries in Jaipur are also on the rise while active cases are taking a dip. Since the last seven days, Jaipur has been reporting a decline in active cases. It was at its peak on October 8 when 9,241 active cases were reported. As on Thursday, active cases reduced to 8,190. A health department official said, “The recovery rate in Rajasthan is almost on a par with the recovery rate of the country.” Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (396), Jodhpur (313), Bikaner (298), Alwar (168), Ajmer (100), Udaipur (78), Churu (78), Sikar (60), Sriganganagar (58), Kota (57), Nagaur (41), Dausa (38), Bharatpur (35), Jalore (35), Dungarpur (31), Pali (30), Chittorgarh (29), Hanumangarh (29), Bundi (22), Jaisalmer (22), Dholpur (18), Rajsamand (17), Sirohi (15), Baran (15), Bhilwara (14), Jhunjhunu (10), Barmer (10), Banswara (9), Karauli (7), Pratapgarh (3) and Tonk (3). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 344, Jodhpur reported 161st , Bikaner 127th, Ajmer 123rd, Kota 110th, Bharatpur 87th, Udaipur 58th, Alwar 49th, Sikar 45th, Jalore 32nd, Jhunjhunu 20th, Churu 19th and Jaisalmer reported its 12th Covid-19 death. Public health and engineering department minister BD Kalla has tested positive for Covid. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “Wishing my ministerial colleague, Dr BD Kalla ji a speedy recovery from #Covid19. May he gets well soon. @DrBDKalla2.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-second-straight-day-state-reports-more-recoveries-than-new-infections/articleshow/78689464.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Why pollution spike if farm fires not to blame: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Stubble burning contributed to only 4% of pollution this week while the remaining 96% came from local sources like biomass burning, garbage dumping, unpaved roads, dust, construction and demolition activities, environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday while flagging off 50 CPCB ground monitoring teams to different towns in the Delhi-NCR. Javadekar’s remark playing down the contribution of stubble burning, however, trigged a strong reaction from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who tweeted, “Staying in denial will not help. If stubble burning causes only 4% pollution, then why has pollution suddenly increased last fortnight? Air was clean before that. Same story every year. There’s no massive jump in any local source of pollution in the last few days to cause this spike.” Track the pollution level in your cityIn a subsequent tweet, the CM appealed not to indulge in blame game and politics over the issue. “Let’s accept that stubble burning causes huge pollution every year in north India during this time. And let’s all together find a solution sincerely. Blame game and politics hasn’t helped anyone. People are suffering. I am extremely worried that pollution will play havoc, coupled with corona,” he tweeted. Javadekar immediately sought to clarify his remark and said it was misinterpreted. “Let me clarify, the figures of 4% share of stubble burning in AQI in Delhi pertained to this week. It varies from 4% to 40% during peak stubble burning... At the same time, let us not be in denial that there are several local factors — vehicular pollution, non-agricultural biomass burning, dust, geographical and metrological — that are primarily responsible for high air pollution during winters in Delhi,” the minister tweeted. In a tweet earlier, the environment ministry said the share of stubble burning in overall air pollution changed every day. “Last year, between October 8 and December 9, the share of stubble burning in air pollution in Delhi (as per SAFAR data), was greater than 15% on six days, while on a single day, it was greater than 40%,” the ministry said. The 50 CPCB ground teams flagged off by Javadekar will specifically focus on hotspots in NCR cities and towns — Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ballabgarh, Jhajjar, Panipat, Bhiwadi, Alwar and Bharatpur — and report gaps in implementation of various measures. Javadekar said strict action would be taken against polluters on the basis of feedback received from the CPCB teams and appealed to the Punjab government to take measures to stop stubble burning as it not only affected people in Delhi but also in states where stubble was being burnt. Sharing his experience of the effect of stubble burning, Javadekar said, “I went to attend a programme in Ludhiana last year. On my way back, my throat choked due to smoke from stubble burning even when I was in an air-conditioned car. It is harmful for everyone, including people living there. The Punjab government should ensure there is not much stubble burning this time.” Addressing nodal officers of the CPCB teams, he said, “You will work for the next two months and take note of all activities and complaints. You will inspect all factors. You have the right to file a report on your observations and strict action will be taken.” The minister said while on one hand there was stubble burning, on the other there was garbage being burnt by the public and “even by karamcharis”. “We have to keep a watch on that too,” he said while urging people to avoid congested routes. “I appeal to people not to go to already congested areas and take longer routes. Use cycles for nearby work,” he added. A central control room at CPCB headquarters has been made functional to keep track of pollution levels on an hourly basis and coordination with state agencies. In addition, district-wise nodal officers have been appointed for better management and coordination with teams. Watch Prakash Javadekar says ‘stubble burning contributes 4% of pollutants in Delhi’, Gopal Rai hits back||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-pollution-spike-if-farm-fires-not-to-blame-cm/articleshow/78689459.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Coloured gemstone exports shrink by 63% in April-Sept||Jaipur: Exports of coloured gemstones continue to face headwinds with demand from the US and Europe not picking up as fast. While gem and jewellery exports fell by 43% during April to September this year, the decline was deeper for coloured gemstones at 63%. Jaipur accounts for over 90% of coloured gemstones exports, as per industry representatives. They said the demand from the US and Europe is yet to revive which is one of the main reasons for the poor recovery in the segment compared to gem and jewellery. “Many jewellery designing houses in the US and Europe are yet to raise their capacity fully. That is weighing on exports. The demand we are witnessing is driven by Hong Kong and Thailand,” said Sanjay Kala, president of Jewellers Association of Jaipur. Kala said there was almost no exports in April and May. “Most of the export demand has come in the last three-four months. We expect the demand revival to be slow given the European countries are witnessing a second wave of the Covid pandemic,” added Kala. Exports of coloured gemstones fell by 63% to $64.96 million between April and September 2020, from $176.1 million a year ago. In fact, shipment of the coloured gemstones had fallen by 19% in 2019-20 to $320.82 million compared to $396.28 million the previous year. Rajiv Jain, former chairman of Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council, said that while exports of gem and jewellery are done from all parts of the country, most of the coloured stones are shipped from Jaipur and the city remained under lockdown for an extended period. “The Walled City area, where many of these cutting and polish units are concentrated, remained under lockdown for an extended period. That’s also contributed to decline in the exports.” Ramganj in the Walled City was a Covid hotspot. The workforce at the cutting and polish units has now increased to 70%, said Kala. “There is no shortage of workers now. Coloured gemstone units have hired back 70% of their workers. What we want is a pickup in demand. So, further capacity utilization will hinge on new demand,” added Kala. But Jain said the pace of demand recovery will be known only after January or February. “Production is Europe and the US has been erratic because there is no clarity on the consumer demand. Rich people don’t get affected so much and they can still go for diamonds. But coloured gemstones are used by middleclass who have been hit hard by the pandemic,” added Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coloured-gemstone-exports-shrink-by-63-in-april-sept/articleshow/78689448.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||Girl raped by school owner, aide in Jhansi||JHANSI: A dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped inside a primary school in Mauranipur tehsil of the district on Wednesday evening by two persons, including the school owner. Police swung into action after lodging a late night FIR and arrested the duo on Thursday. As per police, the 18-year-old girl wanted some certificates for which she was lured into the school by the owner Narendra Sahu, 24. When the girl went to the school, she was locked from inside and raped by Narendra and his friend Saksham Sirothiya. The matter came to light when the parents of the girl approached the Mauranipur police late night. Subsequently, an FIR was lodged against the duo under sections 376D, 342, 504, 506 of IPC and Section 3(2)V of SC/ST Act. SP (Rural) Rahul Mithas said, “We received an application from a family of Mauranipur that two persons, including a school owner, had lured their daughter into the school premises and gang raped her. Taking immediate action, we lodged an FIR and arrested both of them. We are investigating the matter further.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-raped-by-school-owner-aide/articleshow/78690230.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 16, 2020||Allahabad||82.5% parents unwilling to send kids to school till Covid-19 lasts||PRAYAGRAJ: Now that the state government has allowed the students of classes IX to XII to resume school from October 19 with elaborate safety arrangements, a whopping 82.5% parents in Prayagraj are not willing to send their kids to schools during Covid-19 pandemic. These are the students studying in schools recognised by the UP Board. The reluctance on part of the parents emerged through their feedback taken by principals of 1,079 secondary schools of Prayagraj as part of an exercise undertaken at the behest of district inspector of schools (DIoS) RN Vishwakarma. Of the remaining 17.5 % parents, who are ready to send their kids to schools, majority hail from rural areas of the district. “The feedback shows that parents of just 73,311 students of the total 4,18,888 enrolled in classes 9 to 12 in various secondary schools of the district are ready to send their kids to schools. This too includes parents, who are based in rural areas. Most of those residing in urban areas are not ready to send their kids to schools, fearing that their wards may contract the infection,” said the DIoS. He said all 1,079 secondary schools of the district have made adequate safety arrangements to keep kids safe. Proper cleanliness on the campuses, safe drinking water facility and sanitisers have been arranged. Besides, sanitisation of schools has been undertaken, he added. Even banners and posters were being put up to make students and visitors aware of the need to take special precautions owing to the pandemic like wearing face masks and observing social distancing, DIoS said. A report regarding this has been sent to the state government, Vishwakarma added. Presently, 287 schools have procured thermal scanners to screen students, staff and visitors. Officials, however, point out that the district administration is yet to take a call on reopening the schools for class IX to class XII students in accordance with the state government’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/82-5-parents-unwilling-to-send-kids-to-school-till-covid-19-lasts/articleshow/78686645.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||BJP leader dies in Auriya, family alleges murder||KANPUR: Vice-president of BJP’s OBC Mandal Morcha, Sachin Rajput, died under mysterious circumstances in Auraiya district on Wednesday night. His wife and other family members have alleged foul play. According to reports, Sachin had gone to attend a private function in a neighbouring village from his Jasakapurwa home. The leader’s wife, Sonam, has claimed that her husband has been murdered over old enmity and lodged an FIR against two village men, identified as Nagesh Rajput and his aide Dilip Rajput, in this regard. “Sachin, who was vice-president of BJP’s OBC Mandal Morcha, was reported to have gone to attend a private function at neighbouring Beelrai village along with Nagesh Rajput and Dilip Rajput late Wednesday evening. Late in the night, when he returned home, he complained of severe stomach pain and later slumped in the courtyard of his house and fainted. Family members rushed him to a private hospital in Dibiyapur, where doctors declared him dead on arrival,” said in-charge Kotwali Rajesh Singh. Suspecting a foul play, the family members of Sachin created ruckus and refused police to handover his body for postmortem. They demanded immediate lodging of FIR and arrest of Nagesh and his aide Dilip, who are absconding. Speaking to reporters, Sonam alleged that Nagesh and Dilip had poisoned her husband Sachin to death over old enmity. The parents and siblings also refused to give consent for autopsy of the body of Sachin. “They too demanded immediate arrest of Nagesh and Dilip,” said local sources. “They were pacified and handed Sachin’s body to the police after police booked Nagesh and Dilip under relevant sections of IPC and launched a search to make their arrest possible,” informed President of BJP’s OBC Mandal Morcha, Sarvesh Pal while talking to reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-leader-dies-in-auriya-family-alleges-murder/articleshow/78690211.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||Satta racket busted, four arrested||Kanpur:The police raid a place in the Nazirabad area of the city and busted a ‘satta’ racket with the arrest of four persons on Thursday. The police also recovered Rs 15,000 in cash, several mobile phones and ledger registers from the arrested persons. SP (South) Deepak Bhukar said that the gang members used to bet on IPL matches. He said that the raid was conducted near Ujiyari Devi temple in Nazirabad area. He said, police on the basis of inputs had been keeping an eye on a few people suspected of playing ‘satta’ on IPL matches. “On Thursday, acting on a tip off that some people had assembled near Ujiyari Devi temple in Nazirabad and were placing bets on IPL matches, police teams surrounded the spot and managed to nab four men placing bets,” he added. Three cable thieves arrested: Police arrested three members of an inter-state gang of cable thieves and recovered stolen property worth several lakhs. The alleged offenders, Muzammil and Yusuf of Seelampur Delhi and Anup Gupta of Kanpur Dehat, were arrested near Jageshwar temple tri-section at Ganga Barrage while moving under suspicious circumstances on late Wednesday night. Announcing their arrest at a press conference, SP West Dr Anil Kumar said the three accused along with eight others arrested by Delhi Police were involved in several cases of theft of cable from road sides. “The thieves used to wear `Namami -Gange’ uniform to avoid police. Besides, they used to pick and transport huge bundles of cables with the help of Hydra Crane and DCM truck,” said SP further and added,”Police have seized a Hydra Crane and DCM truck recovered from them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/satta-racket-busted-four-arrested/articleshow/78690205.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad fire brigade has 27% posts vacant||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Fire & Emergency Services Department has got 27% of its total sanctioned posts vacant. This has been pointed out by a petitioner after AMC claimed before the Gujarat high court that it is one of the best fire departments in business in the country. The fact about vacancies in fire brigades in Gujarat’s four major cities has been brought on record by petitioner advocate Amit Panchal, who has been seeking action in the Shrey Hospital fire tragedy where eight Covid-19 patients lost their lives on August 6. His affidavit has highlighted that Rajkot fire brigade has got 31% posts vacant as against the industrial city of Surat, where only 6% of total sanctioned posts are found vacant in its fire department. In his PIL, the petitioner put emphasis on the requirement of inspection and issuance of fire NOC to buildings. In a rebuttal, AMC had claimed that the people of Ahmedabad are careless in getting fire NOC renewed and fire protection and prevention systems inspected on time. The petitioner has insisted that the government should place figures of defaulting buildings about fire NOC in all cities of Gujarat and take action against those who put lives of occupants at risk. He further said that due to inadequate staff, fire departments cannot conduct inspections on time and verify the existence of functional fire safety systems so as to issue a valid fire NOC. The petitioner has demanded that the vacant posts in fire brigades should be filled immediately. Only nine persons appointed in offices to implement Fire Safety Act, HC told  The petitioner has strongly refuted the claims of the state government that the Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2013 has been effectively implemented and accused it of giving false information in the court. He has claimed that besides designating fire officers on different posts, only nine persons have been appointed in offices in last five years in the name of implementation of fire safety law. Petitioner advocate Amit Panchal has placed figures of appointments made under the Fire Safety Act in last five years and claimed that the government has created the system only on paper. He has told the HC that only four office staff in the office of director of Gujarat Fire Services in Gandhinagar, and five deputy accountants in five fire regions have been appointed in last five years. There is no operational force provided in fire divisions, the petitioner maintained. To rebut government claims that fire director’s office, five fire regions and 32 fire divisions have been created, the petitioner has stated, “It may be true on paper, no operational staff has been made available despite the orders having been passed by the government, nor are notifications implemented in reality.” The lawyer has further stated that law cannot be effectively implemented by merely passing administrative orders and issuing notifications on paper. He has also challenged the government’s claim that a fire training facility has been created, and asserted that it is not operational and no fire training is being imparted in the institute. The high court is scheduled to hear this issue on October 21. Relatives’ plea: The relatives of victims of Shrey Hospital fire incident have also requested the high court to allow them to join the PIL so that they can assist the court on the aspect. Junagadh case: The HC has tagged with this PIL another petition complaining about hospitals and education institutes operating in buildings without fire NOC in the city of Junagadh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-fire-brigade-has-27-posts-vacant/articleshow/78690499.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Castaway: 9 men stranded at sea for 55 days||CHENNAI: Stranded at sea for 55 days, Desappan is often asked how he spent each day, "Weeping," I tell them. "Every morning I would wake up and cry until I passed out." Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/castaway-9-men-stranded-at-sea-for-55-days/articleshow/78695225.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/castaway-9-men-55-days-at-sea/articleshow/78687921.cms||Kamini Mathai
October 16, 2020||Meerut||Family & neighbours observe two-minute silence, perform last rites of girl who marries cousin||MEERUT: In a bizarre incident, the family of a 20-year-old girl — who married her maternal cousin — not only excommunicated her but also conducted all religious rites, which are performed after the death of a person, to express their anguish. Notably, neighbours, too, joined them. The girl tied a nuptial knot with her cousin in a court in Baraut tehsil of Baghpat district on September 30. What followed was bizzare. On Wednesday, the girl’s family members and neighbours assembled at her home and observed a two-minute silence — a practice which followed in remembrance of a departed soul — and garlanded her photograph. Not only this, they even performed her ‘shradh’ — a ritual performed by Hindus to pacify the departed soul. “She is dead for us,” said her mother. Dhanya Chand Swamy, a neighbour, said, “In most of the cases when a girl takes such a step, her family tries to conceal the matter to save the reputation of the family from being tarnished. But here we highlighted the matter.” Same gotra marriages are considered a taboo in some communities of western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Hundreds of such couples are hounded and even killed in the name of 'honour' every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-neighbours-observe-two-minute-silence-perform-last-rites-of-girl-who-marries-cousin/articleshow/78687918.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||Tannery owner’s son assaulted in Jajmau area||Kanpur:A tannery owner’s son suffered injuries in Chakeri’s Jajmau area after a group of more than a dozen men attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and opened fire on Wednesday night. The incident followed by a complaint prompted the police to lodge an FIR and probe the role of an alleged local history-sheeter, Dilshad Ahmed, involved in heinous crimes in the past, behind the murderous attack on tannery owner’s son Faiz. Police said that the incident was captured on CCTVs installed in the area. The footage shows a group of men armed with weapons attacking tannery owner Sajjad’s son Faiz at his house in Jajmau. “He has been admitted him to Ursala Horseman hospital,” said police. After the attack, the miscreants fled the spot. Inspector Chakeri Ravi Srivastava said, “A police team reached the spot soon after, and during preliminary enquiry the tannery owner told them about murderous attack on his son by alleged history-sheeter Dilshad Ahmed.” “A case under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been filed with Chakeri police station,” he added. “The injured person has been admitted to Ursala Horseman hospital and is recuperating,” said Srivastava and added that multiple teams have been formed to probe the case and nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/tannery-owners-son-assaulted-in-jajmau-area/articleshow/78690219.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||I-T raids 10 scrap firms in Valsad, DNH||Surat: The directorate of investigation of the Surat Income Tax department on Thursday carried out raids at more than 10 locations in Vapi, Valsad and the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) against the firms dealing in metal, plastics and wood scrap, for large-scale misappropriation of the cash and cheque component in the purchase and sale. Sources said that the investigation wing of the I-T department, under the guidance of DGIT, Ahmedabad, raided four firms engaged in procuring scrap and reprocessing the same, two firms involved in paper scrap trading and three firms engaged in the trading of metal scrap in Valsad, Vapi, Umbergaon and DNH. During the raid, it was noticed that almost all the firms were dealing with some of the big corporate houses and similarly sales is also made to big paper and plastic manufacturers in DNH. Analysis of the digital data revealed that major portion of payment of purchase of scrap was in cash, while the remaining portion was paid through banking channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-t-raids-10-scrap-firms-in-valsad-dnh/articleshow/78687981.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: NDS march reminds citizens to follow Covid-19 guidelines||NAGPUR: Ahead of the festive season, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s nuisance detection squad (NDS) took out a flag march in the city’s commercial areas on Thursday. The civic cops led by deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar and NDS commandant Virsen Tambe were seen appealing to the citizens to use masks and maintain physical distancing while venturing out of their homes. “The flag march was taken out following the directives of municipal commissioner Radhakrishan B,” said Dr Dasarwar, adding, “The city’s commercial areas may witness rush due to the ensuing Navratra commencing on October 17 and to ensure that both shoppers and shopkeepers follow Covid-19 guidelines like using masks, sanitisers and maintain physical distancing, the NDS team created awareness in commercial areas like Cotton Market, Sitabuldi, Gokulpeth, Mahal, Itwari, Gandhibagh, Jaripatka, Kamal Chowk and Sakkardara.” The flag march was taken out to create awareness among citizens to break the chain of the coronavirus. The NDS team also penalized around 168 citizens for venturing out without masks. The team collected Rs84,000 from the offenders. “So far, from September 4 to October 15, the NDS team has penalized 12,314 citizens and collected Rs45.16 lakh in fine,” said Tambe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nds-march-reminds-citizensto-follow-covid-19-guidelines/articleshow/78687976.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
October 16, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Congress files police plaint over ‘false’ campaign||PANAJI: The Congress filed a police complaint on Wednesday at the Panaji police station for starting the Hathras Ki Bhabhi campaign against a Goa-based Congress woman Pratibha Borkar. The police complaint said that by posting “false, malicious, defamatory and derogatory” statements online, on right wing social media accounts, Borkar’s name had been tarnished. Borkar in her complaint alleged that BJP spokesperson Nupur Sharma and another individual Chayan Chatterjee posted the image online in a bid to link the Congress to the Hathras incident and the Naxalite movement. A picture of Borkar at a Congress press conference in September 2019 along with the state Congress president Girish Chodankar and national spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh is being circulated on social media platforms with tags such as “Naxal Bhabhi” “The #Fake Naxal Bhabhi Who Was Hugged By Priyanka Vadra At #Hathras Case”. “BJP’s frustration of losing its popularity in the country and its disrespectful behaviour towards women have been exposed through their “Hathras Ki Bhabhi” campaign,” said Chodankar. Borkar is the state Congress’ social media department co-convenor. “It’s shame that BJP national spokesperson Nupur Sharma also joins in spreading it on social media,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-files-police-plaint-over-false-campaign/articleshow/78689473.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Vadodara||181 discharged, 108 more test positive||VADODARA: As many as 181 Covid-19 patients were discharged in the city and district on Thursday. The number is amongst the highest discharges on a single day since the pandemic began. The discharged patients included 80 from home isolation, 62 from private hospitals and 39 from government hospitals. With the fresh lot of discharges, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city went up to 11,665. The number of active patients in the city also came down significantly from 1,691 on Wednesday to 1,618 on Thursday. This became possible as against the 181 discharged patients only 108 new cases were reported in the 24 hours till Thursday evening. The new cases were detected from 4,019 tests that were conducted in the city and district. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city rose to 13,490. Sources said that the reduction in the number of new cases was reported across the city. The numbers in the rural areas have not shown any significant rise and the graph has remained largely flat. The administration did not confirm any new deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause. The death toll due to the viral pandemic in the city and district remained at 207.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/181-discharged-108-more-test-positive/articleshow/78687254.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur hospitals generate 1 tonne of Covid waste daily||JAIPUR: The city generates one tonne of biomedical waste daily, which is collected from hospitals and covid care centres, but patients under home isolation have to carefully dispose of biomedical waste such as masks as it is the responsibility of patients to prevent others from getting infected. The firm roped in by Jaipur Municipal Corporation for collecting biomedical waste is responsible for collecting such hazardous waste from hospitals and covid care centres but not from homes where Covid atients are undergoing treatment. According to health department’s guidelines for patients under home isolation, masks and other such items used by Covid patients should be disposed of only after 72 hours of using it and it should be wrapped in a paper bag with general waste of the house. Majority of the Covid patients, who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, are undergoing treatment under home isolation. In Jaipur, at least 70% of the Covid patients are under home isolation. In such a scenario, the patients should dispose the waste carefully in such a way that it should not pose any risk of infection to healthy persons. “We have mentioned in the guidelines issued on Wednesday on home isolation that such items after being used should be kept for 72 hours and only after that it should be disposed of with general waste packed in paper bag,” said a health department official. The health department has mentioned in the guidelines that a patient under home isolation should change mask every 6 to 8 hours. “We have signed a MoU with a private firm which collects bio medical waste from hospitals and Covid care centres daily,” said Dr Rashmi Kankaria, senior health officer, Greater Jaipur. The hospitals are following the guidelines issued by the Centre for disposing biomedical waste related to Covid. They collect the Covid related bio medical waste separately following all safety measures. Biomedical waste disposal With more private hospitals starting Covid treatment, generation of biomedical waste has increased Almost 17% to 20% of biomedical waste collected daily from hospitals are related to Covid Four separate vehicles of a private firm roped in by the health department collect Covid-related biomedical waste Hospitals pay Rs7.79 per bed per day for Covid-related biomedical waste disposal to the firm The firm has an insulator plant on Agra road, where they destroy the waste carefully Since the government has no tie up with the firm for collecting biomedical waste related to Covid from home isolation, patients have to dispose of the waste carefully||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-hospitals-generate-1-tonne-of-covid-waste-daily/articleshow/78689470.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kanpur||KEM hall likely to get facelift, light & sound show proposed||KANPUR: The more than 100 year old heritage building, the KEM Hall, may finally get a much needed facelift if the proposal for its renovation is accepted by the civic administration. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar visited the KEM hall on Wednesday and sought suggestions for its renovation. After the inspection, the smart city CEO suggested a facelift of the building and proposed a heritage light and sound show. The officials told the DC that the construction of the historic building had commenced in 1910 and completed in 1918. It was constructed in memory of late King Edwards and was hence named King Edward Memorial (KEM) hall. After independence, this building was renamed as Gandhi Bhawan and used for cultural and public functions. They also informed that a public library named as Parshad Pustakalaya is established in the name of Shyam Lal Gupta, the poet of ‘Jhanda Ooncha Rahe Hamara’ fame, and is being run and maintained by Kanpur Development Authority, while offices of civil defence and information department are also in the building. The divisional commissioner liked the suggestion and directed officials that a proposal & estimate for facelift of the building be prepared by the Smart City Authority. KDA and Kanpur Municipal Corporation would jointly handle the project and the report should be submitted to him within 15 days. Similarly, the expression of Interest (EOI) for the proposal of light and sound show would be invited by KDA which would develop it on the Build, Own, Operate & Transfer (BOOT) model. The divisional commissioner was disappointed after inspecting the public library and expressed his displeasure on its poor condition. He directed the KDA vice chairman to inspect the library and prepare and submit a plan for its best upkeep in 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kem-hall-likely-to-get-faceliftlight-sound-show-proposed/articleshow/78690265.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||PMC survey covers over 10L families, 1,300 cases found||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has said its survey teams, part of the My Family, My Responsibility initiative, have so far covered nearly 32 lakh residents from over 10 lakh households within its limits. Officials said nearly 1,300 new Covid-positive cases were detected among nearly 9,000 people with symptoms. The results are from the first phase of the survey, which concluded on October 10. The civic administration said a total of 1,000 teams have been formed to check the health status of citizens. Surveyors will check for symptoms such as fever, shortness of breath, cough, cold, etc. “People with these symptoms have been advised to visit their nearest Covid testing facility,” a senior official from the PMC said. The official added that the civic body has conducted surveys in different areas earlier as well. They have also checked the possibility of virus spread in containment zones and in non-containment areas. A survey to collate data on comorbid conditions among residents has also been carried out. “During the recent survey under the state’s initiative, we starting using oximeters, thermal scanners and other equipment. We are also checking for comorbid conditions. Records of diabetic and high blood pressure patients are being kept for follow-ups,” the official said. As per official data, since September, surveyors have been able to identify over one lakh citizens with comorbidities. They also include senior citizens with high sugar levels, heart problems and blood pressure. Officials said they also hope to uncover health troubles that may have gone unnoticed. “We don’t want citizens to ignoring symptoms,” a PMC official said. “If people have Covid-like symptoms, they will be guided by surveyors to the nearest swab collection point.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-survey-covers-over-10l-families-1300-cases-found/articleshow/78682364.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Rising Covid death rate a major concern in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: After a slump in positive cases and deaths in the past few days, Uttarakhand on Thursday saw a surge in fatalities - losing 18 more lives to Covid-19. And, 423 more cases were added to the overall tally of positive cases, which is now 56,493. Among those who died were patients from a minimum age of 28 years to 79. Of the 18 deaths, eight were women. According to the health officials, the majority of them had some kind of pre-existing ailment. Social workers involved in tracking the state's corona status feel that there is a need to keep a check on the vulnerable cases. “As our state seeks comfort in a lower number of cases, an improved recovery rate and decreasing active cases, there remains a major area of concern. With 814 deaths from 56,493 cases, the rate of fatalities has surged to 1.4%,” Anoop Nautiyal, a social worker, said. So far, most deaths have been recorded in Dehradun (446), followed by Nainital (131), Haridwar (108), US Nagar (78) and Pauri (22). On Thursday, 150 more positive cases surfaced in Dehradun, followed by Nainital (62), Almora (49), Haridwar (37) and Pauri Garhwal (28). A total of 833 people got cured, taking the count of recovered patients to 49,631. The percentage of recovery for Covid patients stood at 87.8% on Thursday. While out of all the samples tested, only 6.7% have tested positive. Meanwhile, the sample results of 15,986 cases are still awaited. It comprises cases related to samples rejected and results withheld. Dehradun District has the highest active cases at present (1,693), followed by Haridwar (910) and Nainital (647).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rising-covid-death-rate-a-major-concern-in-ukhand/articleshow/78687968.cms||Shivani Azad
October 16, 2020||Goa||St Andre, Dabolim get new block presidents||PANAJI: As part of the ongoing process to reorganize and rebuild the blocks, Congress on Thursday appointed new block presidents for the St Andre and Dabolim constituencies. The party said it would appoint the office bearers and members for these blocks within 15 days. “As a part of the reorganiation process, Goa Congress has appointed Anthony Lino Fernandes, the candidate for the zilla panchayat elections as the president of St Andre block Congress,” said state Congress vice-president M K Shaikh. Similarly, Mahesh Damodar Bhandari, the former Dabolim block youth Congress president has been appointed as president of the Dabolim block. In September, the party had dissolved the block committees of the St Andre, Pernem, Dabolim and Madkai constituencies. The party has yet to reconstitute the Panaji and Shiroda blocks. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/st-andre-dabolim-get-new-block-presidents/articleshow/78689484.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Drive against idling cars at traffic lights in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A drive against air pollution called “Red light on, gaadi off” was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday to encourage people to switch off the engine of their vehicles at red traffic signals to reduce emissions caused by idling. Track the pollution level in your cityIt is estimated that if just 10 lakh out of the one crore registered vehicles in Delhi turned off ignition at traffic signals, around 1.5 tonnes of PM10 emissions would be reduced each year, while PM2.5 would reduce by 400kg. The initiative was launched under the “Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh” campaign of Delhi government. “We need the cooperation of people. We have noticed that when vehicles stop at a red signal, drivers do not turn the engine off. Idling releases toxic emissions. Delhi has around one crore registered vehicles. Even if just 30-40% come out on the streets, you can imagine how polluted the air can become,” said Kejriwal. The chief minister added that experts had analysed and presented data on the impact this initiative could have on Delhi’s air. It could also lead to fuel savings. “When a car is idling, it emits a lot more pollutants than while moving. Idling for 10 seconds emits more pollutants than turning off the engine and restarting it. In this way, you can also save fuel,” he said. “On average, a car spends 15-20 minutes at red traffic signals each day. During this time, around 200ml of fuel is used. However, if you switch off the car’s engine, Rs 7,000 can be saved each month,” said Kejriwal. A 2018 study by The Energy Resources Institute (TERI) found that vehicles contributed about 18% to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration in summer, while it increased to 23% during winter. Delhi government has taken several steps to bring down pollution levels over the last few weeks, including the launch of an anti-dust campaign, using bio-decomposer solution on crop stubble, launch of an electric vehicle policy and a tree transplantation policy. “Stubble burning has already started in the neighbouring states and the number of farm fires is also increasing. I feel the toxic air becomes a bit diluted when it reaches Delhi, but the farmers who burn the stubble are the worst hit,” the CM said. “Vehicular emission in winter stays near the surface and contributes to air pollution, which is dangerous for us. Delhi residents together brought down the pollution level by 25% in the last five years. I hope every citizen will join this campaign,” Kejriwal added. Watch 'Red light on, gaadi off': Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges people to take pledge to reduce air pollution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drive-against-idling-cars-at-traffic-lights/articleshow/78689472.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Trains in Chennai packed as travellers line up for festive season||CHENNAI: Covid-19 has not affected festival travel as trains from Chennai to Howrah, Santragachi, Chhapra, Kamakhya and New Delhi are full for travel till the end of November. Trains to Chhapra are sold out till mid-November, Trichy-Chennai-Howrah is full till mid-January, Yeshwantpur-Chennai-Kamakhya and Chennai-Nizammudin express trains are booked till November-end. A railway official said that “there is a huge demand for these interstate long distance trains because of Puja and Diwali festivals. The trains are going packed. Sleeper and AC coaches have high demand.” Waitlist for AC III tier is up to 20 and for sleeper class it is up to 200 to Varanasi on Chappra Express. This is the status till Diwali next month. AC III tier in Nizamuddin Express is on waitlist for most of the days for this month and also for the first two weeks of next month. Tickets are available for one or two days in the middle of the week next month. A majority of the people will travel this weekend for the Puja festival which falls on October 22. There is a rush because there are fewer trains -- no daily services -- for those who wish to travel to Varanasi, Kolkata, Ranchi and Guwahati. Demand is also high on trains because flights are either not available or schedules are unreliable as permission is given to operate services a day prior to departure. There were five flights to Kolkata on Wednesday while there was only one service on Thursday. Kumar M, who is planning a trip home, booked a ticket on Chennai-Santragachi AC express train which was opened for booking a day ago. “I was struggling to get a ticket to go home in the first week of November. This train was added to IRCTC a day or two ago so tickets are available. It will soon be full because it is a popular train on the route,” he said. Southern Railway is also not able to run as many interstate trains as needed in spite of the demand because of the restraints imposed by state governments. Railway board has approved more trains and Chennai-Delhi Duronto and a Nizamuddin Express will be operated soon. Residents in the southern districts of the state have started to demand trains to Mumbai as people have to take multiple trains via Chennai and Bengaluru to reach Mumbai. Edward Jeni, secretary, Kanyakumari District Railway Users’ Association (KDRUA) that there should be trains from Kanyakumari or Nagercoil to Mumbai. “Several people hailing from Nagercoil and Tirunelveli districts are settled in Mumbai and they come home for Diwali holidays. Railways used to run many special trains during this season to cater to these travellers every year. This year they are forced to take multiple trains to reach home,” Edward said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/trains-packed-as-travellers-line-up-for-festive-season/articleshow/78687943.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Rajkot||Told to cut ties with lover, man attacks her uncles||Rajkot: A 55-year-old man in Jetpur was murdered and his two brothers injured after their niece’s lover and his accomplices attacked them on Wednesday night. The three brothers were attacked by Uday Shekhwa, his younger brother Dilu Shekhwa and two other unidentified persons as they had asked Uday to cut-off ties with their niece. Police said that the woman had come to live with her uncles – Dilubhai Vank, Bahadur Vank and Dalu Vank – at Bhadar Kanthe in Jetpur city. During her stay she fell in love with Uday, who was the uncle’s neighbour. Recently when the three uncles learnt about her affair, they sent her back to her village Dhank in Upleta taluka. On Wednesday, they went to meet Uday asking him to forget their niece and never talk with her. Police said that the talks went well. But later around 8.30 pm, Uday, Dilu and two other persons barged into the victim’s house with pipe and wooden sticks. The three brothers were beaten up badly before the four accused fled away. The injured victims were taken to Junagadh for treatment. As Dilubhai’s condition was critical he was being brought to Rajkot but he succumbed on the way. “Dalu is serious while Bahadur has got some stitches on his head. We have registered an offence of murder, attempt to murder and causing grievous hurt against four persons,” said inspector J B Karmur of Jetpur City police station. The four accused are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/told-to-cut-ties-with-lover-man-attacks-her-uncles/articleshow/78688436.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||More than 1.5 lakh recover from Covid-19 in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: With 1,754 patients getting discharge from across 11 districts in Vidarbha on Thursday, the number of patients who defeated the novel coronavirus surpassed the 1.50 lakh mark. This number is significant not only because it took the recovery rate to 87% but also because a large number of recovered patients can now opt for plasma donation. The highest 630 recoveries reported during the day came from Nagpur, followed by Wardha (204), Chandrapur (191), Buldhana (159), Gadchiroli (131), Bhandara (127), Amravati (113), Yavatmal (74), Gondia (60), Washim (41), and Akola (24). The number of recovered patients in region has reached 1,50,578 for a recovery rate which is almost equal to the national average of 87.3%. New cases reported continued to be less than recoveries. Of the 1,397 new cases, 588 came from Nagpur, Chandrapur (199), Gondia (120), Bhandara (91), Amravati (72), Gadchiroli (70), Wardha (68), Yavatmal (61), Washim (52), Akola (39), and Buldhana (37). The region also reported 42 deaths due to Covid-19 from across all districts, except Washim. These included Nagpur (23), Amravati (4), Bhandara (2), Wardha (2), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (2), Yavatmal (2), Buldhana (2), and Akola (1). The region’s toll has now reached 4,702 for case fatality rate of 2.7%, which is way higher than national average of 1.52% and even state’s 2.64%. Buldhana: With only 278 patients under treatment, Buldhana is now the only district in Vidarbha to have less than 300 active cases. The caseload reached 8,185 after 37 new cases. On the other hand, 159 patients recovered in a day, taking the total to 7,794 for a recovery rate of more than 95%. A 68-year-old man from Buldhana and a 65-year-old man from Chikhli died during treatment, taking the toll to 113. Washim: The district did not report Covid-19 death for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Against 52 new patients reported on Thursday, 41 recovered. The caseload reached 5,148 out of which 4,494 patients have recovered. Washim’s recovery rate is more than 87%. After 105 deaths reported till date, 549 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: On Thursday, the district reported Covid-19 death after five days. A 42-year-old Anganwadi worker, who was diabetic, and a 68-year-old farmer having hypertension and diabetes died during treatment. This took Gadchiroli’s toll to 34. Total 70 new patients were reported while 131 patients recovered in a day. Now, out of total 4,306 cases, 3340 have recovered. Recovery rate is above 77%. Now, 932 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: District reported Covid-19 death for 15th day in a row. Two patients died on Thursday, taking the toll to 179. Number of new patients (91) was less than those recovered (127) on Thursday. Bhandara now has 1,310 patients under treatment and recovery rate is 79.3%. Akola: A 63-year-old woman from Dabki road in Akola city, who was under treatment from September 17, died on Thursday. This is a rare case in which a patient died after almost a month-long treatment. Doctors said the patient had severe comorbidities. The district also reported 39 new cases on Thursday while 24 patients recovered. Akola has reported 7,937 cases, including 7,288 recoveries (92%) and 261 deaths so far. Only 388 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district saw third consecutive spike of 100+ cases for the first time this fortnight. Two deaths and 120 new cases were reported on Thursday, taking active cases above 700 once again. Besides, 60 patients recovered in a day. Now, Gondia has 8,273 cases, including 7,455 recoveries and 110 deaths. Yavatmal: The district has recorded two deaths on Thursday — a 65-year-old woman from Yavatmal city and an 84-year-old man from Ner. The caseload reached 9236 after 61 new positive were reported on Thursday. With 74 patients getting discharge, the recoveries reached 8,345. Now, there are 487 patients under treatment. Wardha: A 65-year-old man from Deoli and a 60-year-old man from Samudrapur died on Thursday, taking the district’s toll to 175. With 68 new cases reported on Thursday, the caseload reached 5,638. Cases were detected from Wardha (43), Hinganghat and Karanja (7 each), Ashti (5), Selu and Arvi (2 each) Deoli and Samudrapur (1 each). The count of recovered patients touched 4,069 after 204 were discharged on Thursday. Now, 1,394 patients are under treatment. 4 Covid deaths in Amt Amravati/Chandrapur: Four Covid deaths and a spike of 72 cases took Amravati district’s toll to 343 and the caseload to 15,190 on Thursday. A civil surgeon office report also said that 113 patients recovered on Thursday, taking the recoveries to 13,563 and recovery rate to 89.3%. Now, there are 1,284 patients under treatment, including 622 taking treatment in Covid hospital here, nine in Nagpur and 653 in home isolation. Chandrapur district witnessed a spike of 199 cases, taking the caseload to 12,945 on Thursday. Two deaths reported during the day took the toll to 195. The day also saw discharge to 191 patients, taking the recoveries to 9,683. Now, there are 3,067 patients under treatment. The two deceased belonged to Samadhi ward in Chandrapur and Rampur village in Rajura tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-than-1-5-lakh-recover-from-covid-19-in-vidarbha/articleshow/78689520.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 16, 2020||Meerut||UP: Man with intellectual disability slits father’s throat, stabs self||MEERUT: A 28-year-old man with intellectual disability slit his father’s throat and then stabbed himself on Thursday, after his father refused to give him his cell phone to play a video game. Both of them were rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, where they continue to be critical. This comes a day after a Class VII student, again in Meerut, attempted suicide by hanging self after a tiff with his younger sister over playing a video game. Kharkhauda police station SHO Arvind Mohan Sharma said, “28-year-old Aamir, who is mentally challenged — slit his father’s throat and then stabbed himself, after his father refused to let him play a game on his mobile phone. It’s not clear if the game he wanted to play was PUBG or something else, but the argument definitely started over letting him play a game on the phone.” Sharma added Aamir continued to play while his family had sat down for lunch, so his father snatched the phone. “Family and neighbours said of late, Aamir was refusing to take his medication.” “No case has been filed as it is a family matter. They don’t want an inquiry as Aamir is mentally challenged. While his father is recuperating in LLRM Medical College, Aamir is critical,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-with-intellectual-disability-slits-fathers-throat-stabs-self/articleshow/78685974.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Punjab farm fires up 3-fold from last year||NEW DELHI: Satellite images of the first two weeks of October have revealed a near threefold increase in stubble fires in Punjab this year compared with the same period last year. Experts said multiple factors, including timing of seeding, harvesting, variety of paddy and crop rotation, needed to be studied to determine the reasons behind the increase in the early fire count this year. After analysing the VIIRS satellite images, Pawan Gupta, senior scientist of earth sciences at Universities Space Research Association of NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, said, “From October 1 to 14 this year, 2,909 fires were observed in Punjab against 847 last year. However, Haryana made a marginal improvement as 804 fires were observed in the first two weeks of October while 947 fires were seen during the same period in 2019.” Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment, said, “We need to investigate the reasons for early burning this year and see how it is linked with the timings of sowing and harvesting this year; and what impact this would have on the intensity of burning during late October and early November.” L S Kurinji, research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “Though we see a rise in fires in early October this year over the past few years, the values are still at the lower end — less than 600 per day. Peak stubble burning generally happens in end-October and early-November during which we observe 3,000-5,000 fires every day. It is, therefore, important to consider the data for the entire season to draw year-to-year comparisons.” Early fires “could be attributed to multiple factors such as the sowing of early maturing paddy varieties or adoption of direct seeding technique”, he added. According to experts, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Patiala and Gurdaspur districts have reported maximum cases of stubble burning this October, while high farm fires have been observed in Haryana’s Karnal, Kurukshetra and Ambala districts. Most of the fires took place in the afternoon while such incidents were minimum at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/punjab-farm-fires-up-3-fold-from-last-yr/articleshow/78689477.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 16, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi Development Authority plans to use GPS to save land from squatters||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is soon going to carry out a digital and spatial survey of its vacant plots to create a GIS database to save its land from encroachment. Around two years ago, DDA had tied-up with the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) Regional Remote Sensing Centre (RRSC) for providing satellite images. These present images will be compared with those from 2007 to calculate the extent of encroachment. DDA now also plans to utilise ISRO remote sensing technology to keep a regular watch and detect encroachment over its plots and land parcels electronically, by using ‘change detection software’ developed by the organisation. However, to use electronic means of watch and ward, the ISRO software requires digital geo-coordinates of the plots. Only when geo-coordinates of its plots are available can the change detection technique be applied to detect encroachments and that is why DDA plans to carry out the digital and spatial survey. Encroachment on its land is a major problem faced by DDA and many measures taken in the past have not been able to check the problem. The land parcels are scattered all over the capital and it requires extensive manpower and financial expenditure to save the plots from squatting. The number of vacant DDA plots is around 4,000 and the plot sizes vary from 26 square metres to 50,000 square metres or even more. To safeguard its land, DDA carries out ‘station surveys’ and constructs boundary walls around the plots wherever possible but even these safety measures get eroded by encroachments and boundary walls are also damaged by encroachers at many locations. A DDA official said that apart from the survey, the authority is already carrying out a process of uploading photographs of vacant plots in its database, which it hopes will also help in preventing encroachments on its land. During the GPS survey, for which an outside agency is going to be engaged, zonal DDA officials in charge of protecting and maintaining the sites will assist the agencies in identification of the plots. DDA also plans to use the existing Ground Control Points (GCP) library of Survey of India for the work. There are also plans to deploy drones to carry out an aerial survey of the vacant land plots, as part of a multi-pronged strategy to counter rampant encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-dda-plans-to-use-gps-to-save-land-from-squatters/articleshow/78689547.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Supercomputing facility to be set up in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: After procuring 26 Param Shavak high-performance computers (HPC) – identified as supercomputers in general parlance – the state is all set to establish a central supercomputing facility in Gujarat. The announcement came during the conclusion of four-day training programme for Param Shavak by Pune-based C-DAC. Dr Narottam Sahoo, member-secretary of Gujarat Council on Science & Technology (GUJCOST) said that the high-performance computing would have major impact on ongoing research in several fields ranging from molecular biology to quantum physics in Gujarat. “In the next stage of development, GUJCOST has planned to establish a central supercomputing facility with more computational power and speed as part of the National Supercomputing Mission,” he said. The training workshop from October 12 to 15 was attended by 126 faculty members and researchers from all 26 institutes/ universities where the Param Shavak have been granted for various research projects. GUJCOST had provided the supercomputers to 16 institutes earlier and provided 10 more recently. The event was designed to demonstrate programming, tools and techniques, case studies, neural network and machine-running algorithm. Sanjay Wandhekar, director of HPC group at C-DAC, in his speech said that Gujarat is the largest user of Param Shavak today. He said that emerging fields such as artificial intelligence, robotics, deep learning, etc. are at the forefront of research & development and the computing power would help the students. A K Nath, executive director, C-DAC, said that the training will help faculties explore complex data mining and analysis power. Param Shavak provided to the state-based institutes has 2-5 teraFLOPS peak computing power. “Several of the projects undertaken by the institutes having HPCs would not have been possible without the computational power. In absence of a single supercomputer, the institutes need to invest in data centres which increases cost of the project,” said Dr Sahoo, adding that the primary feedback from the institutes are encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supercomputing-facility-to-be-set-up/articleshow/78690502.cms||Parth Shastri
October 16, 2020||Goa||Cacra fisherman hauls 30kg ‘chonak’ in Zuari||PANAJI: A traditional fisherman from Cacra netted a huge 30-kg chonak in Zuari river on Thursday - the biggest seen for some time in the area. Savio Vijay Sawant said that he was surprised by its size. “We had got chonak of smaller size in the past but nothing like this,” he said. Casting his traditional net, mag in the bay, he ekes out a living on the catch, which comprises a variety of fish. The roughly one metre long catch drew lot of attention in the village. “The Zuari bay is a rich fish biodiversity area, but we are disappointed that mechanised boats - they have been caught redhanded a few times - are illegally fishing here even during spawning period,” Sanjay Pereira, a local fisherman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cacra-fisherman-hauls-30kg-chonak-in-zuari/articleshow/78689527.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Extra loans to meet GST crunch will add to debt woes says Congress||PANAJi: Goa’s decision to borrow an additional Rs 446 crore in the current financial year to meet the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections will add to the state’s financial woes and create a debt crisis, said the Congress here on Thursday. The Congress said that chief minister Pramod Sawant’s “meek submission” before the Centre exposes his incapability and leaves the state vulnerable to a financial crisis. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that since the NDA government is bound to compensate states for any GST shortfall, the Centre has to borrow and not the states. “Why should the people of Goa pay for the misdeeds of the Modi government?” said Chodankar. “Most of the states who accepted the Centre’s forced proposal are either BJP governments or allies of BJP.” Chodankar said that big states like Maharashtra and Karnataka find it easier to borrow money and repay loans, unlike small states like Goa which will be burdened by debt repayment. The Centre offered Goa the chance to borrow an additional Rs 446 crore and the state cabinet accepted it, but Chodankar said that the move would not benefit the state. The Congress has challenged Sawant to a public debate on the state’s financial condition and also dared the state government to release a white paper on the state’s finances. “Why should people suffer for the financial mismanagement and financial illiteracy of Sawant,” Chodankar said. “Such meek submission will result into shattered state of the economy in Goa. The chief minister has brought his weaknesses and lack of capabilities to the fore by always taking wrong steps.” Chodankar said that the Congress strongly opposes the idea of the state borrowing additional funds to meet the GST shortfall and demands that BJP-led state government should ask the Centre to release all dues immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extra-loans-to-meet-gst-crunch-will-add-to-debt-woes-congress/articleshow/78689510.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Subscription-based services in high demand||Pune: Many residents of the city are opting for subscription-based services for getting all their essential requirements at their doorstep. There are many services on offer ranging from regular reading lists to daily breakfast needs and others. Subscription services offered by local start-ups have registered a considerable spike in new membership following the easing of lockdown rules. “The safer thing to do during pandemic times is to subscribe to a service that delivers essentials at your society gate, if not at your doorstep. You can order everything, from dosa batter to dairy products,” said a marketing manager of a start-up providing subscription-based delivery of breakfast food. People conscious of eating healthy are subscribing to a variety of snacks’ subscriptions. “My husband and I made an effort to eat healthier last year, but since the lockdown our son has come home from college and we often find ourselves craving for a snack and reaching out for chips or some farsan. While I was doing some research on healthier snacks, I found local brands that offer subscription for daily or weekly snacks, such as baked vegetable crisps, granola bars. These are healthy and oil-free. We receive a box containing two-three packs of snacks per week for a month and are really enjoying the services,” said Sheila Goswami, a resident of Koregaon Park. For those looking for something to read as they stay at home, a monthly subscription to the latest books is the answer. “I enrolled for a six-month subscription and received two new books, some merchandise and bookmarks every month. There are subscriptions available for more books every month, but I think a goal of completing 24 books this year would suffice for me. I get two best-selling books selected by the company and am exposed to different genres,” said Kondhwa resident Amruta Gaonkar. Women are also subscribing to period boxes, which include gifts. “Period boxes have grown in popularity recently. We have seen a 50% surge in subscriptions over the last few months. The contents of the subscription boxes comprise a box of sanitary napkins, chocolate, pain relief roll-ons, patches and snacks,” said a customer relations manager of a subscription-based service for period boxes. Shopping for pets has also turned easier due to such services. Pet parent Aliyah Mudasir said, “I opted for a trial subscription for a service that delivers a box with all your pet’s needs. I filled in details of my golden retriever’s age and allergies. I got a box with some edible treats that he loved, a packet of organic dog food and some toys. I have extended the subscription by six months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/subscription-based-services-in-high-demand/articleshow/78682384.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Rain puts off 335 final-year SPPU exams on Thursday||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) postponed its final-year examinations scheduled for Thursday due to incessant rain. Mahesh Kakade, director of examination and evaluation at SPPU, said the exams of 335 subjects were postponed and a decision on the examinations on Friday will be taken either late on Thursday night or on Friday morning.A notification on the university’s official website said, “A flood-like situation caused by heavy rain was experienced on October 14. The civic administration has issued an alert for a cyclone and heavy rainfall on October 15. Therefore, keeping in mind the safety of students and to avoid any inconvenience, the university authorities have decided to postpone the online as well as offline examinations of Savitribai Phule Pune University scheduled on October 15. The revised schedule of the postponed examinations will be declared soon.”Kakade said a revised time-table would be declared soon. “We are taking all measures to conduct the examinations as scheduled on Friday. We appeal to the students to go ahead with their preparations. However. if the rainfall increases late at night or depending upon the India Meteorological Department’s late-night warning, we will take appropriate decisions on the examination on Friday either by Thursday evening or Friday morning.”He said students can use any digital platform to take the exam as long as the examinee attempts the question paper and submits it. “We appeal to students to once again read the guidelines issued so that there are no glitches,” he added.A decision on the result declaration would be taken in the next week. “A tentative date for results by the end of next week may be possible,” Kakade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-puts-off-335-final-year-sppu-exams-on-thursday/articleshow/78682373.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 16, 2020||Business||ISB-Intel study says AI/ML essential to future of work||Hyderabad: India Inc is increasingly seeing higher value in leveraging emerging technologies such as Artificial intelligence/Machine Learning (AI/ML) and projects using these technologies are expected to attract higher investments over the next five years, according to the AI and Future of Work Survey conducted by ISB and Intel. The findings of the report are based on two surveys - the Suitability of Machine Learning (SML) Survey conducted among 3,099 employees across 106 Indian occupations, and the AI and Future of Work Survey of 301 firms that have adopted AI/ML in their workflows. As per the findings of the survey, over 70% of respondents across various categories expect their organizational headcount to increase in response to AI and 80% of their workforce to undergo re-training due to AI implementation over the next two years. When it comes to decision making, nearly 70% of high-revenue firms rely on AI for decision-making, whereas nearly 50% of the medium sized firms rely entirely on human decision-making as they do not use AI. Nivruti Rai, country head, Intel India said, “There is a need to better understand AI’s integration and impact at work to accelerate innovation and scale its benefits, especially in emerging economies like India. This study will help drive future research to meaningfully inform policymakers and industry about the impact of AI & ML.” Deepa Mani, professor of information systems and executive director of SRITNE, ISB, said, “Technological advances in recent years have ushered machines into the workplace...and the pandemic has only accelerated this growth... Hence, it is important for policymakers and organizations to develop an acute understanding of this future of work as they frame policies for work and workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/isb-intel-study-says-ai/ml-essential-to-future-of-work/articleshow/78689540.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Meerut||Family & neighbours observe two-minute silence, perform last rights of girl who marries cousin||Meerut: In a bizarre incident, the family of a 20-year-old girl — who married her maternal cousin — not only excommunicated her but also conducted all religious rites, which are performed after the death of a person, to express their anguish. Notably, neighbours, too, joined them. The girl tied a nuptial knot with her cousin in a court in Baraut tehsil of Baghpat district on September 30. What followed was bizzare. On Wednesday, the girl’s family members and neighbours assembled at her home and observed a two-minute silence — a practice which followed in remembrance of a departed soul — and garlanded her photograph. Not only this, they even performed her ‘shradh’ — a ritual performed by Hindus to pacify the departed soul. “She is dead for us,” said her mother. Dhanya Chand Swamy, a neighbour, said, “In most of the cases when a girl takes such a step, her family tries to conceal the matter to save the reputation of the family from being tarnished. But here we highlighted the matter.” Same gotra marriages are considered a taboo in some communities of western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Hundreds of such couples are hounded and even killed in the name of 'honour' every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-neighbours-observe-two-minute-silence-perform-last-rights-of-girl-who-marries-cousin/articleshow/78685984.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Civic body floats bid to install historic battle tank||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally floated a bid to install a historic battle tank that was with the Army for 40 years. Although the Army has agreed to donate the tank of the T-55 make to NMC, some corporators in Lekha Nagar area, where it is to be installed, had opposed the civic body’s move, claiming that it could create traffic problems. But the recent general body meeting of NMC recently approved the installation. The battle tank will be installed on a plot place belonging to NMC. The last date for filing the bid is October 23 and the bids are to be opened on October 26, said NMC officials. “We will immediately give a work order if the tender process is finalized and the work is expected to be completed within two months after issuance of the work order to the contractor concerned,” said NMC officials. The project was delayed by over six months though the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) and the traffic police had given their nod for the proposal. Shiv Sena corporator from ward no 24 in Cidco division, Pravin Tidme, had raised the issue during the general body meeting in January this year. He also warned of sit-in agitation in the house if the civic administration did not look into the issue. City mayor Satish Kulkarni had directed the civic administration to speed up the process of installing the battle tank. “This battle tank is a token of the bravery of soldiers and students will be acquainted with our history,” said Tidme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-floats-bid-to-install-historic-battle-tank/articleshow/78690505.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 16, 2020||Dehradun||Anti-encroachment drive continues in Dehradun amid resistance from residents||DEHRADUN: A joint team of the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) and the district administration carried out an anti-encroachment drive in Dalanwala area on Thursday. Many residents of the area claimed that the drive - on its third day - was carried out suddenly without giving them any time to remove the "construction work", which was allowed for residents of Prem Nagar. Some residents claimed that they had met the chief minister to discuss the issue related to their properties and the matter was sub-judice in court. During the drive, a portion of the wall of a prominent school was demolished. Raju Verma, a resident of Curzon Road in Dalanwala, said “We were not even served a notice and the entire encroachment drive was carried out abruptly. Our family presented the court's stay orders against the demolition of the boundary wall, but the officers continued with it. The wall has been there since 1947. Even the main gates of the house were razed, leaving no space for vehicles to move out.” Another resident Chander Nandwani, a retired army officer, said, “The drive cannot be justified in any way because none of these walls have been constructed in recent years. I have the original sale deed of the property, with maps and the measurement. I had earlier met the Municipal Commissioner and apprised him about the issue, but now, all of a sudden the drive was carried out and people suffered huge losses." Mahesh Bhandari, president of Doon resident’s welfare front, said, “We are not against the orders of the high court but it is important to see who has actually encroached into the public space rather than demolishing every wall that falls on the way. The drive has left residents in a state of shock." However, the officials who carried out the drive said that they were only following the high court orders and "everything is being done as per the law".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anti-encroachment-drive-continues-indoon-amid-resistance-from-residents/articleshow/78687986.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||No garbas to be allowed across Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Ahead of the Navratri festival, city police has issued guidelines to contain Covid-19 in a circular sent to police stations across the city. The circular says no garbas (dance programmes) will be allowed across the city, at public venues or sheris (neighbourhoods). Moreover, only after permission from the local administration can idols be installed and pooja held. The notification also says installation of garbis (symbolic earthen pots) and idols will be allowed at open public places but permission from the local authorities will be mandatory. Permission will be given by local police according to the home department guidelines issued on October 9. The local police inspector will have visit the place for which the permission is demanded and make sure that floor markings of six feet distance are done. If there are seating arrangements at venue, the chairs must be six feet apart as well. The police circular says permission will only be given for an hour, which will have to be specifically mentioned in the permission letter. The circular further says that permission can be given only for installation of garbis and idols and not for garbas. The circular states that photos will be allowed during the pooja or aarti and no one will allowed to touch feet (charan sparsh). As far as prasad is concerned, permission will only be given for distributing prasad which packed beforehand and distributed with gloves on and proper social distancing. Loose prasad will not be allowed. Masks will be mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-garbas-to-be-allowed-across-city/articleshow/78690598.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Fire services control room gets flood of distress calls after heavy rainfall||PANAJI: Heavy showers lashed the state on Thursday, leaving the fire services control room inundated with calls for rescues. Two people from Margao, who got trapped in their ground floor residence due to waterlogging, were rescued by the fire personnel. In addition, animals were rescued in three separate incidents. Two oxen, one that had fallen into a canal at St Cruz and another that got trapped in a concrete manhole at Caranzalem, were rescued. A cow was also saved from a gutter in Dona Paula. Between 7am and 7pm, the fire services received four calls for tree falls. No casualties were reported, fire personnel said. On Thursday, up to 8.30am, rain gauge stations all over Goa reported light to moderate rainfall within 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Valpoi with 5.4cm and Sakhali with 1.8cm. The well-marked low pressure area which was in the form of a depression earlier has weakened and moved to the northern parts of Karnataka. The system is expected to move west to north westward and enter the Arabian Sea and then intensify and move west to North westward. IMD has forecast a reduction in rainfall from October 16. The well-marked low pressure area will move further away from the Goa coast by October 17. Fishermen have been issued an alert, warning them not to venture into the sea from October 16 to October 18. The wind speed during this time will be 40-50km per hour reaching even up to 60km per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fire-services-control-room-gets-flood-of-distress-calls-after-heavy-rainfall/articleshow/78689548.cms||Rajtilak Naik
October 16, 2020||Goa||Panaji multiplex facelift to be ready by Oct-end: ESG||PANAJI: The renovation of the city multiplex will be completed by the end of the month, Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) vice-chairman Subhash Phaldesai said on Thursday. “During the pandemic, we had taken the initiative to raise the level of the Panaji multiplex to international standards. The facilities are of such high quality that Goans will experience the best environment for movie-viewing. Probably the screening of films may start by mid-November while observing all the protocols,” he said. ESG has not spent a single rupee in the renovation of the multiplex. It has been completed by Inox Leisure Ltd. “All these years we would get revenue of Rs 20 lakh, but after its renovation, we will receive Rs 54 lakh per month, in addition to an increment of 5% increment every year. By the time, the 15-year contract is completed, ESG will end up getting more than Rs 1 crore in revenue,” Phaldesai said. He said that ESG’s audit has been conducted after eight years. “The registration had lapsed, and the renewal was pending. We made a commitment to complete this task. Auditors were changed, and the mechanism was reconstructed. I have worked as an administrator to put these lapses in order. We got the accounting of the previous eight years done along with the income tax returns being filed. We are now receiving the returns for the excess paid,” the ESG vice-chairman said. “Taxes to the extent of Rs 15 lakh per year which were paid due to lack of accounting are now going to be saved. We expect to claim Rs 1.5 crore,” he said. ESG is in the process of putting other policies in place. “Over time, we will have a bigger scope in the industry. We will have absolute control over the activities related to entertainment and generate revenue to the government. Those mechanisms are being decided and we’ll put it up before the government for approval. Then the government will be able to earn more revenue from some of the big events being held in the state,” Phaldesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/city-multiplex-facelift-to-be-ready-by-oct-end-esg/articleshow/78689570.cms||Nida Sayed
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Graft case: HC relief for official||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently acquitted an official from the Jalgaon health department from charges of accepting bribe in 2012. The Jalgaon sessions court had convicted Devidas Bhaskar for accepting money from a complainant to clear medical bills. Bhaskar was sentenced to two-year simple imprisonment under two sections of the ACB Act in 2015. At the time, Bhaskar, a resident of Jalgaon, was serving as assistant superintendent at the civil hospital. The complainant was Deepak Wadnere, brother of one Mangala Hari Sonar, who was employed as security guard with district prison at Jalgaon. She had undergone a heart surgery and had been treated for other ailments for over a year and had resumed her duty on February 22, 2012. An amount of Rs 5,04,051 was spent on her treatment. She was entitled to medical reimbursement and, therefore, presented her medical bills on May 15, 2012, to the district superintendent of jail, Jalgaon. Those bills were sent to the civil hospital in Jalgaon for verification and sanction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/graft-case-hc-relief-for-official/articleshow/78666467.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: GSPCB’s chief, secy’s posts to be filled||PANAJI: The department of environment and climate change has advertised for the posts of chairperson and member secretary for Goa State Pollution Control Board. The chairperson will be nominated by the selection committee on a contract/deputation basis, while the member secretary will be nominated by the selection committee for a period of three years on the same criteria. Knowledge of Konkani and residence in Goa for at least 15 years are a must for the applicants. The chairperson must hold a master’s degree in environmental sciences and environmental management and has practical experience in matters relating to environment protection and abatement of pollution at least for a period of 15 years. Alternatively, the chairperson must hold a bachelor’s degree in engineering/technology in environmental engineering or an equivalent degree thereto and should have practical experience in respect of matters relating to environmental protection and abatement of pollution for at least 15 years. Alternatively, the chairperson must hold a bachelor’s degree either in geology, botany, chemistry or an allied subject wherein basic knowledge of ecology and environment is part of curriculum from a recognised university or institution. The age limit for the chairperson must be 62 on the last date for the receipt of applications, while the age limit for the member secretary must not exceed 60 years on the last date of receipt of applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gspcbs-chief-secys-posts-to-be-filled/articleshow/78689587.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Boards of control: DTC to flash pollution info||NEW DELHI: Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) will soon install large digital display boards outside 38 of its bus depots. The electronic boards will display information related to the effluent discharge, air emissions and waste generated in these areas. According to a template set for such display boards by Delhi Pollution Control Committee, these should display sources of air pollution, which can include boilers, DG sets, furnaces etc. The parameters of air pollution will be monitored and displayed, including presence of particulate matter, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, etc and if these are within the prescribed limits. Track the pollution level in your cityThe digital display boards will also mention sources of effluent discharge, including waste water, domestic effluent, etc the treatment method being used such as an effluent treatment plant at site along with its capacity or any other method. The boards will also mention the modes of effluent disposal, such as drain, sewer, land etc. Besides, these will also display information about effluent discharge monitoring including levels of pH (measure of the concentration of hydrogen ions) chemical and bio-chemical oxygen demand (CODand BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), etc. The 6x4 feet LED display boards, which will be waterproof and visible both in daytime and at night, will be installed at the main gates of all the 38 premises. The transport corporation wants the boards to consume low power with a working voltage of 230V and also have low heat. The information to be displayed on the digital boards will be connected to the server through USB, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or other connecting systems. The boards will have automatic brightness control of individual signs via an integrated ambient light sensor ensuring optimum light output in all ambient conditions. The boards will come up at DTC depots in Vasant Vihar, Sarojini Nagar, Sriniwaspuri, Ambedkar Nagar, Dwarka, East Vinod Nagar, Ghazipur, Banda Bhadur Marg, Dichaon Kalan, G.T. Karnal Road, Hari Nagar, Hasanpur, Kalkaji, Kanjhawala, Kesopur, Mayapuri, Naraina, Nangloi, Nand Nagri, Noida, Narela, Peeragarhi, Rajghat, Rohini, Subhash Place, Shadipur, Tehkhand and Wazirpur, apart from its two central workshops and printing press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boards-of-control-dtc-to-flash-pollution-info/articleshow/78689626.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||5 cars seized every hour for breach of Covid protocol||Ahmedabad: Even after four and a half months of lockdown, city police continue to stay on their toes regarding Covid safety, as apparent from the figures of vehicle seizures.In the first half of this month, city police seized 1,671 vehicles and collected cumulative fine of Rs 1.91 crore from people who ventured out without proper reasons and also violated notification of the city police commissioner which restricts three persons riding on a two-wheeler and more than four persons in a car.On an average, the city police seized five vehicles every hour and collected cumulative fine of around Rs 53,090 per hour from October 1 to October 15. Police officers said that the city has on an average reported at least 100 cases of vehicle seizures every day even after the lockdown, which was similar to vehicle seizures during the two months of lockdown. The officers said that apart from travelling with more passengers than the norms allowed, people who do not carry their documents were also fined. DCP, city traffic (admin), Tejas Patel said that people still go out without proper reasons, which may increase chances of infection. “There are people who do not pay fines when they are caught by police. In such cases, their vehicles were seized,” Patel said. He said that people are under the impression that normalcy has returned but they must understand that they remain as vulnerable to the infection as during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-cars-seized-every-hour-for-breach-of-covid-protocol/articleshow/78689594.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Theatres reopen, but see barely any audiences in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Barely a handful of multiplexes and cinema halls in Ahmedabad resumed operations on Thursday, adhering to the standard operating procedure (SOP) laid out by the state and central governments. However, there was not a soul in sight at the theatres that reopened. “We are prepared to work in the new normal and we have ensured all safety measures are taken in line with the government’s SOP. We expected barely any footfalls on the first day. However, we hope people will come in over the weekend,” said a multiplex owner based in Ahmedabad. Most multiplexes are expected to open over the weekend or by next week industry sources said. Cinema hall and multiplex owners who have already suffered grave losses are staring at bleak footfalls as cinema halls resume operations. Industry players say that widespread apprehensions amid the pandemic may cause footfalls and revenues to suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/theatres-reopen-but-see-barely-any-audiences/articleshow/78690529.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: No shortage of RT-PCR kits in public labs say Officials||NAGPUR: Even as the district’s RT-PCR testing capacity has touched 5,000 per day, officials said there may not be a shortage as public labs have a buffer stock and local procurement option to is open. Fears of a shortage were expressed after the order to stop use of faulty RT-PCR kits. ICMR’s Bhopal depot’s too had refused to continue supply of kits. A top health official from divisional commissioner’s office said as the district’s capacity went up, kits are now being locally procured by the civil surgeon by floating tenders. “These belong to a different company, and not the Kolkata based company which is in the news for faulty kits,” he said. Asked about the stoppage of supply from Bhopal, the official said since low cost kits are available everywhere now, ICMR is allowing industry to supply kits. “The decentralization will create a level playing field and make the essential gear available everywhere,” the official said. Yet, IGGMCH officials said they had requested ICMR through Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) director to let the Bhopal depot continue its supply. “We are left with 5,000 RT-PCR kits, which may last a week. Suddenly 10,000 kits to be supplied by DMER have been taken away from our system. The civil surgeon kits too are good, and we may use them if needed. The expiry period is one year if maintained at minus 20 degree Celsius,” lab officials said. The IGGMCH has not written or made a formal request, the officials said. “We made the request during our video conference with NIV director,” they said. IGGMCH is testing the highest number of samples among the five public labs in the city. GMCH, AIIMS Nagpur, and MAFSU labs didn’t respond to TOI’s queries regarding their stock. Neeri officials said they need only detection kits and 1,377 were in stock. “We get stock once a week from Bhopal depot. Our method is of dry swab. The DMER too has given a second option but those kits may not be used now,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-shortage-of-rt-pcr-kits-in-public-labs-officials/articleshow/78689611.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Children with ignited minds glitter at APJ Abdul Kalam awards||Ahmedabad: An organic water purifier bag, a device that saves time for laying mid-day meal in proper manner and wrapping it up as a takeaway, a face mask that aims to solve the common issue of pain behind the ears and a chair for old and physically challenged. These are some of the innovative ideas that have won the award for Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Ignited Mind Children Creativity and Innovation Awards, 2020. “This award aims to develop a culture of the “Samvedna” among the children to find solutions to local problems, addressing unmet social needs,” said Anil Gupta, founder of Honey Bee Network (HBN), an Ahmedabad-based organization which held the annual competition. HBN accepted entries from students up to Class 12 and also from school dropouts. Nine national awards and six appreciation awards are being given to seven girls and eight boys, according to a media statement. These ideas will be converted into prototypes at a later stage. Around 9,000 ideas from 22 states & Union territories were received this year. These were reviewed by eminent scholars, practitioners at primary stage followed by expert review. The expert committee included faculty members from IIM-A and IIT-Delhi, among others. The winning entries included the famous mobile-operated sanitization machine by Aniket Kakade from Yavatmal of Maharashtra and Pune-based Jui Abhijit Keskar’s apparatus for measuring the tremor of a patient affected by Parkinson’s disease. Chhattisgarh-based Priyanka Tarki’a idea of making a machine which uses carbon-dioxide to make fuel was given an appreciation award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/children-with-ignited-minds-glitter-at-apj-abdul-kalam-awards/articleshow/78689630.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: False negatives in city raise concern about test kits||NAGPUR: Following the recent controversy regarding RT-PCR kits procured from GCC Biotech giving false negative results, medical officials and private labs have revealed that several such cases have occurred in the city too. Authorities have maintained that faulty kits were not used in any public lab in the city, yet the analysis raises a concern. Private labs told TOI many patients had got negative result through RT-PCR tests at public lab but were found positive in their lab soon after. A private lab director said the positivity rate was less in public labs for RT-PCR testing which indicate faulty kits may have been used.A random analysis of RT-PCR data since October 10 found the positivity rate of private lab was higher than government labs in the city. As per civil surgeon data, 9,825 RT-PCR tests were performed at government labs. Of these, 1,185 were found positive which is 12.06% of the total. Against this, private labs have 15.51% rate. Of the 8,644 samples, 1,341 were found positive here in the same duration. Clinicare Specialty Labs director Dr Rajkumar Rathi said several doctors had referred patients to his facility for an immediate retest after they got an RT-PCR negative elsewhere. “We don’t’ ask where they got the first test done but yes their doctors would advise them a repeat test at our lab soon after they tested negative using RT-PCR. We have a closed system where entire components of testing kits come from a single company. We have Trunat machine capable of giving results in two hours,” he said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said the sensitivity of RT-PCR was only 60 to 70% reliable. “Machine error, maintenance of temperature for collected sample and viral-load are all responsible for a false negative in RT-PCR testing,” he said. A top official from divisional commissioner office too said it is a well-known that 30% test results from RT-PCR are likely to be false. Dr Gawande said the same method was used to repeat the testing which gave a positive test later. IGGMCH associate professor of microbiology Dr Ravindra Khadse said the virus gets degraded if not handled properly. “This is a big factor. Secondly, virus shedding always keeps varying. Same patient’s swabs taken three different times in a day may give different results,” he said. Dr Sandhya Saoji, director of Su-Vishwas Diagnostics lab, said “There is no 100% guarantee that a particular result is true or false. It is multi-factorial and depends on stage of infection as well.” Sources said only those labs that used DMER kits without validation may have got improper results. One public lab incharge said, “We didn’t use DMER kits right away on patients. Many times good kits too are found faulty so we return them.” Dr Krishna Khairnar, scientist and head of environmental virology cell, Covid-19 molecular diagnostics centre, NEERI, suggested that internal validation with a few known samples is a must. “This is what NEERI lab does as a best practice. There is no surety if any new kit will work well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/false-negatives-in-city-raise-concern-about-test-kits/articleshow/78689648.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 16, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Vodafone Idea network outage sparks online fury||PANAJI: A widespread outage of Vi (Vodafone Idea) cellular and data network services for most of Thursday affected lakhs of subscribers in the service provider’s Maharashtra and Goa circle. Voice and data services were restored late in the evening. The company blamed the outage on flooding caused by heavy rain — water had seeped into a key network management site in Pune, which serves as a backup and infrastructure support centre for the entire circle. The network outage lasted for over 15 hours and affected business processes in Goa and left lakhs of customers fuming. The lack of connectivity and the poor customer response prompted several users to vent out online and even threaten to shift to another telecom provider. “Due to the network issue all the students are facing a number of problems and most students could not attend their online classes or complete their assignment submissions,” said Naushad Chowdhari, a student union representative. Vi said it “regretted the inconvenience” caused to customers. “Heavy rain in Pune has resulted in flooding of some areas, including one of our key sites. This has caused a partial disruption in services for some customers. Our technical team has worked non-stop, deployed interim solutions and restored voice and data services,” the company said in a statement. This did little to calm irate customers with many subscribers threatening to port their number to other networks. “A big network shutdown by Vodafone and no user has network. Is it the time now to switch to other network,” said Vicky Nagde, a digital marketing executive. Vi described the issue as “temporary” and informed its customers that the network could be restored within a few hours. “This is a temporary issue, our team is working on it to ensure seamless network connectivity. Please allow us some time to get this sorted,” Vi customer care tweeted. Visiting Faculty at the Goa Institute of Management and Goa University Manoj Kamat also took to Twitter to express his ire. “Vi should better close down its operations rather than making its subscribers suffer. All signals down in entire Goa and Maharashtra since yesterday,” he said. Some like Joshua D’Souza used humour to respond to the outage. “iPhone 12 launched with 5G but India needs a phone that can work without network. Can you do that now?” said D’Souza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vodafone-idea-network-outage-sparks-online-fury/articleshow/78690531.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Five medical colleges to start clinical trial of Covid vaccine||AHMEDABAD: The state health and family welfare department has given permission to five medical colleges/hospitals in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar to start a clinical trial of Covaxin. This indigenous vaccine is developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV). “The approval has been given to Bharat Biotech after their application dated September 23 for Phase III efficiency and safety clinical trials. It will be carried out under stringent rules, regulations and SOPs,” said a senior health department official, adding that all stakeholders will be provided the findings of the trials periodically. The five colleges/hospitals that will take part in the trial include BJ Medical College, GMERS Medical College at Sola, MK Shah Medical College and SGVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, and GMERS Medical College in Gandhinagar. Sources privy to the development said the clinical trials are fast-tracked, and some other states have also been chosen to make a Covid-19 vaccine available in India, which is one of the worst-hit countries in this pandemic. “We will be extending all possible support, while the SOP and selection of persons for the trial is awaited,” said a senior city-based health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-medical-colleges-to-start-clinical-trial-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/78690640.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Agra family won’t make Ravanas in Ahmedabad after 50 years||AHMEDABAD: Residents of Ramol know Navratri is round the corner when they see the ground near Ramol police station occupied by a group of men, busy preparing effigies of Ravana, Kumbhkarna and Meghnad.  This year, the tradition has been broken as Sharafat Ali Farouqi, now 41, will not be coming to the city for the Dussehra festivities. “We approached various organizers, but they said they have not got permission to hold Ravana Dahan (burning of Ravana). There will be no point coming to the city this year,” Farouqi told TOI from Agra. “It will be the first time in more than 50 years that none of our family will be coming to Gujarat. My father started the tradition and I followed in his footsteps.”  Farouqi and his team of 35-odd artisans from Uttar Pradesh are known for making almost all the Ravana effigies used in Ahmedabad and nearby districts. The effigies, about 35-40 feet tall, cost Rs 1 lakh or more apiece and the team would earn enough ‘to last them a year’ in this season. “Now I am doing work decoration work for weddings in UP. Making Ravana effigies is an art and a science and the the knowledge of bending bamboo sticks, placing the firecrackers so the chain reaction burns quickly has been passed down from generation to generation ,” said Farouqi, adding that a shared cultural heritage is deeper than religion. Harshad Patel, a social worker from Amraiwadi, said the eastern parts of the city would have at least three major Ravan Dahan events to mark Dussehra every year. “This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all celebrations are cancelled, and the burning of effigies is no exception,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/agra-family-wont-make-ravanas-in-city-after-50-years/articleshow/78690611.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Mom after 11 years didn’t let Covid-19 rob her of twin joy||VADODARA: She waited for 11 years after her first child to become a mother again and when she and her husband’s dream was about to turn into a reality, coronavirus infection pushed her on the edge. But doctors at SSG Hospital conducted a successful surgery on Shilpa Talati and she was blessed with twin baby boys. Doctors said that there were many challenges as she had tested positive for Covid-19 at a crucial stage. “She had twins and secondly she was conceiving after 11 years. Her age was more for normal and safe delivery, but doctors and nursing staff at the corona unit of Rukmani Chainani unit took up the challenge and the surgery was successful,” said Dr Belim OB, nodal officer of the unit. Talati underwent the surgery on September 18 and after a month, the two babies and the mother are healthy. Talati was to undergo surgery at a private hospital, but her Covid-19 test just before the operation turned out to be positive. She had to be then admitted at SSG Hospital as a corona-gynaec unit was set up there at the beginning of the pandemic. After birth, the infants were kept in a separate room and were brought to the mother only for feeding. The mother and kids were discharged after taking precautions for eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/twin-joy-for-woman-infected-with-covid/articleshow/78687277.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||BSP throws hat in poll ring||Jaipur: Riding high on the success of past elections in the state, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Thursday announced to contest municipal elections scheduled to be held in six major corporations. State BSP president Bhagwan Singh Baba said candidates will contest the municipal elections on the party symbol in Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. “The party is accepting the applications. In municipal elections, which were held in 2019, the party candidates secured seats in 24 wards. We would be fielding our candidates in maximum wards,” he said. As per the figures, the BSP attained the polling percentage of 1.83 in elections in 49 local bodies in 2019. After the Congress, the BJP and independents, the party made its presence on the grassroots level. The party office-bearers said the BSP is deciding to go into the urban body elections on party symbol as the leadership felt that there is a need to work with renewed vigour and zeal through a new strategy to deal with fresh challenges. With Mayawati’s party stepping in for a fight, the two-way battle between Congress and BJP may shift gear into a triangular contest, similar to what happened in the assembly elections last year. Many believe, the party has fair chances of winning many wards in Jaipur and Kota. “The migration from neighbouring state Uttar Pradesh has increased the population of party voters, Dalits, in urban pockets. Many voters, who have connections with UP, are staying in Jawahar Nagar, Galta Gate. The party candidate will instantly connect with them and there are fair chances of winning,” says a ticket aspirant Vinod Marwal. As the size of the wards has been reduced and average population of each is between 10,000 and 12,000, possibility of winning of less prominent party candidates who are associated with people of their wards has increased. “People need change from the Congress and the BJP at the grassroots level. This election can be won without money if candidate has potential,” said Govind Bhai another ticket aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsp-throws-hat-in-poll-ring/articleshow/78689664.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Rajkot||Farmhand kills two children, hangs self in Gujarat||RAJKOT: In a shocking incident that took place in Navagam village of Shihore taluka of Bhavnagar on Thursday evening, a 32-year-old farm labourer strangled his two minor children before hanging himself to death. According to police, bodies of Lalji Chauhan, his four-year-old daughter Pratigna and two-an-half-year-old son Manav were found hanging from the ceiling of their tin-roofed house in Navagam, said Vartej police sub-inspector M H Jadeja, who had reached the spot. “The bodies were found hanging from the ceiling of the one room house with the help of saris,” said Jadeja. “Preliminary probe revealed that Lalji was depressed after his wife left him and the kids around a week ago. We are verifying these details,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmhand-kills-two-children-hangs-self/articleshow/78688455.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops pledge to use masks, follow Covid rules||Ahmedabad: As crores of rupees in fines have been collected from people for not wearing masks outdoors, cops on Thursday took a pledge to wear masks and follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government. The pledge was taken under the leadership of commissioner of police Sanjay Srivastav at his office in Shahibaug. Senior police officers and other personnel joined him in taking the pledge. Senior police officials said the pledge was not only about wearing masks but also about social distancing at the workplace, the use of soap and hand sanitizer and improving ones immunity. DCP control room Vijay Patel took the pledge along with his subordinates at the control room, as did other police agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-pledge-to-use-masks-follow-covid-rules/articleshow/78690633.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||Rs 64cr ‘wasted’ on runway extension at airport: CAG||Surat: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) in its audit report of Surat Airport has stated that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) unnecessarily spent Rs 64 crore for the extension of runway at the Dumas side by 655 metres when 615 metre of runway at Vesu side was displaced to maintain the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards for flight safety in the approach area due to the building height obstacles. According to the CAG report, a proposal to extend the runway-04 at Dumas and strengthening and recarpeting of the existing runway was sanctioned in April 2015 at the estimated cost of Rs 72 crore.  The phase-1 was completed in April 2017 and the phase-II was completed in June 2018 with the total cost of Rs 64 crore. In the meantime, Aeronautical Obstacle Survey (AOS) was conducted at Surat airport in August 2016 where 18 private buildings near to airport at Vesu side having height in excess of maximum height were granted NOC between 2008-09 and 2013-14. Again the two AOS were conducted in February 2017 and June 2018 where 50 obstacles were identified. However, due to these obstacles, 615 metre of runway at Vesu was displaced for landing, reducing the available runway length from 2,905 metres to 2,290 metres. There was an additional revenue loss of Rs 36 crore due to the abnormal delay in strengthening work of the runway and removal of obstructions between January 2012 to June 2018 as the airport could operate only two flights in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-64cr-wasted-on-runway-extension-at-airport-cag/articleshow/78688025.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Assembly panel lists financial irregularities in GSPC||GANDHINAGAR: The apex committee of the Gujarat assembly, which monitors functioning of the state’s public sector enterprises (PSEs), has reported major financial irregularities in Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC), in its written report submitted to the assembly recently. The committee headed by BJP MLA Nima Acharya, after a detailed scrutiny of the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) of India report, has noted, “The GSPC initially estimated US $160 million (Rs 763 crore) cost of laying pipeline in the sea to extract gas. However the cost escalated to US $420 million (Rs 1,888 crore) which was mainly because of payment of standby charges to the contractors as the GSPC issued order without taking necessary environment clearances.’’ The committee noted that GSPC did not take timely technical decisions or required environmental clearances before commissioning the work, so the project could not be completed on time. The committee though, said that there were delays on the part of the forest & environment ministry, but strongly noted that the GSPC must take care to ensure that necessary provisions are made in the contract itself to prevent any such issues in future. The CAG, in the past ten years in its various reports, has pointed out series of misappropriation of funds in the state-run GSPC, from which the assembly’s PSE committee had scrutinised observations of the CAG and confirmed irregularities in the PSE. Earlier too, CAG has confirmed similar irregularities in GSPC. According to one estimate, the Gujarat government has made wasteful expenditure in GSPC to the tune of over Rs 25,000 crore in the past decade and a half. In most cases, punitive action has not been taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assembly-panel-lists-financial-irregularities-in-gspc/articleshow/78689653.cms||Kapil Dave
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||NWR sees 49% growth in freight movement||Jaipur: The North Western Railway (NWR) has transported 1.99 million tonnes of goods in September, which is almost 49.62 per cent higher compared to goods transported in the same month last year. Special efforts have been put in place even from April onwards when lockdown started to ensure timely and uninterrupted supply of the essential goods in every part of the country. “There has already been special focus of the railways to increase freight movement,”said a senior officer of the commercial wing of the NWR on Sunday. Senior authorities said with the directions of NWR general manager Anand Prakash, emphasis was laid on increased loading. “In September, 1.99 million tonnes of goods were loaded which is 49.62% higher than the 1.33 million tonnes loaded in September 2019. We have managed to transport 8.53 million tonnes of goods in the financial year 2020-21 till September, which is 3.54% higher than the 8.24 million tommes loaded till September 2019,” said Sunil Beniwal, chief public relations officer, NWR. ”Loading and haulage on railway is being encouraged more and more and special efforts are being made to ensure industries and other consumers get benefits. We have also set up a business development unit at the zonal and divisional levels, which are contacting businessmen and industrialists for coordination in timely booking and transporation of goods,” he added. NWR has also emphasised to make the industries aware that railways is the most economical and reliable means of transporting the goods compared to other means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-sees-49-growth-in-freight-movement/articleshow/78689643.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||NWR to run festival spl trains from Oct 20||Jaipur: Ahead of the festive season, the North Western Railway (NWR) has decided to operate 13 pairs of festival special trains which would be fully reserved. These trains will start operating from October 20 onwards and will run upto November, till their further extension is announced. These trains will give people of Rajasthan connectivity to cities like Pune, Lucknow, Agra, Kanpur, Varanasi, Kolkata, Mumbai and New Jalpaigudi. NWR sources stated that the train Ajmer-Dadar-Ajmer would be tri-weekly and would start operating from October 21. Also, to connect people of Shekhawati, there will be Sriganganagar-Bandra terminal-Sriganganagar which would be a daily train. "These trains will cover the festivals, including Dussehra and Diwali, and would be fully reserved," said an officer with NWR. Already, the running trains are packed for the upcoming Durga Puja, Navratra and Diwali festivals. These trains will benefit the passengers in getting berths while travelling to various destinations. "From Jaipur, we have got trains to Pune and Indore, which were much awaited after the train movement was restored. Also, there would be three different trains from Jodhpur to Varanasi and four trains for Mumbai. Thankfully, we have received good number of trains to accommodate festival rush," said a senior officer of NWR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-to-run-festival-spl-trains-from-oct-20/articleshow/78689650.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mumbai||BMC may earn ‘thousands of crores’ through redevelopment of 674 tenancy plots||MUMBAI: The cash-strapped BMC will allow private parties to redevelop 674 of its plots across the city given on tenancy decades ago. With its finances hit badly due to the pandemic, the civic administration wants to monetise its real estate. Developers will have to pay 62.5 % of the land cost (ready reckoner rate) for residential building construction and 125 % for commercial buildings and can use the plot’s entire development potential for their profit. The civic body will also allow conversion of these ‘tenancy plots’ to ‘lease-hold plots’ for 60 years, thereby giving the lease holder virtual ownership of the plots. The BMC general body cleared the policy last March and recently, the administration introduced guidelines. Sources said the BMC could earn “thousands of crores” as one-time premium through these plots. The BMC has also warned tenancy holders to come forward and avail this benefit, or it will cancel their tenancy rights and auction the plots. These plots were vacant when given on a tenancy basis since 1937; the corporation charged a very nominal rent from the occupant, and no development was allowed without the civic authority’s permission. The guidelines state that the corporation will charge a one-time premium to the tenancy holder to hand over the plot to them for their use on a 30-year lease, which will be further extended for another 30-year period. The guidelines say lease holders will have all the development rights of the plot, can use the available FSI of the plot and construct residential-commercial buildings on it for sale. Deputy municipal commissioner Ramesh Pawar said, “We are allowing utilization of construction potential of these plots after charging a one-time premium.” Although illegal construction was made on many of these plots over the years, the BMC could not take them back as tenants are protected under the Rent Act. The tenants of these plots could also not develop them without BMC permission. “The new policy is a win-win situation for both. Most of these plots are in Island city,” said civic officials. Architect and former president of Practicing Engineers, Architects and Town Planner Association, Shirish Sukhatme said, “BMC is virtually selling these plots by charging a huge one-time premium after giving all development rights to the lease holder. It will be a win-win situation for both. There are many such plots which saw illegal construction over the years due to negligence of BMC officials, and the civic authority is not earning anything from these structures.” He added, “It will generate good revenue for the BMC. But to make it more popular, instead of charging a one- time premium of the ready reckoner rate of the entire plot, the BMC should charge it according to the available balance FSI on the plot, as the developer needs to accommodate the existing tenants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-may-earn-thousands-of-crores-through-redevpt-of-674-tenancy-plots/articleshow/78690621.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dave handled NA land for group: ED||Ahmedabad: Niketa Dave, director of Pentium Infotech Ltd and Hirak Biotech Ltd, the firms associated with Ahmedabad People’s Cooperative Bank Ltd money laundering case, was sent to custody of the enforcement directorate (ED) on Tuesday. ED officials said that Dave was arrested under the sections of PMLA in fraud of Rs 25 crore with the cooperative bank. The case was registered by state police’s CID (crime) in May 2009. “Dave is named as director, proprietor or partner in seven out of 20 firms run by the group. A board resolution on February 25 authorized Dave to deal, sell, transfer or dispose non-agricultural (NA) land held by the firm,” said an official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dave-handled-na-land-for-group-ed/articleshow/78689672.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur traders won’t sell Chinese products this Diwali||Jaipur: This year’s Diwali will be celebrated without any Chinese products. Traders in Jaipur have unanimously approved to not sell Chinese products this year in solidarity with the soldiers. State president of the Confrontation of all India Traders (CAIT) Subhash Goyal said they are promoting India-made products to support local traders. “We have sent notices to every shopkeeper requesting them not to sell any Chinese lights or decorative items. Chinese items are cheaper than Indian items which are usually preferred by customers. However, they impact Indian businesses and small entrepreneurs,” said Goyal. “Indian made lights are really expensive. A Chinese light cost around Rs 100 and Indian will cost Rs 350. But this is for a better cause and we are in support of the decision,” said Vikas Meena, a shopkeeper. Sandeep Joshi, a cutlery and tableware products seller in Raja Park, said even before this decision, he had stopped stocking Chinese products. Sumit Kumar, a toy shop owner in Raja Park, said many customers specifically ask for Indian made products. “Chinese toys are cheaper and they still have better hold on the market. Customers however have become so much aware about it and prefer to spend more to buy anything but Chinese. Many-a-times, customers will leave the shop if they don’t find suitable products,” said Sumit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-traders-wont-sell-chinese-products-this-diwali/articleshow/78689671.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four accused of using forged documents to get US visa||Ahmedabad: An assistant section officer of the US consulate general in Mumbai, Abraham Ramirez, lodged a complaint against four persons — Yogesh Patel, his wife Ranjan Patel, Parimal Patel and Sanjay Prajapati of Khejpur village of Mehsana district — for submitted a fake birth certificate and salary slip of Pratik Babu Patel to the Gujarat visa facilitation centre at Income Tax as original on March 18, 2018 to obtain a B1/B/2 tourist visa for the US. The complaint states that the inquiry revealed the criminal involvement of four accused.It states that Yogesh Patel and his wife Ranjan Patel appeared with their two children at US consulate general in Mumbai for an for interview B1- B2 visitor visas on February 12, 2018. According to the FIR, Yogesh claimed Pratik Patel was his younger brother and was in the US on an H1-B work visa and their purpose for going to the US was to visit him.The FIR states that Yogesh had submitted a birth certificate of his purported brother Pratik showing his date of birth as October 3, 1986 which was said to be issued from Gamanpura taluka of Mehsana district. Crime branch sources said that as the names of Pratik’s father were different on the birth certificate and government records, they wrote to the Mehsana SP for an inquiry. Crime branch sources said the inquiry by the Mehsana SP’s office revealed discrepancies and they informed the US consulate general, which had now lodged a complaint with crime branch against the four persons.Crime branch officials said they have registered an offence and will soon act against the accused for using forged documents to obtain a US visa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-accused-of-using-forged-documents-to-get-us-visa/articleshow/78689680.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beats estranged wife, abducts her sister in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 23, resident of Vastrapur, filed a complaint with city police on Thursday that her husband and his three aides had beaten her and her lover as they were staying together and also abducted her younger sister. In her FIR with Vastrapur police, Sangita Katara, who earns her livelihood by casual labour and hails from Dungarpur in Rajasthan, states that she had married Ramchandra Ahari five years ago. She states that Ahari used to beat her every day and fed up with him, she told her former boyfriend Kantilal Kalaswa about her husband four months ago. Kalaswa, who divorced his wife three years ago, told her that he still loved her and was ready to stay in live-in relationship. Around two months ago, Katara and Kalaswa began staying at Gandhinagar and moved to Vastrapur a few days ago. At this time, her younger sister too began staying with them and they all worked as domestic help in different houses in Vastrapur. Now, Ahari came to know about Katara living with her lover, and on Wednesday evening he barged into her house with three other men. They first beat Kalaswa and Katara severely and later the four persons abducted Katara’s younger sister and took her to some unknown place in an autorickshaw. Katara later approached police and filed a complaint against her husband and his aides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-estranged-wife-abducts-her-sister/articleshow/78689689.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||With no employment records, mines workers are left to fend for themselves in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Lack of coordination between Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) and state Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) has raised the risk to health and safety of lakhs of mines workers. Even though Rajasthan became the first state to notify silicosis as an epidemic in 2015, when it comes to the prevention of the disease and official compensation for victims, the priority seems to be misplaced. DGMS, under the Union ministry of labour and employment, in a letter to the DMG in May said since mine owners were not sharing data with itself, it cannot audit or inspect safety protocols at the mines and put in place preventive measures. It said out of about 5,000 approved leases in the Udaipur region, workers of only 1,146 mines are enlisted with the DGMS. DGMS has one office at Udaipur which covers eight districts, while the state has 33,000 quarry licences and mining leases allotted by DMG that engage about 25 lakh workers. “Mining is a state subject whereas mine workers fall under the jurisdiction of Union Ministry of Labour and Employment (MOLE). The health and safety of mine workers comes under the purview of Directorate of Mines Safety,” said Rana Sengupta, founding trustee of Mine Labour Protection Campaign (MLPC). In fact, MLPC in a letter last December had raised concerns that employment data of most of the mine workers in the state are not maintained by the mine owners, depriving them the benefits of various government initiatives undertaken by DGMS. Drawing attention to the issues, DGMF in May this year communicated the state DMG to ensure that mine owners submit notice for starting operations to the former so that health and safety standards can be monitored for taking preventive measures. “Submission of notice of opening to DGMS should be made a precondition to allow mining operations and permits for transportation of minerals. It may be considered appropriate to stop the permit in case of violation of the condition,” said Rana quoting DGMS’s letter to state DMG. For the old leases whose size is less than one hectare, it is not possible to comply with all the rules. “To ensure safe mining using safe and scientific method, size of the lease should not be approved for less than 10 hectares,” the DGMS letter said while suggesting cluster model for smaller ones. Though DGMS conducts inspections of mines and reports violations of safety standards and protocols to DMG, it is not appraised of the action taken against violators by the latter. “To this end, both departments need to come up with a suitable solution,” said the letter. If a worker suffers from silicosis, he gets an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh from state government. But because there is no employment data, the worker fails to claim rightful dues under Workmen Compensation Act. “In fact, out of the 18,016 people affected with silicosis, none of them have got their claims under the Workmen Compensation Act. The minimum compensation one gets under the Act is about Rs 13 lakh against the Rs 4 lakh given by state government as ex-gratia,” Sengupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-no-employment-records-mines-workers-are-left-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/78689682.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 16, 2020||Jodhpur||With no employment records, mines workers are left to fend for themselves in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Lack of coordination between Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) and state Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) has raised the risk to health and safety of lakhs of mines workers. Even though Rajasthan became the first state to notify silicosis as an epidemic in 2015, when it comes to the prevention of the disease and official compensation for victims, the priority seems to be misplaced. DGMS, under the Union ministry of labour and employment, in a letter to the DMG in May said since mine owners were not sharing data with itself, it cannot audit or inspect safety protocols at the mines and put in place preventive measures. It said out of about 5,000 approved leases in the Udaipur region, workers of only 1,146 mines are enlisted with the DGMS. DGMS has one office at Udaipur which covers eight districts, while the state has 33,000 quarry licences and mining leases allotted by DMG that engage about 25 lakh workers. “Mining is a state subject whereas mine workers fall under the jurisdiction of Union Ministry of Labour and Employment (MOLE). The health and safety of mine workers comes under the purview of Directorate of Mines Safety,” said Rana Sengupta, founding trustee of Mine Labour Protection Campaign (MLPC). In fact, MLPC in a letter last December had raised concerns that employment data of most of the mine workers in the state are not maintained by the mine owners, depriving them the benefits of various government initiatives undertaken by DGMS. Drawing attention to the issues, DGMF in May this year communicated the state DMG to ensure that mine owners submit notice for starting operations to the former so that health and safety standards can be monitored for taking preventive measures. “Submission of notice of opening to DGMS should be made a precondition to allow mining operations and permits for transportation of minerals. It may be considered appropriate to stop the permit in case of violation of the condition,” said Rana quoting DGMS’s letter to state DMG. For the old leases whose size is less than one hectare, it is not possible to comply with all the rules. “To ensure safe mining using safe and scientific method, size of the lease should not be approved for less than 10 hectares,” the DGMS letter said while suggesting cluster model for smaller ones. Though DGMS conducts inspections of mines and reports violations of safety standards and protocols to DMG, it is not appraised of the action taken against violators by the latter. “To this end, both departments need to come up with a suitable solution,” said the letter. If a worker suffers from silicosis, he gets an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh from state government. But because there is no employment data, the worker fails to claim rightful dues under Workmen Compensation Act. “In fact, out of the 18,016 people affected with silicosis, none of them have got their claims under the Workmen Compensation Act. The minimum compensation one gets under the Act is about Rs 13 lakh against the Rs 4 lakh given by state government as ex-gratia,” Sengupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/with-no-employment-records-mines-workers-are-left-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/78693537.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Poor sewerage system, street lights grip Hawa Mahal wards||JAIPUR: With municipal polls coming closer, the residents of wards under Hawa Mahal assembly seat seek answers from prospective candidates about the civic problems they are facing since long. Besides, they want a specific time frame under which problems will be resolved this time. “The main street of Hawa Mahal does not have street lights. We were told that heritage lights will be installed which never happened. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) installed new poles six months back, but lights are still not functioning. So, many road accidents have occurred on this lane,” said Govind Saini, a shopkeeper in the market. Sewerage is another major issue in the Hawa Mahal wards. Sewer lines were laid 50 years back, but there is a need to replace them with the new one. Due to rising population, these lines are insufficient and break down every other day. “Every year, local politicians promise us to change this line, but it hasn’t been done till now. Drainage system is not upgraded and this monsoon, water entered inside people’s shops/houses and damaged goods worth lakhs of rupees. We want some change this year,” said Vimla Devi, a resident of Ward number 9. This area is centre point of tourism activities. However, there is lack of urinals and other civic facilities. Residents complain that every five years, local politicians ask for votes and ignore them later on. A shopkeeper Chandan Aggarwal said that smart city work is incomplete and officials are not moving forward. Officials constructed walls above our shops but the work is not completed. They didn’t even plaster the wall and many times bricks fell down, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poor-sewerage-system-street-lights-grip-hawa-mahal-wards/articleshow/78689677.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
October 16, 2020||Ajmer||With no employment records, mines workers are left to fend for themselves in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Lack of coordination between Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) and state Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) has raised the risk to health and safety of lakhs of mines workers. Even though Rajasthan became the first state to notify silicosis as an epidemic in 2015, when it comes to the prevention of the disease and official compensation for victims, the priority seems to be misplaced. DGMS, under the Union ministry of labour and employment, in a letter to the DMG in May said since mine owners were not sharing data with itself, it cannot audit or inspect safety protocols at the mines and put in place preventive measures. It said out of about 5,000 approved leases in the Udaipur region, workers of only 1,146 mines are enlisted with the DGMS. DGMS has one office at Udaipur which covers eight districts, while the state has 33,000 quarry licences and mining leases allotted by DMG that engage about 25 lakh workers. “Mining is a state subject whereas mine workers fall under the jurisdiction of Union Ministry of Labour and Employment (MOLE). The health and safety of mine workers comes under the purview of Directorate of Mines Safety,” said Rana Sengupta, founding trustee of Mine Labour Protection Campaign (MLPC). In fact, MLPC in a letter last December had raised concerns that employment data of most of the mine workers in the state are not maintained by the mine owners, depriving them the benefits of various government initiatives undertaken by DGMS. Drawing attention to the issues, DGMF in May this year communicated the state DMG to ensure that mine owners submit notice for starting operations to the former so that health and safety standards can be monitored for taking preventive measures. “Submission of notice of opening to DGMS should be made a precondition to allow mining operations and permits for transportation of minerals. It may be considered appropriate to stop the permit in case of violation of the condition,” said Rana quoting DGMS’s letter to state DMG. For the old leases whose size is less than one hectare, it is not possible to comply with all the rules. “To ensure safe mining using safe and scientific method, size of the lease should not be approved for less than 10 hectares,” the DGMS letter said while suggesting cluster model for smaller ones. Though DGMS conducts inspections of mines and reports violations of safety standards and protocols to DMG, it is not appraised of the action taken against violators by the latter. “To this end, both departments need to come up with a suitable solution,” said the letter. If a worker suffers from silicosis, he gets an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh from state government. But because there is no employment data, the worker fails to claim rightful dues under Workmen Compensation Act. “In fact, out of the 18,016 people affected with silicosis, none of them have got their claims under the Workmen Compensation Act. The minimum compensation one gets under the Act is about Rs 13 lakh against the Rs 4 lakh given by state government as ex-gratia,” Sengupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/with-no-employment-records-mines-workers-are-left-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/78693539.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 16, 2020||Goa||For best recovery, test at onset of flu-like symptoms: Doctors||Panaji: Loss of sense of smell and taste as well as loose motions can help distinguish Covid-19 from common flu, but as the symptoms are very similar, pulmonologists advise testing without delay to rule out the former, especially for the elderly and those with comorbidities. Doctors are also seeing Covid-19 patients present with cough, high grade fever with chills, sore throat, malaise, body ache, headache, muscle spasms, loss of sense of taste and smell and breathlessness among other symptoms. As per the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare, any patient with influenza like illness — cough, cold, fever, breathing problems must be treated as a Covid-19 suspect and be tested, chest physician Dr Anil Mehndiratta said. “The biggest difference between Covid and other viral illnesses is the deranged sense of taste or smell. But any patient coming in with flu-like illnesses must be tested on day one on priority, irrespective of their history. If the antigen test is negative, this has to be followed by an RTPCR test,” he said. When asked whether this would create a panic situation, he said it will only lead to more people getting tested, isolated and their contacts traced thus reducing the transmission of the disease and burden on the society. The high-risk population should especially get tested on priority no sooner they experience initial flu-like symptoms so that early treatment can be started and hospitalisation and fatalities avoided, consulting pulmonologist Dr Haradatt Karande said. “We have seen 75- and 80-year-olds as well as diabetic, those with kidney failure and liver problems who reported early, recover from Covid only with oral medication. Patients who present early respond well to oral medication and can be managed well at home. Early testing makes a difference to their survival. If patients live in denial or ignore symptoms, then even healthy individuals end up requiring hospitalisation, making it difficult to predict the outcome,” he said. Karande said he has seen Covid patients presenting with initial symptoms of high grade fever with chills, extreme weakness, body ache and leg pains. “It’s better to get tested when one has these initial symptoms rather than when one experiences breathlessness because at this point it’s already week two, when it’s almost certain that its Covid and, Covid pneumonia has already set in,” he said. Although several Covid patients have presented with diarrhoea, which is not common in patients with common cold, head of pulmonary medicine at GMC, Dr Durga Lawande said it is difficult to distinguish between the two merely based on symptoms. “Any fever that lasts for more than 48 hours should be taken really seriously in the background of the Covid pandemic,” she said. “The difference between the two is that Covid is a very infectious and dreaded virus, which is why it has to be ruled out first by testing when the symptoms first present. Although minor symptoms should not be ignored,” she says. The department has seen patients presenting with sore throat, malaise, weakness, body ache, headache, cough and fever, among others. “Each patient need not experience all these symptoms. Some present with only a headache, others with muscle spasms. Some experience fever initially, which subsides and returns on the seventh day. If one’s immunity is low due to associated illnesses and then fever returns after five days this is an indication Covid has progressed to the lungs,” she says, adding that those who are coming in early are recovering and going back home. Besides getting themselves tested on priority, diabetic patients require closer supervision after they’re tested positive, she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-best-recovery-test-at-onset-of-flu-like-symptoms-doctors/articleshow/78690614.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Remdesivir to be available at ‘fixed rate’ in a pharmacy near you||NAGPUR: Covid-19 patients admitted in private hospitals in state will also get the life saving injection Remdesivir at fixed rates now. The Public health department issued a circular in this regard and a list of pharmacy shops from where people can get Remdesivir at Rs2,360 per vial including Rs120 commission of the pharmacy store. Market price of this injection is Rs5,500. As per the government circular, private hospitals where Covid-19 patient is admitted and require Remdesivir injection have to provide a short clinical history of the patient along with the prescription. Distribution of injection will be ensured and controlled through food and drugs administration (FDA). The local health authorities (civil surgeon or the medical superintendent of the government hospital) will confirm whether the patient really needs this life saving drugs within 1 hour of time and approve the demand. After this, patient will get up to six vials of the injection at subsidized rates from the designated medical stores. As per the government rules, private hospitals where Covid-19 patients are treated at capped rates are not bound to provide the high grade drugs like Remdesivir. Patients were being asked to buy this injection from private medical shops where black-marketing of this injection was alleged. Now, a simple demand proposal to the civil surgeon from private hospital will give up to six vials of Remdesivir at nearly half of the market rate to the patient’s relatives. Initial results of various clinical trials in country, including the one under way in Nagpur, have shown that Remdesivir proves to be a life saver for Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remdesivir-to-be-available-at-fixed-rate-in-a-pharmacy-near-you/articleshow/78689685.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 16, 2020||Udaipur||With no employment records, mines workers are left to fend for themselves in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Lack of coordination between Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS) and state Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) has raised the risk to health and safety of lakhs of mines workers. Even though Rajasthan became the first state to notify silicosis as an epidemic in 2015, when it comes to the prevention of the disease and official compensation for victims, the priority seems to be misplaced. DGMS, under the Union ministry of labour and employment, in a letter to the DMG in May said since mine owners were not sharing data with itself, it cannot audit or inspect safety protocols at the mines and put in place preventive measures. It said out of about 5,000 approved leases in the Udaipur region, workers of only 1,146 mines are enlisted with the DGMS. DGMS has one office at Udaipur which covers eight districts, while the state has 33,000 quarry licences and mining leases allotted by DMG that engage about 25 lakh workers. “Mining is a state subject whereas mine workers fall under the jurisdiction of Union Ministry of Labour and Employment (MOLE). The health and safety of mine workers comes under the purview of Directorate of Mines Safety,” said Rana Sengupta, founding trustee of Mine Labour Protection Campaign (MLPC). In fact, MLPC in a letter last December had raised concerns that employment data of most of the mine workers in the state are not maintained by the mine owners, depriving them the benefits of various government initiatives undertaken by DGMS. Drawing attention to the issues, DGMF in May this year communicated the state DMG to ensure that mine owners submit notice for starting operations to the former so that health and safety standards can be monitored for taking preventive measures. “Submission of notice of opening to DGMS should be made a precondition to allow mining operations and permits for transportation of minerals. It may be considered appropriate to stop the permit in case of violation of the condition,” said Rana quoting DGMS’s letter to state DMG. For the old leases whose size is less than one hectare, it is not possible to comply with all the rules. “To ensure safe mining using safe and scientific method, size of the lease should not be approved for less than 10 hectares,” the DGMS letter said while suggesting cluster model for smaller ones. Though DGMS conducts inspections of mines and reports violations of safety standards and protocols to DMG, it is not appraised of the action taken against violators by the latter. “To this end, both departments need to come up with a suitable solution,” said the letter. If a worker suffers from silicosis, he gets an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh from state government. But because there is no employment data, the worker fails to claim rightful dues under Workmen Compensation Act. “In fact, out of the 18,016 people affected with silicosis, none of them have got their claims under the Workmen Compensation Act. The minimum compensation one gets under the Act is about Rs 13 lakh against the Rs 4 lakh given by state government as ex-gratia,” Sengupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/with-no-employment-records-mines-workers-are-left-to-fend-for-themselves/articleshow/78693538.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Onion auction stops at Lasalgaon amid I-T searches on big traders||NASHIK: The ongoing searches by the income-tax department on the premises of big onion traders in Nashik district has paralysed the Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest onion mandi, as the traders’ association expressed inability to participate in the auction process. Sources in the association said that most of the traders whose premises are being searched buy bulk of the produce and that auctioning is not possible without them. Hence, no auctioning on Thursday, they added. The I-T searches are being conducted at Lasalgaon, Pimpalgaon and Nashik city. Moreover, the APMC will also remain closed for three days, beginning Friday due to holidays. Eighteen teams of 110 I-T officials from Nashik, Pune and Aurangabad started searches on the residences and offices of 12 onion traders in Nashik district at 3pm Wednesday The searches were being conducted on Thursday. The searches are being conducted as the onion prices have hit the roof and hoarding and black marketing is suspected. Officials at the APMC said that the big traders whose contribute to 50% of total auction daily . “We decided to shut the onion auction on Thursday after receiving a letter from the traders’ association. We are planning auction on Saturday, although the market remains closed on weekends.” The average wholesale onion price recorded the season’s high of Rs 4,300 per quintal recently, pushing up the retail prices to around Rs 50 per kg in Nashik city. Meanwhile, auctions were held in the other 10 APMCs in the district on Thursday. The average wholesale price was recorded at Rs 3,900 per quintal to Rs 4,80. The highest price of Rs 4,800 per quintal was recorded at the Deola APMC while Rs 3,900 was recorded at the Satana APMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-auction-stops-at-lasalgaon-amid-i-t-searches-on-big-traders/articleshow/78690618.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||CM e-launches services of revenue department||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday, during the e-launch of services of the revenue department, said that computerisation of various services related to the lives of common people was 'revolutionary initiative' and people in rural areas will not have to make frequent visits to the revenue department’s offices for activities like land conversation, Girdawari report, registration as the services have become online now. On the occasion of the first Revenue Divas celebrations in the state, the chief minister launched services like e-Girdawari, accounts of the department, Krishi Rin-Rahan portal and e-registration. The first Revenue Divas was celebrated on the same day when Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of the country, implemented the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955. "It’s a significant day in the department’s calendar. Every year, on this day, the department will analyse its achievements and the challenges and also chalk out a work plan for the future. Due to computerisation of services of the department, in the era of Internet and information technology, workload on patwari and other officials will reduce and the works will be completed in time," said Gehlot. He directed the officials of the department to make those services online at the earliest which have been computerised on pilot basis. Gehlot said the work of simplifying many laws related to revenue department has also been started. "This will help farmers and landowners of rural areas to get their land rights ensured, their distribution and management done easily," he said. Among others revenue minister Harish Chaudhury, minister Bhawar Singh Bhati, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, revenue board chairman R Venkateswaran were present at the ocassion. "Changes in the functioning and decisions of the revenue Department in the last one-and-a-half years have created a better environment for the welfare of the common man. Crores of farmers are getting benefitted by considering computer copy of revenue records as true copy and having legal validity of e-signature," said Chaudhury. He said that with the revenue department’s services being online, there has been efficiency and accuracy in the work of the officers of the department. Bhati said of the total 338 tehsils, records of 244 have already been digitised and a target has been set to complete all the tehsils by March 31, 2021. Gehlot also released the Rajasthan Revenue Board magazine ‘Ravira’ on the occassion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-e-launches-services-of-revenue-department/articleshow/78689691.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Pak developing agents in India: Police commissioner||Nashik: Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey, warning people of Pakistan’s nefarious plans, said the neighbouring country is trying to recruit agents in large numbers in India. He said often a person is approached very innocently and sensitive information is extracted from him, sometimes even without the person getting any hint of it. “Therefore, do not fall into the trap of these people, especially women, who approach you using foreign numbers (phone numbers not beginning with 91),” he said on Thursday. He pointed to two recent cases in Nashik where two individuals were caught sending information to Pakistan. In one case, a worker had sent a photograph of the restricted defence area in Deolali Camp to a WhatsApp group of Pakistan. In the other case, an employee of HAL, Ozar, sent some very sensitive information about fighter aircraft to a woman, who had befriended him from London. “The HAL case was a case of a honeytrap. The woman had befriended the HAL employee showing interest and knowledge in aircraft. They had most of their conservations in 2019. Over the past four-five months, communication had reduced. The woman told the employee that she was not getting much information from him. The employee then ended up sending sensitive information to her,” said Pandey. “Thus, unidentified women calling from numbers other than those beginning with 91 must be considered a honeytrap,” said the commissioner. On October 9, the Nashik anti-terrorism squad (ATS) had arrested an employee of the defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) in Nashik for allegedly supplying secret information about the Indian fighter aircraft and sensitive details along with information related to HAL, the airbase and prohibited areas inside the manufacturing unit to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence. HAL Nashik manufactures the SU-30 MKI aircraft. It is also engaged in overhauling both the MiG 21 and the SU-30. The ATS, in its statement, had said that an offence under sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923, has been registered against the accused. Three mobile handsets with five SIM cards and two memory cards were seized from him. On October 3, the Deolali Camp police arrested a 21-year-old youth under sections of the Official Secrets Act for taking photographs of the restricted army area and sending them to a WhatsApp group in Pakistan. Pandey said the youth — Sanjeev Kumar from Bihar — had been chatting with people from Pakistan for six months and he had sent only one photograph he clicked in the restricted defence area. Since he had deleted the messages, the police are communicating with the WhatsApp company to retrieve the information. Currently, he has been remanded in judicial custody till October 30. Pandey appealed to the citizens to not speak to unknown foreign people and not join any foreign groups. He said the admins of WhatsApp groups should not include foreign people and those working in important government and defence establishments should never put their names, photos etc. on social media. He said he would also be writing to the Army to not allow smartphones in the defence area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pak-developing-agents-in-india-police-commissioner/articleshow/78690627.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPI breaks silence, welcomes Jose||Thiruvananthapuram: With CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran breaking his silence and welcoming the decision of Jose K Mani faction of Kerala Congress (M) to support the LDF, the only question now remains is whether the party would be inducted to the LDF straight away or would be tested with an electoral alliance arrangement for local body poll before a direct entry. Rajendran, who said why CPI would oppose a party which says the politics of LDF is right, however, added that any decision on inducting the party to the front would be taken by the LDF state committee. On Friday, Rajendran is expected to meet CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to discuss the recent political developments. The CPM state secretariat will also meet on Friday and the date for LDF state committee is likely to be finalised in the meeting. The CPI state executive is scheduled for October 21 and LDF meeting may be held after that so that CPI can convey a clear stand on the issue. “The LDF won’t compromise on corruption. K M Mani is deceased, and it is unfair to speak ill of the dead,” Kanam replied to a query. When asked whether the entry of Jose would brighten the prospects of LDF’s return to power, Kanam said he didn’t have the ability to predict future. When pointed out about his earlier stand on KC(M), Rajendran said what he had said then was against using the LDF as a bargaining tool by a party which was in the UDF. “Now, they have left the UDF and offered unconditional support to LDF. We rate parties by the political positions they take from time to time. Now, they have taken a political stand and the LDF will discuss and finalise a decision,” he said. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that Kerala Congress has taken the right decision at the right time. “There are no ideological hurdles for Kerala Congress to cooperate with the LDF. Already, some factions of Kerala Congress are with us. The faction which announced the new political line now had been with the LDF earlier. There is no impropriety in cooperating with them,” Vijayan told a news conference. The CM said the departure of KC(M) faction would impact a huge shock on UDF. “Though they portray it lightly, a huge setback is awaiting them,” he said. Asked about the fight LDF had against K M Mani and the serious corruption charges levelled against him during the previous government, Vijayan evaded a direct reply. “Those who want to see the destruction of LDF may be saddened by such developments. Let them grieve for the time being,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpi-breaks-silence-welcomes-jose/articleshow/78688131.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Civic polls: Candidate deposits 5k one rupee coins as security for filing nomination in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A candidate from Jaipur Heritage’s Ward No 70, Vijay Shankar Sharma, who is a priest by profession, paid the lion’s share of his security deposit of Rs 6,000 in coins for filing nomination paper to fight the polls for the councillor’s post. He deposited Rs 5,000 with one rupee coins. The rest Rs 1,000 was paid in cash. "I collected the coins by performing pujas at the temples and people’s homes. I paid Rs 5,000 with one rupee coins and the rest was paid in cash - two Rs 500 notes," Sharma told TOI after filing nomination papers on Thursday. Sharma, who is an independent candidate from Jaipur Heritage’s Ward 70 (Kishanpole assembly constituency), turned 56 on Thursday. "It’s also my birthday today. I am not attached with any political party, so decided to contest as an independent," added Sharma, who declared his ancestral house as an immovable asset in the affidavit. "I don’t have much to declare. I have declared Rs 7,000 cash as my movable asset. My bank balance is just Rs 500. What will I do with money? My sole aim is to ensure welfare of the people. I want overall development of the ward and it should be among the top performing wards in the district. That’s why, I am contesting the polls. I don’t seek ticket from political parties because they are all liars. I will do door-to-door campaigning without flouting Covid norms," he said. Sharma has two sons, one works with him as a priest and the other works in a private company. 8 nominations filed on Day 2 Jaipur: On the second day of filing nominations for the nagar nigam polls in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, eight nominations were filed by eight candidates. Of the total, five nominations were filed in Jaipur Greater, two in Jodhpur South and one nomination was filed in Jaipur Heritage. In all, 10 candidates have filed 11 nominations in two days. The elections to the posts of councillors will be held on October 29 and November 1. Watch Jaipur civic polls: Candidate deposits 5,000 one rupee coins as security||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/candidate-deposits-5k-one-rupee-coins-as-security-for-filing-nomination/articleshow/78689688.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman gouges husband’s face||Ahmedabad: A woman from the Khatkiwad locality in Khamasa allegedly gouged and scratched her husband’s face and left him injured on October 12 as she was against him spending too much time on his phone, states an FIR filed with Gaekwad Haveli police on Wednesday. In his FIR, Noor Mohammed Qureshi, 45, a butcher having his shop in Ranip, states that the incident took place on October 12 evening when he returned home. “I was watching something on my cellphone which did not go well with my wife Mehrunnisa who rushed to me and began asking what I was watching. She began saying that I spend too much time on my cellphone. As she began arguing in loud voice, I told her not to raise her voice after which she began abusing me,” said Noor Mohammed. He said that as he told her not to abuse him, she began clawing and gouging his face and left him injured. He mentioned in the FIR that when he was bleeding with the injuries she inflicted on his face and ears, she called up her brother and sister who also reached the complainant’s house and began abusing him. He said that they threatened to kill him. Later, he informed his friend who took him to Gaekwad police station to file a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-gouges-husbands-face/articleshow/78689702.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur now has most Covid +ve cops in state||NAGPUR: City police have the highest number of Covid positive personnel as on Thursday among all police units in the state surpassing Mumbai where most number of cops have died of the disease so far. As per data released by state police, city police currently have 416 ranks and 53 officers as active Covid patients. In Mumbai, the figure is 373 ranks and 78 officers. In all 86 cops have died of Covid in Mumbai while city police have lost 16 of their personnel so far. Statewide, 264 cops have lost their lives while attending duties during the pandemic. Despite the heavy toll, state police have collected Rs 31.48 crore as fines from the lockdown violators under various provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Indian Penal Code among others. Police have also registered 2.82 lakh cases, arrested more than 41,000 violators and seized more than 96,000 vehicles across the state. Around 90 cops were injured facing the public wrath during the enforcement of lockdown. Explaining how city police ended up having maximum number of cases, Nagpur police hospital’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Sandeep Shinde said the outbreak of the pandemic among the local personnel was delayed by at least four months before the numbers spiraled here too. “City police personnel were given immunity booster medicines repeatedly in the initial days. The cops performed well managing to remain healthy during the bandobasts at hotspots and containment zones in April, May and June. As the cases peaked in the city and trends like community transmission could be observed elsewhere in the society even the police personnel started falling sick,” said Dr Shinde. He said cops started getting infected as they moved around intensely as part of their duty. Dr Shinde said the statistics regarding the active cases may be misleading as many cops are repeatedly testing positive even after getting well and feeling healthier. “May be due to the presence of dead virus, several cops are getting positive results for second or even third time,” he said. Dr Shinde said the recovery rate at the newly opened police hospital at the headquarters is 100% as all 27 patients admitted here since its start have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-now-has-most-covid-ve-cops-in-state/articleshow/78689703.cms||Soumittra S Bose
October 16, 2020||Goa||CM: Unemployment rising in Goa, need to study trend||Panaji: The state needs to study the reason behind the high unemployment rate, said chief minister Pramod Sawant as he pointed out that the private sector is struggling to get skilled workers in Goa. There are over a lakh individuals registered on the state employment exchange or which three fourth are currently unemployed while the rest are looking for better prospects. “Goa’s unemployment rate has increased significantly and to reduce it, this model career centre will play an important role,” said Sawant. “Many say that Goans are not getting jobs, but here the industry says that nobody is there to work,” he said while inaugurating the Model Career Centre and expressed concern over qualified engineers sitting unemployed at home. Sawant said that graduates and qualified professionals should start their own business if they are unable to get employment. Sawant informed the gathering that after completing his Ayurvedic studies, he worked for a paltry sum or Rs 4,000 of which Rs 3,000 went in expenses. “I realised that this would not work out and I started my own clinic. After that I got the chance of a government job,” the chief minister said as he urged youth to start working irrespective of the salary. Labour and employment minister Jennifer Monserrate said the the state government has received inputs of workers being rendered unemployed because of the Covid pandemic. “A few cases have come to the chief minister and me. We will see how best to help them,” said Monserrate. Both Sawant and Monserrate urged youth to take up employment in the private sector or self entrepreneurship instead of waiting for government jobs. “When there is a mechanical engineer, IT engineer I get surprised when they are unemployed. Either they should get employed or start their own business. We have to study and find the fault,” said Sawant. The state government has set employment and training targets for the model career centre, which will be managed by the Confederation of Indian Industry. Labour and employment minister Jennifer Monserrate said that the model career centre will empower Goan youth and provide employment opportunities for Goans. “It will conduct aptitude tests, seminars and training sessions,” said Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-unemployment-rising-in-goa-need-to-study-trend/articleshow/78690691.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Not segregating waste? you are being scanned||NEW DELHI: To enforce the solid waste management bylaws more stringently in areas under its jurisdiction, New Delhi Municipal Council is harnessing digital media. It has developed an application that sanitation workers can use to get exact information about segregation of waste at source in each locality on a daily basis. Sanitation workers will be able to upload information related to waste segregation by each household after scanning a QR code on the digital door number (DDN) plates installed in the 54,000 residential and commercial complexes in the NDMC area through the Door to Door Segregation app. The data and photos uploaded will be associated with waste collected from a household, whether it was segregated or not, reason for non-segregation, etc. Explaining the app’s operation, an NDMC official said, “After opening the NDMC 311 app, a link will pop up on the phones of registered sanitation workers taking them to the Door to Door app. They can then feed information on the garbage at household, whether it was segregated in different bins and dealt with properly, etc. The process will take a few seconds. The app will also record the date, timings and location of property.” The app, thus, will not only generate information on the percentage of waste segregation at source, but also identify defaulters. The information collected will be automatically transferred to NDMC’s database centre, from where it can be shifted to the command and control centre of the civic body’s health department. Ramesh Kumar, medical officer of health, NDMC, said, “Carrying out random inspections and keeping a manual record of waste segregation defaulters is a cumbersome process, but this app will save time and resources with the sanitation staff recording information on a daily basis. With proof in our hands, we can take action, such as issuing notices to or penalising defaulters.” NDMC had trial runs of the app at Jorbagh on Tuesday and Babar Road on Wednesday. “We also interacted with RWA members and explained the purpose of the app,” said Kumar. “In both the places, the app operated successfully, but we will continue for a few more days, and based on the results of these trials, implement it in other places in a phased manner.” NDMC officials said that the tech project was important because this year’s Swachhta Survekshan will consider not only the volume of garbage managed by civic bodies, but also the proportion of segregation of waste at source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-segregating-wasteyou-are-being-scanned/articleshow/78689721.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medical students allege delay in Covid stipend||Ahmedabad: Students of medical and paramedical colleges who are given Covid-19 duty and are eligible to get stipend amount of Rs 15,000 per month have alleged that there has been a delay in payment. These students have recently made representations in the matter before government authorities, said sources. Medical and paramedical students have been entrusted with the task of serving Covid–19 duty from July 23. Earlier, the stipend amount was Rs 250 per day which was eventually raised to Rs 500 per day. “There has been some delay in the payment. Earlier the students were given daily cheques but recently the colleges have decided to pay them through bank accounts. This has led to some delay but the payments will be done soon,” said a medical college official close to the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-students-allege-delay-in-covid-stipend/articleshow/78689709.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Action urged against hosps overcharging patients||NAGPUR: Market rate of each PPE kit is a maximum of Rs 500, while private hospitals are charging between Rs 1,300 to Rs 3,360. Hospitals are charging Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000 per day from patients towards medicines with compulsion to purchase it from the same hospitals’ internal medical store. Against the rules, private hospitals are refusing admission if the relatives fail to deposit required sum with them. Members of Nagpur Citizens Forum (NCF) flagged such acts by private hospitals to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B demanding action against hospitals for disobeying the government diktat on admitting and treating Covid-19 patients. Forum members Abhijeet Jha, Abhijeet Chandel, Amit Bandurkar, Gajendra Singh Lohiya, Vaibhav Shinde-Patil and Prof CS Vikas Suresh Chedge submitted a memorandum to the civic chief. “As per government rules, 80% beds in private hospitals should be made available for Covid-19 patients at government stipulated rates. But there is no mechanism provided by the NMC to categorize the 80-20% beds as per scheme,” it said. There are no hoardings or wide publicity of government rules, regulations and facilities at hospitals, it added. According to the Forum members, despite clear directives from state health minister Rajesh Tope that depositing money beforehand should not be compulsory at the time of admission of any Covid-19 patient, the hospitals were brazenly doing so. “There are so many examples where patients have died due to lack of advance amount at the time of admission,” they alleged. NMC has also failed to take any coercive step to prevent hospitals from levying excess charges towards medicines. The demands of the forum included prompt action against hospitals overcharging from patients, making hospitals notify 80:20 beds on a dashboard, notify there is no compulsion to pay advance during admission, allow purchase of medicines from outside stores and widespread publicity of names and availability of pre-auditors. It also appealed to the NMC to create awareness about the facilities available at all government and NMC-run hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/action-urged-against-hosps-overcharging-patients/articleshow/78689707.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Civic chief replicates state template on easing curbs||NAGPUR: NMC on Thursday issued its own order in line with state government notification further easing the lockdown. The shops and markets outside the containment zones will be permitted to open from 9am to 9pm, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI. He added that the NMC has followed the state government’s guidelines of easing restrictions. NMC has also scrapped the practice of stamping passengers arriving at Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport and at Nagpur and Ajni railway stations with indelible ink. However, passengers must follow all protocols of social distancing and sanitation, the easing out notification of the NMC stated. Though Radhakrishnan didn’t allow schools and colleges to remain open till October 30, permission has been granted up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching, tele-counseling and related works in areas outside the containment zones only. The SOPs regarding health and safety precautions for the same will be issued by the school education department, the notification clarified. The civic chief permitted skill or entrepreneurship training in national skill training institutes, industrial training institutes, short term training centres etc. Radhakrishnan has also allowed state and private universities to open only for research scholars and post graduate students in science and technology stream requiring laboratory works. NMC notification has also given nod to all government and private libraries to function following Covid-19 protocols. Though the civic chief has allowed metro rail to resume in a graded manner while following SOP of Urban Development Department, the notification has no mention of resuming Aapli Bus service. Recently, NMC’s transport committee had asked the administration to resume city bus service suspended for the last seven months. Transport panel chief Narendra Borkar also met the civic chief and told him that already many cities like Aurangabad, Nashik, Pune and Mumbai had started city bus services, so NMC should also resume the service with 50% occupancy. Further easing * Shops, markets allowed to open from 9 am to 9 pm * Permission to impart skills and entrepreneurial training in National Skills Training Institutions as well as in training institutes under National Skills Development Corporation, State Skills Development Mission of Central and State Government * Allowing laboratory and experimental work for post graduate as well as PhD students in higher education institutions * Public and private libraries allowed to open while following Covid protocols * Business to business exhibitions outside the containment zones also permitted under regulations * Weekly animal markets allowed to start * 50% attendance of teachers and non-teaching staff allowed for online teaching activities in educational institutions * Metro to run again after seven months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-replicates-state-template-on-easing-curbs/articleshow/78689712.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No impact on UDF despite Mani leaving, say leaders||Thiruvananthapuram: The UDF leaders who met here to review the political scenario after Jose K Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) decided to join hands with LDF, unanimously put up a brave face claiming that it would not have any impact on the front. The UDF decided to concentrate more on central Travancore in the wake of the new political development. P J Joseph said  assured that more leaders from Jose faction will come the UDF way since they cannot accept aligning with LDF. Joseph assured UDF that the front will not have to worry in the electoral battle in central Travancore especially in the ensuing local body elections. IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty, who was involved in conciliatory talks with Mani to bring him back to the front, said in the meeting that UDF should strengthen the grassroot works in central Travancore by revamping all UDF committees soon. The Congress leaders who spoke in the meeting observed that the drifting away of Jose faction will not create any impact for the UDF since LDF campaign against K M Mani is remembered by everyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-impact-on-udf-despite-mani-leaving-say-leaders/articleshow/78688152.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hubballi||Digging of roads amid heavy rain irks twin cities’ residents||Hubballi: There is certainly no paucity of reasons for the residents of twin cities to grumble about as far as the infrastructure woes of Hubballi-Dharwad are concerned. If pothole-riddled roads and incomplete infrastructure projects were not enough for the residents to complain about, the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has, amid heavy showers in the region, undertaken the untimely task of digging up roads to lay pipelines for the supply of natural gas. Work on the pipelines for supply of natural gas is currently under way in Keshwapur and several other residential pockets of the twin cities. However, incessant rain has turned several arterial roads in Hubballi-Dharwad slushy, rendering commute on these thoroughfares next to impossible. The residents are understandably furious with the authorities for granting permission for digging up these roads when it has been raining continuously in the region for more than a week. While several roads are already waterlogged, ongoing work in many residential areas has piled on the woes for locals. Vinay Colony resident Sudha D pointed out that most of the alleys in the residential areas were much too narrow to begin with, and ongoing work undertaken by the natural gas agencies had made even walking a perilous exercise. Activist Ramesh S sought to remind the civic authorities that their responsibility extended beyond sanctioning permission. “Officials must monitor critical work such as digging of roads. No officials are present on the site when roads are being dug. The officials must suspend digging of roads until the rain stops. Considering that much time has already been lost owing to the Covid-19 crisis, a delay of two more weeks is hardly substantial,” Ramesh added. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that permission for laying of pipelines had not been issued recently. “Work on laying of natural gas pipelines had been stopped following enforcement of the lockdown. But given the weather forecast, the company is likely to be ordered to stop digging on the sides of the road till the rain subsides,” Itnal said. The HDMC commissioner said that the company would be allowed to resume work from November. “Moreover, the agency is digging up the shoulder of the road,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/digging-of-roads-amid-heavy-rain-irks-twin-cities-residents/articleshow/78686985.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Leopard mauls woman to death in Udaipur district||UDAIPUR: A leopard killed a 36-year-old woman at Kewde-ki-Naal area under Savina police station limits, around 20km from here, on Thursday evening. The woman had gone to the forest to cut grass around 5pm when the beast mauled and dragged her several metres into the dense bushes. The dead body was recovered by local forest staff one-and-a-half hours later. There were wounds on her neck and other parts of the body. The victim has been identified as Bhanvari Bai, wife of Ramesh Meena, a resident of Eklingpura of Ouda panchayat in Kewda forest area. Villagers gathered in large numbers and blocked the Udaipur-Salumber-Banswara road for some time. They have now raised fears that the leopard may have turned into a man-eater. Officials of the forest department, police teams from Savina and Zawar Mines stations and the tehsildar rushed to the spot and pacified the villagers. They assured them of trapping the wild cat soon. People complained that the leopard had been sighted earlier too from the area. However, forest officials did not take them seriously. Confirming the incident, deputy conservator of forests Ajay Chittora said, “Our team is at the spot. We will put a cage and take necessary steps to catch the leopard. After the post-mortem report, more facts will be known." According to sources, it is common for local residents to take goats to the forest area for grazing or to cut grass or wood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-mauls-woman-to-death-in-udaipur-dist/articleshow/78689716.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||Haryana woman flees to Navsari||Surat: A 24-year-old woman from Haryana who was harassed by her in-laws, including her husband, over not bearing a child, fled to Surat to escape the torture. However, thankfully, she could be reunited with her family members by One Stop Sakhi Centre in Navsari after counselling. According to sources, the married woman left her home after another round of verbal spat with her husband over the issue and boarded a train to New Delhi. Upon reaching New Delhi, she boarded another train which brought her to Navsari Railway station. She got off the train and spent her time roaming the city. However, she later approached the Navsari Women Police station and recounted her story. Women police assured her of all support and left her at the One Stop Centre in Navsari for shelter and help. “The woman who has been married for six years now told us how she was being tortured by her in-laws and husband for not being able to bear a child. Tired of the constant harassment, she decided to leave her marital home and boarded a train to Delhi. There she decided to go further and reached Gujarat,” said One Stop Centre official. “Later, after counselling she agreed to meet her own family whom we contacted in Haryana and informed them about her status. Her maternal family soon reached Navsari and took her with them,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/haryana-woman-flees-to-navsari/articleshow/78688079.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hubballi||Cycle track turns into parking lot on TenderSure road, but no action taken||Hubballi: The first TenderSure road in Hubballi-Dharwad was developed at a cost of Rs 36 crore to ease traffic and promote cycling in the twin cities. Though a dedicated cycle track was developed, it is now being used as a parking lot. The 2.19-km stretch between Arts College and Tolankeri was well maintained for a few days after the TenderSure road was inaugurated. As the road connects Gokul Road with Vidyanagar, vehicular movement is quite high on this stretch. Initially authorities regularly ensured traffic rules were followed. Now, due to negligence of authorities and pressure from commercial establishments, many use the cycling track to park their vehicles. Mahesh Burli, former corporator of ward 35, said, “It's unfortunate that the TenderSure road is not maintained well. Parking slots have been earmarked for vehicles and yet motorists continue to park their vehicles on the road, which is unfair. People should join hands with authorities to maintain roads in order.” Ramachandra Rao, a retired bank employee and a resident of Shirur Park, “In recent months, it has became difficult for pedestrians to use the tendersure road. The footpaths are already encroached by the commercial establishments.” Vijay Kumar, a college student, said, “Earlier, I used to cycle from Siddeshwar park to go to college at Vidyanagar. But now, the cycle track is blocked and I use a regular road for cycling. RB Basaragi, DCP (crime and Traffic) said, “We are enforcing traffic rules on TenderSure road regularly. Stern action will be initiated if any one is found violating rules.” He also appealed to people to inform police if they come across any violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cycle-track-turns-into-parking-lot-on-tendersure-road-but-no-action-taken/articleshow/78687084.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Jose lays claim to RS seat again||Kottayam: A day after declaration tie-up with LDF, Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani raised claims for the Rajya Sabha seat. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Jose said that his party has the right for the Rajya Sabha seat which has become vacant now. Jose had announced quitting the Rajya Sabha seat on moral grounds as he had won it as a nominee of the UDF. “Kerala Congress (M) is a political outfit which has a vast public support. We hope that the party will get its due consideration in the LDF. We are eligible for a Rajya Sabha seat. I don’t think there will be any dispute over that,” he said. He also said that the party expects a good representation in the local body elections too. Talks will be held with the LDF in two days, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jose-lays-claim-to-rs-seat-again/articleshow/78688184.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Great Indian Bustard habitat violation: NGT notice to Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued notices to the Rajasthan government, state forest department and the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change on the alleged violation in setting up two new transmission lines and a grid sub-station on the deemed forest land in Jaisalmer, a habitat of the endangered Great Indian Bustard (GIB). The area is also an 'oran' or a sacred grove. Responding to a petition filed by ERDS Foundation and a temple trust with technical support from INTACH, Barmer chapter, the tribunal has sought a report within six weeks from a joint committee consisting of the divisional forest officer and Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB). “The committee is directed to visit the place and submit a factual and action taken report within six weeks,” the order said. “The state PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and logistic support,” the order said. The respondents are directed to submit their reply within four weeks by email. As applicants alleged that the installation of these transmission lines is illegal and violates the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, and the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, the tribunal has directed them to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the MoEF & CC with regard to environmental clearance. Sumit Dookia, a wildlife biologist, said, “The present transmission lines will have an adverse impact on the biodiversity of the sacred grove oran as well as the habitat of the Great Indian Bustard. There is a need to carry out a biodiversity impact assessment. In the absence of this assessment, no construction should be allowed on the forest land.” With the thrust on green energy coming at an environmental cost, villagers in Jaisalmer have been protesting for long, demanding the removal or diversion of all overhead transmission lines passing through the oran. The issue flared up after a female GIB died near Sanvata village when it collided with the vertically aligned high-voltage power lines on September 18. Local residents claimed that the GIB habitat, which includes 15,000-hectare oran land, has been declared a deemed forest by the Supreme Court. The three sides of the area are surrounded by wind mills and the remaining one is going to have a solar energy park. More power transmission lines in the area will make it a death trap for the GIB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gib-habitat-violation-ngt-notice-to-raj-govt/articleshow/78689727.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||The dogmother: Pandemic is testing resolve to feed strays||NEW DELHI: Pratima Devi has been a social enigma for much of her life in Delhi. She was once a ragpicker, still lives in a shanty, but takes care of around 300 dogs at her unlikely dog shelter near PVR Anupam complex in south Delhi’ Saket. The Covid-19 pandemic is now testing her resolve to look after the street dogs. While donations for the shelter is down, the number of canines in her care has gone up, with more than 25 cases of people leaving their pets with her in recent months. Popularly referred to as Amma, the 67-year-old Devi disclosed that donors have physically stopped coming to her shelter because of the coronavirus. Some, of course, have continued helping her through digital payments, but she is now finding it hard to stretch the funds to care for a bigger brood. “The number of dogs has gone up after many people left their pets here apparently because they don’t want to spend on their upkeep in these difficult times,” she said. “However, I have no problem taking care of all of them since they are like children to me.” Devi arrived in Delhi in the early 1980s from Nandigram in West Bengal and has faced all sorts of problems since she began looking after the dogs on the streets in 1984. In 2003, her hut was set on fire by arsonists. In November 2017, the roadside shelter was razed down by South Delhi Municipal Corporation, though an undaunted Devi took the help of animal lovers to salvage the remnants and renew her animal care. Pawan Kumar, who helps her run the affairs at the shelter, revealed that every day, they spend Rs 3,000 every day on feeding the dogs. “5kg of branded dog food, 10kg rice, 15kg of leftover meat and 2kg,” he reeled off the daily needs for around 300 dogs in the neighbourhood. He displayed the empty medicine cabinet and said donations were down almost 60%. “On top of people leaving their dogs with us due to the Covid problems, the municipal corporation continues to harass us. With winter fast approaching, we urgently need to repair the roof that has been almost torn down,” added Kumar. Across the country, the disturbing trend of people abandoning their dogs when the pandemic started has been noticed. For one, there was the myth initially that animals could spread the coronavirus. Of courses, leaving aside a rare case or so, the World Health Organization (WHO) has repeatedly clarified that that there is no evidence that the novel coronavirus can be transmitted from pets to humans. “Yes, there were many cases of abandoned pets,” confirmed animal rights activist Geeta Seshamani of Frendicoes Seca. “Some people did it because members of their family had to go into self-isolation or were hospitalised for Covid, others because they couldn’t take their pets to hospital or because they feared taking them out for their daily walks would expose them to the viral infection.” There were many dogs with chronic complaints whose owners could not take them to the vets regularly and so left them on the road. Frowning on such behaviour of the pet owners, Seshamani said, “People abandoned their responsibility of caring for a pet who should have been looked after like any other family member.” In Seshamani’s criticism lies the importance of the role that Devi is playing in ensuring a home and food for the dumped animals. Watch Pandemic tests resolve to feed strays as donations drop drastically||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/the-dogmother-pandemic-is-testing-resolve-to-feed-strays/articleshow/78689735.cms||Paras Singh
October 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Great Indian Bustard habitat violation: NGT notice to Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued notices to the Rajasthan government, state forest department and the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change on the alleged violation in setting up two new transmission lines and a grid sub-station on the deemed forest land in Jaisalmer, a habitat of the endangered Great Indian Bustard (GIB). The area is also an 'oran' or a sacred grove. Responding to a petition filed by ERDS Foundation and a temple trust with technical support from INTACH, Barmer chapter, the tribunal has sought a report within six weeks from a joint committee consisting of the divisional forest officer and Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board (RSPCB). “The committee is directed to visit the place and submit a factual and action taken report within six weeks,” the order said. “The state PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and logistic support,” the order said. The respondents are directed to submit their reply within four weeks by email. As applicants alleged that the installation of these transmission lines is illegal and violates the provisions of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, and the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, the tribunal has directed them to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the MoEF & CC with regard to environmental clearance. Sumit Dookia, a wildlife biologist, said, “The present transmission lines will have an adverse impact on the biodiversity of the sacred grove oran as well as the habitat of the Great Indian Bustard. There is a need to carry out a biodiversity impact assessment. In the absence of this assessment, no construction should be allowed on the forest land.” With the thrust on green energy coming at an environmental cost, villagers in Jaisalmer have been protesting for long, demanding the removal or diversion of all overhead transmission lines passing through the oran. The issue flared up after a female GIB died near Sanvata village when it collided with the vertically aligned high-voltage power lines on September 18. Local residents claimed that the GIB habitat, which includes 15,000-hectare oran land, has been declared a deemed forest by the Supreme Court. The three sides of the area are surrounded by wind mills and the remaining one is going to have a solar energy park. More power transmission lines in the area will make it a death trap for the GIB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gib-habitat-violation-ngt-notice-to-raj-govt/articleshow/78692792.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Steam loco chugs to Ooty from Coonoor shed on NMR Day||UDHAGAMANDALAM: To mark the 112th Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) Day, an X-class steam loco (over 90 years old) with an empty coach chugged from the Coonoor loco shed to Ooty railway station on Thursday. The Heritage Steam Chariot Trust (HSCT) took the initiative. It was on October 15, 1908, NMR witnessed the first chugging of the ‘mountain train’ to Ooty. K Natarajan, founder and managing trustee of HSCT said, “There should not be a break in the tradition this year due to the pandemic. Hence we the NMR lovers approached the southern railways for a steam loco run to mark the day.” He said, “We started to observe this day in 1987 to create awareness about the heritage value of the NMR among the tourists as well as the local public. Also, it is to popularize the steam engine mountain train among youth and to encourage the NMR passengers.” Collector J Innocent Divya welcomed the steam engine at the Ooty railway station with a rose handing over to the loco driver. Divya said, “It is welcoming to see a steam engine chugging on the NMR track even during the pandemic. The NMR is one of the prides of the Nilgiris.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/steam-loco-chugs-to-ooty-from-coonoor-shed-on-nmr-day/articleshow/78689730.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Dist admin denies nod to Rahul’s programme||Kozhikode: The Wayanad district administration denied permission for the online inauguration of a new school building at Kalpetta scheduled to be held by Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Thursday morning, citing lack of prior permission from the state government for the programme. Rahul was to conduct the online inauguration of the higher secondary block of the Kalpetta Government Vocational Higher Secondary School built at a cost of Rs 1.2 crore under the centrally sponsored multi-sectoral development programme (MSDP) implemented through the state minority welfare department at 10.30am. But the programme had to be cancelled at the last moment after the district administration officially asked Kalpetta municipality authorities not to hold the function as it was not scheduled with the knowledge and approval of state government. LDF-ruled Kalpetta municipality had invited Rahul to conduct the inauguration and the municipal chairperson had announced about the programme at a press conference on Wednesday. District collector Dr Adeela Abdulla said that she knew about the programme only from newspapers and added that the organizers had not informed the district administration or the state government about it. “The state department of minority welfare had earlier this month issued an order directing that prior permission should be obtained before the conduct of inauguration of MSDP projects implemented jointly using central and state government funds,” she added. The order had directed that information about projects ready for inauguration/foundation stone laying under MSDP under should be provided to the department beforehand for approval to enable conduct of the programmes with the participation of the minister as per protocol. District Congress authorities alleged that the state government’s decision was politically motivated. Congress activists also took out a protest march to the collectorate and the Kalpetta municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/dist-admin-denies-nod-to-rahuls-programme/articleshow/78688219.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Gurugram to get relaxation on genset use, but ban continues in Noida, Ghaziabad||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI: Generator sets can run, with conditions, in Gurugram and other NCR cities in Haryana after the state government submits an affidavit. The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority on Thursday wrote to the Haryana government, stating it could consider giving exemptions to the generator ban that came into effect across Delhi-NCR the same day as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to reduce air pollution. The EPCA said it was doing so keeping in mind the hardships residents of certain townships might be facing. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, a detailed affidavit laying down “strict time schedules” for colonies that are fully or partially reliant on DG sets first needs to be submitted, the EPCA added. The EPCA letter came a day after TOI reported there are 22 societies in Gurugram that are still partially or fully dependent on diesel gensets. Scores of others use gensets for power backup because of regular outages, which the discom has not been able to stop. The NCR cities in UP, Noida and Ghaziabad, are also similarly reliant on gensets for backup because of regular outages. However, with the EPCA giving an exception only to Haryana, the genset ban will continue to remain in force in Noida and Ghaziabad. Haryana had written to the EPCA, seeking a relaxation of the ban. The affidavit the Haryana government will have to submit is required to have signatures from government officials, residents of colonies where gensets have to be used and the developer. Till this is submitted, the GRAP ban on DG sets will continue and all colonies and townships will have to follow the directions, EPCA has stated in its letter. The letter, from EPCA chairman Bhure Lal to additional chief secretary (power) Trilok Gupta, stated that Gupta had earlier assured the EPCA that all colonies in Haryana would be connected with the power grid before the onset of 2020, which has not been done. “In these circumstances, it will be very difficult for EPCA to grant further extension. However, keeping the difficulties of residents in mind, we would like a more detailed and comprehensive affidavit from the state government laying down strict time schedules for each of the colonies, which are fully and partially dependent on DG sets,” Lal said in his letter. He added that the schedules for these colonies should be staggered. “The affidavits must be signed by the government, representatives of the colonies and builders. Only then will EPCA be in a position to consider any relaxation, otherwise the order to ban DG sets with effect from October 15, 2020 stands and it has to be enforced as part of GRAP,” said Lal. The ban on generator sets (diesel, petrol and kerosene variants) was imposed from October 15 as part of the GRAP, which is an annual emergency action plan to control the spike in pollution across Delhi-NCR each winter. The others measures imposed from Thursday include directions to construction sites and industries to submit an undertaking that they are following pollution norms. Gurugram and Faridabad were both in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday with readings of 311 and 335, respectively, on CPCB’s air quality index. Watch Gurugram to get relaxation on genset use||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gurgaon-to-get-relaxation-on-genset-use-but-ban-continues-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/78691599.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram to get relaxation on genset use, but ban continues in Noida, Ghaziabad||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI: Generator sets can run, with conditions, in Gurugram and other NCR cities in Haryana after the state government submits an affidavit. The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority on Thursday wrote to the Haryana government, stating it could consider giving exemptions to the generator ban that came into effect across Delhi-NCR the same day as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to reduce air pollution. The EPCA said it was doing so keeping in mind the hardships residents of certain townships might be facing. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, a detailed affidavit laying down “strict time schedules” for colonies that are fully or partially reliant on DG sets first needs to be submitted, the EPCA added. The EPCA letter came a day after TOI reported there are 22 societies in Gurugram that are still partially or fully dependent on diesel gensets. Scores of others use gensets for power backup because of regular outages, which the discom has not been able to stop. The NCR cities in UP, Noida and Ghaziabad, are also similarly reliant on gensets for backup because of regular outages. However, with the EPCA giving an exception only to Haryana, the genset ban will continue to remain in force in Noida and Ghaziabad. Haryana had written to the EPCA, seeking a relaxation of the ban. The affidavit the Haryana government will have to submit is required to have signatures from government officials, residents of colonies where gensets have to be used and the developer. Till this is submitted, the GRAP ban on DG sets will continue and all colonies and townships will have to follow the directions, EPCA has stated in its letter. The letter, from EPCA chairman Bhure Lal to additional chief secretary (power) Trilok Gupta, stated that Gupta had earlier assured the EPCA that all colonies in Haryana would be connected with the power grid before the onset of 2020, which has not been done. “In these circumstances, it will be very difficult for EPCA to grant further extension. However, keeping the difficulties of residents in mind, we would like a more detailed and comprehensive affidavit from the state government laying down strict time schedules for each of the colonies, which are fully and partially dependent on DG sets,” Lal said in his letter. He added that the schedules for these colonies should be staggered. “The affidavits must be signed by the government, representatives of the colonies and builders. Only then will EPCA be in a position to consider any relaxation, otherwise the order to ban DG sets with effect from October 15, 2020 stands and it has to be enforced as part of GRAP,” said Lal. The ban on generator sets (diesel, petrol and kerosene variants) was imposed from October 15 as part of the GRAP, which is an annual emergency action plan to control the spike in pollution across Delhi-NCR each winter. The others measures imposed from Thursday include directions to construction sites and industries to submit an undertaking that they are following pollution norms. Gurugram and Faridabad were both in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday with readings of 311 and 335, respectively, on CPCB’s air quality index. Watch Gurugram to get relaxation on genset use||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaon-to-get-relaxation-on-genset-use-but-ban-continues-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/78690743.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Bhopal||Air quality in MP deteriorates, worse than pre-Covid levels||BHOPAL: Air quality of Madhya Pradesh cities has deteriorated from what it was before the Covid lockdown began. The ambient air quality of Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior — as per the air quality monitoring of the central pollution control board — points to this trend. The air quality of Jabalpur is still better as compared to that before the first lockdown started in the country on March 25. In Bhopal, the air quality on Tuesday was worse than what it was on March 24. In Indore too air quality was bad when compared to March 24, and it was even worse in Gwalior. Ambient air quality between 0 and 50 is termed as good with minimal possible health impacts while ambient air quality between 51 and 100 is satisfactory but may lead to minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people, as per the pollution control board while ambient air quality between 101 and 200 is termed as moderate and may lead to breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases. Air quality of Bhopal on Tuesday was 129 while Indore was 153 and in Gwalior it was 164, which was the worst in four main cities of the state. Air quality remained satisfactory in Jabalpur with 77.  Air quality is measured taking into account the levels of sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (Nox), RSPM10 and fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in the air. While the rise in sulphur dioxide is due to vehicle emissions, increase in nitrogen oxide is due to human activity, including vehicles and sewage, among others. PM 10 is due to dust, construction, including building of roads while PM 2.5 is due to dust, human activity and climatic conditions. Of the four, officials said, PM2.5 is the most harmful to health since it causes severe lung diseases. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data points that air quality of major Madhya Pradesh cities improved majorly in lockdown. Officials said the air pollution is going up after life getting back to normal and the pollution levels may further go up to the approaching festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/air-quality-in-mp-deteriorates-worse-than-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/78689967.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Covid toll crosses 3,600||AHMEDABAD: With the deaths of 11 Covid patients in 24 hours, the Covid death toll in Gujarat crossed 3,600, with 3,609 deaths as of Thursday evening. The last 100 deaths were recorded in 10 days, compared to the earlier average of eight days, indicating a reduction in the death rate. The deaths in the last 24 hours included four from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Gandhinagar, Mahisagar, Patan and Tapi. The total number of deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 1,863, 812, 201 and 152, respectively. In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat recorded 1,185 new cases, taking the state’s total so far to 1.56 lakh. It was the fifth consecutive day of fewer than 1,200 new cases, even as the state recorded a 2.3% increase in daily cases in the past three days. The new cases included 249 from Surat, 186 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, 109 from Rajkot and 82 from Jamnagar. The total number of cases in Surat reached 33,097, whereas the tallies in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 39,740, 13,965, and 11,227, respectively. A total of 1,329 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of discharges in the state to 1.37 lakh. The 1,329 discharges included 281 from Surat, 181 from Vadodara, 180 from Ahmedabad, and 118 from Rajkot. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 14,804. The shares of active cases, persons discharged and deaths in the state were 9.5%, 88.2% and 2.3%, respectively. After three days of fewer than 51,000 tests per day, in these 24 hours testing improved to 51,215 and the state’s total number of tests reached 52.16 lakh. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.64 lakh persons in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-covid-toll-crosses-3600/articleshow/78690714.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram to get relaxation on genset use, but ban continues in Noida, Ghaziabad||GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI: Generator sets can run, with conditions, in Gurugram and other NCR cities in Haryana after the state government submits an affidavit. The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority on Thursday wrote to the Haryana government, stating it could consider giving exemptions to the generator ban that came into effect across Delhi-NCR the same day as part of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to reduce air pollution. The EPCA said it was doing so keeping in mind the hardships residents of certain townships might be facing. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, a detailed affidavit laying down “strict time schedules” for colonies that are fully or partially reliant on DG sets first needs to be submitted, the EPCA added. The EPCA letter came a day after TOI reported there are 22 societies in Gurugram that are still partially or fully dependent on diesel gensets. Scores of others use gensets for power backup because of regular outages, which the discom has not been able to stop. The NCR cities in UP, Noida and Ghaziabad, are also similarly reliant on gensets for backup because of regular outages. However, with the EPCA giving an exception only to Haryana, the genset ban will continue to remain in force in Noida and Ghaziabad. Haryana had written to the EPCA, seeking a relaxation of the ban. The affidavit the Haryana government will have to submit is required to have signatures from government officials, residents of colonies where gensets have to be used and the developer. Till this is submitted, the GRAP ban on DG sets will continue and all colonies and townships will have to follow the directions, EPCA has stated in its letter. The letter, from EPCA chairman Bhure Lal to additional chief secretary (power) Trilok Gupta, stated that Gupta had earlier assured the EPCA that all colonies in Haryana would be connected with the power grid before the onset of 2020, which has not been done. “In these circumstances, it will be very difficult for EPCA to grant further extension. However, keeping the difficulties of residents in mind, we would like a more detailed and comprehensive affidavit from the state government laying down strict time schedules for each of the colonies, which are fully and partially dependent on DG sets,” Lal said in his letter. He added that the schedules for these colonies should be staggered. “The affidavits must be signed by the government, representatives of the colonies and builders. Only then will EPCA be in a position to consider any relaxation, otherwise the order to ban DG sets with effect from October 15, 2020 stands and it has to be enforced as part of GRAP,” said Lal. The ban on generator sets (diesel, petrol and kerosene variants) was imposed from October 15 as part of the GRAP, which is an annual emergency action plan to control the spike in pollution across Delhi-NCR each winter. The others measures imposed from Thursday include directions to construction sites and industries to submit an undertaking that they are following pollution norms. Gurugram and Faridabad were both in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday with readings of 311 and 335, respectively, on CPCB’s air quality index. Watch Gurugram to get relaxation on genset use||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/gurgaon-to-get-relaxation-on-genset-use-but-ban-continues-in-noida-gzb/articleshow/78691600.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops to focus on basics of FIR writing to raise conviction rate||Aurangabad: City police, considering that gaps and errors in the first information report (FIR) are amongst the top reasons for acquittal of suspects, have started working on perfecting the art of writing the FIR.As part of the initiative, police station chiefs have been asked to personally monitor the registration of FIRs. Police are also planning to rope in subject experts for briefing the policemen in this regard.Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta said, “Registration of offence is the first and most crucial step in ensuring justice for the victim in the form of conviction of the suspect.”Citing that weak FIRs hamper the investigation and it eventually reflects on the chargesheet, Gupta said he is focusing on improving things at every step, including aspects to be mandatorily covered in every investigation, collection of evidences, their admissibility in the court of law and preparing a fool-proof chargesheet.“We ave been asked to ensure there is neither any delay in registration of FIR, nor in performing of medical screening of the injured, collection of evidences and recording of statements,” a senior police officer said.“Investigation officers, across hierarchy, have been asked to consider video recording of the statements of key witnesses as well as the complainants in all the sensitive matters,” he added.Even during the trial phase, policemen deployed at courts and police stations have been asked to ensure there is no communication gap. “The policemen have been asked to ensure close coordination with the complainant as well as key witnesses, so that the suspects cannot put any pressure for turning them hostile during the course of trial,” an officer in the conviction cell said.“The ultimate intention is to find out the usual flaws inadvertently committed on the part of the investigation officers during investigation, chargesheet and trial, so that corrective measures are taken and conviction rate is improved,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-to-focus-on-basics-of-fir-writing-to-raise-conviction-rate/articleshow/78686082.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Man puts burn marks on nephew, arrested||Aurangabad: Satara area police station nabbed a 40-year-old man on Thursday for allegedly punishing his 10-year-old nephew by heating a metal object and putting burn marks on the boy’s hands and cheek. The arrested accused has been identified as Sanjay Raut, a resident of Kanchanwadi area of the city. Senior inspector of Satara area police station Surendra Malale said that police learnt about the alleged atrocity after journalist Krushna Kende shared a video of the child. Police said that the boy’s father passed passed away when he was just six-months-old. Later, his mother got married to another man. Sanjay, who happened to be the boy’s paternal uncle, adopted his nephew. Recently, owing to some petty issue, Sanjay got angry and doled out the harsh punishment to the boy. On Thursday, one of the woman residing in Sanjay’s neighborhood saw the boy with the injuries. The woman alerted other neighbours. Together, they rescued the boy and took him to the hospital where he was administered first-aid. Later, his video was recorded and shared with Kende who alerted the police. Police said that the boy has been handed over to child welfare committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-puts-burn-marks-on-nephew-arrested/articleshow/78686105.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kochi||CM inaugurates water taxi service in Alappuzha||Alappuzha: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated the first water taxi of the state and a catamaran boat service of the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) here on Thursday through video conferencing. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said that the changes being executed in the water transport sector will give strength to the tourism industry of the state. “The traffic blocks on roads and pollution are increasing the scope for water transport in the state,” the chief minister said. People can hire the taxi anywhere from Alappuzha district. The charge for the taxi per hour is Rs 1,500.The water taxi can reach Kottayam from Alappuzha in an hour. To avail water taxi service, call 9400050325 or 9400050322. A catamaran diesel-powered craft with a seating capacity for 10 passengers is being used for water taxi service. Besides the water taxi in Alappuzha, three more water taxis will soon be launched and one of them is expected to be launched in Ernakulam in November. The chief minister on Thursday also inaugurated a 100 seated catamaran passenger boat service in Alappuzha. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-inaugurates-water-taxi-service-in-alappuzha/articleshow/78688245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik jail superintendent probes inmate’s suicide note||Nashik: Nashik Road central jail superintendent Pramod Wagh is conducting an enquiry into the suicide of a prison inmate and the subsequent retrieval of a suicide note from his abdomen, in which he pointed fingers at harassment from jail officials.Ajgar Ali Mohammad Mumtaz Mansoori, a 32-year-old Mumbai resident incarcerated at the Nashik Road central jail, had committed suicide by hanging himself inside the prison on October 7. When his post-mortem was conducted, a suicide note was found in the abdomen of the deceased prisoner. In the note, it was written that he was taking the extreme step following harassment by the jail authorities. However, jail officials said the deceased inmate could neither read nor write. Therefore, the note could have been the handiwork of some other inmate who may have written the suicide note and instigated the deceased to swallow it before taking the extreme step.Wagh confirmed that a suicide note wrapped in some plastic was found in Mansoori’s abdomen. He had been serving life imprisonment for the past 14 years. Due to his conduct in the jail, he was also made a warden to keep a check on the jail premises.“However, at times, he used to lose his mental balance and had also attempted to commit suicide on previous occasions. The last recent attempt was about seven-eight months ago,” said Wagh.Wagh said they had been continuously counselling the inmate.On being asked about the accusations of harassment by jail authorities and other things mentioned in the note, Wagh pointed out that the deceased was illiterate.The officials said there was no question of Mansoori writing the suicide note. Some other inmate may have instigated Mansoori against the jail administration and made him commit suicide after swallowing the note written by someone else.Suraj Bijli, senior PI of the Nashik Road police station, said that they have registered a case of suicide. As things come to fore in the future, an offence would be registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-jail-superintendent-probes-inmates-suicide-note/articleshow/78686132.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 16, 2020||Vadodara||NRI accused of online harassment||Vadodara: A 33-year-old woman from the city has registered a case of sexual harassment against non-resident Indian settled in the UK. The woman told the Manjalpur police that the accused identified as Pratik Patel, who stays in London, had been harassing her online since a few months now. The complainant told the police that she had met Patel online on a matrimonial website four years ago. Patel kept promising that he would marry her but he didn’t fulfil his commitment so the woman stopped interacting with him and also blocked his phone number. But Patel kept messaging her from different numbers and abused as well as threatened her. The woman said in her complaint that Patel even roped in his friend Taufiq Mirza, a resident of Manjalpur, to scare her. Taufiq used to stalk the complainant whenever she went out for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nri-accused-of-online-harassment/articleshow/78687318.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Prisoner hangs to death in cell, kin seek judicial probe||COIMBATORE: A day after a 32-year-old remand prisoner died in the central prison here, family members of the deceased on Thursday said he was beaten to death by prison warders and demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident. Police identified the deceased as J Suresh Raja, a native of Gandhipuram in Kodaikanal in Dindigul district. The Palladam police in Tirupur, where he was residing, had arrested him in a theft case three months ago. In that case, he had come out on bail. Last month, the Race Course (crime) police had nabbed him for stealing motorcycles from the premises of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). While he was initially lodged in the Udumalpet sub-jail under judicial custody, Suresh was moved to the Coimbatore Central Prison on Sunday (October 11). On Wednesday around 12.15pm, he was found hanging in his cell when other inmates had gone for lunch. He was immediately taken to the CMCH, where doctors declared him brought dead. Following this, central prison superintendent R Krishnaraj lodged a complaint with the Race Course (law & order) police, who registered a case under Section 176 (1-A) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Meanwhile, Suresh’s family members petitioned district collector K Rajamani on Thursday, seeking a judicial probe into his death. His aunt Uma, a native of Kodaikanal, said Suresh was working with a garment unit in Tirupur. “He disappeared 15 days after brining him out from jail on bail. We thought he might have rejoined for work. We didn’t know he was arrested for the motorcycle theft case. We received calls from police and jail authorities after he died in the central prison. We suspect harassment from prison authorities,” she said. A judicial magistrate visited the CMCH and held an inquiry with the family members of the deceased. On his part, the collector has sought a detailed report from the prison department. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prisoner-hangs-to-death-in-cell-kin-seek-judicial-probe/articleshow/78689813.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore to now keep SPB’s memory evergreen||COIMBATORE: In a green tribute to the late singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, Siruthuli, an environmental NGO, would create an urban forest in the city. The initiative was launched on the Siruthuli campus near Valankulam on Thursday. Named ‘SPB Vanam’, the urban forest would have 74 species of trees to mark 74 years of SPB’s life. SPB’s son S P Charan and sister S P Shailaja participated in the inaugural event through video conferencing and expressed their gratitude. “I am honoured. I am touched by the love and affection shown to my father,” Charan said. Vanitha Mohan, managing trustee of Siruthuli, says the SPB Vanam would feature trees that are used for musical instruments. Along with these saplings, there would be sthala vrikshams of temples that SPB had visited and sung. A champaka tree, symbolic of his birth star Ayilyam, would also find a place in the urban forest. Each tree would be named after a popular song sung by SPB. Charan planted a jackfruit sapling, while Shailaja planted a mango sapling. The wood of these two trees are used extensively to make musical instruments. Maestro A R Rahman and singer Srinivas, meanwhile, paid their tribute through a video clip. Representatives of SPB Fans Charitable Foundation also participated in the event. The initial plan was to set up the SPB Vanam on four acres land within the Coimbatore Central Prison, with the inmates nurturing the saplings. Prison officials were scheduled to participate in the event. Siruthuli had in the past created a ‘Kalam Vanam’, which the inmates are maintaining, in the prison. But the site was changed at the last moment on Thursday. A representative of Siruthuli said, “We would find an alternative space and shift the saplings from our campus.” The event was organized to coincide with the late President A P J Abdul Kalam’s 89th birth anniversary. A statement from Siruthuli said the urban forest would house trees such as red sanders, rosewood, neem, mahogany, silver oak, sandalwood, teak, pungai, karungali, kadamba, bamboo, marudham, magizham, vanni, naaval and manoranjitham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-to-now-keep-spbs-memory-evergreen/articleshow/78689765.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||Builder attempts suicide after threat calls from three||Surat: A 47-year-old builder attempted suicide in his office in Saiyedpura area on Thursday allegedly following threat calls. According to police, the builder identified as Arif Qureshi was found unconscious in his office at J K Corner when some of his family members came in search of him. It is appeared that Qureshi attempted suicide by consuming some floor cleaning chemical. He was admitted to hospital and is under treatment, police said. Police booked Ansari Rangrej alias Mindi, Saiyed Sajauddin alias Sajju Babu and Asif Bapti, for allegedly making extortion call to Qureshi after they recovered a note from the victim’s office in which he had named the accused. Police investigation revealed that the accused were allegedly issuing threats to Qureshi of getting a portion of his under construction building demolished. Qureshi is developing a six storey building in Saiyedpura and the accused claimed that the building was being constructed illegally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/builder-attempts-suicide-after-threat-calls-from-three/articleshow/78688092.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Need more office space, forest department repeats request||NEW DELHI: The Delhi forest department has again written to Public Works Department (PWD), asking for additional office space in order to accommodate its staff. It was unable to perform its duties efficiently under the present workspace, it stated. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) in an order dated November 19, 2019 had cited additional office space for a headquarter as one of the steps towards strengthening the department, while the forest department has been demanding additional space since 2017. The department in its latest letter to PWD has sought additional space before an NGT hearing on December 15, 2020, stating PWD’s intervention was required to avoid “embarrassment.” “The staff strength as well as the range of work of the department have increased, leading to an increased need for office space,” added the letter dated August 3, 2020. A similar letter was sent to PWD in 2019 as well, stating 510 sqm of area was not adequate for the department’s basic functioning. Forest department officials said the issue had been highlighted several times in the past because record-keeping and staff deployment were becoming difficult. Fresh recruitments have also taken place over the last two years. “We have estimated that 870 sqm of additional space is required, taking the total space to 1,380 sqm,” said a forest official. Letters have also been sent to Delhi Development Authority (DDA), asking for land anywhere in the New Delhi district. “We are headquartered in a single floor in Vikas Bhawan and several functional requirements, such as record rooms, GIS labs and others, are scattered in different locations of Delhi, affecting the efficiency of administration. PWD has been requested to allot space, but it is unlikely to get all the office space in the same building due to space constraints. The need of a separate building for the department of forest and wildlife is seriously felt in the present context,” the forest department stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/need-more-office-space-forest-dept-repeats-request/articleshow/78689808.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Edamalakkudy gets power after 70 days||Idukki: After 70 days, power supply has been restored at the first tribal panchayat at Edamalakkudy. The road connectivity also resumed till Edalipparakkudy, said officials. The only road from Pettimudy to Edamalakkdudy was washed away in landslides and power connection through the underground cable line snapped 70 days ago. Manoj D, deputy chief engineer, KSEB, said that the power supply restored at Edamalakkduy after great effort by KSEB officials. “The power cable to Edamalakkudy was damaged in the landslides. Two days ago, we restored power supply at Edamalakkduy. But it got cut off again. Then we brought cable fault locator machine from Ernakulum to pinpoint the fault and fixed it,” Manoj said. “Now power supply is restored at half the tribal hamlets in Edamalakkudy. The remaining will be restored within two days,” he added. According to Munnar DFO MVG Kannan, road connectivity has been restored till Edalipparakkudy. “Road connectivity has been restored till Edalipparakkudy and vehicle traffic too has resumed on this route. The road from Edamalakkduy to Sociteykudy is totally damaged and will need some more time for work completion,” said Kannan. "Proper road connectivity to Edamalakkudy would be impossible without constructing a concrete road. Now have we repaired the mud road. But it will be washed away in the next rain. We need a special government order to construct a concrete road,” Kannan said. The tribal village inside Munnar forest division was cut off from the rest of the world after serial landslides in August first week.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/edamalakkudy-gets-power-after-70-days/articleshow/78688300.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai turning into data centre hub, 6 firms bet Rs 12,000 crore investment||CHENNAI: Chennai could fast emerge as one the most prominent private data centre hubs in the south, with at least six companies committing more than Rs 12,000 crore investments between April and now, and many more projects expected soon. Availability of industrial parks and land in and around Chennai, undersea cables that connect the city to south east Asian countries and TN’s status as a power surplus state are some of the reasons for companies to choose the city over others. While Mumbai, the financial capital of India, is far ahead on this, Chennai is making a strong pitch to be the second major data hub in the country. “Tamil Nadu’s multiple submarine cable landing stations, surplus power and proximity to key Asian hubs make the state a leading data centre destination. Recent spate of investments is a testimony to the state’s growing prowess as a data centre hub,” Neeraj Mittal, MD & CEO, Guidance TN, said. “A data centre policy of Tamil Nadu is under preparation as there are large number of inquiries from global companies, who are keen to either have their main data centre here or have their data back-up base (disaster recovery centre) in Chennai,” M Vijayakumar, MD, Elcot told TOI. “Data is growing at a phenomenal pace. To store, compute and analyse the same, one requires data centres. With access to the land parcel and our expertise to build and operate data centre parks across India, we entered into an MoU with TN government. While we receive other approvals for constructing the data park, we have started pre-contracting the vendors and expect the work to start within a couple of months,” Rohan Sheth, Head – Real Estate, Yotta Infrastructure, a Hiranandani group company, said. The firm has committed Rs 4,000 crore investment. Yotta typically develops data parks of 150-200MW capacity at each site and has plans to spread across major cities. While it ventured into this business segment in 2019 with a facility in Navi Mumbai, it will soon add one in Greater Noida. “Chennai, with its reputation of being the gateway for global internet companies in India, coupled with the progressive policies of the local government, offers great opportunity to the data centre industry to thrive and flourish. STT GDC (India) already has a significant presence in Chennai with an operational capacity of 30MW of IT load, and another 15MW likely to come into production in the next few months,” said Sumit Mukhija, CEO, STT GDC India. “While we are proud to have a significant presence in Tamil Nadu, particularly Chennai, we seek the state government’s support on policies that are conducive for data centre operators like us, in order to bring more investments and customers into the state,” Sumit added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-turning-into-data-centre-hub-6-firms-bet-rs-12000cr-investment/articleshow/78688281.cms||D Govardan
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||HC quashes FIR against four in harassment case||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed an FIR against four family members of a man from Parner in Ahmednagar district booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for harassing the man’s wife. The man is also one of the suspects. Referring to a Supreme Court verdict, the bench also observed that there is tendency of implicating the immediate relatives of the husband. However, when the bench expressed its disinclination to consider the husband’s petition, the man withdrew it. Following the complaint from a 19-year-old woman, police registered an FIR against her husband and four in-laws on September 29, 2019, under sections 377 (unnatural sex), 498-A (subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) read with Section 34 (common intention) of the IPC. The woman had alleged that her husband would ask her to perform unnatural sex and later demanded Rs 10 lakh from her parents for buying a 4-wheeler and to install an air-conditioner in his room. The in-laws would also harass her citing that she was short and didn’t know cooking. All of them would pass sarcastic remarks against her and in June 2019 they had allegedly beat her and pushed her near a fire place where she sustained burn injuries. Fed up with the harassment she finally lodged a police complaint. While quashing the FIR in case of the petitioners, except the woman’s husband, the bench comprising justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar observed: “On perusal of the FIR and charge-sheet annexed with the petition, it appears that specific allegations are made against petitioner No. 1 (the husband). It has been observed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court that there is tendency of implicating the immediate relatives of the husband. In view of this, we are inclined to allow the application to the extent of applicant No. 2 to 5.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-fir-against-four-in-harassment-case/articleshow/78686141.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Modernization coupled with Covid weigh down on railway porters||COIMBATORE: When the Kovai Express arrived on Thursday afternoon at the Coimbatore Junction, there were hardly three porters at the rear entrance of the station. From noon, none of them have had any work, and so planned to leave home after 4pm. Around seven years ago, there were 87 licensed luggage porters at the Coimbatore Junction. However, as suitcase with trolleys became fashionable and the station added more facilities like granite tiled platforms, escalators and battery cars, porter service in Coimbatore as a profession is dying. For people who visited the Coimbatore Junction a little more than a decade back, the sight of porters sporting dark red shirts with khaki trousers or lungis canvassing passengers at the entrance to the station or at the entrance of trains which had just reached, was synonymous with train travel. However, the last few years have seen their population in the station dwindle. “Ten years back, we were 87 of us licensed porters,” said 67-year-oldMani, who has been a porter at the station for the last 40 years. Porters began seeing the initial drop in business, when travellers began using luggage trolleys, suitcases and luggage bags. “Then as part of station improvement, authorities slowly introduced granite tiles on the platforms making it easy for suitcases with wheels to be dragged, escalators and elevators so people don’t need to climb stairs and battery cars to move old people with luggage, which eventually removed our relevance and requirement in the station,” he added. In 2014, after repeated complaints from porters that their livelihood was getting affected due to modernization, the railways had absorbed around 40 of the 87 people, who were young and fit to be gangmen and trackmen. “We earned around Rs 600 a day pre-Covid times. Now, the number of trains running is less. Passengers have begun bringing minimal luggage and want to avoid others touching their luggage unnecessarily. We get hardly one or two clients a day and mainly to carry gunny bags and sacks and not luggage,” said54-year-old T Rajan, a porter of 20 years who joined the trade following his father’s footsteps. “Now we hardly make Rs 200 a day,” he added. The porters now hope that the railways come up with some role for them where they can receive a fixed salary until they remain fit. “We now go back home with our meagre earnings and are living off some savings and our wife and children’s earnings,” another porter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/modernization-coupled-with-covid-weigh-down-on-railway-porters/articleshow/78689818.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Woman, daughter end life over domestic tiff||NAGPUR: Savita Khangar (45) and her younger daughter Ruchita (20) ended their life by jumping into Ambazari Lake shortly after midnight of Thursday following a domestic feud. The woman’s elder daughter Shwetal, who was also with them, made a futile attempt to convince the duo not to take the extreme step. Shwetal was talking to her family members when she spotted her mother and sister heading towards the lake. She shouted for help, but it was too late as the duo jumped into the lake. The woman and her two daughters had walked more than 10 kilometres to reach the lake from their Vidya Nagar residence in Wathoda layout. Police said Savita and her daughters were targeted by their family members as they could not repair a ceiling fan. The quarrel snowballed into a major tiff leading to the suicides. The incident has now triggered a jurisdictional wrangle between Ambazari and Nandanvan police stations. Ambazari police, deviating from the norms, are unlikely to register an offence citing jurisdictional issue even after registering accidental death. A senior official of Ambazari police station said the domestic quarrel had taken place in the jurisdiction of Nandanvan police station where an offence can get registered. Nandanvan police stated that no one came forward with any complaint. Family sources said that Savita and her daughters were allegedly cornered and also manhandled by the relatives of her husband after which the woman decided to end her life along with her daughters. “In the past, too, Savita faced similar harassment many times and once, she even left home, but returned after some time,” said the family source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-daughter-end-life-over-domestic-tiff/articleshow/78709226.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cell on wheels to generate funds, improve connectivity||NEW DELHI: To boost cellphone network connectivity and generate more revenue, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has also decided to implement its Cell on Wheels (COW) policy. After the North Corporation commissioner Gyanesh Bharti gave the nod to present the proposal before the deliberative wing of the civic body, it was discussed by the standing committee last week. “However, it was postponed for the next meeting because members wanted clarification on some points and some amendments. But also, we all are in favour of policy as it will not just boost revenue but improve mobile connectivity and benefit residents,” said leader of House, Yogesh Verma. The policy includes granting permission for installing moveable cell towers in public places, such as parking lots, parks, markets and other vacant sites. The maximum area covered by the structure would be 50 square metres with the maximum rental being Rs 339 per square feet per month in addition to the applicable taxes. North civic body standing committee chairman Chhail Bihari Goswami said the initiative would also help the municipal corporations to generate more funds in the post-Covid world. “We need to look for such resources to generate revenue for incurring basis expenses,” Goswami claimed. “The civic body will only provide the space for installing and operational requirement of the mobile tower for a maximum period of three years and minimum period of three months. The telecom company or service provider will have to adhere to all guidelines set up by the Union ministry of telecom, TRAI, etc. Further, monthly rental charges for the land allotment shall be increased after three years @ 8% per annum and the revision of rates will be the discretion of the North DMC,” the proposal stated. If the telecom company or service provider wants to operate from the same space after three years, they would need to apply with the civic body three months before the completion of the time-period. “However, the application will be treated afresh and scrutiny will be done to check all norms are adhered,” the proposal further clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cell-on-wheels-to-generate-funds-improve-connectivity/articleshow/78689820.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Government colleges in Kolkata slash UG admission fees||KOLKATA: Several government colleges in the city have reduced admission fees for candidates enrolling in the undergraduate courses keeping in mind the financial stress in several families owing to the pandemic and to ensure that no student gets deprived of higher education due to lack of resources. Some colleges have reduced the fees by almost 60% in certain subjects while many others have not raised annual fees this year. Some colleges are helping the students on individual case basis. The state had earlier waived off application fees for students applying for undergraduate courses. This helped the students to apply in several colleges and in multiple subjects. Vivekananda College has reduced fees by ‘almost 60%” in science stream and 30% in humanities. “We have done this keeping in mind the fact that a lot of families are facing financial distress due to the pandemic and the lockdown,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College and president of the Calcutta University chapter of All Bengal Principals’ Council. Jogesh Chandra Chaudhuri College, too, has reduced fees in all subjects. In some subjects, the reduction is almost 50%. For example, fees for BCom (Honours) has come down to Rs 1,903 from Rs 3,110. In geography honours the fees has come down to Rs 2,928 from Rs 5,535. In BA honours, students will have to pay Rs 1,873 compared to Rs 3,080 last year. “Several families are struggling due to the pandemic, but no student should miss the opportunity to get admitted into a college due to financial reasons,” said Pankaj Kumar Roy, principal of the college. Authorities at Derozio Memorial College have reduced the fees by 50% in all streams. “We are providing further financial assistance to 200 students who were unable to pay the revised fees,” said Dibyendu Talapatra, principal of the college. Basanti Devi College has not raised the fee this year. “Every year the fee is raised by but this year we have kept it same as last year,” said Indrila Guha, principal. Indranil Kar, principal of Surendranath College, said they were providing assistance to individual cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-colleges-slash-ug-admission-fees/articleshow/78689824.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||TN increases solatium for Pocso case victims||COIMBATORE: The state government has created the Tamil Nadu Child Victim Compensation Fund under the Pocso Act to provide compensation to the victims. The state has increased the compensation to the minor victims of penetrative sexual assault to Rs 7 lakh from Rs 4 lakh. Likewise, victims of aggravated penetrative sexual assault would get a maximum solatium of Rs 10 lakh and if the victim dies, her family would get Rs 10 lakh. The state government has been providing compensation to the victims of Pocso cases since 2012. Once the case comes up for trial, the investigating officer has to produce the victim before the district legal service authority and she would be given an interim fund. The remaining amount would be handed over to her after the final verdict. The state has also increased the compensation to the victims of sexual assault to Rs 2 lakh from Rs 1 lakh and that of to the victims of aggravated sexual assault to Rs 4 lakh from Rs 2 lakh. S Madumathi, secretary to government, had issued an order on October 3 for creating the Tamil Nadu Child Victim Compensation Fund under the Pocso Act based on the recommendation of the commissioner of social defence. On August 26, 2019, the state chief secretary had instructed the commissioner of social defence to send a proposal in this regard to the government. The commissioner of social defence had requested to establish a separate fund by making an initial allocation of Rs 14.96 crore, which was sought to be credited to the savings bank account that was opened for the purpose, and approve the rules for operation of the fund. As of now, the state government has sanctioned Rs 2 crore for the Tamil Nadu Child Victim Compensation Fund. Based on the offence, 13 types of compensation would be given to the victims. At least 150 Pocso cases were reported from the rural parts of the district during January 2012-September 2020. Around 90 cases are still pending before the trial court. Six victims were given the compensation while 45 cases were referred to the state government for the same. “We won’t refer elopement cases for such compensation,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-increases-solatium-for-pocso-case-victims/articleshow/78689834.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha reports increase in new Covid cases; 45 deaths||NAGPUR: Vidarbha reported 1,639 new Covid cases in a day on Friday, highest in the last eight days. Even as the number of new cases was more, the number of recoveries also continued to be on the higher side. Total 1,951 patients recovered in a day. Now, out of total 1,74,776 cases of Covid-19 till date, 1,52,529 have recovered taking the recovery rate above 87%, which is equal to the national average. Covid fatalities, however, continued to be more than 40 for the fifth day in a row. Due to this, case fatality rate is still at 2.71%. Covid deaths were reported in seven districts out of 11 in the region. These include Nagpur 20, Bhandara 6, Amravati 4, Yavatmal 4, Washim 4, Wardha 3, Chandrapur 2, and Akola 2. Total toll of Vidarbha reached 4,747. Death rate is still more than the state’s 2.64% and national average of 1.52%. New cases came from Nagpur 674, Chandrapur 137, Gondia 124, Amravati 119, Buldhana 118, Bhandara 104, Yavatmal 102, Washim 92, Wardha 72, Gadchiroli 63, and Akola 34 while recoveries were reported from Nagpur 1,009, Chandrapur 200, Wardha 198, Bhandara 149, Amravati 139, Gadchiroli 84, Gondia 56, Yavatmal 54, Buldhana 29, Washim 21, and Akola 12. Amravati: Four Covid deaths on Friday brought the district’s toll close to 350-mark as it reached 347. A spike of 119 cases on Friday took the caseload to 15,309. With 139 patients getting discharge today, the total recoveries have reached 13,702 for a percentage of 89.50. Yavatmal: The district recorded four more Covid deaths on Friday. The latest casualties have taken the district’s toll to 300. With 102 persons testing Covid positive on Friday, the district’s total patient count has gone up to 9,338, with 8,399 recoveries. Wardha: Three persons died due to Covid-19 during treatment on Friday. Total 72 new cases were reported in the district, while 198 patients were discharged. The caseload of the district has now reached 5,710, while three deaths on Friday took the district’s toll to 178. Chandrapur: The Covid count of district crossed the 13,000-mark after detection of 137 new cases to take the caseload to 13,082 on Friday. Two deaths were reported on Friday, taking the district’s toll to 197. The day also saw 200 patients getting discharge. Gondia: For the fourth day in a row, district reported more than 100 new cases, on Friday. With 124 new cases, district’s caseload reached 8,397. With 56 patients recovering in a day, total 7,511 patients have recovered. No death was reported on Friday. Now, 776 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district on Friday reported 100+ cases for the first time after October 2. Total 118 new patients were detected, taking the total cases to 8,303. On the other hand, 29 patients recovered. No death was reported on Friday. Akola: The district reported 34 new cases of Covid-19 while 12 patients recovered on Friday. Akola now has 7,971 total cases, including 7,300 recovered. Two patients – a 65-year-old man from Akot Fail and a woman from Shivar area of Akola city died during treatment taking toll 263. Washim: Four Covid deaths were added in the district’s tally after reconciliation process. With this, total number of Covid deaths has reached 109. On Friday, 92 new cases were identified while 21 patients were discharged. With this, Washim’s total case count reached 5,240, and recovery count at 4,515. Gadchiroli: With 64 new cases reported in the day and 84 patients recovering from Covid-19; the district now has 911 patients under treatment. No death was reported on Friday. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 78.3%. Bhandara records 6 Covid deaths, 104 new cases Bhandara: The district reported six Covid deaths on Friday taking the toll to 185. Also, 104 new cases were reported in the day while 149 patients recovered. Bhandara now has total 7,296 cases, 5,853 recovered and 1,259 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-reports-increase-in-new-covid-cases-45-deaths/articleshow/78709248.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Water in Idukki dam near orange-alert level||Idukki: Water level continued to increase in Idukki reservoir and has reached closer to the orange alert level. Water level at 4pm on Thursday was 2,392.88 ft. The orange alert level for Thursday was 2,396.85. “The inflow was three times higher than the PH (power house) discharge. We will monitor the situation till Friday and if it continues to increase, we will issue further warnings for orange alert,” dam safety wing assistant executive engineer Aloshy Paul told TOI “Our wing is closely monitoring the situation. The rule curve is not mandatory for opening the shutters. If the level increases suddenly, we can open the shutters before it reaches the fixed rule curve,” added the official. Meanwhile, KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP) Supriya S, on Thursday, told TOI that there is no heavy rainfall predicted in the coming days. “As per present warnings, there is no need to open the shutters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/water-in-idukki-dam-near-orange-alert-level/articleshow/78688329.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 16, 2020||Business||Twitter service restored following global platform outage||SAN FRANCISCO: Twitter service appeared to be restored Thursday evening after a technical problem caused a global outage of nearly two hours on the social media platform used by hundreds of millions worldwide. The outage marked a new setback for the network, which is fending off accusations of bias over its decision to block a news report critical of Democratic White House candidate Joe Biden. "Twitter has been down for many of you and we're working to get it back up and running for everyone," the California-based company tweeted. "We had some trouble with our internal systems and don't have any evidence of a security breach or hack." At around 2340 GMT, it was possible to carry out certain functions, such as retweeting a post, but many users were still unable to send a new tweet. "Something went wrong, but don't fret -- let's give it another shot," an error message said. According to downdetector.com, users on every continent had reported being unable to use the platform, but the outages were concentrated on the east and west coasts of the United States, as well as Japan. The outage appeared to have started around 2130 GMT. "We are continuing to monitor as our teams investigate. More updates to come," Twitter's application programming interface site said. Twitter this week has been fending off accusations of bias since taking the dramatic step of reducing the reach of a New York Post article critical of Biden and drawing a harsh rebuke from conservatives. It was the latest technical breakdown to knock Twitter offline. The platform experienced an hour-long outage in July 2019, one lasting several hours a year ago and yet another last February. More worrisome were hacking attacks on popular platforms like Twitter. In July, it was the victim of a spectacular attack when prominent Americans, including former president Barack Obama, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, Microsoft founder Bill Gates and Tesla chief Elon Musk, saw their accounts hacked. The hack affected at least 130 accounts, with tweets posted by the intruders duping people into sending $100,000 in Bitcoin, supposedly in exchange for double the amount sent. Several people have since been charged for the hack. In September 2019, Twitter experienced a brief but embarrassing attack: the account of its founder Jack Dorsey was hacked and erratic and offensive messages were posted by his account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/twitter-says-investigating-global-platform-outage/articleshow/78691490.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport rapid test unit likely by end of October||KOLKATA: Efforts are underway to roll out a swab collection facility and isolation centre soon at Kolkata airport for passengers flying in from abroad. Sources in the government and at the airport said they hoped to offer the testing on arrival option to flyers by end-October or latest beginning December. As per the initial discussions held between the airport operator and state officials on Wednesday, health department will collect swab samples of passengers who touch down at Kolkata without a Covid report, ask them to wait at the air-conditioned makeshift area for 6-7 hours and after receipt of the report from an ICMR accredited laboratory, Covid negative passengers will be returned their passports and allowed to head home. Those who test positive will either be sent to a hospital or a safe home as advised by the doctor. CM Mamata Banerjee had on Tuesday said the state was ready to provide a facility for Covid tests at the airport like the ones already operational in Delhi and Mumbai. “We will set up a makeshift isolated area between the baggage carousal and the departure gates in the international wing where arriving passengers will deposit passports and health department personnel will collect swab samples. The passengers will have to wait in enclosure till the reports arrive,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. An official said the enclosure will have all basic facilities, including washrooms, cafeteria, eateries, WiFi and charging points to ensure flyers aren’t inconvenienced during the long wait. In Delhi, where RT-PCR tests are carried out on arrival, the package comprising testing, waiting in a lounge and meals costs Rs 5,000. No price has been worked out for Kolkata yet. International flights to Kolkata are currently restricted to only those that bring in Covid-negative flyers. The test has to be done within 96 hours prior to the flight departure for Kolkata. The negative report needs to be submitted online before passengers are allowed to board. In the UK, testing is expensive (around Rs 20,000) and time-consuming. Though there is demand for flights from Singapore, airlines have not been able to introduce them as testing is again controlled in Singapore. International flyers hailed the decision. “I decided to travel via Delhi while returning from Amsterdam as getting a test done is near impossible for a person who displays no symptom or doesn’t have an immediate Covid contact. If the facility is available in Kolkata, many will take direct flights back,” said IT consultant Debabrata Banik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-rapid-test-unit-likely-by-end-of-oct/articleshow/78689845.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Second wave of Covid-19 lurking, don’t lower guard: Experts||HYDERABAD: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state is expected to rise three-fold by the end of the year, a revised forecast by the think tank ASCI- FICCI- FTCCI has suggested. According to the forecast, Telangana might start adding 3,500 new cases per day while the death toll has been predicted to double-up. The think tank also said that a second wave of infection might be round the corner, warning the state against lowering down its guard. As per the rank of performance in controlling the virus, ASCI- FICCI- FTCCI said that Telangana stands first among the southern states. “As we are still in the middle of the Covid-19 health crisis and not over the hump yet, focus needs to be more on the cumulative active cases as opposed to cumulative positive cases. Given the upcoming festivals and the onset of winters, we need to be more cautious. However, there is no reason to panic,” said Dr Saswat Kishore Mishra, assistant professor at Centre for Heatlh Care Management of ASCI. According to the joint report prepared by the think thank, the cumulative active cases would increase to 83,564 as per the current pace. Assuming that there comes an exponential spike, it would rise up to 91,868. Cumulative deaths, meanwhile, may scale up to 2,086, whereas the death per day are expected to reach 11 (from the present count of 8). The report also laid stress on the need to take care of frontline workers and improve public health facilities. “We need to motivate and incentivize the nurses and para-medical staff by providing insurance coverage and increasing their salary by 35%. The government should also encourage final year medical studentsto work in tertiary care centres,” said Dr Subodh Kandamuthan, the director of Centre for Healthcare Management, ASCI. He also said that the government should bring Covid-19 treatment under the Aarogyasri scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2nd-wave-lurking-dont-lower-guard-experts/articleshow/78689931.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Nearly 200 Delhi zoo animals past their prime||NEW DELHI: Two white tigers aged 13 and 14 years are among 199 animals of various species at the Delhi zoo that have either completed their average life span or two-thirds of its life span. An official at National Zoological Park said the authorities were focusing on health, hygiene and nutrition for these animals. The zoo currently houses 1,070 animals of 83 species, including 35 mammals, 36 birds and 12 reptiles. Ramesh Pandey, its director, said, “Tigers usually live eight to 10 years in the wild but can survive till their 20s. In captivity, they have lived for a maximum of 26 years but their average life span is 16 to 18 years. Two white tigers at the Delhi zoo have reached maturity.” The average life span in captivity is 13 and 20 years for lions and jaguars, respectively, he added. Among the 199 mature animals at the zoo are lion-tailed macaque, bonnet macaque, bison, jackal, common fox, Himalayan black bear, sloth bear, cobra, python, jaguar, langur, elephant and great pied hornbill. After identifying senile and mature animals, the zoo authority is taking utmost care to ensure their long life, said an official. “They take birth and die depending on various biological, environmental, clinical and genetical factors,” said Pandey. “However, after identifying old animals, we are focusing on their health, hygiene and nutrition. Enhanced and scientific health screening, enrichments, food and vitamins supplements are being induced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-200-zoo-animals-past-their-prime/articleshow/78689853.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Pregnant woman dies in accident on NH||Alappuzha: A 33-year-old pregnant woman died after she was run over by a private bus in front of her husband on NH 66 at Chandiroor here on Thursday morning. Aroor police said that the deceased has been identified as Shelmi Paulose, Maikav, Thamarassery, Kozhikode. The police said that the accident took place around 7:45 am when a truck coming towards Kochi rear-ended the bus that was also heading to Kochi. “Shelmi was dropped by her husband Sinoj at the bus stop in Chandiroor. She was a nurse with a private hospital in Kochi since six years. She was five-month pregnant and she was staying in a rented house at Chandiroor with her husband and their two children. As she was boarding the private bus heading to Ernakulam from Eramallor here, the truck rear-ended the bus. She fell down and was run over by the same bus. Though she was rushed to the private hospital she worked, she succumbed to her injuries,” the police said. The body was handed over to her relatives after completing legal and medical examinations at Government Hospital, Tripunithura, police said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pregnant-woman-dies-in-accident-on-nh/articleshow/78688373.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Mexican challenges murder conviction||MADURAI: Madras high court on Thursday ordered notice on a plea moved by a Mexican national challenging his conviction and life sentence awarded by the trial court for murdering his girlfriend, who is the mother of his child, in 2012. A division bench of Justices K Kalyanasundaram and T Krishnavalli was hearing the appeal filed by Martin Montrique Mansoor, who is residing in Madurai. Martin was pursuing his postdoctoral studies in a college at Srivilliputhur while his girlfriend Cecile Denise Acosta, 36, also hailing from Mexico, was learning ‘Mohiniattam’ at Kerala Kalamandalam in Thrissur. Following discord in their relationship, a dispute arose over the custody of their child. Martin murdered Acosta on April 9, 2012, wrapped her body in a travel bag, took it in his car to Madurai and burnt it. To cover up the crime, he lodged a woman missing complaint at Krishnankoil police station a few days later. Subsequently, Austinpatti police in Madurai arrested Martin in the case. Madurai mahila court on September 11 convicted and sentenced Martin to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000. It also handed out five years rigorous imprisonment under IPC section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000. Martin had filed the present appeal before HC Madurai bench seeking to set aside the trial court order and to acquit him. The woman missing complaint which Martin lodged and the spare part of his car found at the place where he disposed of Acosta’s body had turned vital clues in the case to arrest him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mexican-challenges-murder-conviction/articleshow/78689860.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC questions state delay in procuring paddy||MADURAI: “How many paddy procurement centres have been established across the state, whether temporary shelters have been put up to safeguard the paddy during the rainy season and number of paddy bags which are damaged due to rainfall?” the Madras high court raised a series of questions to the state government after taking a serious view of the delay on the part of the authorities in procuring paddy from the farmers. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that there are several allegations in the process of procuring paddy from the farmers such as delay in procurement, bribe demanded from farmers for procurement and also procuring paddy from private traders instead of farmers. Taking into account the plight of the farmers, the judges put forth the series of queries and sought details as to whether the authorities are demanding bribe from the farmers for procuring paddy. The court also asked whether the authorities are procuring paddy from private traders instead of farmers, and the measures taken to procure paddy swiftly without any delay. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by an advocate A P Suryaprakasam, a resident of Chennai. The petitioner stated that farmers from the delta region who have completed the harvest are facing difficulties as they are made to wait for nearly 10 days for the authorities to procure the paddy. Following the rainfall, the harvested crops get drenched which causes huge loss to the farmers. He said that farmers need to be compensated if they are made to wait for procurement. The judges observed that when the yield is more, procurement centres should have been established in all taluk levels to see that the procurement is made very swiftly. Since the procurement is made by the TN Civil Supply Corporation, the judges suo motu impleaded its chairman-cum-managing director of and secretary to the cooperation, food and consumer protection department as respondents in this petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-questions-state-delay-in-procuring-paddy/articleshow/78689856.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Long road to recovery: Telangana counts its losses, CM pegs it at Rs 5,000 crore||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has pegged the loss suffered by the state in Wednesday’s downpour at roughly Rs 5,000 crore. Of this, Rs 2,000 crore would be needed for farmers who lost their crop. After holding a high-level meeting on Thursday, KCR urged the Centre to release Rs 1,350 crore as immediate relief. The chief minister wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Rs 600 crore to support affected farmers and Rs 750 crore for relief and rehabilitation work in areas falling under Greater Hyderabad, which bore the brunt of the downpour. Modi had called up KCR on Wednesday night and assured him that the Centre would extend all help to the state. According to initial estimates 20,540 houses in 144 colonies in Hyderabad were inundated. Around 35,000 families were affected by the heavy rains in the city. The impact was maximum in Charminar, Secunderabad and Khairatabad zones. At Thursday’s meeting, the chief minister took stock of the situation along with senior bureaucrats and ministers. According to an official release, 50 people have died in the rains across the state. The government has decided that family members of those who died in the deluge will be given Rs 5 lakh each. Around 7.55 lakh acres of farm land has been inundated. Senior officials said that even if half that land had standing crops, the damage would be pegged at around Rs 2,000 crore. The chief minister has directed officials to ensure that apartment cellars in all new construction be protected from gushing floodwaters. He added that building permissions should be given in such a manner that builders ensure flood waters don’t rush in and create havoc. The directions came after a number of people either died or got injured while removing water from their cellars. Worried that high tension wires could cause fires in waterlogged areas, the chief minister requested people in Hyderabad and other areas to be patient and take extra precautions till power supply is restored. He released of Rs 5 crore to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) immediately and announced that the government will help people rebuild their damaged houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/long-road-to-recovery-t-counts-its-losses-cm-pegs-it-at-rs-5000-crore/articleshow/78691211.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||China MBBS racket under Bhowanipore police lens||KOLKATA: Cops have launched a probe into a fake overseas medical college admission racket after students sent to China for their MBBS after paying in lakhs had to return. The victims came to know that they were issued tourist visas. When the parents went to the agency’s Bhowanipore office, they were allegedly threatened by the accused. They then lodged an FIR with the Bhowanipore PS. Sources said the gang had been operating in the city for two years. “They advertised in newspapers and elsewhere saying they can get students admitted to Chinese universities. Recently, they had charged Rs 5.5 lakh from a student and offered to admit the victim to a reputable university at Tianjin. The victim even got his visa and left for China. On arriving there, he realized that he had been given a tourist visa instead of a student visa. He was sent back to India. When the victim’s parents went to their office, the accused allegedly threatened them. A case of cheating has been registered against the agency. We will request everyone duped by this gang to contact us,” said a south division officer. The police said they are also investigating an admission probe in which a Thakurpukur resident was offered a seat for his daughter at a government medical college for a fee of Rs 9 lakh towards the end of last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/china-mbbs-racket-under-police-lens/articleshow/78689857.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore turns unsafe for minor girls||COIMBATORE: The city is gradually turning unsafe for girl children, who are increasingly being sexually exploited. They don’t seem to be secure even within the four walls of their houses, where they are being taken advantage of by the family members. On September 5, a 15-year-old girl was molested by her 42-year-old father near Ganapathy in the city. A native of Arur in Dharmapuri district, he was employed with a solar equipment manufacturing unit in the city. On the fateful day, he came home drunk in the evening and molested his daughter, who was alone at home. Despite his warnings not to reveal the incident to anyone, the girl informed her mother, who lodged a complaint with the all-woman police (east). This isn’t an isolated case. Such incidents are becoming more common in the city nowadays. The city has recorded 52 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act in the first nine months of this year, compared to 28 in the comparable period last year. Surprisingly, more cases were reported in the city during the lockdown. As per the data available with the city police, 26 Pocso cases were reported in May, June, July and August months, against 11 in the same period previous year. G Stalin, city deputy commissioner of police (law & order), said more parents were coming forward to lodge complaints against the people who sexually abuse their minor daughters. “We won’t reveal the victim’s name or identify her family members. So, they are no longer afraid to approach us. And we do our best to bring them justice at the earliest.” R Sundar, district child protection officer, said girls from broken families were the main target of sexual predators. “In most of the cases, the victims are aged between 15 and 18 and living with their grandparents after being abandoned by their father or mother. Such girls easily fall in love with men who propose them. The girls then elope with them, who in most of the cases sexually assault the girls and abandon them. In 70% cases, the girls were sexually abused after elopement.” He said in some cases the girls were molested by elderly people. “Working parents, leave their children at the relatives’ or neighbours’ houses, where the latter become targets of elderly people. Parents should be very careful and teach their children about the good touch and bad touch. Only parental care could save children from sexual assaults.” Sundar said following the awareness programmes on child abuse at the government and private schools, many girls were coming forward to reveal their harrowing experiences. “Last year, a schoolgirl was sexually assaulted by her uncle and two others at Selvapuram. After the awareness drive, she revealed the incident, helping police arrest the accused.” The social defence department is, meanwhile, planning to create awareness among the general public. “We will educate the public about the punishment that Pocso cases would attract. Following the amendment to the Pocso Act, judicial authorities can now give death penalty to the people involving in aggressive penetrative sexual assaults. Knowing about the punishment may stop many from committing the crime,” Sundar said. Advocate A Sharmila said the government has set up a special court to exclusively deal with Pocso cases to bring the accused to justice at the earliest. “Many people are not aware about the severity of punishment and awareness should be created among the public about the same. That may act as a deterrent.” Parents and children could contact the child helpline 1098 and police control room number 100 in the case of any emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-turns-unsafe-for-minor-girls/articleshow/78689858.cms||A Subburaj
October 16, 2020||Madurai||‘Petitioner’ quack held, Madras HC informed||MADURAI: The state government on Thursday informed the Madras high court that a quack from Karur, who was practising with bogus certificates, has been arrested by the police. Pursuant to an earlier order, the state government informed that the Arumbakkam police from Chennai arrested K Jayapandi from his residence at Karur district in the early hours of Thursday. It also informed that police officials are taking Jayapandi to Chennai to produce him before the jurisdictional magistrate. Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice S Vaidyanathan observed that it would be highly dangerous to the society if such people with bogus certificates are allowed to practice medicine. The case was adjourned to November 19 for further hearing. The court was hearing a petition filed by Jayapandi before the high court Madurai bench in 2018. Jayapandi had sought the authorities to remove the seal to his clinic in Karur district after it came to known that he was not an MBBS graduate. During the earlier hearing, the petitioner’s counsel submitted that the registrar of Annamalai University at Chidambaram had issued an MBBS certificate to the petitioner, therefore, he is entitled to practice. The registrar of Tamil Nadu Medical Council (TNMC) in the counter also stated that the provisional medical registration certificate possessed by the petitioner was not issued by the TNMC and it was fabricated. Though the petitioner’s counsel sought permission to withdraw that petition, the court said that it is not inclined to permit him to withdraw the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/petitioner-quack-held-hc-informed/articleshow/78689848.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Plans being chalked out to get B’desh ship back into high seas||Visakhapatnam: Efforts to get the aground Bangladesh ship into high seas have started but authorities will find the task difficult as the ship is stranded in the rocky area at the Tenneti Park beach. It will take more than a week to get the vessel back into the high seas. The authorities, including Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT), Navy and Coast Guard, are reportedly chalking out plans for the rescue operation. According to sources, fuel would be unloaded from the ship to tankers first to avoid any oil pilferage during the rescue operation. After that, the sand under the ship would be cleared and it would be dragged into the waters with the help of tugs. The rescue operation was reportedly assigned to Erickson Company. The district collector said that administration will extend its help in unloading the fuel from the vessel to tankers and the remaining operations will be taken care by the Indian Navy, Coast Guard (ICG), port and other authorities. The Bangladesh ship MV MAA had drifted from the anchorage area of the port to Tenneti Park after the vessel lost its anchors due to heavy cyclonic winds a couple of days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/plans-being-chalked-out-to-get-bdesh-ship-back-into-high-seas/articleshow/78688601.cms||Siva G
October 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||At Rs 60/kg, onions leave Vizag shoppers smarting||Visakhapatnam: Onion prices in the city’s retail markets have risen to Rs 60-70 per kilo, leaving customers teary-eyed. Meanwhile, the quality of onions at rythu bazaars has many irked. A kilo of Kurnool onion is selling for Rs 55 in the retail market, while the Maharashtra variety is selling for Rs 60-70. “We have no option but to buy poor quality onions,” says K Siva Kumar, a resident of Madhurawada. Traders say the quality of onions declined due to heavy rains. They anticipate onion prices to rise further around Dasara owing to an increasing gap between demand and supply. “Only last week, we sold one kilo onion at Rs 50, this week we are selling at Rs 60-70, price may touch Rs 100 in the coming days,” a trader said. “We appeal to authorities to take action against traders and carry out raids to unearth illegally stored onions,” said Anil Kumar, a resident of Arilova. Horticulture officials said that Vizag city consumes 50-60 tonnes of onion a day, but gets only 30 tonnes with supply from Maharashtra having declined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-rs-60/kg-onions-leave-vizag-shoppers-smarting/articleshow/78688576.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Vadodara||Labrador pup stolen from petrol pump||Vadodara: Two persons allegedly stole a labrador pup from a petrol pump in Mujmahuda on Wednesday night. The pup belonging to the petrol pump’s owner Jay Patel was stolen by two scooter-borne men who had come to refuel their vehicle. Patel said that the two men took advantage of the situation when all attendants were busy with decantation of a fuel tanker. “The pup was tied outside the pump’s office as it had been bathed. The rider came near the pup and kept it on his scooter’s footboard,” Patel said. When they noticed the CCTV camera, the duo put on mask. The footages of CCTV camera shared by Patel shows that the pillion rider tried to remove the leash with his foot, but he was not able to, he untied it with his hand. “We have noted the vehicle’s registration number and shared all evidence with police,” said Patel. A complaint was given by him, but an offence is yet to be registered. The three-month-old pup was recently bought by Patel and during the day, it used to remain at the petrol pump.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/labrador-pup-stolen-from-petrol-pump/articleshow/78687358.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||Covid woman delivers healthy baby boy in 108 ambulance||SURAT: A paramedical staff of emergency service 108 helped a 22-year-old pregnant woman deliver her baby boy in the ambulance in Surat late on Wednesday evening. According to Fayaz Pathan, programme coordinator of GVK-EMRI Surat, so far 30 pregnant women delivered babies in 108 ambulances in the last six months. Ratna Solanki, a resident of Indiranagar in Bhatar, started getting labour pain before they could could reach the New Civil Hospital and Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) Piyush Patel had no option but assist her deliver the child in the van itself. Bit mother and child are fine and healthy, said 108 sources. Pathan said that they received an emergency call at 7:30 pm from a doctor at Althan Health Centre about a Covid-19 positive pregnant woman who needed immediate hospitalization for delivery. Solanki had come to the health centre for routine check-up but started getting labour pains. “We immediately sent an ambulance from Navjivan with EMT Piyush Patel and pilot Nilesh Chauhan. Upon examining the pregnant woman, EMT found that the woman was in advance labour and that she would deliver her baby at any moment,” said Pathan. “Piyush didn’t waste any time and started the process of delivery in the ambulance itself. Meanwhile, Chauhan raced to the trauma centre in the New Civil Hospital campus and rushed in to call doctors to come to check on the woman in the ambulance. But by the time doctors arrived, the woman had already delivered the baby. Later, both mother and newborn were shifted inside the hospital ward for further treatment,” Pathan told TOI. “Total seven 108 ambulances are dedicated to ferrying Covid-19 positive patients to hospitals in the city. Paramedical staff attached to these take all precautions and wear personal protective gear while attending to such patients in the ambulances,” he said, adding that in 31 cases, EMTs assisted safe deliveries at the spot in Surat city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ncov-woman-delivers-healthy-baby-boy-in-108-ambulance/articleshow/78688047.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||New Town gets one-stop waste-to-wealth store||KOLKATA: New Town now has a one-stop waste-to-wealth shop where people can hand over their waste to men and women, who will then churn out innovative products that others can buy. Promoted by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), the facility includes a workshop on waste segregation and value-addition. On Thursday, several such aesthetically designed products like bag, bowl, table mat, candle, backpack, key ring, broom, fridge magnet, rope and carpet made of recycled cloth, plastic, glass, rubber, paper, metal and e-waste like battery, cellphone and computer were displayed at tastefully done sales counter run by Kolkata Society For Cultural Heritage (KSCH), a social enterprise and another NGO. KSCH has mobilized about 160 women from different self help groups across the state to innovate, design and display their products made from solid waste. The facility has a donation area where people can walk in with their used clothes, cellphones and other goods that they wish to discard. “We are appealing to New Town residents to donate their waste items here,” said an NKDA official. There is also a small coffee shop for visitors, which will be managed by NKDA through a dedicated store manager. The store will operate from noon to 8pm. Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, who inaugurated the solid waste recycling store, said it was a first-of-its-kind concept. NKDA has been working on many initiatives to develop New Town as a zero-waste township.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-gets-one-stop-waste-to-wealth-store/articleshow/78689888.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Youths to light up spirits of children at orphanages||COIMBATORE: This Diwali would be different one for about 500-odd underprivileged children living in various orphanages in the district. A group of youths under the aegis of Youth Helping Hands is all set to gift these children a ‘diya kit’ to make the festival of lights a memorable one. Arun, founder of Youth Helping Hands, says, “The kit wold contain new dress, sweets, snacks, masks, sanitisers, crackers, napkins, stationery items and a special dinner.” Arun, who grew up in an orphanage, says children in such homes are deprived of happiness that comes with festivals, unless Good Samaritans pitch in with contributions. Arun, along with his friends, has been hosting diya celebrations at the orphanages for the past 11 years. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Youth Helping Hands has joined hands with Aram Anbin Adaiyalam this year. “We plan to visit orphanages and give ‘diya kits’ to more than 500 children in and around the district on November 7 and 8,” he said. Besides giving them the goodie bag, cultural programmes and games would also be arranged for the children, Arun said. People could donate new dresses and other things for the ‘diya kit’. Interested people may contact at 9790376745.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youths-to-light-up-spirits-of-children-at-orphanages/articleshow/78689868.cms||---
October 16, 2020||---||Bihar elections, Phase I: 319 in poll fray have criminal records||PATNA: Of the 1,066 candidates, who are in the fray during the first phase of the state assembly polls, altogether 319 have criminal antecedents, according to the data released by the Election Commission. Few of them have cases of serious nature like murder, kidnapping and extortion lodged against them. Gaya district, which has 10 assembly constituencies, tops the list with 49 candidates having criminal antecedents. Of them, 10 are from the Guraru constituency alone. Similarly, 39 contestants in the fray are from Bhojpur district followed by 37 in Rohtas and 23 in Buxar district, respectively. The remaining 170 candidates are from other districts like Munger, Jamui, Nawada, Patna, Jehanabad, Aurangabad, Lakhisarai and Kaimur. An official of the commission said majority of the constituencies going to the polls in the first phase were hit by Left wing extremism. “Data for the second and the third phases of elections slated to be held on November 3 and 7 are yet to be released. The process will start after the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers for the two phases,” the official told this newspaper on Thursday. A recent analysis by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch revealed that the outgoing assembly had 136 legislators with criminal antecedents. Moreover, 94 of them had cases of serious nature pending against them. The present strength of the assembly is 243. Its term will end on November 29. Additional CEO Baijunath Prasad Singh said every candidate had to fill up form 16 (read affidavit) furnishing details about his/her assets, education qualifications, liabilities, public dues and criminal cases, if any. “The objective behind the provision is to make voters aware of the criminal activities of the candidates in the fray,” he added. Altogether 71 assembly constituencies spread over 16 districts are going to the polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/phase-i-319-in-poll-fray-have-criminal-records/articleshow/78689932.cms||Ramashankar
October 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Swift response from cops saves man’s life||Kakinada: Swift response from the police helped save the life of a person while he was being washed away in Yeleru canal in East Godavari district on Wednesday night.At around 8 pm, someone called the police control room and informed that a man was clinging to a tree and screaming for help after getting washed away by the force of the water along with his motorcycle near Gudivada village in Peddapuram mandal. The control room immediately asked Peddapuram police station sub-inspector Balaji to rush to the spot. The police, with the help of locals, managed to tie their shirts to use as a rope and pulled the man, identified as Kayala Veerendra of Jaggampeta, to safety. His bike could not be recovered though. Elsewhere in Guntur, a 23-year-old pregnant woman could not be shifted to the hospital after flood waters cut off the road link to the village and was forced to deliver in her village with the help of local women. The woman from Epuru Lanka village, a riverbank hamlet in Kollur mandal, started getting labour pains in the morning. Though police rushed to the village after getting a call for help, they found it difficult to shift the woman. Local women then helped the pregnant lady, Vasumalla Prasanna, safely deliver a baby. Subsequently, local SI Ujwal Kumar managed to shift the new mother and her baby to the Kollur PHC by tying a rope in the gushing waters. The ANM associated with the local hospital had asked the family of Prasanna on Wednesday itself to shift her to the hospital. However, the family did not move as flood water had never entered their village in the past. But to their shock, the gushing torrents cut off the road link on Thursday by the time they got ready to move her to the hospital. Doctors at the PHC said both mother and child are safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/swift-response-from-cops-saves-mans-life/articleshow/78688481.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar promises housing for poor, old-age homes for elderly||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said multi-storey buildings would be built in towns across the state for homeless people if he is given another term. Addressing public meetings at Bargibha, Suryagarha (in Lakhisarai district) and Chakai in Jamui district, Nitish said such buildings would be built in every town in the state. Also, free-of-cost accommodation will be provided to elderly citizens deserted by their families. “The government will set up ‘ashrams’ (old age homes) for them,” the CM added. He also announced to give financial assistance of Rs 25,000 to girls after passing Class 12th(intermediate) examination and Rs 50,000 after graduation. At present, the government gives Rs 10,000 to intermediate pass out girls and Rs 25,000 to graduates. Referring to women’s empowerment, one of the main election planks of JD(U), Nitish said his government would give women a grant of up to 50 % of the project cost, capped to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh to launch new entrepreneurship programmes. He also promised to give interest-free loan up to Rs 5 lakh to women for the purpose. Highlighting the government’s initiatives for women’s empowerment, Nitish said days are not far off when they will work with their male counterparts in government offices. “Jab mahila aur purush dono ek saath mil kar kaam karenge to rajya aur pragati karega,” the JD(U) chief said, reiterating his commitment for ‘ Saksham Bihar, Swablambi Bihar’. He said his government would set up a new department for promoting skill and entrepreneurship in the state. Proper training will be imparted to youths and tool rooms set up in the district and sub-divisional headquarters to promote entrepreneurship during the next term of the NDA government in the state. The CM said over 10 lakh youths got training as part of the youth skill development programme. Apart from training, new machines would be installed in tool rooms so that they could learn the technical know-how and set up their units. “They will not have to depend for raw materials on units outside the state rather they will start exporting them from Bihar after one or two years training under the programme,” he asserted. Besides, Nitish said that solar street lights will be installed in villages to keep the roads and lanes properly lit at night. The government would also ensure the proper treatment of people and their domestic animals. While the government primary health centres and hospitals in rural areas with being connected with new technology to ensure speedy treatment, veterinary hospitals will be set up for eight to 10 panchayats, he added. Sanitation, tap water and irrigation facilities for every agriculture plot will be taken up on a priority basis during the next term. He also talked about the schemes to increase people’s income by promoting agriculture, horticulture and fisheries. The CM later addressed an election rally at Paliganj virtually in which he talked about the continuous support of the central government led by PM Narendra Modi for the development of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-promises-housing-for-poor-old-age-homes-for-elderly/articleshow/78692775.cms||Ramashankar
October 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections, Phase I: 319 in poll fray have criminal records||PATNA: Of the 1,066 candidates, who are in the fray during the first phase of the state assembly polls, altogether 319 have criminal antecedents, according to the data released by the Election Commission. Few of them have cases of serious nature like murder, kidnapping and extortion lodged against them. Gaya district, which has 10 assembly constituencies, tops the list with 49 candidates having criminal antecedents. Of them, 10 are from the Guraru constituency alone. Similarly, 39 contestants in the fray are from Bhojpur district followed by 37 in Rohtas and 23 in Buxar district, respectively. The remaining 170 candidates are from other districts like Munger, Jamui, Nawada, Patna, Jehanabad, Aurangabad, Lakhisarai and Kaimur. An official of the commission said majority of the constituencies going to the polls in the first phase were hit by Left wing extremism. “Data for the second and the third phases of elections slated to be held on November 3 and 7 are yet to be released. The process will start after the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers for the two phases,” the official told this newspaper on Thursday. A recent analysis by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch revealed that the outgoing assembly had 136 legislators with criminal antecedents. Moreover, 94 of them had cases of serious nature pending against them. The present strength of the assembly is 243. Its term will end on November 29. Additional CEO Baijunath Prasad Singh said every candidate had to fill up form 16 (read affidavit) furnishing details about his/her assets, education qualifications, liabilities, public dues and criminal cases, if any. “The objective behind the provision is to make voters aware of the criminal activities of the candidates in the fray,” he added. Altogether 71 assembly constituencies spread over 16 districts are going to the polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/phase-i-319-in-poll-fray-have-criminal-records/articleshow/78713207.cms||Ramashankar
October 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Spend ULB revenue on creating infra in town: Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday asked officials to spend the revenue of municipalities on development works of the same municipality and not to use those funds for any other work. The revenue generated in each urban local body (ULB) should be used for creation of infrastructure in the same town, he said. Jagan also directed authorities to prepare a standard operating procedure focusing on reforms to be brought in to provide better services to the public alongside developing municipalities and corporations, including the revenue expenditure of each municipality. Speaking to officials at a review meeting , the CM said the revenue of each municipality and municipal corporation has to be spent locally on various projects and initiatives, as this makes the municipalities self-sustainable. He also announced that employees’ salaries will be directly paid by the state government through 010 treasury. Jagan also instructed officials to focus on maintaining proper sanitation by keeping the water and sewerage system in good condition and cleaning them on a regular basis. Charges for maintaining sanitation, water and sewerage only have to be collected. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, principal secretary of finance SS Rawat, principal secretary of municipal administration Syamala Rao and others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-spend-ulb-revenue-on-creating-infra-in-town/articleshow/78688502.cms||---
October 16, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar promises housing for poor, old-age homes for elderly||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday said multi-storey buildings would be built in towns across the state for homeless people if he is given another term. Addressing public meetings at Bargibha, Suryagarha (in Lakhisarai district) and Chakai in Jamui district, Nitish said such buildings would be built in every town in the state. Also, free-of-cost accommodation will be provided to elderly citizens deserted by their families. “The government will set up ‘ashrams’ (old age homes) for them,” the CM added. He also announced to give financial assistance of Rs 25,000 to girls after passing Class 12th(intermediate) examination and Rs 50,000 after graduation. At present, the government gives Rs 10,000 to intermediate pass out girls and Rs 25,000 to graduates. Referring to women’s empowerment, one of the main election planks of JD(U), Nitish said his government would give women a grant of up to 50 % of the project cost, capped to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh to launch new entrepreneurship programmes. He also promised to give interest-free loan up to Rs 5 lakh to women for the purpose. Highlighting the government’s initiatives for women’s empowerment, Nitish said days are not far off when they will work with their male counterparts in government offices. “Jab mahila aur purush dono ek saath mil kar kaam karenge to rajya aur pragati karega,” the JD(U) chief said, reiterating his commitment for ‘ Saksham Bihar, Swablambi Bihar’. He said his government would set up a new department for promoting skill and entrepreneurship in the state. Proper training will be imparted to youths and tool rooms set up in the district and sub-divisional headquarters to promote entrepreneurship during the next term of the NDA government in the state. The CM said over 10 lakh youths got training as part of the youth skill development programme. Apart from training, new machines would be installed in tool rooms so that they could learn the technical know-how and set up their units. “They will not have to depend for raw materials on units outside the state rather they will start exporting them from Bihar after one or two years training under the programme,” he asserted. Besides, Nitish said that solar street lights will be installed in villages to keep the roads and lanes properly lit at night. The government would also ensure the proper treatment of people and their domestic animals. While the government primary health centres and hospitals in rural areas with being connected with new technology to ensure speedy treatment, veterinary hospitals will be set up for eight to 10 panchayats, he added. Sanitation, tap water and irrigation facilities for every agriculture plot will be taken up on a priority basis during the next term. He also talked about the schemes to increase people’s income by promoting agriculture, horticulture and fisheries. The CM later addressed an election rally at Paliganj virtually in which he talked about the continuous support of the central government led by PM Narendra Modi for the development of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-promises-housing-for-poor-old-age-homes-for-elderly/articleshow/78689859.cms||Ramashankar
October 16, 2020||Rajkot||Tailor snips off wife’s nose over petty tiff in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A 35-year-old man cut off the nose of his wife of eight years and mother of two children after they fought over some domestic issues in Kodiya village of Gir Gadhda taluka of Gir Somnath district on Thursday. Police said that the victim Vanita (31), had an altercation with husband Kalu Solanki over some domestic chores. Blinded by rage, Kalu picked up a knife and cut off Vanita’s nose before fleeing the spot. Hearing the commotion, however, villagers gathered at their house and found Vanita lying on the floor in a pool of blood dripping from her chopped-off nose. Police said that villagers took her to Una government hospital, but was referred to Junagadh civil hospital. On reaching Junagadh, doctors further referred her to Rajkot civil hospital where she reached late in the evening. Doctors at Junagadh said that Vanita’s condition was stable but had lost a lot of blood. A police official with Gir Gadhda police station said that they were yet to find out the exact reason behind the heinous act as they were yet to record Vanita’s statement, while Kalu was still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tailor-snips-off-wifes-nose-over-petty-tiff-in-gir-gadhada/articleshow/78688486.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Prakasam in-flow continues, levels recede in other areas||Vijayawada: Flooding continued throughout the day at Prakasam Barrage on Thursday as officials lifted all 70 gates and released 7.2 lakh cusecs of water into the sea. While flood levels at Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala projects began receding, Prakasam Barrage received huge inflow from Munneru rivulet. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has so far shifted nearly 1,300 flood-affected persons to relief camps across the city. Collector A Md Imtiaz and VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh visited the flood-affected areas and interacted with those affected. Elsewhere, former deputy mayor Venkata Satyanarayana distributed food to affected persons at Ranigari Thota Katta area and assured them that the government will soon take up construction of retaining walls to prevent inundation along the river bund area in the future. Officials estimate that flooding will continue for at least another two days as neighbouring districts of Telangana were still receiving rains. Rains leave roads in dire shape: The continuous rains over the past two months have left the roads across the city dotted with potholes. The VMC, which is charge of maintaining these roads, has come under criticism for its upkeep of roads with main roads that had been laid during the Krishna Pushkarams in 2016 damaged due to rains. Other roads such as the Nirmala Convent Road, Moghalrajapuram Road, Chuttugunta Road, ESI Hospital Road have seen flood water stagnate for days. Motorist along KT Road also complained of potholes on the stretch. “Repairs done by VMC have failed to keep roads in (proper) condition. The government is neglecting Vijayawada city. Officials should take necessary action against the agencies who laid poor quality roads in the city,” said Jana Sena’s Pothina Mahesh. Optical fibre and gas pipeline works taken up by private agencies along with excavation works taken up for storm water drains (SWD) have added to commuters’ woes. “VMC should take necessary action against private companies who are damaging roads. ESI Hospital Road and other roads in Gunadala are now in a bad shape after a private agency excavated the road for pipeline works. Incomplete SWD works have also resulted in damaged roads,” said K Ratnam a resident of Gunadala. VMC authorities said they have taken up a survey in the city to identify damaged roads. “Estimates will be prepared soon in order to start repair works,” said VMC chief engineer, Mariyanna. Meanwhile, close to 3,550 kilometers of roads maintained by the roads and buildings department in Krishna district are in poor condition. Around 419 kilometers of roads have been damaged and as per official estimates, repairs works are set to cost around Rs 20.7 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prakasam-in-flow-continues-levels-recede-in-other-areas/articleshow/78688461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||MoP agrees to revert 125MW power to AP||Visakhapatnam: The Union Ministry of Power (MoP) has approved the request of the state government to surrender 125 MW coal power allocated to AP Discoms from NTPC. The Discoms will save Rs 191.6 crore per annum on fixed costs with this decision. In a letter addressed to Central Electricity Authority (CEA) on October 13, the MoP mentioned it had decided to revert the power keeping in view AP government’s request. The power was allocated to AP Discoms on July 5, 2017 from coal based stations of NTPC for bundling with solar power under National Solar Mission. Officials of the energy department welcomed the MoP’s decision and felt that it would help the efforts of the state to minimise power procuring costs and reduce unwanted financial burden on Discoms. “The decision of MoP will benefit Discoms which could save Rs 191.6 crore per annum on fixed costs,” energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said. The energy secretary thanked MoP secretary Sanjiv Nandan Sahai for his quick action. The government is exploring ways to reduce power procuring costs. The power utilities have also decided to intensify efforts towards fulfilling the objective of the government which wants to make AP a role model for cheap power. “Apart from providing 24x7 quality power without interruptions, achieving cheap power is also on our agenda,” Srikanth said. By spot purchase power at an average price of Rs 1.63 to Rs 2.80 per unit for March and April, the power utilities became an example to other states and also successfully reduced the financial burden on discoms. The government also saved around Rs 180 crore in coal purchasing tenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mop-agrees-to-revert-125mw-power-to-ap/articleshow/78688615.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Vijayawada||GMC gears up to meet revenue targets||Guntur: Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) Commissioner Ch Anuradha has directed the revenue department to achieve the revenue target. The commissioner asked revenue inspectors and bill collectors to be in the field by 8 am to achieve better results. She said that all administrative secretaries in ward secretariats should go along with revenue officials to collect taxes. Although merchants and commercial establishment owners are struggling to manage the crisis induced by Covid-19, the civic body has intensified measures to collect full tax for the current fiscal. “Any decision regarding the waiver of taxes has to be taken by the state government. Since the state’s own finances are not in good stead due to Covid-19, it is most unlikely to grant concessions to tax payers,” said a senior GMC official. According to information, GMC could garner just around Rs.48.54 crore against the target of Rs.126.40 crore during the current fiscal. The collection of property taxes stood at 38 percent of the target from April to October. Interestingly, GMC registered nearly 10 percent growth in tax collection during the current fiscal when compared to the collection of the corresponding period last year. “It is no mean achievement given the lockdown conditions prevailed for nearly four months. Even after moving into unlock mode, all the commercial establishments were not fully operating impacting the tax collections,” said another official. The GMC commissioner made it clear that they need to mop up more revenue in order to take up developmental works pending for long. She directed the officials to issue red notices to the owners who have turned defaulters. She asked the ward administrative secretaries to maintain the key register of tax assesses and ready the plan for collection of taxes. The commissioner also expressed displeasure for not collecting water cess from users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gmc-gears-up-to-meet-revenue-targets/articleshow/78688558.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stir against privatisation of MR College to intensify||Visakhapatnam: Representatives of various students’ association have decided to intensity their stir against the proposed move of Maharaja Alak Narayan Society of Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust to privatize the Maharaja College popularly known as MR College in Vizianagaram. Dr KVL Raju, correspondent of Mansas Educational Institutions in Vizianagaram, in a statement said that MR College (A), which was established in 1879, will continue to remain a private autonomous college with or without financial aid from the government and it never was and never can be a government college. It was brought under partial financial aid from the government in 1960s as per the then policy. He also mentioned that the on-going reforms have their roots from 2017 with the surrender of the grant-in-aid of MR College of Education to the government and not a newly initiated move. “This policy decision to surrender the grant-in-aid is also in line with the New Education Policy which will come into effect in 2022. It is wrongly being rumoured that this move is to commercialise the institutions. Fee fixation is done by the government for all educational institutions and we will follow the government guidelines,” Dr Raju said in the statement. “Vizianagaram is one of the backward districts of AP and only some of our institutions will meet the eligibility to become a tier-3 educational facility provided we take corrective action now. It is our determination to make Vizianagaram into a Vidyalanagaram,” Dr Raju added. Condemning the statement of Dr Raju, president and the secretary of SFI, Vizianagaram District, Ch Venkatesh and P Rammohan said that Dr Raju has been trying to mislead the people and students with false statements. “How can MR College get aid from UGC, RUSA and few others if it is a private college? If MANSAS fails to run the college with their funds, it is better to handover the college to government instead of privatising the college,” an SFI member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stir-against-privatisation-of-mr-college-to-intensify/articleshow/78688531.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Factory owner held for raping employee||Vijayawada: Police on Thursday arrested a private factory owner cum part-time pastor for allegedly raping a 20-year-old employee at his factory. Tirupati (urban) SP A Ramesh Reddy said that on October 3, the accused allegedly picked the complainant up in a car near Tirupati Renigunta road, took her to an isolated place in Thukivakam village and raped her. Cops further said that while the incident took place on October 3, the police received the complaint on October 12. Police said that the complainant was allegedly being sexually harassed by the accused and had to withstand the ‘predatory’ behaviour in order to make ends meet. Police denied rumours that they were not acting on the complaint and said the complainant had been threatened by the accused and could only lodge the complaint when she received support from her colleagues and friends. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/factory-owner-held-for-raping-employee/articleshow/78688645.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC seeks report on research to develop siddha medicines||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a report from the central government on the researches made so far by the Central Council for Research in Siddha (CCRS) for developing siddha medicines. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said that if various researches are conducted, details should be submitted on the stages of research and the cure. Taking cognizance of the fact that kabasura kudineer, which is an immunity booster is being used at Covid-19 care centres in the state, the judges observed that the central government had informed that randomized control clinical trial is conducted by the Government Institute of Medical Sciences at Noida in Uttar Pradesh on kabasura kudineer as an add on therapy. If the clinical validation of kabasura kudineer as an immune booster is obtained, then the same should also be filed before this court, said the judges. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by a siddha practitioner S Subramanian, a resident of Madurai, who sought the ministry of Ayush to conduct virology study and publish the results after testing the herbal medicine ‘IMPRO’ formulated by him which could be a solution for Covid-19 cure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-research-to-develop-siddha-medicines/articleshow/78689867.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Youth hangs self in hostel, roomie held||Pune: An 18-year-old youth was found hanging from the ceiling at a men’s hostel in Karvenagar on Wednesday, barely three days after he had shifted there from his uncle’s house. The Warje Malwadi police found a suicide note, stating that the youth was ending his life as his roommate had been forcing him to smoke. “Based on the suicide note, we have arrested the 30-year-old man under the charges of suicide abetment. We are probing other angles as well,” senior inspector Machhindra Pandit of the Warje Malwadi police said. “The youth also mentioned that his roommate threatened him when he refused to smoke,” Pandit said. The youth from Jalgaon district is survived by a younger sister. “He had been staying with his uncle in Karvenagar for the past four years and was working with a marketing firm after completing his HSC (Class XII). On Thursday evening, he packed his bags, kept it on the ground floor of the hostel, went to the first floor and hanged himself. A neighbour noticed him and alerted us,” he said. Police found cigarette butts and liquor bottles in the room. “During questioning, the youth’s roommate said the former was going through a rough patch and was recently sacked from his job,” Pandit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-hangs-self-in-hostel-roomie-held/articleshow/78688446.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kochi||M Sivasankar gets Kerala HC respite in gold case||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Thursday ordered Enforcement Directorate not to arrest M Sivasankar IAS, who was principal chief secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan when alleged gold smuggling through diplomatic channel came to light, until October 23. Justice Ashok Menon issued the directive while seeking the views of Enforcement Directorate (ED) on an anticipatory bail filed by the senior IAS officer apprehending arrest. The possibility of arrest despite fully cooperating with the central agencies in the investigation going on for the past 100 days and being questioned for 90 hours was highlighted by senior counsel P Vijayabhanu, who represented the petitioner at the hearing. ED had questioned the petitioner for 30 hours and he has been appearing before them without fail whenever he was asked to. A notice has now been issued asking him to appear before ED at 11am, the senior counsel submitted as soon as the court began hearing at 10:30am on Thursday. The petitioner is not going to flee and he has been here for the past 100 days, the counsel added while seeking a directive not to harass the petitioner until the court hears the matter. Additional solicitor general (ASG) S V Raju, who represented ED, submitted that the reasons stated by the IAS officer in his anticipatory bail plea fearing arrest are not well founded. However, he objected to the court recording as an undertaking that the IAS officer will not be arrested. ED wants to file a counter affidavit as well as produce some documents before the court, the ASG submitted while seeking a hearing on a near date. It is a serious case involving smuggling of huge amount of gold, and possibility of involvement of certain influential people cannot be ruled out. Whatever material ED has will be produced before the court, the ASG submitted. Though the court initially posted the case to November 2 to grant time to file a counter affidavit and issued a directive not to arrest until then, detailed hearing was scheduled for October 23 after the ASG submitted that an earlier hearing should be held if such a directive is being issued by the court. Meanwhile, CBI has sought an early hearing on the petitions filed by LIFE Mission CEO U V Jose and Unitac owner Santhosh Eappen. Due to the stay issued by court, investigation has come to a standstill. The agency is not able to summon files related to the case from the state government or LIFE Mission or ascertain facts from officials who may know about the case, the plea said while seeking to vacate the stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-gets-hc-respite-in-gold-case/articleshow/78688451.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Only one dead in south TN due to Covid, 6 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Thursday reported 455 new Covid-19 cases. Only one Covid-19 death was recorded in the region, which is the lowest in a day in more than four months. The lone casualty is a 74-year-old man from Tenkasi. He tested positive on Wednesday and died on Thursday morning. Meanwhile, in the central region fresh cases continue to dip for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday as it recorded 407 fresh cases, taking the tally to 60,685, which include 3,655 active cases. No districts in the region recorded more than 100 cases on Thursday. The region also recorded six deaths taking the toll to 802. Madurai (83) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the southern region on Thursday, followed by Kanyakumari (80), Virudhunagar (51) and Tirunelveli (51). The other districts recorded less than 50 cases. Virudhunagar (15,028) became the 3rd district in the south after Madurai (17,790) and Theni (15,846) to cross 15,000 total cases. However active cases in Virudhunagar (282) are the 4th lowest in the region after Sivagangai (170), Tenkasi (184) and Ramanathapuram (189). Except for four districts – Madurai (793), Kanyakumari (710), Tirunelveli (614) and Tuticorin (535) – the six other districts have less than 500 active cases. Thanjavur (96) recorded the highest number of fresh cases. Officials said that though the number of tests is high, fresh cases are coming down. Trichy reported 79 cases pushing its tally to 11,642. With 50 cases, the tally of Nagappattinam has climbed to 6,060.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/only-one-dead-in-south-tn-6-in-central-districts/articleshow/78689923.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Man, 25, killed over suspected extra-marital affair in Melur||MADURAI: A 25-year-old man was found murdered in a village near Melur on Wednesday night. His body, wrapped in a polythene cover was found in a water canal. The deceased, identified as M Madhankumar from Attukulam village had completed his civil engineering and working on construction projects. Police suspect that he could have been murdered in connection with an extramarital affair. Police picked up B Vinothpandian of the same village and are searching for other suspects. He left his house on Wednesday afternoon and did not return. His father M Manoharan, 49, received a phone call at night informing him that his son’s body was found in Therkupatti. He immediately rushed to the spot and alerted the police. Madhankumar was found dead with stab injuries. The body was shifted to government Rajaji hospital, where a postmortem was conducted on Thursday. Police said that six people have been murdered over extra-marital affairs in Melur police range alone this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-25-killed-over-suspected-extra-marital-affair-in-melur/articleshow/78689894.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Trichy||Only one dead in south TN due to Covid, 6 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Thursday reported 455 new Covid-19 cases. Only one Covid-19 death was recorded in the region, which is the lowest in a day in more than four months. The lone casualty is a 74-year-old man from Tenkasi. He tested positive on Wednesday and died on Thursday morning. Meanwhile, in the central region fresh cases continue to dip for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday as it recorded 407 fresh cases, taking the tally to 60,685, which include 3,655 active cases. No districts in the region recorded more than 100 cases on Thursday. The region also recorded six deaths taking the toll to 802. Madurai (83) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the southern region on Thursday, followed by Kanyakumari (80), Virudhunagar (51) and Tirunelveli (51). The other districts recorded less than 50 cases. Virudhunagar (15,028) became the 3rd district in the south after Madurai (17,790) and Theni (15,846) to cross 15,000 total cases. However active cases in Virudhunagar (282) are the 4th lowest in the region after Sivagangai (170), Tenkasi (184) and Ramanathapuram (189). Except for four districts – Madurai (793), Kanyakumari (710), Tirunelveli (614) and Tuticorin (535) – the six other districts have less than 500 active cases. Thanjavur (96) recorded the highest number of fresh cases. Officials said that though the number of tests is high, fresh cases are coming down. Trichy reported 79 cases pushing its tally to 11,642. With 50 cases, the tally of Nagappattinam has climbed to 6,060.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-one-dead-in-south-tn-6-in-central-districts/articleshow/78695832.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||M Sivasankar gets Kerala HC respite in gold case||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Thursday ordered Enforcement Directorate not to arrest M Sivasankar IAS, who was principal chief secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan when alleged gold smuggling through diplomatic channel came to light, until October 23. Justice Ashok Menon issued the directive while seeking the views of Enforcement Directorate (ED) on an anticipatory bail filed by the senior IAS officer apprehending arrest. The possibility of arrest despite fully cooperating with the central agencies in the investigation going on for the past 100 days and being questioned for 90 hours was highlighted by senior counsel P Vijayabhanu, who represented the petitioner at the hearing. ED had questioned the petitioner for 30 hours and he has been appearing before them without fail whenever he was asked to. A notice has now been issued asking him to appear before ED at 11am, the senior counsel submitted as soon as the court began hearing at 10:30am on Thursday. The petitioner is not going to flee and he has been here for the past 100 days, the counsel added while seeking a directive not to harass the petitioner until the court hears the matter. Additional solicitor general (ASG) S V Raju, who represented ED, submitted that the reasons stated by the IAS officer in his anticipatory bail plea fearing arrest are not well founded. However, he objected to the court recording as an undertaking that the IAS officer will not be arrested. ED wants to file a counter affidavit as well as produce some documents before the court, the ASG submitted while seeking a hearing on a near date. It is a serious case involving smuggling of huge amount of gold, and possibility of involvement of certain influential people cannot be ruled out. Whatever material ED has will be produced before the court, the ASG submitted. Though the court initially posted the case to November 2 to grant time to file a counter affidavit and issued a directive not to arrest until then, detailed hearing was scheduled for October 23 after the ASG submitted that an earlier hearing should be held if such a directive is being issued by the court. Meanwhile, CBI has sought an early hearing on the petitions filed by LIFE Mission CEO U V Jose and Unitac owner Santhosh Eappen. Due to the stay issued by court, investigation has come to a standstill. The agency is not able to summon files related to the case from the state government or LIFE Mission or ascertain facts from officials who may know about the case, the plea said while seeking to vacate the stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sivasankar-gets-hc-respite-in-gold-case/articleshow/78698399.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad still marooned, 10 more bodies found; Telangana's toll rises to 50||HYDERABAD: Authorities on Thursday fished out 10 more bodies from various parts of Hyderabad, even as the government announced that 50 people have so far died in the floods across the state. Vast swathes of Hyderabad remained underwater and disaster management officials said people are still stuck in multi-storied homes across the flooded city and have been sending SOS to their friends and rescuers. Fortunately, there were no rains in the city on Thursday. “People are asking for a boat, but most of them are asking for food and potable water. Many are crying for help to get out,” a disaster response team official said. Officials said they are getting distress calls from various nook and corner of the city, including Tolichowki, Anand Nagar, Moosarambagh, Begumpet and Ramanthapur. Cyberabad police said that in Mailardevpally, search was still going on for four missing persons. Out of the 8 persons who went missing there, police have recovered four dead bodies. N Madhava Rao, 43, who is employed with a private airline was found dead on Thursday by airport police near Gaganpahad bridge. He got washed away on Tuesday night in swirling waters, while he was travelling on a bike. "On Thursday morning, his bike was found. Later, his dead body was recovered,"’ airport police said. In the same area, three other bodies belonging to a 8-member family, got washed away near a marriage hall in Gaganpahad on Wednesday, including a seven-year-old boy. In Vanasthalipuram, two boys, C Jai Deep, 19, and K Pranay,16, who left their residence on Tuesday, informing their family members that they will return in 10 minutes, did not return. On Thursday, their dead bodies were retrieved from a canal in Injapur, Vanasthalipuram. A 13-year-old boy in Bhongir, a postman in LB Nagar, was among the dead. The postman’s body was found in Nagole cheruvu, when he was on his way to deliver posts. In Malakpet, a watchman K Posaiah,41, was electrocuted after he turned the water motor on in his home. A constable was hailed in Abdullapurmet on Thursday, after he risked his life to bring out the body of a man, who got washed away and his body was stuck in the bushes, behind the lake. The policeman using a nearby earthmover reached out to the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-still-marooned-10-more-bodies-found-t-toll-rises-to-50/articleshow/78691225.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Autos back to 5 passengers, fleecing ahead of festival||KOLKATA: With Durga Puja knocking on the doors, auto operators have allegedly started ferrying five passengers together, throwing social distancing norms to the winds. They have also hiked fares. Several complaints have been lodged with Kolkata traffic police from the city’s northern suburbs, most of the routes being from areas linking the city with the places under Bidhannagar and Barrackpore commissionerates such as Ultadanga, Sodepur, Dunlop, Bangur and Belgachhia. Cops have promised to probe into the complaints and take measures as maintaining social distancing is important in the present Covid times. A Twitter user, Manish, urged the police to take action against auto operators. “This is regarding the auto services in Sodepur and Dunlop areas. Auto drivers are taking more passengers than not only Covid limitations, but even normal restrictions (more than four). They are also charging more fare. They are under some perception that there is no Covid 19 any more now, and hence they do not even use masks,” he tweeted. While Kolkata Police noted down his complaint, they also asked him to contact Barrackpore city police about the matter. “Just for your kind notice, today I got on the auto from Bangur to Belgachhia. the operator took three people at the rear and two at the front. At the same time, they charged Rs 12 instead of Rs 9. I was told that from today onwards they have decided on these rules (due to Durga Puja),” Vivek Trivedi, another Twitter user, tweeted. Usually, a slight rise in fares is witnessed on Puja days. But this time normal profits are not coming by due to the pandemic and this prompted some auto operators to hike the fares early. But carrying more passengers is posing health hazards, said traffic police. In south, auto operators on routes, like Jadavpur and Gariahat, are allegedly demanding higher fares. TOI tried to contact Meghnad Poddar, leader of south Kolkata auto operators’ union but he did not pick up the call. Auto operators in several other routes, particularly in Salt Lake, still prefer to ferry two passengers, instead of four, with double fares. In Ultadanga, the number of commuters is fewer, despite reopening of markets and private offices. “By ferrying four passengers with the existing fares, we are unable to meet our fuel costs,” said an auto union leader in the route between Salt Lake and Ultadanga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/autos-back-to-5-passengers-fleecing-ahead-of-festival/articleshow/78689933.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 16, 2020||Pune||Poor posture during e-classes triggers neck pain||Pune: The ongoing online classes are fast becoming a pain in the neck, literally. Sitting in front of the laptop screen in one position for long hours triggered neck pain in 12-year-old Pratik, which he did not pay much attention to initially. The persistent pain, however, increased as the days passed. “Initially, I would experience stiffness and pain around the neck. These symptoms would increase in the morning or even after 15 minutes of work on the computer,” Pratik said. Upon investigations, the student was diagnosed with trapezitis, which is inflammation of the neck muscles and triggered by improper posture during online classes. After exercises and postural corrections, Pratik is back to normal life and attending his classes with proper ergonomic precautions. “Before lockdown, an average of five children visited our clinic in a month, mostly for a fall or sprain. Rarely anyone visited with back or neck pain. Now, at least one child visits our clinic weekly for neck or back pain,” orthopaedic surgeon Kiran Shete, founder-director of the Spinalogy Clinic in Aundh, said. These kids are treated with a multidisciplinary treatment approach. “After detailed history, investigations and diagnosis, they undergo manual therapy and postural training. When required, muscle relaxants, pain killers, vitamin supplements are also prescribed,” Shete said. Delaying treatment can land up a child with complications. “If not treated early, these symptoms can be a reason for spinal issues in adulthood. It may cause spinal disc injuries and irritation of spinal nerves,” Shete said. As kids are more easily distracted, they are finding themselves hunched over laptops on sofas or beds, perched on hard dining room chairs or subjecting their arms and wrists to ill-placed keyboards. “Most of the children are spending time on desktops, laptops, mobile phones, iPad to get their school work done,” said spine surgeon Rahul Choudhary. Sustained forward neck posture can injure the cervical and lumbar spine structures, as well as ligaments. “Children are the most affected group when it comes to spine health. Online classes have caused problems for cervical spine and neck muscles,” neurosurgeon Pravin Survashe said. In their correct position, neck muscles are designed to support the weight of the head of about five kilograms. Bending forward increases the head’s weight significantly. “Looking down at a mobile phone may put about 27kg force on the neck, which, along with lack of support to the arms and repetitive movement of the fingers, can cause problems to the cervical spine,” Survashe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poor-posture-during-e-classes-triggers-neck-pain/articleshow/78688453.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Media can’t report on extra-judicial confession: Kerala HC||KOCHI: Stringent action will be taken against media and police officers if news about extra-judicial confessions to police or other information obtained during investigation gets reported, the high court said in an order. The court’s order came on a bail plea by Koodathayi serial murders accused Jollyamma Joseph in the murder of her mother-in-law Annamma Thomas in August 2002. The court granted bail to her after holding that it cannot take into consideration the extra-judicial confession while hearing bail application. In the order, Justice PV Kunhikrishnan pointed out that the extra-judicial confession of the accused in Koodathayi murders and other details of the investigation were leaked to media. The court had directed police officers not to leak investigation details to media in 2011 (Murukeshan vs State of Kerala), the bench said. In the order, the court said, “If the confession statement and other materials collected during investigation are discussed in media and divulged to the general public, the situation will be perilous. The general public may not know that a confession statement given by an accused in police custody is not admissible. A court of law can accept only legal evidence. If a court of law decides a case based on legal evidence, the general public may suspect even the judiciary if the present situation of divulging confession statement and other materials collected during investigation is leaked like this.” The court further requested reporters and news anchors to read Section 24 of Evidence Act, which deals with admissibility of a confession, prior to giving news about confession statement of accused in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/media-cant-report-on-extra-judicial-confession-hc/articleshow/78688482.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Shooter among duo arrested on charge of firing at businessman in Pune||PUNE: The city police on Thursday claimed to have cracked the firing case on a building material supplier in Mohammadwadi on Tuesday afternoon, following the arrest of two suspects, including an alleged shooter. The police described the other suspect as a conspirator with whom the material supplier had a dispute over some issue. “We are questioning the duo and are verifying their claims to ascertain the precise motive behind the firing,” deputy commissioner of police (zone V) Namrata Patil told TOI. Senior inspector Krantikumar Patil of the Wanowrie police and his team arrested Rajesh Bhiku Padwal (25) of Gorhe Budruk near Khadakwasla. The police claimed that Padwal had fired three rounds, as against initial report of one, at Mayur Vijay Hande (29) of Handewadi. In a related development, a crime branch team arrested Balasaheb Anant Jadhav (52) of Handewadi for allegedly conspiring and hiring Padwal to kill Hande, the police said. A senior officer said, “There are multiple reasons for the dispute between Jadhav and Hande. Our questioning so far has revealed that Jadhav was fed up with regular disputes with Hande and decided to eliminate him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shooter-among-duo-arrested-on-charge-of-firing-at-bizman/articleshow/78688457.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: LOC against 5 in Rs 174-crore Cox & Kings cheating case||MUMBAI: After registering an FIR against office-bearers of travel firm Cox & Kings (India) Ltd (CNK), city economic offences wing (EOW) has issued a look-out circular (LOC) against accused in the case. CNK allegedly cheated Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited (KMBL) of Rs 174 crore. The LOC against five accused was issued at airports. If a person, against whom an LOC is issued, tries to leave the country or arrives, immigration authorities alert police/investigation agencies. EOW had in August begun a preliminary enquiry into an application by KMBL against promoters and directors of CNK. Police said the applicant had stated that KMBL had granted financial facilities to CNK since 2012. During a review of financial facilities, they found outstanding amounts of more than Rs 174 crore. EOW on October 2 registered a case against CNK office-bearers at Cuffe Parade police station and took over the probe. The accused have been booked for breach of trust, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy under IPC. Peter Kerkar, promoter and director of CNK, had filed two cases at Nagpada police station. In the cases, transferred to EOW, Kerkar accused key managerial persons, company and three banks’ officials of misappropriation of funds and taking loans without the knowledge of promoters and directors of his firm. In the first case, he cited a loss of hundreds of crore. A second FIR on behalf of Ezeego, a CNK sister concern, was also filed. This FIR was against key managerial persons and former CNK employees. The amount mentioned in the FIR was more than Rs 10 billion. The accused allegedly took loan for personal purposes, police said, adding that they were probing the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/loc-against-5-in-rs174cr-cox-kings-cheating-case/articleshow/78688776.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress show of strength in Dubbak||HYDERABAD: Congress put up a show of its strength in Dubbak assembly constituency by taking out a huge rally as party candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy filed his nomination for the bypoll. Pleased with the turnout, AICC secretary in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore appreciated the party leaders. Srinivas Reddy was in the TRS before the announcement for the Dubbak election was made. In a strategic move, Congress brought Srinivas Reddy, who was also vying to be nominated by the TRS for the election, into its fold. TRS instead chose Solipeta Sujatha, wife of MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, who had passed away in August. Srinivas Reddy’s late father Cheruku Muthyam Reddy had represented Dubbak in the past. BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao and Sujatha have already filed their nominations. On Thursday, as many as 18 people filed their nominations. Sudarshan Adrapu filed his nomination as a Shiv Sena nominee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-show-of-strength-in-dubbak/articleshow/78689934.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 16, 2020||India||Will follow SC decision on Hathras: UP||NEW DELHI: The UP government and its police told the Supreme Court on Thursday that they would have no objection to whatever directions the SC gave relating to monitoring of the ongoing CBI probe and providing security to the family of the girl who was allegedly gang-raped. The girl’s family said the SC should monitor the CBI probe and direct transfer of the trial to Delhi after filing of chargesheet. Activist lawyers, led by senior advocate Indira Jaising, demanded that the girl’s family should be provided protection by central forces like CRPF and the family should be provided a lawyer of the SC’s choice. Appearing for the UP government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that the state had itself transferred the probe to the CBI and would join the girl’s family in requesting the apex court to monitor the investigation. He also gave details of the layers of security cordon around the girl’s family, their house and the village by UP police. However, when Jaising demanded that the security of the girl’s family as well as witnesses be handed over to the CRPF, senior advocate Harish Salve on behalf of UP police said his client had no objection to it but requested the court to simultaneously record that such an eventuality would not cast any aspersion on the state police force. Before reserving its verdict on a PIL that was fattened with numerous intervention pleas, the bench said since no one had any grievance against the investigation being monitored by Allahabad HC, “why should the case be not entrusted to the HC for this purpose?” When the SG said it would be better if the SC monitored the probe, the bench said, “We are here as the ultimate supervising judicial body. Let the high court deal with the case. We are there to redress any grievance, if that arises in future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-follow-sc-decision-on-hathras-up/articleshow/78691471.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Theatre-lovers make beeline for Academy||Kolkata: Schoolteacher Debadrita Bose had watched Theatre Formation Paribartak’s political satire, ‘Ekti Uttor Adhunik Samajik Pala’, six times already. Yet, that didn’t stop her and her husband from visiting Academy of Fine Arts on Thursday to watch her favourite play again the day the theatre reopened after a hiatus of seven months. Debadrita wasn’t the only one. Academy’s occupancy has now been restricted to 270 to ensure a gap of five feet between two viewers. Some 120 theatre-lovers bought tickets for the opening show at Academy. This turnout far outnumbered the audience at the two single-screen and multiplex theatres in the city, which also reopened the same day with old and new film releases. Kallol Bose, joint secretary of the Academy, said, “Theatre is not just about entertainment. It is about reality. It involves the passion of people. The group donated the entire proceeds of the show to two ushers, a sound man and a curtain man. Sajal Pal, Prabir Das, Arunangshu Ghosh and Bapi Sarkar were given Rs 10,000 that was collected from the sale of tickets.” Rehearsals for the performance began at 2pm. The auditorium was sanitized an hour before the show. Anyone, who entered, had to go for temperate checks. Hand sanitizers were also given. Academy’s canteen opened but a lot of the regular items from the menu were missing. Cups of tea, of course, were available. It was through social media that Bose came to know about the reopening of the Academy. She had last watched Theatre Formation Paribartak’s ‘Titumir’ on February 14. “Everything has opened. So, why not theatre? I have a habit of watching one play a week. My husband does theatre. Digitally, I have also watched some fund-raising programmes on theatre. But that doesn’t match up to the experience of watching live performances. That’s why I came to watch this play yet again. It talks about the political reality of today and ends with hope for the next generation,” Debadrita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/theatre-lovers-make-beeline-for-academy/articleshow/78689945.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Stuck on terrace, retired scientist, 81-year-old mom saved after 15 hours||HYDERABAD: Marooned and stranded on the terrace of his flooded Saroornagar home, a 65-year-old agriculture scientist and his octogenarian mother spent 15 hours waiting before help arrived in boats. It was around 8.30 pm on Tuesday that water started gushing inside Asif Tanweer's house after an embankment in the nearby lake gave way due to relentless rain. As the water level rose swiftly, he along with his 81-year-old mother took shelter on the terrace. “By 8.45 pm, the water was close to the ankle and I carried my mother with our domestic help and her family and went to the terrace to take shelter. My mother had a shoulder fracture surgery recently and we had to carry her on a wheelchair,” said Tanweer. “As water rose, I saw our household items floating and by 9 pm the whole house was flooded,” he recalled. With the Singareni Colony Lake waters inundating their colony, Tanweer made over 50 calls to the GHMC, NDRF and other authorities seeking help. “They said they would send people, however, they could not come until 11 am next morning,” Tanweer told TOI. “My domestic help’s two children and my mother panicked as there was no sight of any help. My cousin then contacted the district collector as a last resort, gave our coordinates and they reached out to me,” he said. On Wednesday morning, three NDRF team members carried them to a boat. When locals saw the family drenched in rain, some offered them fresh clothes. “They served us warm tea and breakfast. We ate after almost 15 hours. The locals also arranged transport for us to go to our relative’s house in Dilsukhnagar,” Tanveer said, adding: “It was a difficult night. In fact, many residents of the colony were stranded, but we had a narrow escape.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stuck-on-terrace-retired-scientist-81-yr-old-mom-saved-after-15-hrs/articleshow/78691237.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR banks on regulated farming||HYDERABAD: Driving home the advantages of regulated farming once again, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday suggested to farmers to cultivate paddy in 50 lakh acres and other crops in 15 lakh acres as part of controlled farming policy for 2020-21 summer season. At a review meeting with agriculture officials, the CM said the officials should suggest to the farmers what crops should be taken up cluster and mandal wise. He said the farmers should stick to the suggestions made by the government in the rainy season and for summer season as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-banks-on-regulated-farming/articleshow/78689946.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Villagers vent ire over MLA’s visit to lake||Hyderabad: Tension prevailed in two villages abutting a water body in Rangareddy district as villagers protested against the proposed pharma city on Thursday. They also reportedly hurled slippers at the car of TRS MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy. The incident led to the detention of a few dozen people, alleged villagers. However, police denied the charge. The trigger for the anger was a visit of MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy to inspect a lake in the area after the rains. To oppose his entry, farmers from Medipally and Tadeparthy gathered. Their contention was that the MLA should not come to the lake which the phama city will destroy. Tadeparthy sarpanch D Ramesh said, “The lake will disappear once pharma city comes up.” Inspector Lingaiah admitted that a skirmish took place between cops and villagers, but denied anyone was detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/villagers-vent-ire-over-mlas-visit-to-lake/articleshow/78689948.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP burn effigies of Amarinder, Bittu||Ludhiana: Angry over the statement issued by Congress MP Ravneet Bittu, where he took the responsibility for the attack on BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, the BJP district leaders staged a protest against chief minister Amarinder Singh and Bittu on Thursday. They also burnt the effigies of both leaders. The BJP leaders claimed that being at a very responsible position Bittu should not issue such kind of statements. The BJP leaders claimed that Congress was doing politics on farm laws and their party leaders had misguided the farmers, who were staging a protest against the Union government. The BJP leaders alleged that it was on the direction of Congress leaders that BJP state president was attacked and now Bittu had taken the responsibility as well, so their claims had been proved. The district BJP president, Pushpinder Singal, also condemned the statement issued by Congress MP and asked him to apologise for what he had said. He said he would continue with the protests against Congress government and their wrong policies against the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-burn-effigies-of-amarinder-bittu/articleshow/78684084.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sassoon hospital breathes easy, bed vacancy climbs up to 72%||PUNE: The Sassoon General Hospital on Thursday breathed easy with 72% vacant beds after months. The facility — one of the major dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the district — had 370 beds vacant against its capacity of 510 in the morning. The vacancy was significant, considering over 50% of the ICU beds (67 against the capacity of 128) vacant at the Sassoon General Hospital (SGH). The hospital was overburdened for months. On several occasions, ICU beds were unavailable in the months of July and August. In many instances, the facility was unavailable for critical patients because of long waiting list. An official from the SGH, who did not wish to be named, told TOI that the medical and paramedical staffers had been performing the Covid duty tirelessly for the past few months. For the first time in several weeks, there was as such no rush of patients or relatives, he said. The administrative controller of the SGH, S Chockalingam, said now was the time to look forward to the non-Covid activities and resume the medical college activities for students. The SGH official echoed Chockalingam. He said the much-needed breather had given them a chance to turn focus on non-Covid patients and the pending surgeries, delayed by the coronavirus-induced situation. There are 607 doctors, including professors, associate professors, assistant professors and residential doctors, at the SGH. He said the oxygen augmentation work taken up by the SGH administration in September had improved its basic infrastructure of oxygen beds to around 800. “We have 510 beds operational at present. If the need arises, we can increase the bed capacity up to 800 now,” he said, adding that the hospital was ready to face the next surge of Covid infection, if there was any. Santosh Patil, the additional municipal commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad, said when the SGH was closed, the flow of critical patients increased to the Pimpri jumbo unit. Over 50% of the patients at the facility were from outside the PCMC limits then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-breathes-easy-bed-vacancy-climbs-up-to-72/articleshow/78688467.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||RTI activist threatens to burn effigies over no action on plaints||Ludhiana: Perturbed over no action being taken over frequent complaints against municipal corporation officials, city-based activist Rohit Sabharwal has threatened to burn the effigy of principal secretary, local bodies department, and MC commissioner in the coming days. He has given an ultimatum up to November 30 to both officers for acting over the complaints or else he will go ahead with his protest. He claimed that he had made so many complaints against the officials after highlighting their careless attitude towards the ongoing works, but except marking inquiries no action had been initiated against the erring officials. Citing examples, he said on July 9, he had requested to mark a vigilance inquiry for inspecting the quality of the road work carried out a few months back by the MC. In another complaint made on July 29, he had again requested for the marking of a vigilance inquiry against sub-standard roads which had failed the quality test during checks conducted in areas within the jurisdiction of the MC, owing to which crores of rupees had been drained out of the public exchequer. Then on June 3, he filed a complaint regarding losses worth crores being caused to the public exchequer due to an alleged scam by some corrupt officers of the building branch of the MC. Then on October 12, he requested for a vigilance inquiry for not maintaining the measurement books. He said instead of taking action and holding a proper inquiry into these complaints, nothing was done. He said complaints made by him were in public interest and had been filed against the alleged huge embezzlement which had taken place during the development of new roads due to which huge loss had been caused to the public exchequer. He said through this letter he was giving time to the authorities concerned to conduct an inquiry into these matters and conclude the same by November 30, otherwise he would hold a demonstration and burn the effigies in protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rti-activist-threatens-to-burn-effigies-over-no-action-on-plaints/articleshow/78684096.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Flood-hit areas remain powerless for 40 hours||HYDERABAD: Heavy rains that lashed the city on October 13 plunged a few areas into almost 40 hours of darkness as there was no restoration of power supply despite multiple complaints. Residents of Ramanthapur, Rasoolpura, Tarnaka, Shaikpet, Abids were among the most affected as power supply was disrupted soon after heavy rains started lashing the city on October 13. “Transformers in isolated pockets of these areas were inundated due to which we are unable to resume the power supply. Water has entered cellars of many buildings. We can only restore supply after conducting all necessary safety checks,” said J Srinivas, director (operations), Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL), adding that the TSSDPCL received close to 12,000 grievances of which 95 per cent were resolved by Thursday morning. According to officials, as many as 686 feeders were damaged due to the rains, of which 671 feeders were restored and remaining were under progress by Thursday evening. People had to face hardships due to the power failure as many could not seek help as their mobile battery was discharged. The situation was much the same at Shaikpet, Adikpet, Vidyanagar. “There was no power supply for almost 48 hours. Since there is no three-phase power supply, we were unable to turn on the motor for borewell water,” said Narasimha Reddy, a resident of OU Colony. Many were unable to work from home or study for exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-hit-areas-remain-power-less-for-40-hrs/articleshow/78689944.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Seven months on, Haryana’s three-tier strategy shows results||CHANDIGARH: Registering just 14 cases of Covid-19 on March 14, Haryana reached 1,45,507 on October 14, with an average of around 686 cases per day. The death toll in the state due to the deadly virus has reached more than 1,600 with an average of around eight deaths every day in the past seven months. An analysis of last seven-month data taken from medical bulletins released by the state health department revealed that out of the around 1.45 lakh Covid cases in the state, around 45,000 cases of infection were registered in 152 days, from March 14 to August 14, and the remaining one lakh were recorded in just 60 days’ time till October 14. Out of the 1,614 deaths in the state from March 14 to October 14, 613 were registered till August 24 (162 days) and the remaining around 1,000 deaths took place in just 50 days. At one point, the state was among the top 10 in the country with highest cases of coronavirus infection. However, for the past around one month, it has managed to contain the virus and is currently placed at number 17 in the country. During this period, Haryana has not only increased its testing facility manifold but also improved other medical infrastructure to control the pandemic. An analysis of the Covid-19 positive cases in the state further revealed that around 66% of the patients are male and 34% are female. Similarly, men also constitute 70% of the fatalities and women 30%. Explaining the strategies for Covid management, additional chief secretary (department of health and home) Rajeev Arora said the focus is on patient management, clinical management and fatality management to contain the deadly virus. Under clinical management, an expert committee advices doctors and plasma therapy is being used. Patient management includes use of volunteer doctors and paramedical staff, enhanced bed capacity in CHCs/PHCs, filling of 409 posts sanctioned during the Covid-19 period for additional manpower including, epidemiologist and microbiologist. Of these, 183 posts have been filled. Fatality management focuses on death audit of each Covid positive case, corrective measures to reduce fatalities, hospitalisation of co-morbid/elderly patients, timely referrals on escalation of symptoms and improving clinical practices via centres of excellence, Arora explained. He claimed that Haryana developed all these facilities and infrastructure during the pandemic period but got better results in terms of Covid management as compared to several states of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-months-on-hrys-3-tier-strategy-shows-results/articleshow/78689941.cms||Ajay Sura
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||With election year approaching, MLAs worried over pending development works||Ludhiana: With election year approaching fast, Congress MLAs are worried about the development works in their respective wards of the constituencies and pressure is now building up on the civic body officials as well. The Congress MLAs are conducting meetings with the mayor and officials concerned to speed up the development works. But this has irked the councillors of Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP, who claimed that the ruling party MLAs were having meetings with the mayor, Balkar Sandhu, who was not thinking about works in their wards, and that is why no house meeting was being called up despite several requests. On Thursday, Congress MLA Surinder Dawar from central constituency conducted a meeting with the mayor and MC commissioner, along with other officials, at the mayor camp office. The main purpose of the meeting was to pull up officials for delay in the ongoing development works, especially the road works. The councillors from central constituency raised their issues and asked for a speedy solution. Dawar also asked the officials to take action against those contractors who did not start the work despite several reminders. The mayor, however, assured the MLA and councillors that there would be no problem in the development works and by next week one meeting of finance and contracts committee (F&CC) would also take place for giving sanction to the pending work orders. The Congress MLA further said, “The major issues were about pending road works, sewerage choking, streetlights and sewerage manhole lids. The officials were pulled up for unnecessary delay in the work.” He said he would again call a meeting next month for taking progress report because election year is about to come and they will have to complete the pending works. Meanwhile, the mayor said the development works would not stop and officials were told to either perform or get shifted to some other city. He said by next week he would call an F&CC meeting and after that even a house meeting would also be planned. The leader of opposition and SAD councillor, Harbhajan Dang, said, “We are fed up of requesting the mayor for house meetings as he is not listening. Their councillors come and conduct the meetings with the help of ruling party MLAs and their works are taking place at a fast pace, but what about other wards.” He said they would now discuss the issue in detail with fellow councillors and give one week ultimatum to the mayor for the meeting or else they would sit on protest. Meanwhile, the leader of BJP councillors, Sunita Rani, said, “If we ask for a meeting, then the mayor is reminded of coronavirus and social distancing but when their own party MLAs conduct meetings nobody even wears mask and nobody is bothered about precautions.” He said the mayor should either call councillors from other parties for development works or there should be a proper house meeting. Uproar over missing sewerage manhole lids Congress councillor from ward number 20 Navneet Singh complained in the meeting that for the past 20 days he had been demanding some sewerage manhole lids, which were missing, as this could lead to some incident. He said earlier the officials concerned denied having stock and when the stock arrived the employees demanded Rs 1,000 per manhole lid. He said he had demanded action against the employee who had done this blunder and the MC commissioner had also asked for strict action against that employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-election-year-approaching-mlas-worried-over-pending-development-works/articleshow/78684119.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Three men & a woman on 2 bikes swept away in nullah waters||PUNE: Four persons, including a woman, riding on two motorcycles were swept away by the gushing waters as they tried to cross an overflowing nullah bridge at Rajegaon, about 90km from here, on the Daund-Bhigwan road around 10.30pm on Wednesday. The bodies of two men and the woman, besides the two motorcycles, were recovered on Thursday morning about 100m away from the bridge after the water level receded. A search was on for the fourth person. A Daund police officer said, “Shahji Gangadhar Lokhande (52), Appasaheb Harichandra Dhaytonde (55), Kalavati Appasaheb Dhaytonde (48) and Subhash Narayan Londhe (48), all residents of Khanote village, had gone to Rajegaon for some work and were returning on two motorcycles.” He said, “As they approached the nullah, they failed to gauge the strength of the water current flowing over the bridge. The two men riding the bikes tried to cross the bridge, but lost control over their vehicles. The water current swept all four away.” The bodies of Lokhande, Appasaheb and Kalavati were found on Thursday morning, while the search was on for Londhe till reports last came in, he added. The police said it had started raining heavy in the area on Wednesday evening and the intensity of the showers increased by late evening. The four persons had waited for a couple of hours at Rajegaon for the rain to recede before they decided to go ahead with their return journey. They attempted to cross the bridge in the darkness without realizing the strength of the water current, police added. The nullah is in an area that is surrounded by a hilly terrain. The water flowing from the hills leads to an overflowing situation in case of a heavy downpour. The police sent the three bodies to the government hospital at Daund for post mortem and registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-men-a-woman-on-2-bikes-swept-away-by-nullah-waters/articleshow/78689949.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||24-hour rain till Thursday morning in Pune 3rd highest for October in 120 years||PUNE: The rainfall in the city till Thursday morning not only shattered its October records of the past decade for 24-hour showers, but its quantum was also the third highest for the month in 120 years. The three locations here recorded triple digit showers (from 8:30am on Wednesday till 8:30am on Thursday), more than rain hotspots such as Mumbai, Lonavla and some other ghats, with 112.1mm rain in Shivajinagar, 125.7 in Lohegaon and 120.2mm in Pashan. Data for the past few years revealed that very heavy rainfall events in a span of a few hours have been occuring especially during the past two years. Climate scientists attributed the trend to global warming. Pulak Guhathakurta, head of the climate research division, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune, told TOI, “In the past decade and as well as 120 years, the highest 24-hour October rainfall was recorded on October 5, 2010, at 181.1 mm. The second highest 24-hour October rainfall was recorded in 1961 at 131.9mm. Wednesday night’s rain is now the third highest in over a century.” Guhathakurta said the trend of the increased frequency of heavy rainfall events was being observed across India. “This is a result of climate change,” he added. Initial estimates by the agriculture officer suggest crops on over 5,000 hectare area in 13 tehsils across Pune district may be damaged due to heavy rainfall The state issued fresh directives to all the revenue divisional commissioners to carry out panchanamas to assess the crop damage due to the incessant rain in October. As per instructions, all the farmland with over 33% losses are to be put on record and categorized into ‘A’, ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ groups. 24-hour Pune rainfall third highest for Oct in 120 yearsScientists Say Reduction Of Open Spaces Caused WaterloggingIMD data on Wednesday revealed that while Shivajinagar received about 19.8mm rain from 8:30am till 8:30pm, the three hours that followed did the maximum damage with almost 76.2mm rain during the period. After 11:30pm, Shivajinagar received 16.1mm rain, totalling to 112.1mm till 8:30am on Thursday. The rain in Pune was a result of moisture incursion from the depression earlier over the north interior Karnataka and its adjoining areas of Maharashtra and Telangana. By early Wednesday evening, the system began entering Maharashtra, passing Marathwada. By evening, the system had already turned into a wellmarked low pressure area. By Wednesday night, the intensity of the rain increased over Pune as the well marked low pressure system neared Baramati. IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told TOI, “Climate change and global warming have had an impact, as the amount and intensity of rainfall have increased in parts of the country in association with low pressure systems.” Another IMD scientist said, “In a 30-year-span, there can be a 10-15% rise in rainfall due to climate change, sometimes in an individual case. But that is not as significant as the real problem: changes in the land use pattern, which have been mainly responsible for flooding events in Pune, as open spaces have reduced significantly, causing waterlogging.” JR Kulkarni, former chairman of the Indian Meteorological Society, said, “Climate change studies have shown rise in October rain, by about 3mm per year, since the 1980s in states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka.” He said, “Global warming and associated increase in temperature may have increased the atmosphere’s moisture holding capacity. If there is a one-degree rise in day temperature, the moisture holding capacity of the atmosphere increases much more. Hence, the much higher amounts of rain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-hour-pune-showers-third-highest-for-oct-in-120-years/articleshow/78689956.cms||Neha Madaan
October 16, 2020||Pune||Recoveries in PMR surge past 2.8 lakh, day’s toll at 38||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged beyond 2.8 lakh on Thursday, with 2,533 patients being declared cured in the last 24 hours. Besides, 38 more deaths pushed coronavirus death toll in PMR to 7,335. As for the new cases, as many as 1,197 people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Thursday, taking the total tally above 3.11 lakh. The rural and Cantonment areas reported the highest 1,174 recoveries in the region. As many as 825 patients were declared cured in the PMC limits, while 534 patients were discharged in the PCMC areas. Among the Thursday’s fatalities, 21 deaths were recorded in the PMC limits , 15 in the rural and Cantonment areas and just two in the PCMC limits. Health officials said efforts were under way to bring down the mortality rate. “During ongoing drives, we are appealing citizens not to ignore the symptoms and approach the doctors immediately for timely medical care,” a health official said. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated more than 50% of the total fatalities had been recorded in the PMC limits, followed by the rural areas. The report further stated that over 9,000 tests were conducted in the region on Thursday, with the PMC areas reporting the highest 4,220 tests. The PCMC tested over 3,314 samples. A total of 13.17 lakh samples have been tested in the region so far, the report saod. In the PMC limits, 835 patients were critical and being treated at various hospitals, including 450 patients on ventilator support. As many as 2,439 patients were put on oxygen support in the municipal limits till Thursday night. PMC health officials said there had been a constant drop in critical cases and number of patients on oxygen support. The officials appealed people to abide by social distancing norms and always wear mask while venturing out to bring down the cases further. They said the festival season was just round the corner and the citizens were required to exercise caution all the more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-in-pmr-surge-past-2-8l-days-toll-at-38/articleshow/78688500.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bypoll battles between rookies and veterans||AHMEDABAD: A striking feature of the byelections to eight seats of the Gujarat assembly is the difference in experience levels between candidates of the BJP and Congress in assembly elections. All eight candidates of the BJP have been former MLAs, with two even being ministers in earlier state governments. Five of the eight BJP candidates were in fact Congress MLAs at the beginning of this year. In contrast, six of the seven candidates named by the Congress are contesting an assembly election for the first time, while the seventh has contested but not won an assembly election yet. Atmaram Parmar is a three-time MLA of the BJP, who was also a minister in the Vijay Rupani cabinet until the 2017 assembly election. Kiritsinh Rana is a four-time MLA and has been minister in the Gujarat government twice – from 1998 to 2002 and 2007 to 2012, besides being a secretary in the state BJP earlier. Vijay Patel, who has been nominated by the BJP from the Dang seat, was the MLA from the seat in 2007. He lost the next two assembly elections from the seat to Mangal Gavit of the Congress, who resigned as MLA earlier this year. The other five BJP candidates are Congress MLAs who resigned before the Rajya Sabha election and joined the BJP. In contrast, barring Jayanti Patel, the Congress candidate for the Morbi seat, all Congress candidates are assembly election rookies. Patel is a leading businessman and president of the Morbi Chamber of Commerce. Abdasa candidate Shantilal Sanghani is a doctor, Suresh Kotadiya is a co-operative sector leader, Mohan Solanki has a construction business, Kiritsinh Jadeja has been a state-level secretary of the party, Suryakant Gavit has been working for tribal rights and Babu Vartha is an influential leader of the Varli tribal community which has a considerable presence in South Gujarat. The Congress is yet to announce its candidate for the Limdi seat for the byelections that will be held on November 3. The last day for filing nominations is Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bypoll-battles-between-rookies-and-veterans/articleshow/78690006.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Many localities still under water in Cantt areas||HYDERABAD: Despite there being no rainfall at Secunderabad Cantonment on Thursday, several areas are still remain inundated. Royal Enclave, ICRISAT Colony, Park View Enclave, SAIL Colony, Krishi Nagar and Dhanalakshmi Colony were affected after Hasmathpet Lake overflowed. As the flood situation was continuing on the second day, too, some residents of these localities were moved to safer places on Thursday. SCB health and sanitation wing arranged groceries for the residents who are unable to come out from the houses, due to flood waters inundating their residential areas. Cantonment Board officials distributed 50 grocery kits at SAIL Colony and Royal Enclave. SCB sanitation wing is clearing out garbage and waste material that have accumulated along by-lanes in the residential localities and on main roads in Bowenpally, Trimulgherry and Karkhana in Secunderabad. Meanwhile, a few residential welfare associations (RWAs) hired generators and are dewatering their cellars which got filled with flood and sewage water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-localities-still-under-water-in-cantt-areas/articleshow/78689952.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Bumper festive season in store for residential market||HYDERABAD: After a six-month lull, Hyderabad’s residential market is eyeing a bumper festive season. Multiple market reports indicate a 20% to 24% jump in sale of homes in the city that’s leading the show in fresh launches. Hottest locations include pockets along the IT corridor Manikonda, Kondapur, Puppalguda, Hafeezet and Narsingi. “Hyderabad dominated the market accounting for more than 40% of the overall launches (across seven major cities) during Q3 (July to September) 2020,” stated a recent research by realty services company Jones Lang LaSalle. The research added that majority launches were in the 3BHK segment – properties valued between Rs 75 lakh and Rs 1 crore. Not surprising then, Anarock Property Consultant’s findings show that the city can expect an up to 24% rise in housing sales in Q4 (October to December) 2020, as against the preceding quarter when it sold about 1,650 units. Nationally, it pegs the estimate at 35%. “Also, developers have pulled out all stops to attract buyers, announcing schemes – many of which result in an actual reduction in the cost of acquisition,” its report stated. Stating that the sales traction is most prominent among ready-to-occupy homes or those promising completion in the next two to three quarter, Sandip Patnaik, managing director, JLL-Hyderabad said: “The translation of demand into sales will primarily hinge on enhanced consumer confidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bumper-festive-season-in-store-for-residential-market/articleshow/78689958.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Court grants bail to 10 accused||KOCHI: In a set back to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the terror angle behind the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, 10 among the accused were granted bail by the NIA special court on Thursday. Bail was granted to the accused, mostly financiers and buyers of the racket, on the grounds that there was no evidence yet to link them with terrorist activities. Meanwhile, Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S, who had filed a plea, withdrew the same on Thursday. Special judge P Krishna Kumar, observed that at least in the case of certain petitioners it was essential to draw a line of distinction, by separating them from the ‘frontline’ accused persons who alleged to have devised the plan of smuggling gold through the diplomatic cargo. The court observed that there was nothing in the case diary (CD) to show that the money spent by the petitioners was coming from any terror outfits or that they received the gold for transferring it to any such dark forces or even their connection whatsoever with any terrorist forces. The court found that even though it was repeatedly alleged in the counter statements submitted by the NIA that the petitioners have acted with an intention to damage the economic security of India, there was no material whatsoever, in the case diary to prima facie satisfy that they did it with such an intention. “Now, more than 90 days have elapsed after the commencement of the investigation by the NIA. From the case diary provided by them, it is obvious that what is so far established by NIA is only that the petitioners have funded the frontline accused persons for smuggling gold through the diplomatic channel and they conspired with them,” the court observed. The evidence so far collected by the agency against these petitioners, to a large extent, is in the form of statements of the accused persons themselves, from such evidence, what appears is that they have smuggled the gold for making business profit, the court order states. Bail was granted to accused Mohamed Anwar T M, Abdu P T, Hamjad Ali, Abdul Hameed P M, Jifsal C V, Muhammed Abdul Shameem, Aboobacker Pazedath, Muhammed Ali Ebrahim, Muhammed Shafeeq A and Said Alavi E. The court, however, denied bail to Mohammed Shafi P, Muhammed Ali and Sharafuddeen K T after considering the strong objection of the prosecution on the ground that they have a very suspicious background. The court also observed that the case indeed is extra-ordinary due to the huge quantity involved, the use of diplomatic channel which could affect the relationship between India and another country and the apprehension raised by NIA that the smuggled gold could be used for terror funding. In this light, the contention of the petitioners that the NIA investigation is meaningless cannot be accepted, the court observed. The court said that the NIA probe is in the right direction and there should be an extensive probe into the aspect of terror funding. “But the question to be determined by the court is whether the agency has succeeded in prima facie establishing the above said three distinguishable aspects as against all the petitioners, even when the investigation has advanced to the present stage,” the court order states. According to prosecution, Muhammed Ali, was formerly prosecuted under the UA (P) Act and still has connections with an extremist group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-grants-bail-to-10-accused/articleshow/78688534.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||HBCL tells Kolkata firm to replace RT-PCR kits||Pune: Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Limited (HBCL) officials on Thursday said they had told a Kolkata-based company to replace by Friday the faulty 6.29 lakh RT-PCR kits the latter had supplied or face cancellation of the order. Maharashtra has recalled nearly two lakh RT-PCR testing kits, purchased from the Kolkata-based company, for being “faulty”. These kits, mainly used at government labs, were generating a high number of false negatives. A senior HBCL official said they were as of now awaiting replacement of the kits. He said neither any cancellation order has been issued, nor the Kolkata-based company has been blacklisted as yet. RM Kumbhar, general Manager of the HBCL’s procurement cell, told TOI that they have through a letter to the Kolkata-based company sought replacement of the kits. “The kits were distributed in Pune, Thane, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Mumbai in the state. We have recalled most of the kits. The company in Kolkata has to replace the entire order by Friday, or the order stands cancelled,” he said. The order was given for 12.5 lakh kits made by the HBCL at the behest of the medical education department. Of the 12.5 lakh kits, the state received 6.29 lakh kits, of which two lakh were distributed. The kits were recalled after nearly 25,000 tests generated false negatives. Public health minister Rajesh Tope had said an expert panel should be formed to test the equipment purchased by HBCL for quality assurance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hbcl-tells-kolkata-firm-to-replace-rt-pcr-kits/articleshow/78688488.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Ayyappa devotees must take Covid test for darshan: Kerala||Hyderabad: Kerala chief secretary Vishwas Mehta has written to Telangana government, saying that devotees heading for darshan at Sabarimala temple should get themselves tested for Covid-19 48 hours before the darshan. He said no permission would be given for the holy bath in Pampa river and no devotee would be allowed perform abhishekam. “Around 1,000 devotees will be allowed daily and on weekends, 2,000 will be allowed for the darshan,” he said. The devotees can book a slot on the temple website. Children below 10 years will not be allowed for the darshan of the lord. A majority of devotees from Telangana and AP flock to Sabarimala temple from October. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ayyappa-devotees-must-take-covid-test-for-darshan-kerala/articleshow/78689953.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Frequent blackouts affecting business, say industrialists||COIMBATORE: Unannounced power outages are disrupting manufacturing activities, owners of micro and small industrialists at Edayarpalayam, TVS Nagar, Kanuvai, Somayampalayam and surrounding areas said. Machines such as computer numerical controls need continuous power and if there is a sudden disruption, the tools and the piece being machined would get damaged, the industrialists said. R Sekar, who runs a micro job work unit at Lakshmi Nagar near Edayarpalayam, said there was power interruption for three hours on Thursday. “There was another outage some days ago. Tangedco officials told us that there is a fault in the main connection. Because of the sudden outages, two turning tools were damaged,” he said. District president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (Tact) J James, who runs a micro job work unit near Edayarpalayam, said the sudden outages affected automatic machines. “Due to power interruptions for two to three hours, working hours of our labourers are also getting wasted. Despite Tangedco announcing that sub-stations would be shutdown for maintenance only once in three months, such interruptions are happening frequently. They should inform us before a shutdown, so that we can plan our work in advance,” he said. A senior Tangedco official said the interruptions were due to a reinforcement work and a breakdown due to the recent showers. “Reinforcement work was carried out at Kanuvai, which we informed in advance. TVS Nagar experienced an outage due to rain, but was set right. The department is working diligently to power industrial units,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/frequent-blackouts-affecting-business-say-industrialists/articleshow/78689954.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Meerut||UP police seizes property worth Rs 65L of murder accused||Bijnor: UP police seized property worth Rs 65 lakh of an accused facing several murder charges in Bijnor on Thursday. The accused, Kapil Kataria, is out on bail at present.Dharamveer Singh, superintendent of police, said, "Kataria earned money by nefarious activities. He is a member of a gang feared in the region. Police have seized his property worth Rs 65 lakh, including agriculture land valued at Rs 15.13 lakh and a house worth Rs 50 lakh at Mauzampur Sujan village."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-seizes-property-worth-rs-65l-of-murder-accused/articleshow/78684143.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat third-largest in mutual funds investments||AHMEDABAD: Despite significant outflows, Gujarat still has the third highest amount of assets under management (AUM) in mutual funds, among the states of India. According to data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), total assets under management in Gujarat stood at Rs 1.91 lakh crore in September 2020, led by equity-linked mutual funds with investments worth Rs 82,011 crore from Gujarat. “Institutional investments in liquid and debt funds also increased from investors in Gujarat. A few large corporates have put money in these funds, which is reflecting in the increase in AUM,” said Mumukshu Desai, director of a city-based financial advisory firm. Experts said Gujarat has remained the third largest state for mutual fund investments (MFI) since August this year, growing by a significant Rs 3,011.45 crore from July. AMFI data suggests that in August, the total AUM for MFIs in Gujarat was almost the same. “Overall inflows in India have gone down and this trend is visible across states. However, for the past two months as equity markets have started delivering positive returns, investors who were earlier in wait-and-watch mode are now back and are looking at stock markets,” said Jayesh Vithalani, a city-based financial consultant. “Moreover, the net asset value of certain previous investments has also shown an increase and this is why the overall AUM went up,” Vithalani further added. Investments continued to flow into gold exchange-traded funds (ETFs) as well, which also contributed to the increase in overall AUM. “The demand for digital gold has gone up vis-à-vis physical gold and therefore, ETFs are showing a growth. In September, the AUM in gold ETFs however, showed a marginal 2.3% decline thanks to the reduction in gold prices and consequent downfall in the net asset value of the investments,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-3rd-largest-in-mf-investments/articleshow/78690015.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1.4k new Covid cases, 8 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,432 new Covid-19 positive cases and eight deaths, taking the total number of cases to 2,17,670 and the toll to 1,249. So far, 1,93,218 patients have recovered so far from the disease while 23,203 patients are undergoing treatment. The case fatality rate in the state is currently 0.57%, which means less than 1 patient out of every 100 are succumbing to the virus. The national average case fatality rate is currently 1.5%. The recovery rate in the state has been improving for a while now and is currently at 88.8%. A total of 38,895 tests were done on Thursday, taking the total count of tests done in the state to over 37 lakh. The samples tested per 10 lakh in the state has now touched 99,490, going up from 38,351 on September 1. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded a total of 244 new cases on Thursday the highest among districts. This was followed by 115 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 99 cases in Bhadadri Kothagudem, 91 in Khammam, 88 in Ranga Reddy, 74in Nalgonda and Karimnagar each. All other districts in the state recorded new cases as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1-4k-new-covid-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/78690008.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mumbai||PMLA court rejects ED plea on closure report in Naresh Goyal case||MUMBAI: A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Thursday dismissed an Enforcement Directorate (ED) plea against a magistrate court’s order rejecting its request to intervene and oppose a closure report submitted by police in a Rs 46-crore cheating case against founder of the now defunct Jet Airways, Naresh Goyal, and his wife Anita. “Criminal revision application is hereby dismissed,” special judge Milind V Kurtadikar said. The court also dismissed an ED plea to stay the order for three weeks. ED had on October 7 moved the PMLA court as the magistrate court had rejected its plea to be heard before it pronounced its order on a police closure report. Police had registered an FIR in February after an order by the magistrate court. Based on the FIR, ED registered a case against Goyal and others under PMLA Act. But MRA Marg police filed a report in the magistrate court stating that allegations of cheating filed by Akbar Travels against the couple were not true. Akbar Travels had alleged that Jet Airways had not paid dues of more than Rs 46 crore. Akbar Travels did business of Rs 900 crore with Jet Airways. A ‘C’ summary report indicates the case is filed due to “mistake of facts” or it finds that it amounts to a civil case. ED had in June made submissions before the magistrate court against the report. ED urged the court to direct police to properly investigate the case, including undisclosed foreign bank accounts of Goyal. ED stated that the closure report had not considered crucial facts, failing to highlight facts vital in establishing the criminal case against the accused. The magistrate court on September 19 rejected an ED plea to intervene. Lawyer for Goyal, Pranav Badheka, said ED did not have locus standi to be heard in the matter. Before the magistrate court, submissions have been made by the complaint opposing the closure report. The court is likely to pronounce its order, accepting or rejecting the report, soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pmla-court-rejects-ed-plea-on-closure-report-in-goyal-case/articleshow/78688805.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Resign, DMK cadres tell Anna University VC||COIMBATORE: DMK members on Thursday staged a protest in front of the Government College of Technology on Thadagam Road, seeking the resignation of Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa and condemning the AIADMK government, which, they said, was silent amid the move to undermine the university. As many as 500 DMK members, headed by party youth wing’s deputy secretary P Pynthamil Pari, participated in the protest. Pari said the university was formed to offer quality technical education to students from SC and MBC communities, and from rural areas. “Under the state, the reservation system of the university doesn’t have creamy layer and non-creamy layer distinction based on income. But if it goes to the hands of the Centre, the distinction would come in, which would undermine the reservation system and social justice,” he said. Pari accused Surappa of trying to saffronise the university and said the state was a mute spectator. Police detained some protesters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resign-dmk-cadres-tell-anna-univ-vc/articleshow/78689968.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Surat||Three detained for protest outside Tanishq showroom||Surat: Three persons associated with Rashtrawadi Hindu Sangathan were detained for staging protest outside the Tanishq jewellery showroom on Ghod Dod Road on Thursday. About half-a dozen men had staged protest over the now withdrawn advertisement. Police detained Amit Aahir, Dipak Chauhan and Piyush Parajapati for allegedly carrying out the demonstration. They were carrying banner and shouting slogans demanding apology from the jewellery brand in connection with the advertisement. The group had earlier planned a rally from Yogi Chowk area in Kapodra. But due to continuous vigil by police they dropped the plan of organising the rally. “We had kept close watch on those who were planning the rally. Meanwhile, they came in a small group and tried to hold demonstration. But they were detained immediately,” said a police officer at Umra police station. They were released at around 6 pm from Umra police station after they gave assurance that they will not get involved in unlawful activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-detained-for-protest-outside-tanishq-showroom/articleshow/78688128.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Corona pandemic forces virtual ‘Ravana dahan’ this year||Ludhiana: With a dip in cases of Covid-19 bringing some relief for city residents and administration, the latter has allowed the Dussehra committees to celebrate the festival with certain precautions. Members of these committees here have now started making plans for the same. Most of the Dussehra committees are in favour of performing rituals with a restricted number of members of the committees and then on the day of Dussehra there will be virtual celebrations with telecast of ‘Ravana dahan’ through social media. Dinesh Marwaha of Sri Ramlila Committee, Daresi, said, “We have been allowed to hold celebrations but have been asked to do everything in a simple manner. So, we will be starting with Ramayan path from October 17, the first Navaratra, and it will continue up to October 26. Meanwhile, we are gearing up for burning the effigy of Ravana on Dussehra, where only executive members of the committee will remain present and for public there will be live telecast of the entire function.” He said they would get more chances to celebrate festivals next year if people would remain healthy. So, this year, they will only perform the rituals which are essential. Raju Thapar of Upkar Nagar Dussehra and Ramlila Committee said, “We will organise Ramayan path in a simple manner and nobody from public will be allowed to come and gather at the spot. And on the day of Dussehra we will burn the effigy of Ravana and we will pray to God that coronavirus also gets burnt in fire. This disease has damaged everything, so this Dussehra will mark victory of good over evil as well as this deadly disease.” Subhash Chader Gupta, chairman of Dussehra and Ramlila Committee, Aggar Nagar, said, “On the first Navaratra we will do puja in the temple in the locality and a simple celebration will take place on the beats of a dhol but there will no major celebrations like swings in fair or holding of Ramlila, which we used to do every year.” He said they would get small effigies of Ravana, Meghnath and Kumbhkaran prepared, along with a set of Lanka. But on Dussehra, these effigies will be burnt by the members, whereas for public the telecast will be through social media, so that they should stay at home and celebrate the festival. However, on the other hand general secretary of Dusshera and Ramlila Committee, Sarabha Nagar, Anil Bassi said, “As of now, we have not planned anything, not even ‘Ravana dahan’ on Dussehra. First, we want to see whether celebrations will actually take place. The CM, Amarinder Singh, had earlier announced to open multiplexes and when all arrangements were done, he rolled back the previous orders, so it is difficult to believe whether Dussehra will be allowed or not.” He said they would reach any conclusion in the next few days. No time for Ramlila or Dussehra fair Most of the Dussehra committee organisers claimed that now they have no time left to organise the Ramlila or a fair which they used to do earlier and moreover, it will encourage more people to come to the Dussehra grounds. Since there were no clear guidelines whether permissions will be granted or not, so they did not make any arrangements. Most of the organisers are in the favour of keeping all rituals a low-key affair. Enjoy virtual ‘Ravana dahan’ this year Most of the organisers are requesting the public to enjoy virtual telecast of ‘Ravana dahan’ this year instead of visiting the Dussehra grounds. In city, Dussehra is celebrated at more than 40 places every year. The committees are planning to take help from local cable operators or also of FB pages or YouTube channels for this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/corona-pandemic-forces-virtual-ravana-dahan-this-year/articleshow/78684146.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
October 16, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 hotspots in rural Pune down to 465 from 860 in one-and-a-half months||PUNE: The rural areas in the district have registered a significant drop in the number of Covid-19 hotspots as positive cases continue to decline across the region, the official data revealed. According to the Pune divisional commissioner office report, the areas under Pune rural had 860 hotspots until August-end compared to 465 on October 13. The report stated that Khed and Junnar taluka, which had earmarked 102 and 86 hotspots respectively in August, now has 59 and 46 hotspots. The Maval and Mulshi talukas, which witnesses heavy tourist activity, have registered an almost 50% reduction in the hotspots. As per the data from the district health office, in the first week of October, as many as 75,595 samples were tested for coronavirus infection in the Pune district. Of these, 15,322 people tested positive, thereby bringing down the positivity rate by almost 4% to 20.2% compared to the earlier week. The data further revealed that the number of active Covid patients, too, has dropped in rural areas. According to the health department report, there were 863 active cases in August in the hotspot areas, which came down to 430 by October 13. Pune divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, said the decline in the hotspots in the rural area was a ‘good sign’. “Almost every taluka of the district has shown a drop in positive cases. The number of recoveries against the positive cases is increasing daily,” Rao said. Rao said even though the positivity rate was declining across the region, it cannot be translated into saying that the pandemic was now under control. “As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the situation can be termed under control only when the positivity rate drops below 10%,” he said. The official said the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey helped in identifying 3,141 positive cases in the rural areas. “A few weeks ago, almost 25% of patients in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits were from the rural areas, however, now the beds are vacant, which has provided a much-needed breather to the administration,” PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corona-hotspots-in-rural-pune-down-to-465-from-860-in-one-and-a-half-months/articleshow/78688514.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 16, 2020||Pune||Pune doctor saves elderly patient with rare heart defect||PUNE: When 60-year-old Vinod (name changed on request) arrived at a Kharadi hospital’s emergency department with severe chest pain, little did the doctors know about the challenges that awaited them. On August 26, Vinod had suffered a massive heart attack due to a blocked right artery. His blood pressure was as low as 80/60 mmHg. When doctors took him inside the operation theatre for blockage removal, they could not trace its source. Eventually, it was found that instead of the right anterior coronary sinus, Vinod’s right artery originated from left coronary sinus, a rare congenital heart defect. The condition, known as the anomalous origin of the right coronary artery, prevented angioplasty via the groin, a common method. “This is a benign anomaly. Vinod didn’t have a heart attack because of this. The heart attack was due to atherosclerosis, a build-up of plaque in the artery, which is a common cause worldwide,” cardiologist Manohar Sakhare of the Columbia Asia hospital in Kharadi said. There were two primary challenges in the case. Vinod’s right artery was 100% blocked and not visible at all. When Sakhare began angioplasty through the groin, it was difficult for him to identify the artery. “Such patients require an intra-aortic balloon pump to increase the flow of oxygen, which can be inserted through groin only,” Sakhare said. He could not hook the right coronary artery through the groin even after six attempts of attaching different catheters due to this anomaly. “However, with great difficulty, we were lucky to be able to hook the artery for angioplasty through the right hand a less common approach. The entire process took about 90 minutes,” Sakhare said. After the successful angioplasty through the hand, Vinod was discharged within three days. Chandrashekhar Kulkarni, chief heart and lung transplant surgeon, Global hospital, Mumbai, said, “This is a rare but known congenital anomaly. It is seen in around 1 % of heart patients. Sometimes, even the left artery can arise from the right sinus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctor-saves-elderly-patient-with-rare-heart-defect/articleshow/78689985.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman beheaded in Siddipet dist||Hyderabad: A 32-year-old housewife was beheaded and her severed head was left in front of her residence at Anantha Sagar in Siddipet on Thursday. Police suspect her missing husband. Later, police discovered the victim, Anusha’s torso in the suburbs. A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-beheaded-in-siddipet-dist/articleshow/78689973.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Sugar mills opt for machine harvesters to fill workers’ void||Aurangabad: Sugar mills across the state began looking for machine harvesters once it became clear that the Covid-19 pandemic would cast restrictions on availability of farm workers. Most farm hands were stuck in sugar mills when the lockdown was announced in March and could return home only a month later. Now, most of them who live in Marathwada have reservations about travelling to the sugar belt of western Maharashtra. Sugar cane crushing season for this year started on Thursday. Those associated with the industry have cited the pandemic as well as a drop in the output by the sugar cane cutters as the key reasons for sugar factories to start looking for harvesting machines. Maharashtra State Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation Ltd (MSCSFFL) president Jaiprakash Dandegaonkar told TOI, “The output per head of sugar cane cutters is dropping. Moreover, there are rising cases of sugar cane cutters taking advance and not returning for work, compelling the sugar factories to opt for more reliable options.” The machines can harvest between 80 and 100 tonne of sugar cane in a day. Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka are offering up to 40% subsidy on the machines that cost around Rs 1.25 crore. “To balance things, we will have opt for 50% mechanized harvesting and 50% manual cutting of sugar cane. Considering the cost of the machine and the interest rate, it is not economically feasible otherwise,” said Dandegaonkar. Earlier, the government used to grant a subsidy of Rs 25 lakh on these harvesters in Maharashtra but it has been stopped since 2014. Amidst the pandemic situation, there has been an increasing demand for giving an insurance cover to the eight to 10 lakh cane cutters in the state. This cover is expected to cost around Rs 900 per cutter. Considering the amount, MSCSFFL has recently sent a proposal requesting the social justice department to bear a portion of this instalment. Those with the MSCFFL have expressed confidence that the issue surrounding the increased labour charges to the sugar cane cutters will be resolved at the earliest, as already three rounds of meetings have been done. Out of the 190 live sugar factories that have applied for license this year, only 90 have been granted permission, while the permission of others have been put on hold citing the failure to pay Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) based payments to the farmers for the previous crushing season. As per norms, sugar factories are duty bound to clear bills of the farmers within 15 days of crushing the sugar cane purchased from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sugar-mills-opt-for-machine-harvesters-to-fill-workers-void/articleshow/78686289.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb leads in deaths, Hry in new cases||Chandigarh/Shimla: The northern states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Thursday reported a total of 1,857 fresh cases of Covid-19 and another 43 patients died. Punjab reported maximum 29 fatalities, while the highest 1,199 cases were detected in Haryana. With another 511 positive cases surfacing in Punjab, the state’s overall case total has reached 126,230, out of which 7,090 are active cases, and the death toll has gone up to 3,954. During the day, 1,111 patients were also reported cured in the state, pushing the number of recoveries till now to 115,186. Maximum nine fatalities were reported from Mohali district, followed by five in Ropar, three in Ludhiana, and two each in Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Kapurthala districts. One patient each died in Amritsar, Bathinda, Fazilka, Fatehgarh Sahib, Muktsar and Patiala districts. Ludhiana saw the highest 81 new positive cases, Mohali (66), Jalandhar (64), Amritsar (45) and Gurdaspur (33). Haryana on Thursday registered nine Covid deaths, besides the 1,199 fresh cases. With this, the number of positive cases in the state so far has reached 146,706—out of which 10,364 are active cases—and the count of dead is up to 1,623. With 134,719 patients cured till now, the state’s recovery rate is 91.83% and the time taken for the doubling of cases 40 days. A total of 175 persons in the state are currently on oxygen support and 35 on ventilators. The hill state on Thursday reported five Covid deaths, 147 fresh cases and 140 recoveries. With the latest figures, Himachal’s Covid tally has reached 18,155, of which 2,522 cases are active, 255 patients have died, 15,357 patients recovered, while 16 patients moved out of the state. Mandi reported 42 fresh positive cases, Shimla saw 20, Lahaul-Spiti 18, Bilaspur 17, Sirmaur 13, Kullu 12, Kangra 11, Hamirpur 10 from and Chamba district four. Solan recorded maximum 43 recoveries, Bilaspur 13, Sirmaur 29, Mandi 14, Una 12, Shimla 11, Hamirpur nine, Chamba eight and Kinnaur one. Total 335,141 samples had been tested in the state till Thursday, while results of 856 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-leads-in-deaths-hry-in-new-cases/articleshow/78689961.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Unaided professional colleges in Maharashtra oppose fee cut||PUNE: Unaided professional college associations in the state have written to the Fee Regulation Authority (FRA) dissuading any fee cut for the academic year 2020-21. The associations have also written to the higher and technical education officials seeking lower eligibility criteria for admission to professional courses. While there has been a demand for allowing admissions to students in professional colleges based on Std XII marks, even if they have not appeared for entrance examinations, since the lockdown was announced, the demand opposing any fee cut in professional courses came up after the state’s FRA uploaded the minutes-of-meeting (MoM) on their website on October 7. The FRA has stated, “As the full deflationary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is being experienced during the financial year of 2020-21, it stands to reason that the increase in 10% in the said fee structure should be reversed.” EB Khedkar, executive president, Association of Management of MBA/MMS Institutes in the state, said, “We are entirely dependant on the student fee to pay teachers’ salary. Already, fewer students are seeking admissions due to the Covid-19 situation. The government is yet to reimburse some percentage of the scholarship amount. Many final year students have not paid their fee stating the economic crisis. The teaching community is stressed because of salary cuts. So, it is impossible to cut the fee further as it will adversely impact the institute. Hence, we wrote to the FRA and others opposing their stand.” FRA’s clarification on October 12 asked colleges to consider the October 7 MoM as an appeal, not an order. It also asked institutes to mitigate the hardship of stakeholders and submit their feedback soon. Kuldip S Charak, director of Navsahyadri Group of Institutes, said that the All India Council for Technical Education norms state that a technical institution must employ teachers as per intake capacity, not actual admissions. Teachers must also be paid as per the 7th Pay Commission scale, in spite of there being zero or insufficient income. “The number of students seeking admission in MBA/MMS programs in Maharashtra hovered around 90% in overall terms against the approved in-take capacity and only around 70% in case of rural institutes. With Covid-19, this is expected to reduce. Hence, we are appealing to the government to allow us to take admissions based on other entrance exams and final year marks as a special case.” The Covid-19 impactExplaining its argument, the regulatory authority stated, “FRA builds into the fee structure an inflation factor of 5% per year. The fee structure approved by the authority for the financial year 2020-21 was thus scaled up by 10% over the one which was approved for the financial year 2018-19. As the full deflationary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is being experienced during the financial year of 2020-21, it stands to reason that the increase in 10% in the said fee structure should be reversed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unaided-professional-colleges-oppose-fee-cut/articleshow/78689963.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Army airlifts five farm workers||HYDERABAD: Army personnel on Thursday rescued five persons stuck in swirling flood waters in Medak district by airlifting them to safety. Labourers of a seed farm in Kishtapur village in Kulcharam mandal had gone to work three days ago and due to the incessant rains, stayed back in the farm. With excess water released from the Singur project and overflowing from a bridge, the workers sent an SOS to police. Medak district in-charge collector P Venkatrama Reddy and in-charge SP Joel Davis requested the army authorities in Secunderabad for assistance to rescue them. The army personnel, who went in a helicopter, airlifted the five workers and brought them back to safety. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-airlifts-five-farm-workers/articleshow/78689959.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 16, 2020||Kochi||ED questions Sivasankar again in Kochi||Kochi: Enforcement Directorate on Thursday again questioned former principal secretary M Sivasankar in connection with their probe into the money trail behind the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. He appeared before the agency at its Kochi office around 11.30am on Thursday. According to ED sources, the questioning was held as per a notice issued to him about two weeks ago. The questioning went on till late night. “The questioning was to get clarity on certain details which we couldn’t clear during the previous questioning sessions,” said the source. ED which filed a chargesheet in the case against the first three accused on October 6 had specifically stated in it that the role of M Sivasankar, who was a key person in the present government, in the entire episode has to be thoroughly investigated. Statements of other witness are also leading the agency to Sivasankar. His chartered accountant, P Venugopal had given a statement that Sivasankar was kept informed about the operations in the locker owned by Venugopal and accused Swapna Suresh as the locker was opened on his instruction. He had told ED that he knew Sivasankar for 25 years and he introduced him to Swapna and asked him to advise her on financial matters. Sivasankar was questioned multiple times by ED, NIA and the Customs in connection with the gold smuggling incident. Meanwhile, the special court considering Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases rejected the statutory bail plea filed by accused Sandeep Nair citing delay in ED filing the chargesheet. The court denied bail since Nair filed the plea only after ED submitted the chargesheet. Sandeep wouldn’t have been released even if he had received bail as Customs has imposed Cofeposa against him. Swapna Suresh had earlier received bail in the ED case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-questions-sivasankar-again-in-kochi/articleshow/78688563.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||‘No-show’ by GHMC officials upsets Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy was upset with top GHMC brass for not bothering to send even lower rank officials with him during his tour of flood-affected areas on Wednesday night. The minister visited Khairatabad, Bansilalpet, Ramgopalpet and other areas and talked to the affected residents. He called up senior GHMC officials and gave them a piece of his mind for not accompanying him during the tour. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, during his speech in the legislative council on Wednesday, took potshots at Kishan Reddy, saying that “if they (BJP leaders) love the city so much, they should make sure that the Centre starts granting more funds to Hyderabad.” Meanwhile, ministers and TRS leaders went around flood-affected areas in the city. Women welfare minister Satyavati Rathore monitored relief works. TRS MLA M Kishan Reddy had to face the ire of farmers in his constituency in Rangareddy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-show-by-ghmc-officials-upsets-kishan/articleshow/78689990.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed administration sounds rain alert||Aurangabad: Beed deputy collector Santosh Raut has sounded an alert for the residents in the wake of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai, predicting that the district might receive heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning. He said the alert has been issued by the meteorological centre that many areas in the state including Beed district might receive heavy showers accompanied by thunderstorms and lighting. Everyone has to take utmost precaution to avoid any untoward eventuality between October 13 and 17. He said the residents should not go out when it’s heavily raining and lightning occurs. If lightning occurs, they should switch off their electric gadgets and home appliances, and maintain a safe distance from the electric wires. The residents have also been advised to not stay in stagnated water nor take shelter beneath trees and the towers made of metal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-administration-sounds-rain-alert/articleshow/78686299.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Students fail to impress in first Punjab Achievement Survey||Chandigarh: The students of Punjab government and government-aided schools have failed to impress in the first Punjab Achievement Survey, which was carried out to find the gaps in the learning ability of students. To assess the learning ability of students of classes VI to XII, an online test was conducted in six subjects—English, Hindi, Punjabi, Mathematics, Science and Social Studies—in which about 15 lakh students from government and aided schools participated. The survey was conducted from September 21 to October 3 on the pattern of the National Achievement Survey. According to sources, about 46% of cumulative answers given by students from classes VI to X in science subjects were wrong, and 45% answers in Maths and 42% in English were incorrect. In Hindi, about 33% answers were not correct, while in Social Studies, about 46% of answers were incorrect. In Punjabi, about 30% of answers were wrong. In Class VI, about 31% of answers given in Hindi were incorrect, 47% in SST, 30% in Punjabi, 40% in Science and 39% in English. In Maths, about 45% of the answers by Class VI students were incorrect, 44 in Class VII, 46% in Class VIII, 48% in Class IX and 40% in Class X. In Hindi, about 32% of answers given by Class VI students were incorrect, 33% in Class VII, 44% in Class VIII, 28% in Class IX and 29% in Class X. In Nawanshahr district, about 22% of the students of Class VI scored less than 30% marks, while 27% scored more than 30% but less than 49%. About 31% of students scored over 50% and less than 79%. Only 9% students scored over 90% in Maths. Based on the outcome of the first phase of the survey, the education department has decided to take corrective steps for which instructions have been issued to the schools. It has been decided to conduct online tests every Sunday starting October 18. As per the plan, a total of 30 questions will be asked in Punjabi, Hindi, English, Social Sciences, Maths and science subjects. In a communication to district education officers and principals, the Punjab SCERT director has directed to start weekly tests for the students with focus on the areas where the students did not fare well. Students will be given five questions each in Math, Science, English, Hindi, Social Studies and Punjabi. The result of these tests will be shared with school heads from time to time. Participation Subject | Total Students | Appeared | Percentage Science | 11,35,645 | 10,56,683 | 93.05 Math |11,35,645 |10,56,541 | 93.03 Hindi | 11,35,645 | 10,53,253 | 92.74 Punjabi |11,35,643 | 10,51,768 | 92.61 English |11,35,645 | 10,50,840 | 92.53 SST | 11,35,647 | 10,45,387 | 92.05||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-fail-to-impress-in-first-punjab-achievement-survey/articleshow/78689993.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana launches second sero survey||Chandigarh: Second sero survey will be conducted across Haryana on October 19 and 20 to find out the extent of the spread of Covid-19 and for this, samples of 720 people from rural and urban areas of each district will be collected. The first sero survey was conducted in the state in August. Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij virtually launched the second round of the sero survey on Thursday. He said that through this survey, people will be able to know about the development of anti-bodies and trend of transmission of Covid-19. Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora said random sampling will be done. This will include a specified number of people from urban and rural areas, he added. The event was attended online by officers of several districts, including Rewari, Nuh, Yamunanagar, Rohtak, and Ambala. The campaign will be completed by the end of this month in collaboration with the community medical separtment of PGIMS Rohtak. For this, nodal officers have been appointed at the district level, and they will monitor the survey related activities. The survey teams for this will comprise three members including a medical officer, staff nurse, and LT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-launches-second-sero-survey/articleshow/78690002.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: First repair for Kashmere Gate flyover in 19 years||NEW DELHI: The busiest flyover that connects east Delhi to northern and central parts of the capital, the Kashmere Gate flyover, will be repaired after 19 years. With a budget of at least Rs 23 crore, the flyover, also known as Yudhishtir Setu, will be entirely revamped, said an official of the public works department (PWD). Under the PWD maintenance guidelines, a flyover should be repaired every five years for it to function properly. “In this case, the flyover must have tested to be okay in the past three examinations. However, cracks have been noticed during the last check and it is essential to repair it at the earliest,” said an official. The 1.5km-long flyover, from Maharana Pratap Interstate Bus Terminus to Shastri Park, was constructed in 1991 after the only loha pul on this stretch failed to accommodate the vehicular traffic on it and traffic snarls became a constant feature. Around 1 lakh commuters use the flyover every day and, a source said, the condition of its expansion joints is such that these will have to be repaired immediately to avoid any mishap. “All expansion joints will be replaced. The broken crash barriers will also be repaired,” the official added. The process for the revamp and repair of the flyover was initiated in the second half of March but the work could not start due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The tenders that were already floated were frozen, an official said. “During the initial phases of the unlocking, it was hard to get things on the track because there was an acute labour shortage. But now the situation is better and we are aiming to start the work at the earliest,” another official said. PWD hopes to complete the project within 10 months of starting the work. The work on one carriageway will be completed first before taking up the other half.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-repair-for-flyover-in-19-years/articleshow/78688568.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 16, 2020||Business||Rebuilding Mumbai airport’s terminal 1B may be Adani’s first task||NEW DELHI: Reconstructing terminal 1B (T1B) of Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is likely to be the first big task the Adani Group will need to execute on taking over the reins of India’s second busiest airport. While the almost Rs 17,000-crore Navi Mumbai Airport is a greenfield project and the Adani group has said it will “achieve financial closure (for it) at the earliest in order to commence construction,” Mumbai International Airport Ld (MIAL) has raised fears over the structural integrity of T1B. The the new promoter may need to give equal priority to this terminal. Reconstructing T1B, as per the plan submitted by MIAL’s under its outgoing promoter GVK Group to the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA), will cost over Rs 1,200 crore. The work will focus on structural strengthening and not enhance the terminal’s passenger handling ability as CSMIA’s runway were already handling flights to maximum capacity in pre-Covid times with almost 1,000 daily aircraft movement. Whether Adani Group revises this plan or revises the same on taking over the airport remains to be seen. “The justification submitted by MIAL for the construction of the Terminal 1B was as follows: ‘The building was built long back, has become structurally weak… a structural audit report also evidences this. Level of service offered is very low as compared to T2, to bring it at par with T2. Plan is to consolidate the entire security hold area (SHA) area to smoothen operations…’,” AERA says in its consultation paper for determining aeronautical services tariffs of CSMIA for April 2019-March 2024 (third control period). Incidentally, Delhi Airport demolished its oldest terminal — T1B — some years ago. CSMIA’s T1A is not in operation currently but the GVK-managed MIAL planned to use it facilitate reconstruction of Terminal 1B. “So in effect, Terminal 1C and 1A will be in operation when reconstruction of T1B is being done.… Refurbishing of T1A will also be required as baggage handling system, inline screening systems need to be upgraded…. Upgraded Terminal I will be a two-level terminal with segregation between departures and arrivals. There will also be a flyover to the departure level,” AERA paper says. CSMIA has two terminals T1 and T2. T1 comprises of T1A, B and C buildings which were built over last 50 years with 1B being constructed in 1965; 1A in 1992 and 1C in 2010. AERA had sought from MIAL a copy of T1B’s structural audit conducted in August 2017. “…In the period of (T1B’s) existence, the structures have developed various defects and are incorporated in this compilation,” the audit report says. While “appreciating the necessity of (T1B reconstruction) project from view point of structural safety, the paper of AERA says: “…MIAL proposes to spend Rs 1,205 crores on only structural strengthening of the structure with no capacity enhancement…. only for quality enhancement, efficient operations and passenger satisfaction… runway capacity has almost reached its saturation. Increase in terminal building capacity may not have any significant impact on the total passenger through put of MIAL.” The GVK-operated MIAL planned to reconstruct T1B in three phases and complete the work by March 2023. Now how the work is done and how airline operations are segregated between the refurbished T1 and T2 will be decided by the Adani Group once it takes over the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rebuilding-airports-terminal-1b-may-be-adanis-first-task/articleshow/78688808.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Portion of 350-year-old Khilashpur fort collapses||HYDERABAD: A portion of the 350-year-old fort in Khilashpur village of Raghunathpalli mandal in Jangaon district collapsed on Thursday. There were no casualties, however, three houses were damaged. That the fort wall was not strong enough was noticed by officials about 20 days ago. Officials of the department of heritage from Hyderabad also visited the fort. The cracks were noticed by locals living in the vicinity, who came out of their houses as it became clear that the wall would collapse any time. The rains resulted in the 25-foot wall crumbling. In 2017, a bhoomi puja was performed for renovation of the fort wall at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore and some work was done to renovate the structure. The fort was included for renovation by the department of heritage. It was built by Sardar Sarvai Papanna Goud, who is said to have lived from 1650 to 1709. A revenue official said it was noticed that some cracks had appeared on the walls of the fort. “We intimated this to the department of heritage and they inspected the place for its restoration. However, a portion of the wall collapsed and we alerted officials in Hyderabad,” a local official said. The fort is listed as a protected monument by the department of heritage. B Narayana, deputy director of the department could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/portion-of-350-year-old-khilashpur-fort-collapses/articleshow/78690009.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||State second in cotton cultivation||Hyderabad: Due to controlled farming, Telangana (59 lakh acres) stood second in cotton cultivation in India. In 2020 rabi season, cotton was grown in 3.19cr acres in the country. Maharashtra took the first place with 1.04cr acres. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-second-in-cotton-cultivation/articleshow/78689996.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||College students design smart hand wash system||COIMBATORE: A smart hand wash monitoring system, designed by students of an engineering college here, can enforce proper hand wash procedures at offices, educational institutions and other public spaces. The system, designed by students of the Bannari Amman Institute of Technology in Sathyamagalam, tracks proper compliance of hand wash procedures using cameras and sensors. Assistant professor D Preethi, who coordinated the team, said the system has sensors to dispense liquid soap, water and hand sanitizer, and also cameras to ensure whether the person washing hands does so in the proper posture and for the stipulated time. “Doctors have prescribed a proper procedure and posture for washing hands. The system we have designed has cameras, which observe user’s hands, and whether he washes it properly and for the prescribed time. If there is any discrepancy, the system would trigger a warning beep and would not allow the person to go to the next step.” The system has three inlets, one each for water, hand wash liquid and sanitizer, and an outlet. A flow sensor controls them and dispenses each of these as per the hand wash procedure. If the user does not wash hands properly, the system would read the radio-frequency identification (RFID) info and send information to the organisation. The team, comprising students Kishore Kumar K J, Hemang Murugan, Sharan R, Bharani K, Iswariya V and Keerthana C, had contested in a recent hackathon event for healthcare innovations and was selected to receive a grant of Rs 2.75 lakh from the Nidhi Prayas Scheme of the department of science and technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/college-students-design-smart-hand-wash-system/articleshow/78689999.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||11k can offer prayers in a day at Mansa Devi Temple||Panchkula: During the upcoming Navaratras, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board will allow only 11,000 persons for offering the prayers at the temple in a single day. Navratras will start from October 17. Panchkula deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa held a meeting regarding law and order at the shrine during the festivities. Every year during the Navaratras, an average of 30,000 to 50,000 devotees visit the temple in a single day. To contain the spread of Covid-19, the temple board has decided to give token for offering prayers at the temple through their website - www.mansadevi.org.in. A total of 11,000 tokens will be given to persons on first come first serve basis. The DCP said the cops will follow the SoP. He said a bomb disposal unit and anti-sabotage unit will also be deployed.  No cultural events will be organised at the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11k-can-offer-prayers-in-a-day-at-mansa-devi-temple/articleshow/78687308.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Agroha medical college director dies of Covid-19||Hisar: Dr Gopal Singhal, director of the Agroha medical college, the first Covid-19 centre in Hisar district, died late on Wednesday night due to coronavirus infection. Dr Singhal had trouble breathing on Wednesday evening and he drove himself to the Agroha Medical College emergency. Treatment started immediately but when his condition did not improve, he was brought to Jindal Hospital. He died before reaching here. During the investigation, he tested positive for Covid-19. So far, 96 persons have died of Covid-19 in Hisar. The number of patients has reached 7,843. A total of 141 fresh cases were reported in Hisar on Thursday and 112 persons were discharged. Deputy civil surgeon Dr Jaya Goyal said 112 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours. Now, there are 934 active cases in Hisar where 6,813 have been discharged and 96 have died. With this, recovery rate in Hisar has come down to 86.87% from Wednesday’s 87%, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agroha-medical-college-director-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/78690021.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Now, Maharashtra govt wants kids to learn all about traffic rules||MUMBAI: Hoping to raise responsible citizens, education department has decided to incorporate traffic rules in learning for children. Primary school teachers have been told to include traffic regulations and safety in subjects to create awareness. After a proposal from Pune RTO, director of primary education Dattatray Jagtap wrote to local education officers. “Each year, the state sees many road accidents and loss of life. Many of them are because traffic rules are not followed. Today’s students will be responsible citizens in future, so we decided to imbibe road etiquette in them at a young age,” he said. In line with current remote learning format, the department will set up a resource group comprising primary and secondary education officers, civic officials and four enthusiastic teachers. This group will be trained through video-conferencing by education and transport department officials in the second and third week of this month. This group will then impart a day’s training for at least one teacher from each school in the district. The deputy director of education in each district will select interested teachers ahead of a state-level training session. Teachers will incorporate the traffic rules and regulations in academic lessons. But experts said more must be done for current drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kids-to-learn-all-about-traffic-rules/articleshow/78694191.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||2 held with gutkha; actor booked||HYDERABAD: Two persons indulging in sale of gutkha were arrested and Rs 63 lakh worth gutkha and other items were seized from their possession. In another case, Cyberabad police raided a pan masala manufacturing unit at Gaganpahad and registered a case against businessman-cum-film actor Sachin Joshi for trademark violation. Acting on specific information, Task Force police conducted raids at Osmangunj and Kishanbagh. Police arrested Mirza Fazil Hussain Baig at Osmangunj in possession of 10 bags of gutkha and an auto. Police raided a godown in Kishanbagh and arrested Dastagir Miya in possession of 31 bags of gutkha. In another case, Cyberabad police registered a case against businessman-cum-actor Sachin Joshi, his father JM Joshi for illegally using a trademark of pan masala brand. Police raided Golden Finger Food products factory at Gaganpahad and seized items worth over Rs 1.25 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-with-gutkha-actor-booked/articleshow/78690023.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Micro tremors hit Financial District, experts say nothing to worry||HYDERABAD: The Financial District area of Gachibowli has been experiencing micro tremors for the past two days due to hydroseismicity following heavy rains that lashed the city. My Home Vihanga residential complex, TNGOs’ Colony phase 2 and Indian School of Business experienced minor tremors and huge sounds coming from beneath the earth surface. GHMC and government officials assured locals of no seismic activity, while engineers who inspected the site said all the structures were safe and that there was no threat to life or property. National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) scientists, who had installed seismograph stations, said the tremors were similar to Borabanda micro tremors. The magnitude recorded was around 0.5 to 0.8. MHV is built to withstand 6 to 6.5 magnitude quakes on the Richter scale. However, around 40 families out of 2,000 living in the residential complex have left the complex out of fear. NGRI chief seismologist D Srinagesh told TOI that there was nothing to worry about these tremors. “They are similar to the minor tremors in Borabanda which led to panic recently. We have set up three stations in and around MHV and TNGOs’ Colony,” he said. The area witnessing hydroseismicity is a rocky terrain. My Home Vihanga society manager Katta Prasad said they felt vibrations twice in the past two days and heard huge sounds multiple times. The last one was heard at 1.57am on Thursday. “Only 40 families have left the building temporarily. The officials have assured us not to panic,” he said. GHMC officials, NGRI scientists and My Home Constructions engineers held discussions with MHV society members, after which the MHV management committee in a communication to all residents said, “The thud sounds and vibrations are because of hydroseismicity and they are not earthquakes. Most of them were well below 0.5.” ISB sources told TOI, “Our operations team informed that there were minor tremors on Wednesday evening.” Scientists also said these could recur over the next 3-5 weeks until the water from the rain seeps down and fills up the pores or airpockets created by unbridled drilling of borewells and water extraction in the area.  Meanwhile, NGRI is planning to set up tremor recording stations at IIIT-H and University of Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/micro-tremors-hit-financial-dist-experts-say-nothing-to-worry/articleshow/78690028.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Engineering aspirants can’t pick 41 new courses, CEE told||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala Technological University has instructed the state commissioner for entrance examinations to stop engineering aspirants from submitting options for as many as 41 courses for which the respective colleges have not received the university’s approval. As is the practice in vogue among self-financing engineering colleges, 22 college managements had approached the high court against the varsity’s refusal to grant permission for new courses for which they had applied for. The high court had held that the university has no right to put new conditions for sanctioning new courses since the colleges were in receipt of the necessary approvals from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). But, the university approached the Supreme Court against the HC order and the latest instruction to CEE was based on a stay on HC order that SC has granted on October 13. The university had earlier clarified that admission to a set of courses in certain colleges would be subject to the outcome of the court order. Time for candidates for submitting options online for second phase allotment of engineering seats had elapsed at 5pm on October 14 (Wednesday). With the SC stay order, admission to none of the seats and courses for which the colleges had obtained approval by bypassing the university would be possible. The university in its petition before SC held that the high court order undermined the academic role and autonomy of the university, which is bound to ensure quality of education in engineering sector. AICTE has given sanction for new courses in several colleges with abysmally low pass percentage. The tendency, if goes unchecked, would further ruin quality in engineering studies and hence demand a serious intervention from the apex court, it said. With the 41 courses secured by a total of 22 colleges are set to get cancelled, the number of engineering seats would be further down by 1680. The total number of engineering seats would be down by 3832, than last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/engg-aspirants-cant-pick-41-new-courses-cee-told/articleshow/78695990.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Damaged cars flood service centres, repair may cost lakhs||HYDERABAD: Torrential rains that left thousands of houses inundated has not only damaged furniture and electronics but also rendered many cars useless after they were either submerged or washed away. Service centres in the city were flooded with calls from residents of Nampally, Uppal, Secunderabad, Rasoolpura seeking help to tow their cars. Based on the extent of damage, car showrooms have categorised damaged vehicles into A, B and C category. A category vehicles are those which are submerged up to the level of wheel or bottom of the doors, B category refers to partially submerged vehicles and C refers to fully submerged vehicles. “We have received 105 cars across all our service centres of which almost 50% of them are in the C category and 40% are in B category. Majority damaged cars have been towed from Uppal,” said Vinay Pathak, business head (workshop), RKS Motors, which has seven service centres across the city. Showroom representatives said that since cars were submerged under water for more than 12 hours, it must have damaged wiring harnesses, brake liners, clutch plates etc. Apart from this, service centres have to thoroughly clean the engine before dismantling it and clean car interiors, which in itself is a Herculean task. “Water can damage every single component inside a car including the engine, transmission and the electrical system. The extent of damage will be different in each car. If the damage is more than what the customer can afford or if they fail to get an insurance cover, people usually prefer to sell them,” said M Narasimha, body shop manager, Maruti Suzuki’s Sai Service Center, Sanathnagar. While car owners who have insurance are claiming it, others who don’t have their vehicles insured are contemplating to either sell it or junk their cars instead of coughing up huge amounts towards repair work. “Many showrooms charge about Rs 2 lakh to repair cars. For those who cannot afford to do cough up such a huge amount, they prefer to sell such cars,” said Javed Mohammed, an automobile entrepreneur who extended support to all such affected residents on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/damaged-cars-flood-service-centres-repair-may-cost-lakhs/articleshow/78690017.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||DG Shipping office to be set up in Gandhinagar||Gandhinagar: The government of India (GOI) has notified the Director General of Shipping as as national authority for recycling of ships under Section 3 of the Recycling of Ships Act, 2019 and decided to set up its national office at Gandhinagar. The move is expected to boost the ship recycling industry at Alang in Gujarat. As an apex body, DG Shipping is authorized to administer, supervise and monitor all activities relating to ship recycling. DG Shipping will look after the sustainable development of the ship recycling industry, monitoring compliance to environment-friendly norms and safety and health measures for the stakeholders working in the ship recycling industry. DG Shipping will be the final authority for the various approvals required by ship-recycling yard owners and state governments. Mansukh Mandaviya, Union minister of state (MOS), shipping (independent charge) and chemicals & fertilisers, said, “National authority of ship recycling will be set up in Gandhinagar. The location of the office will benefit ship recycling yard owners situated in Alang, which is home of Asia’s largest ship breaking and ship recycling industry.” Under the Ship Recycling Act, 2019, India has acceded to Hong Kong Convention for Ship Recycling under International Maritime Organization (IMO). DG Shipping is a representative of India in IMO and all conventions of IMO are being enforced by DG Shipping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dg-shipping-office-to-be-set-up-in-gandhinagar/articleshow/78690029.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Vodafone Idea network outage hits lakhs of customers; firm blames flooding||PUNE/AURANGABAD/GOA: A widespread outage of the Vodafone Idea (Vi) cellular and data network services for most of Thursday affected lakhs of subscribers in the service provider’s Maharashtra and Goa circle. Voice and data services were restored late in the evening. The company blamed the outage on flooding caused by heavy rain — water had seeped into a key network management site in Pune, which serves as a backup and infrastructure support centre for the entire circle. Many customers were seen queuing up outside Vi stores in Pune, while several small businesses were badly affected. In Aurangabad, angry subscribers caused a furore at the outlets, forcing police to intervene. “My phone had no network since I woke up on Thursday morning. I assumed it was due to the heavy rain the previous night and thought it would be back soon,” said Deccan resident Purva Sankhla. “I have had Wi-Fi connectivity issues for a few days and Thursday’s outage completely cut me off.” Customers queued up at the Vi store in Kalyaninagar from 9am. “I thought the issue was only with my cellphone, but when I came here I realized how big the problem was,” Sameet Mahtani, a resident, said, adding that with broadband at home, communication wasn’t a problem. Among the worst hit were restaurants and small entrepreneurs delivering tiffin services, as they could not receive or deliver orders. Many suffered a loss of business for an entire day. Vi said it “regretted the inconvenience” caused to customers. “Heavy rain in Pune has resulted in flooding of some areas, including one of our key sites. This has caused a partial disruption in services for some customers. Our technical team has worked non-stop, deployed interim solutions and restored voice and data services,” the company said in a statement. Some customers who managed to contact the Vi customer care online were told to confirm one-time passwords sent via SMS; only, there was no way to receive SMSs as the network was down. VI’s offices in Nirala Bazaar, Jalna Road and Connaught Place in Aurangabad were inundated with angry, even abusive customers. The police had to be called in to control the crowd. In Goa, many students said their work was affected. “Students could not attend online classes or complete their assignment submissions,” Naushad Chowdhari, a student union representative from Goa said. Others, meanwhile, said their confidence in Vi was shaken. “It is now time to switch to a different network,” said Vicky Nagde, a Goa-based digital marketing executive. Some users took to Twitter to slam the company. “Vi had better close down its operations rather than make its subscribers suffer,” tweeted Manoj Kamat, visiting faculty at the Goa Institute of Management and Goa University. Other operators managed to keep their networks operational through the day in most locations. (Inputs from Ardhra Nair, Rujuta Parekh, Swati Shinde, Mohammed Akhef, Satyanarayan Iyer and Newton Sequeira)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vi-network-outage-hits-lakhs-of-customers-firm-blames-flooding/articleshow/78691865.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Engineering aspirants can’t pick 41 new courses, CEE told||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala Technological University has instructed the state commissioner for entrance examinations to stop engineering aspirants from submitting options for as many as 41 courses for which the respective colleges have not received the university’s approval. As is the practice in vogue among self-financing engineering colleges, 22 college managements had approached the high court against the varsity’s refusal to grant permission for new courses for which they had applied for. The high court had held that the university has no right to put new conditions for sanctioning new courses since the colleges were in receipt of the necessary approvals from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). But, the university approached the Supreme Court against the HC order and the latest instruction to CEE was based on a stay on HC order that SC has granted on October 13. The university had earlier clarified that admission to a set of courses in certain colleges would be subject to the outcome of the court order. Time for candidates for submitting options online for second phase allotment of engineering seats had elapsed at 5pm on October 14 (Wednesday). With the SC stay order, admission to none of the seats and courses for which the colleges had obtained approval by bypassing the university would be possible. The university in its petition before SC held that the high court order undermined the academic role and autonomy of the university, which is bound to ensure quality of education in engineering sector. AICTE has given sanction for new courses in several colleges with abysmally low pass percentage. The tendency, if goes unchecked, would further ruin quality in engineering studies and hence demand a serious intervention from the apex court, it said. With the 41 courses secured by a total of 22 colleges are set to get cancelled, the number of engineering seats would be further down by 1680. The total number of engineering seats would be down by 3832, than last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/engg-aspirants-cant-pick-41-new-courses-cee-told/articleshow/78688588.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 16, 2020||Mumbai||Now, Maharashtra govt wants kids to learn all about traffic rules||MUMBAI: Hoping to raise responsible citizens, education department has decided to incorporate traffic rules in learning for children. Primary school teachers have been told to include traffic regulations and safety in subjects to create awareness. After a proposal from Pune RTO, director of primary education Dattatray Jagtap wrote to local education officers. “Each year, the state sees many road accidents and loss of life. Many of them are because traffic rules are not followed. Today’s students will be responsible citizens in future, so we decided to imbibe road etiquette in them at a young age,” he said. In line with current remote learning format, the department will set up a resource group comprising primary and secondary education officers, civic officials and four enthusiastic teachers. This group will be trained through video-conferencing by education and transport department officials in the second and third week of this month. This group will then impart a day’s training for at least one teacher from each school in the district. The deputy director of education in each district will select interested teachers ahead of a state-level training session. Teachers will incorporate the traffic rules and regulations in academic lessons. But experts said more must be done for current drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kids-to-learn-all-about-traffic-rules/articleshow/78688809.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik collector cancels relinquishment deed made on man’s false promise to his sister||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has struck down the “relinquishment deed” that was obtained by a person from his elder sister — who had no one to take care of her — by making false promises and then refusing to support her.“The person had got the deed from his sister on the promise that he would take care of her and then affected the change in land records in such a way that her name was removed. During the hearing conducted, the man refused to take responsibility of his sister. Therefore, we struck down the ‘relinquishment deed’ ordering the man to ensure he looked after his elder sister,” Mandhare said.The woman had registered a complaint with the sub-divisional officer (SDO), Nashik, seeking orders that her younger brother take care of her under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. After going through the case, the SDO had ordered the man to follow the norms.However, the person gained the confidence of the women after the SDO's orders and obtained a relinquishment deed claiming that since he would take care of her, she should rescind her rights to the property from the parents.Having got the woman’s signature, the man then challenged the SDO’s order with the district magistrate or the district collector — refusing to take care of his sister.The collector heard both the persons and gave an opportunity to the man to abide by the duty of taking care of his sister as per the norms. “Since he refused, we struck down the ‘deed’ and ordered the talathi to ‘restore’ the name of the woman in the record of rights,” the collector said.Collector has also appealed to the people to write to sub-divisional officer (SDO) if they were facing similar problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-collector-cancels-relinquishment-deed-made-on-mans-false-promise-to-his-sister/articleshow/78686327.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 16, 2020||Meerut||Out on bail, alcoholic youth bludgeons mother to death after she refused to give him money, sister critical||Meerut: A youth was arrested for allegedly killing his mother after she refused to give him money and critically injuring his sister who intervened into the matter in Bali village under Parikshitgarh police station limits of Meerut district. Police said they arrested accused Vineet, who was recently released from jail on bail in a loot case, while his woman accomplice Julie was still at large. An FIR was registered. Vineet, an alcoholic, was asking for the money that the family had recently received as the reimbursement for their sugarcane dues, said police. On Wednesday evening, he returned home inebriated and demanded money from his 62-year-old mother, and as she refused, Vineet attacked her with a blunt iron rod injuring her fatally, said police. Vineet also attacked his sister Anjali, who intervened into the matter, said police. The injured mother-daughter duo was rushed to a local hospital where the mother succumbed to her injuries, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/out-on-bail-alcoholic-youth-bludgeons-mother-to-death-after-she-refused-to-give-him-money-sister-critical/articleshow/78686323.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||UT gets 3 bids for water project||Chandigarh: The engineering department of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has finally received three bids for its ambitious project of Rs 37.10 crore to enhance the city’s water capacity for one day. This is for the third time that the civic body authority has initiated a fresh exercise, as in the earlier two bids, only one bidder got qualified, thus forcing the department to carry out the third bidding process. The companies which participated in the bid are Jai Shree Balaji Construction Company, H L Handa and Company and Bansal Infratech Synergies India Limited. Going by the process, the civic body authority will conduct technical evaluation of the received bids and financial bids will be opened to allot the tender to the successful bidder. “A tender processing committee has been constituted to finalise the entire process. The committee is led by the superintending engineer of the public health wing of the engineering department. After the technical evaluation, it will go to the committee for approval and companies, which will qualify in the technical bid, will go for financial bidding,” said an official. The tender cost of the project is around Rs 37.10 crore and the Chandigarh administration has already given around Rs 26 crore last year to the civic body authority. The rest of the amount will be paid by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL). “Water proofing and leakage proofing of all the existing tanks is a crucial work and the same is a part of the tender document. For the improvement of the existing structure of the tanks and preparation of the tender document, we have hired an independent consultant,” said an official from the engineering department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-gets-3-bids-for-water-project/articleshow/78687291.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Apollo Hosps gears up to administer 1m vaccine doses per day||Hyderabad: Even as over a 100 Covid-19 vaccine candidates are in various phases of development globally, healthcare major Apollo Hospitals is working to build infrastructure for administering a million doses of coronavirus vaccines per day. “The group has been investing in ramping up the cold chain infrastructure at its network of 19 medicine supply hubs, 70 hospitals, over 400 clinics, 500 corporate health centres and 4000 pharmacies across the country,” Apollo Group of Hospitals executive vice-chairman Shobana Kamineni said during a virtual meet on Thursday. Apollo Hospitals is also training over 10,000 employees, including doctors, nurses and pharmacists, to administer the vaccine at Apollo centres, she said, adding that while around 7,000 have already been trained, the remaining 3,000 are undergoing training so that they can administer the vaccine safely and accurately. She said pharmacists being trained will get certification so that they can administer the vaccine. Here she pointed out that nearly 30% of India is roughly 30 minutes away from an Apollo pharmacy, which can guarantee safe and widespread reach of the vaccine, if required. “As the country awaits a vaccine for the deadly infectious disease, one of the major challenges will be around safe and orderly delivery of doses for 1.3 billion Indians. Apollo Hospitals has been strengthening its vaccine cold chain for supply and gearing up all Apollo facilities for efficient and fast administration up to 1 million doses per day with the highest safety standards,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apollo-hosps-gears-up-to-administer-1m-vaccine-doses-per-day/articleshow/78690043.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Vodafone Idea network outage hits lakhs of customers; firm blames flooding||PUNE/AURANGABAD/GOA: A widespread outage of the Vodafone Idea (Vi) cellular and data network services for most of Thursday affected lakhs of subscribers in the service provider’s Maharashtra and Goa circle. Voice and data services were restored late in the evening. The company blamed the outage on flooding caused by heavy rain — water had seeped into a key network management site in Pune, which serves as a backup and infrastructure support centre for the entire circle. Many customers were seen queuing up outside Vi stores in Pune, while several small businesses were badly affected. In Aurangabad, angry subscribers caused a furore at the outlets, forcing police to intervene. “My phone had no network since I woke up on Thursday morning. I assumed it was due to the heavy rain the previous night and thought it would be back soon,” said Deccan resident Purva Sankhla. “I have had Wi-Fi connectivity issues for a few days and Thursday’s outage completely cut me off.” Customers queued up at the Vi store in Kalyaninagar from 9am. “I thought the issue was only with my cellphone, but when I came here I realized how big the problem was,” Sameet Mahtani, a resident, said, adding that with broadband at home, communication wasn’t a problem. Among the worst hit were restaurants and small entrepreneurs delivering tiffin services, as they could not receive or deliver orders. Many suffered a loss of business for an entire day. Vi said it “regretted the inconvenience” caused to customers. “Heavy rain in Pune has resulted in flooding of some areas, including one of our key sites. This has caused a partial disruption in services for some customers. Our technical team has worked non-stop, deployed interim solutions and restored voice and data services,” the company said in a statement. Some customers who managed to contact the Vi customer care online were told to confirm one-time passwords sent via SMS; only, there was no way to receive SMSs as the network was down. VI’s offices in Nirala Bazaar, Jalna Road and Connaught Place in Aurangabad were inundated with angry, even abusive customers. The police had to be called in to control the crowd. In Goa, many students said their work was affected. “Students could not attend online classes or complete their assignment submissions,” Naushad Chowdhari, a student union representative from Goa said. Others, meanwhile, said their confidence in Vi was shaken. “It is now time to switch to a different network,” said Vicky Nagde, a Goa-based digital marketing executive. Some users took to Twitter to slam the company. “Vi had better close down its operations rather than make its subscribers suffer,” tweeted Manoj Kamat, visiting faculty at the Goa Institute of Management and Goa University. Other operators managed to keep their networks operational through the day in most locations. (Inputs from Ardhra Nair, Rujuta Parekh, Swati Shinde, Mohammed Akhef, Satyanarayan Iyer and Newton Sequeira)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vi-network-outage-hits-lakhs-of-customers-firm-blames-flooding/articleshow/78690024.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Coimbatore||At 89, south zone tops in Covid deaths in Coimbatore limits||COIMBATORE: Among the five zones in the city corporation limits, south zone has accounted for highest number deaths due to the virus since the outbreak of the pandemic. Till Thursday, south zone has recorded 89 deaths followed by central with 79 deaths, east 65, north 57 and west 56. According to data from the health department as on Thursday, south zone has recorded around 17% of 509 deaths in the district. The south zone, which includes densely populated areas like Ukkadam, Kuniyamuthur and Karumbukadai, until September-end had also accounted for most number of cases. “This is because from July, above zones, which include densely populated areas like Town Hall, Selvapuram, Ukkadam and R S Puram, also reported higher number of cases, which leads to higher death numbers,” a senior corporation official said. “Also, in a densely populated area, where infection rate is high, exposure to the virus is high leading to high viral load, making the infection severe,” he said. Officials, however, say the number of deaths and cases is on a downturn in the zone and across city limits, and death rate has come down drastically. “Most of the areas in south zone and central zone, like Selvapuram, Ukkadam and Karumbukadai, have not reported cases in high numbers for a few weeks now and there are no new clusters,” city health officer Raja said. “Deaths have also reduced to only those who are senior citizens with comorbidities,” he added. Comparatively, rural areas account for 21% of deaths or 105 out of the 486 deaths (as of Saturday). In fact, not a single block in rural areas has reported more than 25 deaths. “The death rate of 1.3% applies to rural areas too. Rural areas though seeing a recent increase in cases is still a fraction of the total number of cases,” said a health department official. “The population in rural areas is also lesser and spatial spread of population also reduces speed of spread,” former director of public health Dr P Kulandaisamy said. “There may have been a few deaths which may have gone unreported like old people who were already sick,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/at-89-south-zone-tops-in-covid-deaths-in-city-limits/articleshow/78690019.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Trans woman death: Cops book 8 persons||Hyderabad:Police booked eight transgender persons for abetting suicide on Thursday after a trans woman who had allegedly set herself ablaze had succumbed to burns on Tuesday. The deceased, Hamsa, a resident of Avanthi Nagar, Erragadda, allegedly took the extreme step after a dispute between two transgender community groups. According to police, she initially belonged to a group of transgender people from Chandanagar. In February, she joined a different group from Khairatabad. They earned a livelihood by seeking alms."The Chandanagar group was harassing Hamsa to return to their group and this led to a tiff between the two groups. On October 7, the groups got into a tiff again," said Madhapur inspector Ravindra Prasad. On Sunday, her former group members called Hamsa near Hitec City railway station to sort out differences. During the discussion an argument broke out and Hamsa left vexed and set herself ablaze. Police are yet to arrest the offender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trans-woman-death-cops-book-8-persons/articleshow/78690026.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Adhere to norms, DME warns faculty||Hyderabad: Threatening disciplinary action against teaching faculty not adhering to norms, director medical education (DME) Telangana has sent a notice to all teaching hospitals in the state. As per the notice, a few faculty members were not adhering to hospital timings and any further violation of the rules would have consequences, warned the DME and asked hospital superintendents and directors to monitor the attendance of faculty. “All faculty are directed to strictly maintain the timings. Every department should have their monthly teaching programme for under-graduate and post-graduates. This schedule should be sent to the principals, which, in turn, should be sent to DME,” the notice sent on Wednesday said. It also specified that all teaching faculty should attend teaching programmes of their respective departments, conduct rounds once a week, out-patient clinic and operation theatres should begin at 9am strictly and faculty should attend it everyday and full faculty should be available in OT till 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/adhere-to-norms-dme-warns-faculty/articleshow/78690032.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath sends MLAs to probe Ujjain hooch tragedy||BHOPAL: PCC chief and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday sent a team to probe the Ujjain hooch tragedy, which has so far claimed 11 lives. The team will go to the spot, meet families of the victims and submit its report to the senior Congress leader. The four-member team comprised party MLAs Mahesh Parmar, Manoj Chawla, Dilip Gurjar and Murali Morwal. Nath took to Twitter and urged punitive action against the culprits responsible for the incident. “The liquor mafia in Ujjain took nine lives, thereby ruining nine families. Shivraj ji, how long will the mafia keep killing innocent people? We had crushed them and as soon as our government fell, they have become fearless and active,” he said. “After all, why is your government so much in love with the mafia?” the senior Congress leader asked chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. In a second tweet, the state Congress president said, “Why are the culprits being spared? Why are they being protected? My condolences to the deceased victims. The bereaved families should get justice and all possible help should be extended to them. Strict, punitive action should also be taken against the culprits.” In another statement, Nath said that he has been receiving complaints of continuous and unrestricted sale of illicit liquor from several districts of Madhya Pradesh. “The entire government machinery is busy with the bypolls. Chouhan, who claims people are his Gods has left the state bhagwan-bharose,” he said. Nath claimed that the law and order situation in the state is deteriorating every passing day. “There are ghastly crimes being committed against our sisters and daughters. The government is in deep slumber as the mafia is taking the lives of innocent people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-sends-mlas-to-probe-ujjain-hooch-tragedy/articleshow/78690031.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||UT gets 3 bids for water project||Chandigarh: The engineering department of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has finally received three bids for its ambitious project of Rs 37.10 crore to enhance the city’s water capacity for one day. This is for the third time that the civic body authority has initiated a fresh exercise, as in the earlier two bids, only one bidder got qualified, thus forcing the department to carry out the third bidding process. The companies which participated in the bid are Jai Shree Balaji Construction Company, H L Handa and Company and Bansal Infratech Synergies India Limited. Going by the process, the civic body authority will conduct technical evaluation of the received bids and financial bids will be opened to allot the tender to the successful bidder. “A tender processing committee has been constituted to finalise the entire process. The committee is led by the superintending engineer of the public health wing of the engineering department. After the technical evaluation, it will go to the committee for approval and companies, which will qualify in the technical bid, will go for financial bidding,” said an official. The tender cost of the project is around Rs 37.10 crore and the Chandigarh administration has already given around Rs 26 crore last year to the civic body authority. The rest of the amount will be paid by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL). “Water proofing and leakage proofing of all the existing tanks is a crucial work and the same is a part of the tender document. For the improvement of the existing structure of the tanks and preparation of the tender document, we have hired an independent consultant,” said an official from the engineering department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-gets-3-bids-for-water-project/articleshow/78687329.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 16, 2020||Pune||Pets board special taxis to join families as work from home relocations go up||PUNE: When work from home (WFH) was announced at his workplace in Pune, Chaitanya Mishra decided to go back home to Allahabad but was clueless about how the family’s pet dog would travel. A pet taxi came to his rescue. Mishra was referred to Burzin Mistry who provides the service. “After going through feedback, I approached him,” he said. Mishra’s pet travelled alone with Mistry over 1,000km. But he had nothing to worry about as he and his family boarded a flight. “Mistry’s vehicle was equipped with everything a dog may need. On the day of the pick-up, he spent a while to get to know our pet before embarking on the journey. He sent updates every two hours. We relaxed knowing that he would bring our dog to Allahabad,” Mishra said. Many others from across the country are seeking taxi services to transport their pets, within and across cities. The services also include visits to grooming centres, pick-ups and drops to kennels among others. Mistry, while waiting for his pet passenger at a city-based grooming centre, said that since he resumed services on May 15, he has taken up several trips within the city for veterinarian visits. “I did some inter-city relocations from Pune to Mumbai, Nashik and other cities. The demand for intra and inter-city pet transport is increasing as cab aggregators are not taking pets. I have been doing one or two trips within the city daily, whenever I’m not on a relocation run,” he added. Like Mistry, Mumbai-resident Laxmi Agarwal has travelled over 20,000 km to re-unite pets with their parents through her firm, Pet Taxi. The lockdown separated many pet families as people migrated to their hometowns, and when the relaxations were announced, they wanted their pets back. Train and flight services were limited which allowed pet taxi services to flourish. “I have delivered pets between Mumbai and cities like Kochi, Hyderabad, Delhi, Bengaluru, Goa and others over the last 2 months,” said the 29-year-old Aggarwal. She said these 20,000 km include only those trips wherein the pets and their parents were separated. “We have done several trips transporting the pets with their family. I went on trips that required a handler when the pet parents were not there. We were a team of 3 with the pet, 2 drivers and me since hotels were not open and we needed to be on the move,” she explained. Agarwal said the concept of pet cabs was new when she launched her services in 2016. “There was a problem in finding taxis for intra-city transport. Even though pet parents paid extra, taxi drivers would not put on the air-conditioner. When we started outstation pet taxi services in 2018, the demand spiked further. Pet taxis, though expensive when compared to other cabs, are becoming the choice of transport for pet parents,” Agarwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pets-board-special-taxis-to-join-families-as-work-from-home-relocations-go-up/articleshow/78690060.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 16, 2020||Mumbai||BJP loses three divisional committees as Shiv Sena gets opposition support||MUMBAI: BJP lost three prabhag samiti (divisional committee) elections under its control to Shiv Sena, supported by Opposition parties’ corporators in BMC. Congress, NCP and Samajwadi Party orporators supported Sena to keep BJP away. The city’s 24 administrative wards are divided into 17 divisional committees (few consist of more than one ward) and local coporators of those divisions vote to select the committee chairperson, who plays an influential role in fund distribution for local development work. Through these smaller projects, political parties establish their hold at the ground level. Of elections held for 11 division committees on Wednesday-Thursday, eight went to Sena and three to BJP. Elections for the remaining six are on Friday. There will be an interesting fight at the committee consisting T (Mulund) and S (Bhandup) wards, where BJP has more corporators but Sena, with Congress-NCP support matches their number. If both parties get equal votes, the decision will be taken through lottery. Congress is an Opposition party in Sena-ruled BMC, the richest civic body in the country. Since there was not much of a gap between corporator elected from Sena and BJP, the latter had the upper hand in divisional committee as it had many strongholds in Mulund, Ghatkopar, Kandivli and Borivli. But with Congress, NCP and SP help, Sena snatched some committees from BJP. Earlier, BJP had nine and Sena eight. Recently, Sena retained all statutory committees and works Committees in BMC with Opposition parties’ help, defeating BJP candidates. BJP is the second largest party in BMC in the 2017 elections. Despite that it was denied the post of leader of Opposition, as it was then on good terms with Sena, after which it went to Congress, the third largest party. Sena and BJP are now not on good terms, and BJP wants the post. BJP leader in BMC Vinod Mishra said, “Congress-NCP-SP supported Sena in these elections, showing Congress’s real face. They are supporting the ruling party, we are real Opposition in BMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-loses-three-divisional-committees-as-shiv-sena-gets-oppn-support/articleshow/78688810.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Medical education minister gives assurance on Covid-19 testing kits||Aurangabad: Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, while giving assurance on the quality of Covid screening done in the state, said that in cases where the Covid-19 test kits are found to be defective, new kits are being used.Deshmukh is on a tour of Aurangabad and neighbouring districts to review the Covid-19 situation as well as party-related works. Addressing a press conference, he said: “Covid-19 screening has not been affected and even the total numbers of tests being carried out in the state have not fallen.”Citing the figures, the minister said the number of Covid-19 infected patients have registered a dip. He denied the reports that the state is running short of testing kits and related infrastructure. Currently, there is no shortage of manpower like doctors, nurses, technicians in Aurangabad and the state. There is also no shortage of oxygen, ventilators or other things, he said.He said the number of coronavirus patients in the state is declining and the rate of patient recovery is improving with each passing day. At present, the recovery rate in Aurangabad is about 90%, which is one of the highest recovery rates in the state.Also, the process of setting up a super specialty hospital at the Government Medical College is in its final stage and related works will be completed soon.Responding to the allegations of malpractice and corruption in the procurement process, Deshmukh said that it is absolutely wrong of the opposition to politicise the issue during a pandemic. “This is the time for every person to cooperate with the state as well as people to overcome the pandemic. But unfortunately, some people are more interested in politicising the crisis,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/medical-education-minister-gives-assurance-on-covid-19-testing-kits/articleshow/78686340.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Guv launches MC’s fuel station in Sector 51||Chandigarh: Governor Punjab-cum-UT administrator V P Singh Badnore inaugurated the new Indian Oil Retail outlet in Sector 51 on Thursday. The fuel outlet has been dedicated by the Governor to the people of Chandigarh. While speaking on the occasion, Badnore lauded the efforts of the Chandigarh municipal corporation for commissioning of the state-of-the-art retail outlet in a record time of three months at Sector 51. He said women should be given equal opportunity to serve at the new outlet for promoting women empowerment in the city. Manoj Kumar Parida, adviser to the administrator, complemented the efforts of the MC for the new outlet. He also advised the Indian Oil for expediting the CNG expansion in the city. Mayor Raj Bala Malik said the new fuel outlet at Sector 51 has not only provided new employment opportunities to the local people, but will also act as a source of revenue for the MC. Municipal commissioner K K Yadav said the outlet is fully automated with ultra-modern facilities such as the new smart ground detector for safety, which has been introduced for the first time on all India-basis. The outlet will work for 24x7 from Thursday onwards. He said the second fuel outlet at Industrial Area, Phase II, will be commissioned shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/guv-launches-mcs-fuel-station-in-sector-51/articleshow/78687321.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: In Covid-19 times, manage back pain at home||NAGPUR: Back pain is one of the most common reasons people have to visit a doctor or miss their work. Due to lifestyle changes, even school-going children are having back pain complaints. Due to work from home during Covid-19 lockdown, many people are suffering from back pain problems. On World Spine Day observed on October 16, doctors from AIIMS-Nagpur share with TOI some valuable tips about Covid-19 and back pain. The day is observed to raise awareness about back pain and other spinal problems. The theme for 2020 ‘Back on track’ seems timely as we are in the Covid-19 unlock phase. “Not all the patients with back pain require surgical management. Most of them can be managed with home care with proper medications and physical therapy,” said Dr Samrat Sahoo, assistant professor, department of orthopaedics, AIIMS-Nagpur. According to him, most of the patients can be treated conservatively at home. “Self-care methods are helpful for the first 72 hours after the pain begins. If the pain doesn’t improve after 72 hours of home treatment, you should visit a doctor. “Reduce physical activities for the initial three days when back pain is low. Apply ice for the first 48 to 72 hours, and then switch to warm sponging,” he said. Dr Sahoo suggests that while lying down on back, place a pillow or rolled-up towel beneath the thighs and knees. “Sometimes lying on your back causes more discomfort. If so, try lying on your side with your knees bent and a pillow between your legs. A warm bath or a massage can often relax the spasm of the back muscles,” he said. Covid-19 has affected physical as well mental health condition of many people. People were compelled to stay indoors, leading to loss of regular physical activity in the form of outdoor sports, jogging, running, gym workout, swimming etc. Increased stress and loss of confidence have added to the problems. “Restrictions imposed by lockdown have limited activity and mobility of people,” said Dr Samir Dwidmuthe, associate professor of orthopaedics at AIIMS, Nagpur, and added, “Adherence to a healthy dietary habit, avoiding mental stress and remaining physically active will help you remain free from most of the back problems.” “As we are in the unlocking phase and resuming occupation, many people are facing difficulty while coping up with the back problem. Approximately 8 out of 10 people are affected by back pain at some point in their lives,” he said. The intensity of back pain can range from a dull, constant ache to a sudden, sharp or shooting pain. It can begin suddenly as a result of an accident or by lifting something heavy, or it can develop over time as we age. Getting too little exercise followed by a strenuous workout also can cause back pain. According to doctors, surgery may be necessary for severe cases. Surgery is usually only an option when all other treatments fail. However, if there is loss of bowel or bladder control, or a progressive neurological loss, surgery becomes an emergency option.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-covid-19-times-manage-back-pain-at-home/articleshow/78688593.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Seats in most popular courses filled in top Delhi University colleges||NEW DELHI: Delhi University colleges have already seen record admissions under the first cutoff this year. Against last year’s 24,000 admissions, 29,746 candidates have got admitted this year. The final count will only go up as 10,978 applicants are yet to pay the fees. The trend also means that in the second cutoff, the drop will be marginal across courses and colleges. In several colleges, popular courses like political science, BCom (H) and combinations of BA Programme are full. The second list will be released on Saturday and the admissions will begin on Monday. At Lady Shri Ram College for Women, while the three course — psychology, economics and political science — where the cutoff was 100% will still be open, mathematics and five combinations of BA Programme are full. “The drop in the cutoff will be marginal,” said principal Suman Sharma. At Shri Ram College of Commerce, 125 applications have been approved for 155 economics seats, and 121 for 626 berths in BCom (H). Several courses like political science, physics, chemistry and history have seen over-admissions at Hindu College. “Despite keeping the political science cutoff at 99.5%, we saw over-admissions,” principal Anju Srivastava said, adding that last year, too, the course was full after the first cutoff due to the admissions of many 100% scorers. “This year is the same; perhaps more than before.” The college may, however, keep a few courses open as there could be a few cancellations or transfers later, she added. Calling the turnout “unprecedented”, Jaswinder Singh, principal of SGTB Khalsa College, said “only 10-15% of our seats are now left in the unreserved category”. Courses like physics, BCom (H), political science and economics may not have any seat in the second cutoff. Explaining the situation, Singh said DU had received more applications and CBSE had also been lenient with marks this year. At Sri Venkateswara College, Principal Venkat Kumar said the cutoffs might drop by just 0.25% in almost all courses in the second list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/record-admissions-under-first-cutoff/articleshow/78688614.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||After seven-month break, halls plan to lure Cov-wary crowd back with Rs 11 ticket, premiere||Kolkata: Two theatres in the city and 70-odd ones in Bengal reopened on Thursday after a seven-month hiatus but even film-lovers seem to need some more time to warm up to the idea of sitting inside a dark auditorium for over two hours. The lurking feeling of unease, coupled with the access to good content on OTT platforms, could have been the reason for a thin audience on the first day but theatre owners seemed happy with the token reopening. Read Also‘Watching a film on a big screen was a seductive experience’It was in March that I had last watched films on big screen. Primarily, they were the Oscar selections, ‘Joker’, ‘1917’ and ‘Little Women’. After a gap of seven months when I went back to watching a movie on the big screen on Thursday, it was a seductive experience for me.Banking on innovations to draw the audience back, SVF Cinemas is pricing tickets at Rs 11 for this weekend, while Priya is hosting a premiere of Rohan Sen’s new Bengali release, ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’. Apart from the film’s cast and crew, a handful of patrons also came to watch the film. Among them was 24-year-old Raj, who works at a dental clinic at Sodepur. “I last watched Srijit Mukheji’s ‘Dwitiyo Purush’ at Nandan in March. During lockdown, I watched films on OTT platforms, but they can never replace the attraction of the big screen. The SOP does not allow us to sit together, but that’s better than not watching films in theatres at all,” said Raj. Raj at the screening of 'Ebhabei Golpo Hok'The first-day-first-show at Rupmandir Cinema, which screened ‘Kedarnath’, was not without glitches. “Four people had to return as the digital ticket machine could start functioning half an hour after the showtime,” said Rupmandir’s lease holder Santanu Raychaudhuri. But things were streamlined for the 2.45pm show of ‘Dwitiyo Purush’. Bijoy Das (40), who had watched ‘Dwitiyo Purush’ in January at Nandan, again watched it at Rupmandir. A resident of Agarpara, Das was in Belgharia on Wednesday, when he heard about the reopening of theatres. “That’s when I decided to come with my friend. The entire auditorium had just the two of us, seated in different rows,” said the businessman. Mahendra Soni, co-founder of SVF Cinemas that is reopening its nine properties with the screening of ‘Durgeshgorer Guptodhon’, ‘Dwitiyo Purush’, ‘Shanku’, ‘Dabangg 3’, ‘Chhichhore’, ‘Mission Mangal’ and ‘Gumnaami’ is excited. “The decision of changing the ticket price (Rs 11 for the weekend) should be as a welcome gift for people who have been waiting to watch their films on the big screen. I hope the audience has a great experience of watching films this festive season,” Soni said. Apart from the regular fumigation and sanitization, SVF Cinemas has also partnered with Chemtex Speciality Ltd to ensure all touch points are bio-bubble-coated. This disinfectant surface cleaner is used to offer an antimicrobial protection for 90 days. Two of the four PVR properties opened on Thursday with what they called the ‘evangelism’ phase. At 4pm, a goodwill screening of ‘Brahma Janen Gopon Kommoti’ for the company’s 60 staff and their families was held at Avani Mall and Diamond Plaza (Jessore Road). From Friday, these two will screen ‘Din Ratrir Golpo’, ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’, ‘Thappad’, ‘Tanhaji: The Unsung Warrior’, ‘The Parcel’ and ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan’. Priya, which will open with two shows of ‘Kedarnath’ and the evening premiere of ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’, is also ready. “. It feels good to host a premiere of a Bengali film on the day of reopening,” said owner Arijit Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-seven-month-break-halls-plan-to-lure-cov-wary-crowd-back-with-rs-11-ticket-premiere/articleshow/78690100.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Row over conflict of interest on contract for new Parliament||NEW DELHI: Infrastructure major Shapoorji Pallonji Group has alleged irregularities and “probable” conflict of interest in Tata Projects Ltd (TPL) bagging the New Parliament Building contract. In a letter addressed to the central vigilance commission (CVC) and central public works department (CPWD) last month, which has surfaced now, the company alleged that participation of both TPL and Tata Consulting Engineers Ltd (TCEL) in the process was a violation of the CVC rules—a contention which was rejected by the CPWD, sources said. This is being seen as yet another flare-up in the ongoing war between the Tatas and the SP Group since the sacking of Cyrus Mistry as the chairman of Tata Sons in October 2016. The SP Group was also one of the three shortlisted bidders for this prestigious project. The SP Group flagged that the TCEL is associated with the project and is providing consultancy services as a sub-consultant and TPL was also a bidder for the project. It had said both the companies are affiliates and part of the Tata Group. It had flagged that the CVC procurement guidelines say the bidder shall not have a conflict of interest that affects the bidding process. The company had sought examination of the issue to ensure the bidding was impartial. However, sources said the CPWD responded to the SP Group on September 25 clarifying that there was no conflict of interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/row-over-conflict-of-interest-on-contract-for-new-parliament/articleshow/78688624.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre seeks response on Tenancy Act draft||Hyderabad: Landlords cannot collect more than two months rental advance as security deposit for residential properties and not more than six months for commercial properties, as per the terms of conditions in the Modern Tenancy Act (MTA) 2020, prepared by the Centre. The landlords have to refund the security deposit while taking over the property from the tenant unless there are any dues. Similarly, owners are entitled for double the monthly rent for the first two months and thereafter four times the monthly rent in case of default by tenant to vacate the premises after termination of the agreement. These are the provisions incorporated in the MTA sent to the state government, seeking objections and suggestions on the draft from the general public. The government said people can send their suggestions on the draft Act before October 31. According to the Model Tenancy Act (MTA) 2020, all property should be let out only through agreement and even sub-letting is not allowed without execution of supplementary agreement. The Act will also be applicable to the existing tenants. “The Centre has also proposed a fast track quasi-judicial mechanism or rental authority headed by district collector, district magistrate or additional collector rank officer for adjudication of disputes between landlord and tenant,” the draft Act said. The landlord may approach eviction of tenant on certain grounds by giving one month notice. These grounds include not paying rent for two consecutive months, delaying interest payments, misusing the premises, making alteration to the premises without taking written approval of the owner or causing structural damages to the premises. The MTA also gives protection to tenants from disconnection of essential supplies such as water and electricity without taking the legal course. “No landlord or property manager shall withhold any essential supply or service in the premises occupied by the tenant. In case of any contravention of provisions, they can approach the rental authority,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-seeks-response-on-tenancy-act-draft/articleshow/78690084.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 16, 2020||Bhopal||92 file papers to beat ‘Amavasya’ & last day rush in MP||BHOPAL: A day ahead of the last day for filing nominations on Thursday, a total of 92 candidates filed nominations for the 28 assembly seats that would go to bypolls on November 3. Candidates made a beeline to files papers to avoid last minute rush on Friday which also happens to be ‘Amavasya’ (new moon day as per Hindu calendar) when believers shy away from performing or undertaking any new task or venture. Thus, so far 216 candidates have filed their nominations from the 28 seats. Few candidates have filed multiple nomination papers as a safety measure taking the total nominations to 220. On the first day of filing nominations on of two candidates had filed nominations for contesting the by-polls on October 9. And, on Monday 26 filed nominations followed by 28 on Tuesday and 69 on Wednesday. Scrutiny of nominations would be held on October 17 while the last date for withdrawal of nominations is October 19. Among the prominent names who have filed nominations include sitting Pradumn Singh Tomar, Prabhuram Chowdhary, BJP candidate Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon, Bisahulal Singh, Aidal Singh Kansana, BJP’s Imarti Devi from Dabra, Tulsi Ram Silawat from Sanwer constituency and others. BJP’s Choudhary files nomination in Hatpipliya: BJP candidate from Hatpipliya assembly constituency of Dewas, Manoj Chaudhry filed nomination for upcoming by-polls among a dozen applicants for seven seats of Indore-Ujjain division. In Hatpipliya, local BJP leaders had planned a rally but it was cancelled at the last-moment after an FIR was lodged against BJP district president Rajeev Khandelwal on alleged violation of Section 144 of CrPC and COVID-19 guidelines. The case has been registered on a complaint of naib-tehsildar Anita Baretha for reporting violations in a political event of BJP held in Gurukripa Garden on October 7. After filling nomination, Chaudhari said that he is confident of a bigger victory than 2018 assembly polls. Contesting as Congress party’s candidate, Chaudhary had defeated then school education minister Deepak Joshi by around 14,500 votes. After switching to BJP, he is now contesting against Congress candidate Rajveer Singh Baghel, who had filed nomination papers on Wednesday. Apart from Chaudhary, Sadik Shaikh Independent also filed nomination from Hatpipliya constituency. From Badnawar seat, Bhagat Singh, Cong and Sunil Kumar Jain Independent (Badnawar), while Deepak Matholiya, Murlidhar Chichani and Ranuraj Narwal independents filed nomination from Sanwer, Suwasra and Agar seat. No nomination was filed at Mandhata and Nepanagar. ongress candidate Premchand Borasi 'Guddu' on filed his nomination from the Sanwer assembly seat. He will take on BJP minister Tulsiram Silawat. Senior Congress leaders addressed a pulic gathering at Bazaar Chowk, in which, sheer violation of Covid-19 protocol and Section 144 of CrPC was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/92-candidates-file-nomination-to-beat-amavasya-last-day-rush/articleshow/78690074.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two aides of Jamnagar don held||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS and Jamnagar police in a joint operation nabbed two most notorious accomplices of Jamnagar-based alleged mafia don, Jayesh Patel. The accused, Anwar Gadhkaivala and Azaz Sandhi are also from Jamnagar. They were nabbed from Rajkot-Jamnagar Road on Wednesday and handed over to Jamnagar police for further interrogation. Patel himself is still on the run. ATS sources said, both the accused were earlier antagonists of Patel and had fired upon Jayesh in 2017 and his brother Dharmesh in 2018, following a land dispute. However, about three months the two accused patched up with Patel and started working for him. ATS sources said two accused have several cases of assault, extortion, attempt to murder, land grabbing, firing and, criminal intimidation registered against them. They said there are about 17 such cases registered against Gadhkaivala at Shethwada, Dhrol, Jamnagar, Lathi, Panch and Rajkot police stations, while eight such cases have been registered against Sandhi in Jamnagar, Panch and Droll police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-aides-of-jamnagar-don-held/articleshow/78690135.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Forest team at Sambhar Lake to monitor execution of SOPs||Jaipur: Forest authorities have starting monitoring the ground situation at the saltwater lake in Sambhar as migratory birds begin flocking to the waterbody. Chief wildlife warden, along with senior officials from forest department, visited the lake on Thursday to monitor the implementation of Standard Operating Procedures set up to avoid recurrence of last year’s avian tragedy. As the outbreak of avian botulism last season had caused mass casualty of birds at the lake, the state forest officials are cautiously monitoring the scenario after these winged guests have begun to arrive with the onset of winters. A forest official said, “Nearly 390 illegal borewells have been shut down and encroachment evicted from 64 hectare of land around the salt water lake at Sambhar over the past year. The administrative action had followed a mass casualty of migratory birds witnessed at the lake last winters, following an outbreak of avian botulism.” The issue had drawn international attention and chief minister Ashok Gehlot too had expressed deep concern. The initiatives though will be tested, as the migratory birds begin to arrive with the onset of winters. Senior forest department officials were at the lake to take stock of the situation on ground. After the tragedy struck, interdepartmental efforts were initiated by the government and on the directions of chief secretary, a Rajasthan Standing Committee for Management of Sambhar Lake was constituted. This committee includes various departments like industries, revenue, energy, animal husbandry, forest, and Sambhar Salt Limited, Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board and others. It was decided that since it is a matter of interdepartmental coordination, the District Environment Committees headed by district collector Jaipur, Ajmer and Nagaur, will monitor day-to-day affairs at the Sambhar Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-team-at-sambhar-lake-to-monitor-execution-of-sops/articleshow/78690076.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two RU teachers suspended for assaulting registrar||JAIPUR: Two teachers who were part of a protest in Rajasthan University (RU) on Wednesday were suspended by the varsity administration on Thursday. An FIR has been lodged in Gandhi Nagar police station for assaulting registrar Harphool Singh Yadav. The suspended teachers are associate professors Vinod Sharma and Jayant Singh. For the last four days, 147 temporary teachers of RU along with some permanent faculty members have been protesting on the campus.  On Wednesday, some teachers and a few university administration officials had verbal spat on the issue. Heated arguments led to a minor scuffle between a group of teachers and the registrar. A video of the incident had gone viral on social media in which teachers were seen dragging the registrar who was moving inside the vice-chancellor’s secretariat. Taking action against the incident, university has suspended the two teachers although the protest of the teachers still continue. Reacting to the suspension, Jayant Singh said, “This is unfair practice as we are fighting for the rights of teachers. This is just a pressure tactics to avoid giving faculty members their legal rights.” However, a professor in the university said although teachers are protesting for a reasonable cause, manhandling registrar and dragging him was not justified. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-ru-teachers-suspended-for-assaulting-registrar/articleshow/78690038.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cong nominates Khachar for Limdi seat||Gandhinagar: One day before the last date for filing nominations for byelections to eight assembly seats in Gujarat, the Congress announced the name of Chetan Khachar as its candidate for the Limdi seat. The 36-year-old is a Youth Congress leader and former president of the Surendranagar district panchayat. He belongs to the OBC (Kathi) community, while BJP candidate Kiritsinh Rana is from the Rajput community.By fielding Khachar, the Congress also expects to gain in Dhari and other seats where the Kathi community has sizeable numbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-nominates-khachar-for-limdi-seat/articleshow/78690073.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops arrest 4, tighten noose around gangs||Chandigarh: After back to back two gunshots firing incidents in the city, the Chandigarh police have tightened a noose around the close aides of gangsters, who are extorting money on their behest. In the past two days, the police have registered two FIRs and arrested four associates from different parts of the city. In the two FIRs, Sector 39 police have named seven accused and Sector 36 police have registered an extortion case against three persons and arrested four. Kuldeep Singh Chahal, UT SSP, has directed all the 16 SHOs of the city to identify the associates of gangsters, who are lodged in jails of Punjab and Haryana, and register open FIRs. The cops have identified around 150 suspects. The police have filed an application for production warrant of gangster Dilpreet Singh Dahan alias Baba, who is lodged in Punjab jail. The court will hear the petition on October 19. The police have found that Dilpreet was involved in the killing of ex-president of SOPU Gurlal Brar. The two goons killed Brar on the directions of Dilpreet Singh. Kuldeep Singh Chahal, UT SSP, said, “The police are carrying out raids in different parts of Punjab and Haryana and have vital leads against accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-arrest-4-tighten-noose-around-gangs/articleshow/78687339.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Looking for lost golf balls, caddie spots mighty python||CHANDIGARH: Had it not been for a ball struck awry in the jungles flanking the second hole of the Chandigarh Golf Club, a rock python of sizable girth and length would have continued to live peacefully untouched by humans, basking in the autumn sun among a small clearing in the bushes and retiring deeper under the warmth of a huge dry tree that had fallen on the club’s boundary. On Wednesday around 4.30 pm, a caddie, Manzoor Ali, working as a spotter for balls hit by golfers into the roughs and jungles flanking the road that runs to Kishengarh village behind the Sukhna Lake, informed the club’s president, Sandeep Singh Sandhu, of the python. The python had played possum and did not stir when a group of caddies spotted it coiled in the bushes, hoping that its deadpan look resembling a fallen log would keep its presence undetected. Caddies often encounter snakes when searching for lost balls, but have never been bitten by any species. “I was playing golf on the 16th hole and upon receiving information from the caddies; I proceeded to the spot to verify if it was a venomous serpent or a python. I realised that it was lying very close to the road and could be run over. There was also a chance that with the crowd of onlookers, a mishap may occur with the python. So, we requisitioned the services of the UT forest department’s snake rescue team, which responded with alacrity. By the time I got to the 17th tee, the team had reached the spot,” said Sandhu. The rescue team, comprising the experienced gaffar, Ashraf, Kamal, Abdul and Mehdi did not encounter too much trouble with the python. “The length was measured at 10-feet. We did not measure its weight and that remains a matter of speculation. Due to a communication gap, the site of the python’s recovery was attributed by me to the Lake Club, whereas it was actually the golf club. Our rescue team later rehabilitated the python in the Nepli range. The rescue and release of the python was done in a record time. With an efficient information dissemination system, wildlife rescues have become much easier and are speedily done,” said Dr Abdul Qayum, deputy conservator of forests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/looking-for-lost-golf-balls-caddie-spots-mighty-python/articleshow/78687346.cms||Vikram Jit Singh
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt in a fix over extending terms of local bodies||GANDHINAGAR: While the state election commission (SEC) has postponed elections of local bodies — municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats — by three months because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the state government is in a fix over the political advantages and drawbacks of appointing administrators to head these bodies until elections are held. Six municipal corporations, 55 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats were scheduled to have elections by the end of this year. However, the SEC deferred the elections by three months. While the BJP rules all six municipal corporations for which elections will be held and a majority of the municipalities for which elections will be held, the Congress has a hold over a majority of district panchayats and taluka panchayat bodies slated to go to polls. Delayed elections will be beneficial for the BJP in some local bodies, but unfavourable in other cases. Sanjay Prasad, state election commissioner said, “Our role is to conduct elections. Decision to extend the term of existing bodies or appointing administrators is the prerogative of the government.’’ Key sources in the government and BJP said, “Delaying elections in local bodies certainly helps the party to some extent as many voters of BJP may choose not to go out and vote during the pandemic. The government has to take a call to decide on extending terms of elected bodies or appointing administrators. If the government decides to extend terms of elected bodies, it will also have to extend terms of Congress-led bodies. If it appoints administrators, the government will not have any direct control over functioning of the bodies.” Sources said that according to legal provisions, the government cannot extend terms of elected bodies, but there have been exceptions. “There have been court judgements, which have allowed extending of terms of local bodies, but if such a decision is taken, it could be challenged in court,” said sources. Sources added that the terms of elected bodies end on December 10, so the government still has time to consider all aspects before taking a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-in-a-fix-over-extending-terms-of-local-bodies/articleshow/78690103.cms||Kapil Dave
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Concern over TNHB constructing houses on waterbody||MADURAI: Residents of DRO Colony and K Pudur in ward number 45 and 46 of the Madurai Corporation have expressed concern at the decision by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) to construct houses on a waterbody in their area, that was clear of encroachments. They have written to Madurai MP Su Venkatesan seeking his help to protect the waterbody, and make representations to all those concerned. R Ganesan, executive committee member of the federation of residents welfare associations K Pudur and president of the K Pudur Chamber of Commerce said the large water harvesting structure between the mosque and Nagammal temple in DRO Colony, had almost become lost, till the authorities took steps and cleared the encroachments. “It is spread over three acres, and could be the lifeline to this region if water is harvested there, but now it seems the TNHB authorities are trying to construct flats on it,” he said. Residents said that they know that it is a part of a cascade that brings water to the Vandiyur tank as it has supply channels, but do not know its name. “We were extremely happy when it was cleared. I remember playing on its banks when I was a boy. The PWD should take over the tank and protect it,” a resident said. Viswanatha Residents Welfare Association treasurer Nainar Mohamed said that after the encroachments were cleared the groundwater level had improved in the entire DRO colony, which itself was constructed on a large waterbody. “What we are demanding to be left for us is about one acre for rainwater harvesting and ground water recharge and the authorities should ensure this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/concern-over-tnhb-constructing-houses-on-waterbody/articleshow/78690102.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chennai||More voices ask Vijay Sethupathi to drop ‘800’||CHENNAI: Director Bharathiraja and lyricist Vairamuthu among others from Kollywood on Thursday urged popular actor Vijay Sethupathi to desist from donning the role of Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan in the latter’s biopic titled ‘800’. Condemning the cricketer for maintaining a stoic silence during the genocide of Tamils in the island nation, the industry representatives cautioned Vijay Sethupathi from going ahead with his commitment, lest he too would be branded a traitor of the community. They brushed aside a statement from Dar Motion Pictures, which is producing the film, that ‘800’ was a pure sports biopic that will not hurt the sentiments of the Tamils. “It is difficult to earn a good name with the public. But, people have reposed their love for you quite easily. That was because of the roles you donned that reflected the thoughts of people in the last mile. You have a long way to go,” director Bharathiraja told Vijay Sethupathi. “As far as Muttiah Muralitharan is concerned, he is a betrayer of the community, irrespective of his achievements. Why would you give your face onscreen to this betrayer. Please somehow try and say no to this project. The whole Tamil community will remember you forever with gratitude,” Bharathiraja, who is also the president of the newly formed Tamil Film Active Producers Association said. Taking to Twitter, lyricist Vairamuthu urged Vijay Sethupathi to let go this opportunity for the sake of the Tamil community. “Sometimes, fame is achieved by not doing something, rather than doing a thing. Your career is on the growth path. Why do you want to have a blot on it,” Vairamuthu said in his message to the actor. Lyricist Thamarai in an open letter addressed to Vijay Sethupathi asked him to come clean from this episode. “Take a bold decision. Let us see what happens. The Tamils around the world will be behind us,” she said. Political leaders too were not far behind. “Muttiah Muralitharan was silent when the Sri Lankan army killed several thousands of Tamils. He is a betrayer of the Tamil community. While Vijay Sethupathi is loved by the masses due to the roles he played with ease on screen, he too will be seen as betrayer if he went ahead and played Muralitharan in the film,” PMK founder S Ramadoss said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-voices-ask-vijay-sethupathi-to-drop-800/articleshow/78690121.cms||D Govardan
October 16, 2020||Delhi||‘House panel can’t carryout hate speech probe’||NEW DELHI: The Centre told Supreme Court on Thursday that the Delhi Assembly's peace and harmony committee had no jurisdiction to inquire into the circulation of hate speech during the Delhi riots as law and order fell squarely in the Union's domain. Making an intervention in the petition filed by Facebook official Ajit Mohan questioning the committee's summons to him for deposing as witness accompanied by a message that non-appearance could be construed as breach of privilege, solicitor general Tushar Mehta told the SC that "public order and police is not within the domain of Delhi Assembly. Hence, the committee's work (in relation to Delhi riots) is without jurisdiction." The assertion came even as the counsel for the assembly conceded that it can have only a recommendatory role in the matter. Appearing for the assembly, senior advocate A M Singhvi told a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Dinesh Maheshwari that the Facebook official appears to have taken a stand that "it is beyond the assembly to summon him even as a witness. We have assured in the affidavit that the scope of the committee's work is recommendatory and that no coercive action would be taken, nor any such thing is intended." Appearing for Facebook, senior advocate Harish Salve said the summoning notice is unequivocal in conveying that the official had no right to silence and is accompanied by a threat from the committee chairman that if the official failed to answer questions during his deposition, he would be liable to face penal consequences. "The format in which the inquiry is being done is impermissible. There is already a prima facie view that hate speech was circulated to spread disharmony. We are a social media platform. We do not provide content. The platform is under the regulations of the Union Government and federal laws. As an American company, we do not want to comment on the issue and do not want to participate in the proceedings. For this, we are being warned of consequences," he said. The bench said, "This appears to be a spillover of the jurisdiction tussle between Delhi and the Centre. Fortunately we have a judgment on this issue and we will follow that in deciding this issue." When Singhvi asked if Facebook can refuse to honour summons from other state assemblies, the bench said: "You cannot compare Delhi Assembly with other state assemblies. If the work of the committee is fact-finding, then there is no problem. But, whether it could do so on an issue relating to law and order is the question before the court. The debate is in a matter pertaining to law and order. Does Delhi Assembly have the right to inquire and can it set up a committee? The crux of the issue is what is the role of Delhi Assembly and whether it has the power to set up such a committee." The bench will commence detailed arguments on November 2, and till then it maintained its September 23 interim order which had recorded Singhvi's statement that the Facebook official will not be summoned till further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-panel-cant-carryout-hate-speech-probe/articleshow/78688677.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 16, 2020||Pune||Three held for accepting bets over phone||Pune: The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Wednesday arrested three men, including the owner of a restaurant in Bhosari, for accepting ‘Matka’ bets via WhatsApp groups. A police team led by senior inspector Uttam Tangade recovered Rs33,500 in cash and three smartphones from the trio. Tangade said constable Ganesh Sawant received a tip-off that the restaurant owner was involved. “We raided the restaurant and took him into custody. Two of his accomplices have been arrested from different spots,” Tangade said. The probe revealed that the trio formed different groups on WhatsApp to take the bets. “They had also formed a separate group to maintain accounts of the operation,” Tangade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-held-for-accepting-bets-over-phone/articleshow/78690096.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Minor booked in Pune for creating fake profile of friend’s mom||PUNE: A 41-year-old woman on Wednesday lodged an FIR accusing her daughter’s 16-year-old friend of creating a fake social media account in her (the woman’s) name and posting lewd messages as well as obscene photographs. A probe revealed that the girl was upset with the complainant for not allowing her to meet her daughter. “The woman filed a complaint application with the cybercrime cell in February, stating that someone created a fake profile in her name. She said her mobile number was mentioned on the profile, following which strangers started calling and harassing her,” senior inspector Satish Mane of the Chikhali police told said. The cybercrime cell contacted the website and found that the account was created by the girl on her cellphone. Mane said the woman and the girl’s parents were neighbours. “Since December last year, the woman stopped allowing her daughter to meet or spend time with the girl. Upset by this, the girl decided to harass the complainant,” Mane said. The girl has been booked under the Information Technology Act and the Indian Penal Code. Watch Woman accuses minor girl of creating fake social media account||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-accuses-minor-girl-of-creating-fake-social-media-account/articleshow/78690088.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 16, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath paid Rs 5 lakh per month to MLAs who lost out cabinet race: Imarti Devi||BHOPAL: BJP candidate from Dabra and minister Imarti Devi on Thursday fired a fresh salvo at the Congress leader Kamal Nath alleging that the former chief minister used to pay Rs five lakh to all those Congress MLAs who were not included in his cabinet. Congress has rejected Imarti's allegations saying nobody takes her statements seriously as she has no answers to the questions raised against her for betraying the public. Imarti was talking to reporters after filing her nomination. On Congress allegations that 25 MLAs supporting former union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia changed their loyalty for money (Rs 35 crore), Imarti Devi said, "Congress' allegations on disloyalty are baseless. Someone should ask (Kamal Nath) that why he used to pay Rs five lakh every month to the MLAs whom he could not accommodate as ministers in the cabinet. What they are, they believe the same for everyone. But my people cannot believe that I am saleable." She further claimed, "We have all the evidences of how MLAs were being sold out. Kamal Nath used to believe that to save his government he should keep the MLAs with him to prevent switching sides." Imarti along with 24 other MLAs switched loyalty to BJP after quitting the Congress party and her ministerial berth to follow her mentor Jyotiraditya Scndia in March this year. This resulted into the fall of Kamal Nath-led Congress government. Since then Congress made allegations that Scindia supporters betrayed the old party as they were paid Rs 35 crore each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-paid-rs-5l/month-to-mlas-who-lost-out-cabinet-race-imarti/articleshow/78690106.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||SC asks Republic TV to approach HC, ‘like any ordinary citizen’||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked Republic TV to approach the Bombay high court with its grievance against Mumbai police’s probe into the alleged TRP scam but disapproved the Mumbai police commissioner resorting to press conferences on the issue. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee told the TV channel’s counsel Harish Salve that his client, “like any ordinary citizen of the country”, must approach the jurisdictional high court concerned to seek redress of grievances against any police investigation. “Your client has an office at Worli and it would be better if they walked to Flora Fountain (the location of the high court) which is nearby rather than invoking the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. We must have faith in our high courts,” it said. When Salve said the investigation was motivated, the bench said: “We are concerned about the way the Mumbai police commissioner is giving interviews”. Salve agreed to withdraw the petition with liberty to move the HC. The SC granted liberty and dismissed the petition as withdrawn. Even before the SC took up the case for hearing, Mumbai police had filed a preliminary reply to Republic TV’s petition questioning the “motivated investigation” into the TRP scam. In response to the petition filed by ARG Outlier Media, it said any investigation into an alleged crime by the investigating agency cannot be cited as violation of right to freedom of speech as sought to be done by the petitioner to “sidestep, thwart and prevent any investigation by the competent agency into alleged fudging of TRP ratings”. The city police said several TV channels which had been summoned were cooperating with the probe and had not raised any grievance with regard to the investigation. It said the petitioner’s demand for transfer of probe to the CBI was misconceived. The police accused Republic TV’s main anchor of “contacting various witnesses who have been summoned by the police and discussing and/or debating the contents of their statements on the TV programmes”. It said, “Petitioners are directly interfering and intimidating the witnesses by issuing news releases. The FIR is being converted into a media spectacle. Such media trial is antithetical to the process of free and fair investigation as also administration of justice”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-asks-republic-tv-to-approach-hc-like-any-ordinary-citizen/articleshow/78691528.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik village sarpanch held for taking bribe of Rs 5,000||Nashik: The anti-corruption bureau has arrested the sarpanch of Darigaon in Nashik for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000. The arrested sarpanch has been identified as Alka Ambadas Gangode. The complainant in the case had approached the ACB stating that a government aid of Rs 1.5 lakh in the name of her father was approved under the Shabri Avas Gharkul Scheme. Since the complainant’s father had passed away, a cheque of Rs 15,000 for the first instalment of the aid had been received in her mother’s name. As the complainant wanted to get the complete aid, she had approached Gangode and the latter had demanded Rs 5,000 as a bribe.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-village-sarpanch-held-for-taking-bribe-of-rs-5000/articleshow/78686361.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Minor kidnapped, raped in Kardhani; probe begins||JAIPUR: A 16-year-old girl was kidnapped and raped by a 21-year-old youth at Kardhani police station area in the city. Two days after the incident, the girl’s mother lodged a case of kidnapping and rape against the man. Police have recorded the statements of the rape survivor while family maintained that the accused is known to the family and had attempted rape the girl few months ago too. According to police, the mother of the rape survivor approached the cops and told that her daughter was kidnapped by a youth identified as Ajeet Singh. The accused kidnapped the girl and took her to an isolated place and raped her. “The girl went missing from the house for two days. Thereafter, when she returned, she narrated her plight to the family. It was also found that the accused is known to the family members,” said a senior officer of Kardhani police station on Thursday. The family alleged that the girl was kidnapped on Sunday and was released by the accused on Tuesday. “Even if it found that it was her will to go with the accused, her will can’t be maintained in the court since she is a minor and thus it becomes a case of kidnapping too,” the officer added. Police said the statement of the girl too would be recorded while she would also be taken for the medical examination. “The family also alleged that the accused had attempted to rape her some months ago. However, this time, he kidnapped the girl and kept with him for two days and raped her,” said investigating officer of the case. Police stated that a team was sent to the address of the accused who was not found. “He would be arrested soon on the charges of kidnapping and rape. We have registered a case under appropriate sections of IPC and POCSO Act,” said an officer. Further investigation in the case was on, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-kidnapped-raped-in-kardhani-probe-begins/articleshow/78690109.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Nagaur lawyer accuses woman of extorting Rs 14 lakh||JAIPUR: A lawyer from Nagaur has registered a case at Vidyadhar Nagar police station accusing a woman of blackmailing and extorting Rs 14 lakh from him on the pretext of implicating him in a false rape case. According to police, Sikandar Khan has alleged that he had files of a few cases of the accused woman. “The woman asked him to meet in September. When he came to Jaipur, he was first thrashed badly by the woman and her family. Later, the family threatened him with a rape case and asked to pay Rs 14 lakh to the family,” said a senior officer of Vidhyadhar Nagar police station. The accused claimed that the woman’s family has taken the money from him. “Prima facie it appears to be a case of some dispute between the two parties. We will invite the woman at the police station,” said the officer. Police said the lawyer also alleged that initially the family took the money by blackmailing him and thereafter woman stated that it was a loan without interest. “We will have the both the version of the story before concluding the investigation. There are certain things which need to be verified from our end too,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nagaur-lawyer-accuses-woman-of-extorting-rs-14-lakh/articleshow/78690092.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Movies begin amid Covid surround sound||NEW DELHI: Quality headphones, home-theatre system, ambient lighting and subscription to just about every streaming platform — recourse to these after the announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown did not quite replicate the experience of watching a movie on the big screen. Where was that inexplicable satisfaction at being able to munch popcorn in the dark and cheer with complete strangers as the superhero beat up the bad guys or of queuing up for hotdog and nachos at the dimly lit concessionaire? Thursday, when the cinema halls reopened after a lengthy, forced break, was, therefore, an opportunity to be there for the first-day-any-show of the post-Covid era. For both professional and personal causes, this correspondent too stepped into a mall for the first time in months — and with much excitement despite the PVR theatre at DLF Promenade Mall screening an old movie. Those at the theatre were similarly agog at this minor triumph in their personal histories. Smiles obscured by masks, eyes glinting in the dim environs, there was a sense of bonhomie among the ‘firsts’ at the reopened cinemas. Each must have secretly prided at being a cineaste, perhaps more passionate than the individual physically distanced two seats away. Far from being a hassle, every step — from scanning the ticket QR code to undergoing the temperature check at the entrance and finding the isolated seat—was enjoyable simply because it heralded a return to normalcy. Even the trailers and commercials provided a childlike excitement. IT professional Himanshu Khurana had brought son Arman to celebrate the kid’s birthday. Sporting a superhero mask, the young movie buff swore he couldn’t have dreamt of a better celebration. Just as excited were sisters Shrishti and Nikunj Rana, who were there with their mother, Neelam Rana. The trio were confident about safety, having seen videos of hall disinfection and reduced seating with no two people sitting next to each other as well as the strict instructions on wearing face masks throughout the screening. Madan Mohan and his wife were eager visitors too. A counsellor at Safdarjung Hospital’s ART Centre and used to counselling patients with life threatening conditions such as AIDS, Mohan had observed similar anxiety in patients about Covid-19. Thursday’s movie outing offered a glimmer of light in the oppressive darkness created by the pandemic. “We were living a strictly 'home to office and back' schedule for all these months. We had really missed seeing movies in theatres. It was our fondest social activity,” smiled Mohan. After settling down with a popcorn tub, when the screen flickered to life, one realised how much one had actually missed this experience. The trailers of forthcoming films, the plea of the commercials and even the projection of the censor certificate—things that hardly moved one earlier — were on Thursday enough to give goosebumps. And there perhaps wasn’t a soul in the half-filled theatre who wouldn’t have been thankful to the theatre staff for meticulously implementing the new operating protocols and, thus, making a renewed movie experience possible for cinegoers. Watch Delhi: Cinema halls reopen with 50% seating capacity after nearly 7 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/movies-begin-amid-covid-surround-sound/articleshow/78688775.cms||Amin Ali
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Eat Right Challenge kickstarts in Sivaganga||MADURAI: Sivaganga, one of the 160 districts in the country where the “Eat Right Challenge” was launched as part of World Food Day, is gearing up to ensure that people have access to proper hygienic food while eating out. Designated officer for Food Safety Dr S Pravin Kumar said the challenge was launched by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), under the health ministry, to improve eating habits and also ensure access to safe and healthy food. In all, 350 places in the district, including hotels, bakeries and eateries had been identified first. An audit was conducted in February and people from these places trained in hygiene and healthy food. These places would be assessed again and given star ratings, ranging up to 10 stars. The district was taking steps to ensure that food did not go waste in marriage halls and hotels and reached nearby orphanages or old age homes in good condition with the help of NGOs. Even food offered as prasad in important temples was certified as Blissful Hygiene Offering to God. All eateries were periodically tested and ensured they didn’t reuse cooking oil. In all, 25 hotels and eateries in Sivaganga had been made to enter into MoUs with firms in Kancheepuram to give the used oil to them. As part of the challenge, steps would be taken to increase registration/licensing, enforcement and surveillance by authorities. Street vendors who have also been roped for the programme would get gloves, caps and uniforms, once they register.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eat-right-challenge-kickstarts-in-sivaganga/articleshow/78690111.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Schools in Madurai foresee challenges in ensuring proper handwashing||MADURAI: On Global Handwashing Day, observed on October 15, school teachers and parents said that students are already being educated on the importance of handwashing and have been practising proper methods of handwashing, especially amid Covid-19 pandemic. Both government and private schools said that handwashing facilities with water supply and soap are likely to be mandatorily set up at all schools before reopening. However, there are concerns about availability of water supply and soap. “Handwashing was merely considered as something to be done after eating or using the toilet. Covid-19 has helped us learn the importance of handwashing to prevent spread of infection by touching of surfaces. We need to emphasize more on the proper methods of washing hands,” said M Thennavan, headmaster, Kondapethan Government Middle School. “Government or private school, it must be made mandatory. This is an opportunity for schools to focus and improve on hygiene. Children, sometimes, are hesitant about washing hands using the sink or the toilets if it is not clean. Enforcing cleanliness can help schools and students stay safe and clean,” said T Uma, a parent and a teacher at a private school. Some schools on the other hand are also concerned about availability of water supply and soaps. A principal of a private matriculation school said that especially in summers, it is difficult to manage the water supply. “We cannot say anything now as we do not know about reopening of schools. But, in the long run, we have to plan accordingly. Not just hand washing but students should also be taught to use water judiciously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-foresee-challenges-in-ensuring-proper-handwashing/articleshow/78690117.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH 9th convocation online||Hyderabad: As many as 78,395 students are set to graduate from the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad on its ninth convocation ceremony on Friday. In view of the pandemic, the ceremony will be held online and presided over by Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and G Satheesh Reddy, secretary, department of defence, research and development and chairman of Defence Research and Development Organisation will deliver the convocation address. Officials said that the university has so far placed 478 students of the JNTUH constituent colleges in 72 multi-national companies which includes Amazon, Accenture, Oracle, IBM among many others. “Average salary offered was Rs 4.20 lakh, highest being Rs 23 lakh,” read a press release issued by the university. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-9th-convocation-online/articleshow/78690127.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Notorious contract killer arrested after encounter in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A shootout broke out in south Delhi’s Mehrauli on Thursday evening as a joint team of Delhi’s Special Cell and UP’s special taskforce tried to intercept notorious extortionist and contract killer, Ajmal Pahadi. Eight rounds were exchanged following which Pahadi was shot in the leg and a Special Cell cop was injured. Pahadi belongs to Muzaffarnagar in UP. A team led by inspectors Shiv Kumar and Karambir was trailing Pahadi after the STF team from Meerut arrived in Delhi with a tip-off that he was hiding in south Delhi. An informer tipped off the cops that Pahadi would come to the Lado Sarao-MG Road traffic signal between 6pm and 7pm. Pahadi was flagged down after an informer spotted him riding a bike around 6.40pm. “He was cornered and asked to surrender but he opened fire upon police party. Members of raiding party also fired in self defence in which Azmal was injured in his right leg. He was immediately rushed to Safdarjung Hospital,” said a senior official. The Special Cell has filed an FIR under sections of attempted murder and attacking policemen under IPC and Arms Act. A semi-automatic pistol of .32 with six live cartridges was recovered from the accused. Pahadi had a reward of Rs 25,000 from UP Police in a case of extortion reported last year in Bijnore. He is previously involved in nine cases, including murder, extortion, intimidation and arms act. For last four months, Azmal was living in a rented house in Mehrauli to evade arrest, police said. “He was still extending threats to his victims using different mobile numbers and asking them to take back the FIRs they had lodged with police. He was also demanding extortion from several businessmen,” the official added. Pahadi had made headlines when he committed the sensational murder of a doctor in Bijnore in 2012. Initially, Pahadi worked for gangster, Nafees Kalia, but later started operating on his own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/notorious-contract-killer-arrested-after-encounter/articleshow/78688710.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 57k seats in third phase of degree admissions||HYDERABAD: A total of 57,695 seats were allocated in the third phase of degree admissions, which were released on Thursday. According to a press release issued by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education, 74,984 candidates had exercised their web-options in the third phase of which 59,881 were fresh candidates and 15,103 were betterment candidates. A total of 9,368 candidates were not allotted fresh seats due to insufficient web-options. “Online self-reporting by the phase 3 allotted candidates is from October 15 to October 26, 2020,” read a press release. The TSCHE will be holding a special phase from October 15 to October 27. The special phase is meant for candidates who have not registered for degree admissions yet, who had exercised web-options but could not secure a seat, who were allotted seat but did not confirm it and who want to exercise web-options for better choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-57k-seats-in-3rd-phase-of-degree-admissions/articleshow/78690151.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Van driver, 30, ordered life in jail for raping 5-year-old girl||TIRUNELVELI: The special court for Pocso cases here awarded life imprisonment until death to a 30-year-old van driver after finding him guilty of raping a five-year-old girl who was going to school in his vehicle. The girl fractured her hip when the accused, Perumal of Kunnathur in Tirunelveli city, pushed her out of the vehicle after the crime on June 8, 2016. Public prosecutor Jeba Jeeva Raja said the victim, a resident of Vannarpettai, had joined a government school at Thachanallur only a week before the incident. The girl’s elder brother and sister also studied in the same school and were travelling in the van operated by Perumal. On the day of the incident, he dropped all the other students in their blocks including her brother and sister. Since the victim’s class was in another block, she was the last to get down. However, the man prevented her from getting down and sexually assaulted her using a pen before pushing the bleeding girl out. He asked her to tell her parents that she was hit by a goat, and threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the truth. He was booked under section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of Pocso Act, IPC sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 506(i) (criminal intimidation). The Tirunelveli all woman police station also booked him under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, as the victim is a dalit while the accused belongs to another community. The accused was lodged in jail for 134 days before being granted bail. In all, 31 witnesses were examined before he was found guilty. The prosecutor said that the girl had difficulty walking and was in a state of shock when she appeared before the court for evidence. The accused shaved his head on that day to confuse the victim. In her verdict on Thursday, sessions judge P Indhirani awarded Perumal life imprisonment till death after finding him guilty under section 6 of Pocso Act, 10 years under IPC section 326, two years under section 506(i) and five years under the SC/ST Act. A fine of Rs 1.25 lakh was also imposed on him. The judge also directed the government to deposit Rs 3.6 lakh as fixed deposit for the girl – including Rs 1.1 lakh from the fine. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/van-driver-30-ordered-life-in-jail-for-raping-5-year-old-girl/articleshow/78690141.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||DMK youth wing protests across TN, asks Surappa to step down||MADURAI: DMK’s youth wing protested across the state against Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa for bypassing the state government and writing a letter to the Centre regarding Institute of Eminence (IoE) status for the university. DMK men led by youth wing president Udhayanidhi Stalin protested in front of the university campus in Chennai demanding Surappa’s resignation. Levelling charges of saffronising the institute, Udhayanidhi said soon after taking charge as V-C, Surappa had attempted to introduce Bhagavd Gita in the syllabus. Now, there is an attempt to wean away the university from the state government. “We will continue to protest if attempts by Centre to take over Anna University are not dropped,” he said, accusing chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of yielding to the pressures of the Centre. Later, talking to reporters, Udhayanidhi alleged that the Centre was already blocking students from entering medical colleges through Neet. “Now they are attempting to stop TN students from entering Anna University. TN students are victims of all the deceptive acts of the Centre and state government,” he charged. DMK youth wing cadres protested in 27 places across the state. In Madurai, the cadres protested in front of the Anna University regional campus in which Tenkasi MP Dhanush M Kumar and Thirupparankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan took part. The protesters raised slogans seeking dismissal of the VC for acting against the interests of the students and the state. In Trichy, the protest was held in front of the Government College of Engineering, Srirangam. In Tuticorin, the cadres staged a protest in front of the VO Chidambaram College. “The VC wrote to the Centre directly for getting IoE tag. Now, it appears it was done after being pushed by the Centre and with the approval of the state government. By getting IoE tag, the university would become unfavourable for poor students. Further, bifurcation of the university would also affect students’ education,” said Mathiyazhagan, DMK youth wing, Tuticorin north. In Coimbatore, protesters who tried to barge into Government College of Technology were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-youth-wing-protests-across-tn-asks-surappa-to-step-down/articleshow/78690128.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM’s son Kartikey joins bypoll campaign||BHOPAL: In a rare public appearance, the elder son of the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Kartikey, on Thursday joined the BJP campaign for the upcoming bypolls. Testing the waters of electoral politics, Chouhan junior addressed a meeting organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of BJP, in Mungaoli assembly segment. The trusted lieutenant of his father, Alok Sharma, the former mayor of Bhopal, accompanied Kartikey. Clad in blue denims and a white shirt, the Symbiosis-Pune graduate exhorted the youths to support BJP. Kartikey is a member of the state working committee of the BJYM. In the past, he campaigned actively for his father in Budhni. He had also campaigned in Vidisha earlier. Recently, Chouhan had visited the flood-hit villages of Sehore after heavy monsoon downpour. Accompanied by SDRF jawans, Kartikey, too, visited the flood-ravaged villages by a boat. Though BJP had communicated with the local press about a joint meeting of the son of Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Mahanaaryaman and Kartikey, only the latter reached Mungaoli for the event. The media was informed that Mahanaaryaman could not reach because of “unavoidable” circumstances. But BJP sources in Bhopal disclosed that his programme was never scheduled in the first place. “I don’t know who spread this news on social media that Mahanaaryaman would also be taking part in the campaign”, a BJP source said. Kartikey in his brief address said that BJP would win the elections and the development of Madhya Pradesh would be accelerated. He also went around kirar majority villages in Mungaoli to mobilise the youths of the community. Party sources said that Brajendra Yadav, the BJP candidate in Mungaoli, wanted Kartikey to visit the villages to woo the voters of Kirar community. Later, replying to a query from reporters about statements regarding his father made by opposition Congress, Kartikey said, “It shows the culture of Congress”. Asked about his role in BJP and contesting elections in the future, Kartikey reiterated his oft repeated statement and said, “The party will decide it. We are not like Congress where leaders are hoisted like Rahul Gandhi.” Chouhan junior also said that in this election, the slogan was “saath aao maharaj, milke banayege sarkar saath hain Shivraj” (join us maharaj, we will make the government, Shivraj is with you). Kartikey will campaign in Pohri Vidhan Sabha seat on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivrajs-son-kartikey-joins-bypoll-campaign/articleshow/78690137.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
October 16, 2020||Pune||Choked drain brings muck into Chandannagar police station||Pune: The Chandannagar police station premises were entirely flooded through the night intervening Wednesday and Thursday. The water receded on Thursday morning, leaving behind a lot of filth. Police officers had ensured that computers and other electronic articles remained on the tables even as there was knee-deep water in the police station until morning.Apart from the police station, 200 houses at Bidi Kamgar Vasahat in Chandannagar remained submerged. Local residents claimed that a nullah located near the police station has been blocked by a concrete compound wall, which led to water logging in the area. As the water level at the police station continued to increase, an earth mover was pressed into action and the compound wall was broken down to drain the water.Senior police inspector Shankar Khatke told TOI, “Despite our efforts, the water damaged old records kept in cupboards, eight computers, passport verification documents and other files.”The rainwater also damaged furniture in all six rooms of the police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/choked-drain-brings-muck-into-chandannagar-police-station/articleshow/78690150.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Tar surface of new bridge gone with gushing water||Pune: Close to 60 vehicles parked on Sinhagad Road at Anandnagar were submerged on Wednesday night. People had parked their vehicles on the road as they were attending to their relatives admitted to the hospitals in the area. Meanwhile, the rain washed away the surface of a bridge near Prayeja City connecting Dhayari and other areas around the Katraj–Dehu Road bypass. It was constructed last year after heavy rain damaged life and property. On Thursday, the police were diverting vehicle users towards Navale bridge. Parts of Sinhagad Road were marooned on Wednesday night after water came flowing down from the Taljai hill area. “I was inside the hospital when I saw the hospital’s ground floor flood. I looked out and saw my two-wheeler in the water,” Vinay Patil of Dhayari said. At Narhe, many two-wheelers were submerged in the water. Local resident N B Dhokey, who is a senior academician, told TOI, “No one is now allowed to cross this bridge due to accumulation of garbage and poor road surface. It was a short cut to many from Prayeja City, Dhayari and Nanded City areas. Now, one has to travel 4 to 5km extra to reach the bypass.” Another resident, Suresh Palwe, said, “The nullahs in the area were not cleaned properly. The civic authorities did not learn anything from last year’s experience. The road surface is damaged and the garbage has come on the road. Last year, the bridge was washed away and two persons died at the same spot.” The Sinhagad Road police authorities said vehicular movement is not allowed on the bridge owing to the strong current of water in the nullah. “We cannot take a risk. We have also asked the PMC authorities to look into the issue as early as possible,” the officer said. Watch Pune: Bridge gets damaged due to heavy rains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tar-surface-of-new-bridge-gone-with-gushing-water/articleshow/78690140.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Flood alert today for Pune district, nine other places||PUNE: Triple digit rain lashed many locations in Maharashtra till Thursday morning making Pune with 110mm from 8.30am on Wednesday to 8.30am on Thursday, one of the wettest places in the state. Pune recorded more rain than the hotspots of Mumbai (Santa Cruz), Velhe, Purandar, Dodamarg, Shrivardhan, Khed and Shirur. The Central Water Commission has issued a flood alert for Palghar, Thane, Mumbai, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli on Friday. “River Nira at Sarati in Pune district of Maharashtra was flowing above the high flood level, and still rising on Thursday. Due to incessant rain in Pune, there has been urban flooding. Since most dams in the outskirts are full, any releases from these dams are likely to aggravate the situation. Close watch is to be maintained,” said CWC. CWC said since rainfall was expected to continue in upstream areas of Krishna and Bhima for the next two days and as all the dams in Krishna, Bhima and Tungabhadra sub-basins in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were very near to Full Reservoir Level (FRL), there was a need for reservoir operation taking into account the upstream rainfall as well as the downstream flood situation. Meanwhile, IMD forecast moderate rain (15.6- 64.4 mm) with isolated heavy (64.5-115.5mm) rain and isolated heavy to very heavy rain in ghat areas in Pune district till Friday morning. Extremely heavy falls (>200 mm per day) were also forecast over south Konkan and adjoining ghat areas of Maharashtra till Friday morning. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune told TOI on Thursday, “The well-marked low pressure area (which has been causing rains in Maharashtra) over south Madhya Maharashtra and adjoining south Konkan persists. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and emerge into east-central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast and concentrate into a depression over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea off Maharashtra-South Gujarat coasts during the next 48 hours. It is very likely to move gradually west-northwestwards and intensify further.” Kashyapi said from Friday afternoon, there would be a drastic reduction in rainfall activity in the state, while no rain warnings are there from October 17 for the current spell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flood-alert-today-for-pune-district-nine-other-places/articleshow/78690131.cms||Neha Madaan
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Brick-kiln workers challenge new minimum wages||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday issued notice to the state government in response to a petition filed by a union of brick kiln workers challenging a government notification claiming that its provisions are exploitative in nature. The Int Bhattha Mazdoor Union filed a petition through advocate Amrish Patel against the notification issued on January 2, 2020. It fixed minimum wage at Rs 293 per day and provides rates for minimum piece of work of 1,100 bricks and 1,000 bricks for a class of employees like Patlawala-A and Patlawala-B respectively. The petitioner union has urged the HC to quash the notification and order the government to modify the work condition and minimum wages. For minimum wage, it cited the 15th Labour Conference which has recommended that minimum wage for brick kiln workers at Rs 24,000 per month. The petitioner also cited a report by the Mahatma Gandhi Labour Institute submitted after it was commissioned by the government for a study. Its study revealed that production of 980 bricks per pair is possible in a day as brick moulding work is done by two persons. Thus, each person is bound to produce 490 bricks per day. But the notification provides rates for minimum piece of work of 1,100 bricks per day, which is irrational and illogical and violative of rights of a worker and results in exploitation. The petitioner has also urged the HC to appoint a committee to investigate the legal compliance of various labour laws by the brick kiln employers in general and come up with a report on whether different laws like the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, the Minimum Wages Act, the Factories Act etc. Are properly followed or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brick-kiln-workers-challenge-new-minimum-wages/articleshow/78690143.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Murdered thevar man’s kin protest at RDO office||MADURAI: Relatives of S Chelladurai, 43, of Soolapuram who was murdered allegedly by members of the pallar community, laid siege to the revenue divisional office at Usilampatti refusing to receive the body from hospital on Thursday. Later, they ended the six-hour protest at 4 pm and received the body after some of their demands were accepted by the authorities. Chelladurai, a member of the maravar community, a sub-sect of thevar, from Soolapuram was found dead on Tuesday night. Police suspect that the incident was an outcome of a dispute between the two communities over the conduct of a festival at Chellandiamman temple. Police booked 12 people including a woman in connection with incident. While the postmortem was completed on Wednesday, Chelladurai’s relatives and villagers were not ready to receive the body. They started a protest at the RDO office at 10 am demanding a government job for a family member of the deceased, solatium, a police outpost at the village, and the immediate arrest of all the accused. They also demanded the authorities not to allow pallars to the Chellandiamman temple except for having darshan. They received the body after the officials agreed to some of their demands. RDO V Rajkumar gave it in writing that a village assistant post will be allotted to the elder son of Chelladurai. He assured them of recommending compensation from the chief minister’s relief fund. He also agreed to build a house for the victim’s family under the Green House scheme. Additional deputy superintendent of police S Vanitha said around 1,000 people accompanied the body as it was taken to the village from Usilampatti. Police pickets were set up in 13 villages. There was no untoward incidents till the end of the funeral, she said. A police officer said that 12 people have been included in the first information report based on the complaint from the victim’s family members. An inquiry is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/murdered-thevar-mans-kin-protest-at-rdo-office/articleshow/78690161.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Erode||Major reservoirs in Tamil Nadu 71% full; Karnataka supplies surplus||CHENNAI: The northeast monsoon may start in Tamil Nadu only after October 25. While the forecast for northern districts is normal, it is below normal for the southern region. Major reservoirs in the state, however, have a combined storage of 140.46tmcft as on Thursday as against a capacity of 198tmcft. Owing to repeated system formation in the Bay of Bengal, there are westerlies over Tamil Nadu, South Andhra Pradesh, South Karnataka and Kerala. Southwest monsoon has not fully withdrawn till date, said S Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology. The southwest monsoon brought 24% excess rainfall to the state until September. Tirupur, Theni, Karur, Perambalur, Trichy and Coimbatore districts received very high rainfall and 18 districts received high rainfall, whereas Villupuram and Tuticorin recorded very low rainfall. There are no major concerns as regards irrigation commitments because Mettur reservoir has touched 100ft for the second time this year. On Thursday, the inflow was 14,947 cusecs and outflow was maintained at 14,000 cusecs in the river and 900 cusecs in the canal. Bhavanisagar and Amaravathi in Cauvery basin too received good inflows and are at comfortable positions. Mullaperiyar, owned and maintained by Tamil Nadu government in Idukki district of Kerala, has a storage of 4.3tmcft as against 10.5tmcft capacity. It had an inflow of 4,157 cusecs on Thursday. The rise in storage will benefit five southern districts. The PWD released 1,400 cusecs into tunnels to Vaigai dam in the downstream. The storage of Papanasam and Manimuthar in Tirunelveli is steadily increasing with inflow of 5,940 cusecs and 1,464 cusecs respectively. Heavy rains lashing Kanyakumari district have triggered an inflow of 3,169 cusecs and 2,474 cusecs into Pechiparai and Perunchani dams. Parambikulam-Aliyar group of dams in the Western Ghats have reached full capacity. “Owing to heavy rains triggered by the southwest monsoon, Karnataka released 6tmcft of surplus water to Tamil Nadu during the current water season beginning June 1. Tamil Nadu has realized surplus water in the months of August and September. In October alone, it realized 9tmcft surplus until October 13,” a senior official said. The quantity prescribed as per the final order of the Supreme Court is 131.6tmcft from June 1 to October 13, but the state realised 137.82tmcft of Cauvery water. According to the agriculture department, 10.038 lakh acres have been covered by paddy until Monday as against the normal area of 18.8 lakh acres in nine Cauvery basin districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/major-reservoirs-71-full-ktaka-supplies-surplus/articleshow/78695920.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 16, 2020||Salem||Major reservoirs in Tamil Nadu 71% full; Karnataka supplies surplus||CHENNAI: The northeast monsoon may start in Tamil Nadu only after October 25. While the forecast for northern districts is normal, it is below normal for the southern region. Major reservoirs in the state, however, have a combined storage of 140.46tmcft as on Thursday as against a capacity of 198tmcft. Owing to repeated system formation in the Bay of Bengal, there are westerlies over Tamil Nadu, South Andhra Pradesh, South Karnataka and Kerala. Southwest monsoon has not fully withdrawn till date, said S Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology. The southwest monsoon brought 24% excess rainfall to the state until September. Tirupur, Theni, Karur, Perambalur, Trichy and Coimbatore districts received very high rainfall and 18 districts received high rainfall, whereas Villupuram and Tuticorin recorded very low rainfall. There are no major concerns as regards irrigation commitments because Mettur reservoir has touched 100ft for the second time this year. On Thursday, the inflow was 14,947 cusecs and outflow was maintained at 14,000 cusecs in the river and 900 cusecs in the canal. Bhavanisagar and Amaravathi in Cauvery basin too received good inflows and are at comfortable positions. Mullaperiyar, owned and maintained by Tamil Nadu government in Idukki district of Kerala, has a storage of 4.3tmcft as against 10.5tmcft capacity. It had an inflow of 4,157 cusecs on Thursday. The rise in storage will benefit five southern districts. The PWD released 1,400 cusecs into tunnels to Vaigai dam in the downstream. The storage of Papanasam and Manimuthar in Tirunelveli is steadily increasing with inflow of 5,940 cusecs and 1,464 cusecs respectively. Heavy rains lashing Kanyakumari district have triggered an inflow of 3,169 cusecs and 2,474 cusecs into Pechiparai and Perunchani dams. Parambikulam-Aliyar group of dams in the Western Ghats have reached full capacity. “Owing to heavy rains triggered by the southwest monsoon, Karnataka released 6tmcft of surplus water to Tamil Nadu during the current water season beginning June 1. Tamil Nadu has realized surplus water in the months of August and September. In October alone, it realized 9tmcft surplus until October 13,” a senior official said. The quantity prescribed as per the final order of the Supreme Court is 131.6tmcft from June 1 to October 13, but the state realised 137.82tmcft of Cauvery water. According to the agriculture department, 10.038 lakh acres have been covered by paddy until Monday as against the normal area of 18.8 lakh acres in nine Cauvery basin districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/major-reservoirs-71-full-ktaka-supplies-surplus/articleshow/78695921.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||4,835 commercial properties to be leased for 99 years||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to let out 4,835 commercial properties to existing tenants at jantri rates. The AMC standing committee decided that these properties will now be given on 99-year leases to the existing users who have been paying the rent to the corporation. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said this was a major issue and the state government has formed a policy and based on the government’s directive, the AMC has decided to let out these properties on 99-year leases.These are old buildings that have been given on rent for periods ranging from 10 years to 30 years. The decision to give these properties on lease was taken at the AMC general board meeting in 2010-11 and the standing committee had taken a final decision on July 5, 2012. This was given final approval on July 27, 2012, and was sent to the government for final approval. On September 5, the state government granted its approval. The government has stated the property can be given on lease for 99 years at 20% to 30% of the existing jantri rate and if the present tenant was a sub-tenant he or she will have to pay 30% of the jantri rate. Of the 4,835 commercial properties, the maximum majority, 2909, are in the Central Zone, while 511 are in the South Zone, 303 in the West Zone, 194 in the East Zone and one in the North Zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4835-commercial-properties-to-be-leased-for-99-years/articleshow/78690155.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Bhopal||Ujjain hooch toll rises to 13, four cops suspended||UJJAIN: The death toll in the Ujjain hooch case rose to 13 on Thursday with the discovery of six more bodies. The administration, which was trying to play down the illicit liquor angle when the bodies first began to be found on Wednesday, suspended four cops even as the government ordered an inquiry under additional chief secretary, home, Rajesh Rajora. Ujjain police arrested a suspect, Yunus, when he was trying to flee to Agra and SP Manoj Kumar Singh declared a reward of Rs 10,000 each on two others for allegedly manufacturing and selling 'Jhinjhar' — illicit denatured spirit —that is suspected to have killed the 13 labourers. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a video-conference with senior officials and said the incident was ‘unfortunate’. He ordered strict action against those selling illicit liquor. The tragedy, coming in the heat of bypolls, triggered sharp reactions from Congress. PCC chief Kamal Nath sent a fact-finding team to Ujjain on Thursday. Congress demanded the resignation of home minister Narottam Mishra and wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah. SP Singh, who had on Wednesday said he was “waiting for the viscera reports”, took action a day later, suspending an inspector, sub-inspector and two police constables for “failing to control and report sale of Jhinjhar". Viscera reports are yet to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ujjain-hooch-toll-rises-to-13-four-cops-suspended/articleshow/78690160.cms||Brajesh Parmar
October 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||7-year-old girl’s life saved by hepatectomy||Ahmedabad: Roshni, 7, a resident of Vinzol in Ahmedabad, was returning home on September 30 when a tractor hit her, and its front wheel ran over her stomach, leaving her in severe pain. She was immediately shifted to Civil Hospital by a 108 ambulance. “She was incessantly bleeding from her stomach. Sonography revealed that her liver had got ruptured and her left lung had got severely damaged. She was operated upon immediately. Dr Maulik Mehta from the surgery department and his team along with liver transplant expert Dr Vaibhav Sutaria carried out the procedure,” said a senior Civil Hospital official. Dr Mehta said that she underwent the procedure identified as hepatectomy where a part of liver is severed to save a patient. “Left side of her liver had got blackened and even after blood supply, it did not show any improvement. After two to three months, the liver will regain its original size,” he said, adding that it was perhaps the first instance of hepatectomy on a child. Roshni is recuperating well and soon be sent home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-year-old-girls-life-saved-by-hepatectomy/articleshow/78690154.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Rain hits kharif crop in district, price of veggies & fruits may rise||Pune: District agriculture officer Dnyaneshwar Bhote said on Thursday that crops on over 5,000 hectare area in 13 tehsils across the district are estimated to have been damaged due to heavy rains on Wednesday. “We will know the actual worth of losses once we are through with the assessment and village-level panchnama exercise in the affected areas. Revenue department officials have been asked to carry out the panchnama and submit reports over the next few days,” Bhote said. “Soybean crops have been affected severely. Sowing of soybean has been done on 27,000 hectare, largely in Bhor, Junnar and Khed tehsils of the district this year,” Bhote added. He said the district’s total kharif sowing area is 3.70 lakh hectare and bajra, jowar, paddy and soybean are the prime crops for harvesting. Besides, leafy vegetables, new plantation of onion and standing crops like sugarcane have gone under water, the senior official said. Sandip Pokale, a farmer from Khed, said, “Due to constant rainfall and strong winds over the last few days, our sugarcane crop over five acres has been severely affected and is now under knee-deep water. If sugar factories do not begin cane crushing early, I will face major losses.” Fruit plantations, particularly pomegranate and grapes, have been affected in Indapur, Baramati, Daund and Junnar tehsils. “Prolonged overcast conditions and heavy rain are not conducive for fruit plantation, especially grapes. The weather condition has already led to losses for many grape plantations in the district,” said an agriculture scientist from National Research Centre for Grapes, Manjri. Jitendra Badwai, president of the Grape Growers Association in Junnar, said, “Many growers have already faced losses when their plantations were hit by cyclone Nisarga in June. Now, they will have to face big losses again.” “Due to these circumstances, the price of leafy vegetables and fruits will certainly increase in markets soon. There is already a shortage of supply owing to constant rainfall in the last few days,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president of the Association of Commission Agents at Gultekdi Marketyard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-hits-kharif-crop-in-district-price-of-veggies-fruits-may-rise/articleshow/78690169.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 16, 2020||Pune||Heavy downpour disrupts normal life across 13 tehsils||Pune: The constant rainfall on Wednesday night disrupted normal life in 13 tehsils across Pune district, with Indapur and Baramati bearing the brunt of the showers. Authorities had to close the Pune-Solapur highway. As many as 2,200 people were evacuated to safety from several villages in Baramati and Indapur. Most bazaar lanes in the affected towns remained shut on Thursday morning. Rain water also entered homes in several low lying areas.On Wednesday night, water from Ujjani dam reached the highway at several places following the opening of all dam floodgates due to continuous rainfall. Baramati tehsil recorded 128.8mm rain between 8.30am and 8.30pm on Wednesday while Indapur, Daund and Purandar tehsils recorded 116.8mm, 101.5mm and 87.5mm rain, respectively, in the same period. Heavy rainfall activity continued on the night intervening Wednesday and Thursday. The rainfall receded only towards early morning. The heavy downpour prompted district collector Rajesh Deshmukh to assign four senior officials to coordinate the effort to provide help to affected people. “An assessment of loss to property and crops is being undertaken by our officials at the tehsil level,” said Deshmukh.Baramati tehsil administration had to shift 700 families after Karha river water entered their homes on Wednesday night. They have been temporarily moved to the Zilla Parishad schools and wedding halls. “We issued a red alert on Thursday to about 45 villages located on the banks of Karha and Nira rivers,” said Baramati tehsildar Vijay Patil. A flood-like situation was witnessed in the main town of Indapur with strong currents of water sweeping away vehicles. Indapur tehsildar Sonali Metkari said, “With help from the police, we rescued over 1,500 people from flood zones of about 40 villages in the tehsil. Maximum rivulets in these villages were flooded and caused damage to houses. In Indapur town, nullah water entered houses. We had to install motor pumps to withdraw water from housing societies.” A similar situation was seen in Shirur town, Chakan in Khed and Manchar in Ambegaon tehsil. Former president of Chakan Municipal Council Shekhar Ghogre said, “Rainwater has accumulated in all bazaar lanes as all drainage lines were choked due to accumulation of plastic and other garbage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/heavy-downpour-disrupts-normal-life-across-13-tehsils/articleshow/78690159.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: It was wrong to grant licences to 50 sawmills, admits state panel||NAGPUR: A state-level committee (SLC) headed by PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu on Thursday admitted that the decision to grant additional horizontal band saws (AHBS) licences to 50 timber units was wrong, but did not take any call on cancelling these permits. The SLC headed by former PCCF Umesh Agrawal had on July 23, 2018, granted AHBS to 50 units. This was in addition to existing cutting machines with these mills. This was in violation of the apex court order of March 4, 1997, as well as against Maharashtra Forest Rules (MFR) 2014. The latest SLC meeting was called on Thursday to take a decision to scrap the licences, but all the members remained silent though they admitted that the earlier decision was in contravention to rules. Though the forest department has put the issue on the back burner, environment lawyer Manish Jeswani filed an application on August 21 before MoEFCC regional office for quashing the order passed by the SLC. The state has also been made a party and hence it has sought a reply from the PCCF in a week. The MoEFCC has to resolve the appeal in 60 days. Those who attended Thursday’s meeting included PCCF N Rambabu, APCCF (Protection) Sanjeev Gaur, CCF (Forest Regulation) SS Dahiwale, CCF (T) Nagpur P Kalyan Kumar and others. “The matter is sub judice and hence it is not proper to speak anything on the issue at this juncture. But, we will go by the facts and bring them on record. Finally, MoEFCC has to decide on the appeal and then SLC will take a final call,” said Rambabu. In his petition, Jeswani argued there is serious violation of Supreme Court order in (writ petition 202/1995) which states: “All unlicensed saw mills, veneer, and plywood industries in Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh are to be closed forthwith and the state governments would not remove or relax the condition for grant of permission/licence for the opening of any such industry and it shall also not grant any fresh licence for this purpose.” Learning that SLC committed a mistake by granting licences, on February 28, 2019, then PCCF Agrawal sought to amend Maharashtra Forest Rules in order to regularize the ‘illegal’ licences for 50 additional 42 inches horizontal band saws, but the government rejected the demand and asked Agrawal to review the decision. The petition says that SLC meeting held on June 27, 2017, had decided that grant of additional band saws shall be considered only after the timber availability report is received from the state. However, SLC took a decision to issue licences on July 23, 2018, without waiting for the reports. No Action SLC headed by former PCCF Umesh Agrawal had on July 23, 2018 granted AHBS to 50 units This was in violation of apex court order of March 4, 1997, Maharashtra Forest Rules 2014 Lawyer Manish Jeswani filed application on August 21 before MoEFCC for quashing order by SLC Petition says SLC issued licences without waiting for timber availability report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-admits-it-was-wrong-to-grant-licences-to-50-sawmills/articleshow/78688760.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 16, 2020||Madurai||NCSC seeks report on murder of OT operator from Madurai cops||MADURAI: The National Commission for Scheduled Caste (NCSC) has sent a notice to the Madurai district police seeking a report on the killing of Munusamy, 40, who belonged to the paraiyar community (scheduled caste). Munusamy, an overhead tank operator from Kunnathur village, was hacked to death along with the village panchayat president Krishnarajan on Sunday night. Sources from the NCSC said that although police have registered a complaint under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, there is no clear evidence to show who actually murdered the two. Based on the report, the NCSC will decide on further course of action. The commission is also likely to visit the village to conduct an inquiry. It will be ensured that the monetary benefit and other support system provided by the state government reaches Munusamy’s family members. The delay in the commission’s visit is crippled by the retirement of senior investigator Iniyan as the post is yet to be filled up. Only one investigator is available at present, the source added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ncsc-seeks-report-on-murder-of-ot-operator/articleshow/78690149.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Major reservoirs in Tamil Nadu 71% full; Karnataka supplies surplus||CHENNAI: The northeast monsoon may start in Tamil Nadu only after October 25. While the forecast for northern districts is normal, it is below normal for the southern region. Major reservoirs in the state, however, have a combined storage of 140.46tmcft as on Thursday as against a capacity of 198tmcft. Owing to repeated system formation in the Bay of Bengal, there are westerlies over Tamil Nadu, South Andhra Pradesh, South Karnataka and Kerala. Southwest monsoon has not fully withdrawn till date, said S Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology. The southwest monsoon brought 24% excess rainfall to the state until September. Tirupur, Theni, Karur, Perambalur, Trichy and Coimbatore districts received very high rainfall and 18 districts received high rainfall, whereas Villupuram and Tuticorin recorded very low rainfall. There are no major concerns as regards irrigation commitments because Mettur reservoir has touched 100ft for the second time this year. On Thursday, the inflow was 14,947 cusecs and outflow was maintained at 14,000 cusecs in the river and 900 cusecs in the canal. Bhavanisagar and Amaravathi in Cauvery basin too received good inflows and are at comfortable positions. Mullaperiyar, owned and maintained by Tamil Nadu government in Idukki district of Kerala, has a storage of 4.3tmcft as against 10.5tmcft capacity. It had an inflow of 4,157 cusecs on Thursday. The rise in storage will benefit five southern districts. The PWD released 1,400 cusecs into tunnels to Vaigai dam in the downstream. The storage of Papanasam and Manimuthar in Tirunelveli is steadily increasing with inflow of 5,940 cusecs and 1,464 cusecs respectively. Heavy rains lashing Kanyakumari district have triggered an inflow of 3,169 cusecs and 2,474 cusecs into Pechiparai and Perunchani dams. Parambikulam-Aliyar group of dams in the Western Ghats have reached full capacity. “Owing to heavy rains triggered by the southwest monsoon, Karnataka released 6tmcft of surplus water to Tamil Nadu during the current water season beginning June 1. Tamil Nadu has realized surplus water in the months of August and September. In October alone, it realized 9tmcft surplus until October 13,” a senior official said. The quantity prescribed as per the final order of the Supreme Court is 131.6tmcft from June 1 to October 13, but the state realised 137.82tmcft of Cauvery water. According to the agriculture department, 10.038 lakh acres have been covered by paddy until Monday as against the normal area of 18.8 lakh acres in nine Cauvery basin districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/major-reservoirs-71-full-ktaka-supplies-surplus/articleshow/78690180.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth arrested, MDMA and brown sugar seized||Mangaluru: The Udupi District Police on Wednesday arrested a person and seized MDMA and brown sugar valued at Rs 4.63 lakh from him near End Point in Manipal. The arrested has confessed that he procured drugs from dark web and received through post. The arrested has been identified as Mohammed Fazal, resident of Brahmavar. According to police, acting on a tip-off that a person is trying to sell drugs to students in Manipal, they reached near End Point. They found accused Fazal suspiciously moving around the place. He was arrested later and during investigation he confessed that he procured drugs from dark web with help of two others — Safa and Farhan, residents of Udupi. Police have seized 54 MDMA tablets, 30 grams of brown sugar and two cellphones from Fazal. A case has been registered under NDPS Act at Manipal police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-arrested-mdma-and-brown-sugar-seized/articleshow/78687443.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Now, public hearings will be conducted through WhatsApp||Jaipur: Divisional commissioner of Jaipur Somnath Mishra on Thursday launched an initiative to address the grievances of people and also to conduct public hearings through WhatsApp number 9571200200. People from Jaipur, Dausa, Alwar, Jhunjhunu and Sikar can avail the services. He said public hearings of people living in containment zones, Covid persons, people in home and institutional isolation can also be done through Whatsapp. He said the person concerned has to send a message through Whatsapp with the following details - name, address and a brief explanation of the problem. The officer in-charge will then forward the message to department concerned, which will resolve the issue and inform the person about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-public-hearings-will-be-conducted-through-whatsapp/articleshow/78690156.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC judge rues rise in crimes against SC/STs, poor conviction rate||MADURAI: Pointing out to the recent National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Madras high court judge and portfolio judge for Tuticorin justice V Bharathidasan, said there is an increase in atrocities against people from the SC and ST communities. “Also, there is a general complaint that conviction rates in such cases are very low. But, this could be due to delay in disposing cases and no effective investigation,” he said. He was addressing a gathering at the inaugural of the special court for trial of cases under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, at Tuticorin. Bharathidasan said there is a rule that only senior and experienced police officers in the rank of a deputy superintendent of police should investigate cases registered under the Act. “But our experience shows that investigation is not done effectively in most cases,” he said. He added that the final investigation report in such cases should be ready in two months, but it has not been so in any of the cases. He also said that police have not taken enough steps to execute non-bailable warrants and to bring the accused to trial, and these have to be rectified. He also asked the superintendent of police for Tuticorin district to monitor cases registered under the Act for effective trial. Chief justice of the Madras high court, Amreshwar Pratap Sahi who inaugurated the court through video conferencing said that Tuticorin unfortunately witnessed some fire and storm in the recent past. Justice P D Audikesavalu said that success in establishing the court lies in bringing down such cases through qualitative decision making. Justice S S Sundar said that crimes will reduce only when punishment is assured. The special court will reduce the burden at the court in Tirunelveli where cases were tried for over two decades. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-judge-rues-rise-in-crimes-against-sc/sts-poor-conviction-rate/articleshow/78690175.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Shops in Madurai sealed for selling banned tobacco products||MADURAI: Two shops, which were found selling banned tobacco products in Madurai, were sealed in the last one week by food safety officials. A grocery store in Narasingam on the city outskirts and one in Kanpalayam were closed down by the officials. Officials said that the shopkeepers were selling the banned products despite several warnings. The action comes close on the heels of closing five parcel service companies in North Masi Street and Nelpettai for distributing banned products. Designated food safety officer, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said that they are monitoring all the 400 parcel service companies in Madurai. Meanwhile, retail sales have come under scanner now, he said. “First offence attracts Rs 5,000, second offence Rs 10,000 and third time Rs 25,000 as fine. However, as shopkeepers are not deterred by the fine amount, the shops are being shut down,” he said. Officials said that whenever strict action is being taken the shopkeepers stop selling banned tobacco products temporarily. Many of them sell only to their regular customers in order to avoid getting caught. Often, the products are sold to minors and school students, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shops-sealed-for-selling-banned-tobacco-products/articleshow/78690170.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Widow gangraped for two days, 4 held||Udaipur: A widow, who lived with her three children after the death of her husband, was gangraped for two days by five men in her village house under Zawar Mines police station area recently. Two of the accused hailed from the same village and knowing her vulnerability had been looking for an opportunity to violate her. The incident took place on October 8 and 9 but it was reported to police on Wednesday as the rape survivor was too shocked and terrified that she shut herself inside her house and no one knew of the incident until one of her relatives went to know about her wellbeing. Police swung into action and arrested the four accused and detained a minor for the heinous crime. They were produced before a court and taken in police remand on Thursday. The rape survivor told police that on October 8 while she was fast asleep with her kids, three men — Harish, Deepak and Pappu — barged into her home. They threatened to kill the children if she made noise and held her hands and legs. They gagged her mouth and raped her one by one and left the place. On the next day, they told their friends Akash and Ajay about the incident and they too broke into her house in the night and raped her. The widow was so shocked and terrified by their threats that she did not step out of her home for two days nor did she receive calls. When her brother-in-law went to know her well being on Wednesday, she narrated her plight to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/widow-gangraped-for-two-days-4-held/articleshow/78690172.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||12-yr-old girl electrocuted as live wire falls on her||Jaisalmer: A 12-year-old girl was electrocuted when a 11-kv electric wire passing above the field she was working in fell on her at Patarda village in Barmer district’s Dhorimanna police station area. The girl’s father has lodged a case against the electricity department at Dhorimanna police station. Dhorimanna SHO Harchand Ram said Patarda village resident Harkha Ram Lohar has lodged a case and said his family was working in the field when a live wire fell on his 12-year-old daughter Rinka. She was immediately taken to Dhorimanna hospital from where she was referred to Sanchore but died on the way to a hospital due to severe burn injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-yr-old-girl-electrocuted-as-live-wire-falls-on-her/articleshow/78690163.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||3,483 fresh Covid cases in Delhi, positivity rate touches 6.2%||NEW DELHI: The positivity rate – number of positive cases from those tested – of Covid-19 in Delhi touched 6.2% on Thursday, with 3,483 out of 55,891 persons who were tested turning positive for the viral infection. The total tally of cases in the city has crossed 3.21 lakh. In the last 24 hours, the government said, 26 people died due to novel coronavirus taking the death toll to 5,924. Delhi has recorded 563 Covid-19 deaths in the last 15 days. On an average, 38 people died due to the disease daily, data shows. These deaths do not include fatalities involving patients from other states who are undergoing treatment at local hospitals. Last month, in September, Delhi recorded more than 917 Covid-19 deaths. On an average, 31 deaths were reported daily. “The rising cases of Covid-19 and mortality is a matter of concern. The government should step up awareness campaigns, ensure strict adherence to measures such as wearing masks and handwashing and at the same time ramp up infrastructure to deal with any potential health crisis,” said a senior doctor. According to a weekly data released by the state government, the death rate in Delhi is 1.35% if you consider the numbers for the last 10 days. However, the cumulative death rate is 1.85% against the national average of 1.52%. The average number of deaths due to Covid-19 recorded daily in April, May, June, July and August was 2, 14, 77, 41 and 16 respectively. One of the major reasons for increased severity in Covid-19 cases is delayed diagnosis and treatment. “If a person has fever, cough and breathing difficulty and he or she tests positive for Covid-19, it is advisable to seek medical supervision. Because, we have observed, the condition can deteriorate suddenly,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3483-fresh-cases-in-city-positivity-rate-touches-6-2/articleshow/78688781.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Basement shops inundated at Left Bhusari colony||Pune: Wednesday night’s heavy downpour was nothing short of a nightmare for Ramchandra Kalokhe, a shopowner in Left Bhusari colony along Paud road. “I helplessly watched as the water level went up at my basement shop. All four aluminium cutting machines, raw materials, manufactured goods and property documents went under the water,” Kalokhe, who runs an aluminium window manufacturing unit and an estate agency, said. There are nine shops at the basement of the Kalagram Society on Paud Road. “Most of these shops were filled with water. Since early morning all of us are busy in clean-up work,” Kalokhe said. He said that it was the fifth time that water entered his shop this monsoon. “I have been doing business here for the past 12 years. But never faced such a problem. All the shops have proper drainage system. But the rainwater pipeline of an under-construction building has been illegally connected to our drainage line recently. During heavy rains, the pipeline cannot sustain pressure and the water starts reversing. This causes flooding in our shops,” Kalokhe said. He said that the local corporator and engineers from the Pune Municipal Corporation visited the shops last week. “But no action has been taken yet,” Kalokhe said. Kalokhe’s neighbour Prakash Potdar’s two welding machines were damaged in rainwater. A mattress shop has shut down due to this problem. A restaurant owner in the same complex said that all his furniture and even the kitchen went under water. “We have been cleaning the restaurant since morning. We had few online food orders. But we had to cancel them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/basement-shops-inundated-at-left-bhusari-colony/articleshow/78690173.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: A night of anxiety as many nullahs swell||PUNE: The three hours of heavy rain on Wednesday night in Pune city brought back fearful memories of last year’s flooding on September 25, and the damage in its wake across the city. Rising water levels in the nullahs, waterlogging on the roads, accumulation of rainwater in housing societies, water gushing into homes, and damage to retaining and boundary walls in some areas raised anxiety on Thursday. Low- lying areas of Sahakarnagar, Taware Colony, parts of Sinhagad Road, Hingne-Vitthalwadi, Katraj, Vishrantwadi, badly affected in the September floods last year, bore the brunt of the rain’s fury on Wednesday. ‘No Corrective Steps’ Civic activists said culverts and retaining walls meant to channel the water flow were incomplete. They sought a comprehensive plan to clear encroachments along water bodies . Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch said an audit of all the works of cleaning and maintenance of nullahs, storm water channels, drains should be conducted to check if these lines were cleaned well. “Every vulnerable location should have a separate plan,” he said. Rising Water A Scare Residents of Taware Colony and Sahakarnagar said they spent the entire night in anxiety because of the rising water levels in the Ambil Odha. Sanjay Kalokhe, a local resident, said, “Water had increased three feet in night. The retaining wall has to be completed,” he said. Local corporator from Sahakarnagar Mahesh Wable said encroachments along Ambil Odha in Aranyeshwar have to be removed and the channel widened. Tangewale Colony along Ambil Odha felt the rain’s damage this year too. “We told residents to move to temporary shelters,” Wable said. Residents Treasure Park and Gururaj Society moved their vehicles to safety and were prepared to move out. Plastic Chokes Water Bodies Three overflowing nullahs flooded areas in Vishrantinagar, Manikbaug and Vitthalnagar. Wall collapses were reported, and a nullah near a private hospital at Santosh Hall chowk flooded. Locals said a huge volume of water along with plastic and other debris from uphill areas flowed the nullah.  Katraj Lakes Overflow Katraj area’s corporator Vasant More said the damages on Wednesday were much less than last year’s even though the Katraj lake was overflowing. Water was discharged from the upper and lower lakes throughout Wednesday night which prevented flooding, he added. Additional municipal commissioner Shantanu Goel said the cleaning of stormwater channels and drainage lines were carried out ahead of the monsoon in all the 15 civic wards. Culverts and retaining walls were still being built. “Hurdles to the tendering process for the culverts have been cleared. Work on the retaining walls along Ambil Odha is expected to begin soon,” he said. Plaints from PCMC areasThere were 45 waterlogging complaints from societies in Wakad, Nigdi, Dapodi, Pimpri, Sangvi and Kalbhornagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-night-of-anxiety-as-many-nullahs-swell/articleshow/78690209.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Meerut||Now, WhatsApp Covid-related queries in Meerut||MEERUT: Meerut district administration has released a WhatsApp inquiry number for people with Covid-related queries and feedback. They can send a WhatsApp message on the number, 9454419075, to ask any question related to Covid and give their feedback about any coronavirus-related issue. “To ensure that the locals have all facts in place regarding Covid-19 and can reach us for any query or feedback regarding the disease, we have set up a WhatsApp helpline number where they can drop a WhatsApp message to know more about our way of tackling with it,” said additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) Subhash Chandra Prajapati. This comes at a time when the Covid-19 tally in the district has crossed the 11,000 mark and over 260 deaths have been reported in Meerut. “The move will help people in asking any query or even give feedback to us about Covid-19. This will help in bringing transparency between the district administration and the masses, and will develop a better interaction between the people and authorities,” said Prajapati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-whatsapp-covid-related-queries-in-meerut/articleshow/78687466.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC raises agriculture officers’ posts from 63 to 97||Ajmer: The Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) has re-opened the online application link for candidates who have applied for agriculture officer's exam which was notified on January 17 this year. The RPSC said that previously the vacancy was advertised for 63 posts of agriculture officers, but now it has been increased to 97 by the department and therefore the process has been re-scheduled. The commission asked the candidates to fill online application from October 20 to November 3. It has also released category-wise posts for this vacancy, notification for which is available on RPSC website. The new chairman Bhupendra Singh Yadav, along with four new members, has already joined his posts at RPSC. A meeting was held on Thursday to know about the pending examination process in RPSC. Sources said that a descriptive time table will be made to conduct various examinations in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-raises-agriculture-officers-posts-from-63-to-97/articleshow/78690179.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan HC adjourns Laxmi Vilas case till Oct 19||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court here on Thursday adjourned the hearing in Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel disinvestment case till October 19. It may be noted that hearing on appeals by all the five accused of the case for stay on arrest warrants and quashing of FIRs against them was scheduled in the high court on Thursday. “The matter was listed for hearing on Thursday, but due to lack of time, the court adjourned the matter for hearing on Monday at 2pm,” said Nishant Bora, counsel for one of the accused. Likewise, the hearing in the CBI court was also adjourned after all the accused prayed for time in arguing the case. “Presiding officer of the court Puran Kumar Sharma granted the prayer and adjourned the hearing till November 5,” said a counsel. It may be noted that all the accused, including former disinvestment minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal along with MD (Lazard India Limited) Ashish Guha, MD (Bharat Hotels Limited) Jyotsana Suri and valuer Kantilal Vikamsey had been held guilty by the CBI court in Rs 7.52 crore disinvestment deal of ITC owned Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur in 1999-2002 during the NDA regime. All the accused had moved high court challenging the order of the CBI court which had stayed the arrest warrants converting them into bailable warrants and had listed the matter for hearing on quashing of FIRs on Thursday. Meanwhile, all accused have already furnished their bail bonds and two sureties each in the CBI court as directed by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-adjourns-laxmi-vilas-case-till-oct-19/articleshow/78693660.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||‘Watching a film on a big screen was a seductive experience’||KOLKATA: It was in March that I had last watched films on big screen. Primarily, they were the Oscar selections, ‘Joker’, ‘1917’ and ‘Little Women’. After a gap of seven months when I went back to watching a movie on the big screen on Thursday, it was a seductive experience for me. Cinema is a place where I can lose myself and forget all my problems. For me, it is an anti-depressant that heals me. Cinemas transport me to a magical world of characters and their history. They help me understand my reality better. This juxtaposition of magic and reality is what I was looking forward to again when I walked into the theatre to watch ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’ at INOX Swabhumi. Every time I watch a movie at a theatre, I feel cinema creates an ambiance of something special unfolding. Once the heavy door is thrown open, coffee and caramel popcorn are my companion as I get immersed not in, but inside, the big screen. Watching cinema on a big screen also creates a sense of community experience. It makes us feel humane. Otherwise, life will be a solitary pursuit of money. But it feels strange to watch a film in the new normal. It seems like a battle against odds. There is fear mongering but the reality is that the cinemas have security protocol and are safer than Puja pandals, a market or an ordinary closed room.  (Actor Joy Sengupta spoke to Priyanka Dasgupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/watching-a-film-on-a-big-screen-was-a-seductive-experience/articleshow/78690203.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||CSCL to acquire 390 twin-bins vehicles from Mumbai dealer||Chandigarh: With the Board of Directors (BOD) of the Chandigarh Smart City Ltd (CSCL) on Thursday showing the green light, decks have been cleared for the purchase of 390 twin-bin vehicles from Mumbai-based Tata Motors dealer Continental Engines to kick off source segregation of waste in the city.The BOD also approved to award the Solid Waste Management Vehicle Tracking and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (Scada) project to the lowest bidder for the monitoring of movement of waste collection vehicles.The acquisition of the 390 twin-bin vehicles was estimated to cost Rs 35 crore, but Continental Engines quoted around Rs 29 crore. Since the minutes of the BOD meeting needs to be signed, the allotment process will be completed in a few days’ time.“Continental Engines is a dealer of Tata Motors and it is Tata Motors, which supplies the parts to the Continental Engines. Besides the companies, their dealers were also allowed to participate in the bidding. We had received a total of eight bids and finally Continental Engines was approved by the BOD,” a CSCL official revealed.Since the lack of vehicles was the key hurdle in starting the source segregation of waste, sources in the civic body revealed that the day they receive the vehicles, such segregation would start.“With the successful bidder for the Scada project also finalised, we will allot this tender to the contractor in the coming few days. The project is part of the overall sanitation system in the city and will hold the people and employees concerned accountable for the discharge of their duties through the technical surveillance system,” the official said.Under this project, a full-fledged control room will be established after dividing the city into 10 zones and 10 persons each will manage every zone. They will monitor the entire garbage lifting exercise, movement of garbage lifting vehicles, time spent on each house to lift garbage, do GPS tracking system of vehicles, etc.BOX:Source segregation of waste soonAsked about the launch of source segregation of waste, municipal commissioner and CSCL CEO K K Yadav said, “The tender to acquire the twin-bin vehicles has been approved by the BOD. We will very soon award the tender and after that hopefully, we will start receiving the vehicles. If all goes well, we will get all vehicles by mid-November and soon after that, the source segregation of waste will be launched.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cscl-to-acquire-390-twin-bins-vehicles-from-mumbai-dealer/articleshow/78687465.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 16, 2020||Chennai||178-year-old commissionerate at Egmore to be restored as police museum||CHENNAI: The city police commissionerate at Egmore is set to turn into a museum. The 178-year-old building, sprawling over 36,000sqft, is expected to be thrown open to the public in its refurbished avatar in February 2021. The two-storey bungalow with Doric columns and a Madras terrace, once opened, will describe evolution of the police force with artefacts and other material. A wall of valour, with names of personnel killed in action, is likely to be included. The museum will be the second of its kind in TN after the one in Coimbatore. Historical documents from central police organisations and state police forces and police-related gazette notifications and unique weapons along with brass insignia, ceremonial and operational head gear and uniforms, batons, belts, distinctive photographs of dog squads will be on display. Pieces on women in policing, creation of women battalions, news clippings of historical significance, wireless equipment, flying squads and police medals and decorations will also be showcased. “Members of public can contribute any valuable pieces related to police,” said a senior officer. The building and the surrounding paddy field were bought by Arunagiri Mudaliar for Rs 36,000 before the police, on May 1, 1842, moved in from the Vepery headquarters for a monthly rent of Rs 165. In 1856, when Lt Col Boulderson took over as the city’s first police commissioner, the property was bought for Rs 21,000. More than 60 workers are now laying wooden flooring, ensuring cross ventilation and giving the ceiling a coat of eco-friendly lime plaster after pulling out 30 tonnes of ‘dead load’. The project, under the guidance of director general of police J K Tripathy and Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation chairman, M N Manjunatha, is being monitored by additional commissioner of police (headquarters) A Amalraj and executed by Easwari Construction Private Ltd. Children and students visiting the museum will get a clear understanding of the police functioning and an opportunity to learn about the great history, landmarks and developments of the force. It is all designed to rekindle the desire of youth to join the police force and inspire serving personnel. Dedicated staff will take visitors around the museum that will also have audio-visual tours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/178-year-old-commissionerate-restored-as-police-museum/articleshow/78690210.cms||Sindhu Kannan
October 16, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Boat loaded with liquor seized off Hazira coast||SURAT: Bootleggers are never at sea when it comes to finding new routes to transport liquor. On Wednesday afternoon, the Marine police station team got a tip-off that a huge consignment of liquor was being transported through sea route. Marine police officials immediately launched a search operation and seized a fishing boat whose entire storage area was brimming with liquor boxes. In all, there were 271 boxes and the Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth nearly Rs 14 lakh. The boat was intercepted around seven nautical miles off Hazira port and the consignment was to be smuggled into Surat, said HA Pipalia, the police sub-inspector (PSI) who led the operation. Police arrested five residents of Daman on charges of illegal bootlegging of the contraband. They were identified as Haresh Dhodiya, Dharmendra Dhodiya, Manoj Tandel, Sanjay Halpati and Natwarlal Halpati. The illegal liquor consignment was scheduled to land at a jetty of a private company and one Naresh Patel of Junagaam in Hazira was to take the delivery. However, Patel and another person named Ashish Tandel of Daman, who had sent the liquor stock, are yet to be arrested. Earlier too, police have affected small seizures of liquor being ferried in boats, but the quantity this time was staggering. Along with boat costing Rs three lakh, police also seized a GPRS device and four mobile phones from them. The GPRS device was being used to reach the exact location. In fact, Pipalia even alleged that an unidentified bootlegger even threatened to kill him for the seizure. However, he has not lodged any complaint in this regard, he said. “I was threatened to be killed by some bootlegger over the phone after I caught the liquor,” Pipalia told TOI. Surat police commissioner Ajay Tomar, who has decided to reward Pipalia for this daring effort, however, took the threat claim with a pinch of salt. “It is not possible that someone would dare to threaten a police officer in uniform. I think he was overcome by emotions,” Tomar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/boat-loaded-with-liquor-seized-off-hazira-coast/articleshow/78688135.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC adjourns Laxmi Vilas case till Oct 19||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan High Court here on Thursday adjourned the hearing in Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel disinvestment case till October 19. It may be noted that hearing on appeals by all the five accused of the case for stay on arrest warrants and quashing of FIRs against them was scheduled in the high court on Thursday. “The matter was listed for hearing on Thursday, but due to lack of time, the court adjourned the matter for hearing on Monday at 2pm,” said Nishant Bora, counsel for one of the accused. Likewise, the hearing in the CBI court was also adjourned after all the accused prayed for time in arguing the case. “Presiding officer of the court Puran Kumar Sharma granted the prayer and adjourned the hearing till November 5,” said a counsel. It may be noted that all the accused, including former disinvestment minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal along with MD (Lazard India Limited) Ashish Guha, MD (Bharat Hotels Limited) Jyotsana Suri and valuer Kantilal Vikamsey had been held guilty by the CBI court in Rs 7.52 crore disinvestment deal of ITC owned Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur in 1999-2002 during the NDA regime. All the accused had moved high court challenging the order of the CBI court which had stayed the arrest warrants converting them into bailable warrants and had listed the matter for hearing on quashing of FIRs on Thursday. Meanwhile, all accused have already furnished their bail bonds and two sureties each in the CBI court as directed by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-adjourns-laxmi-vilas-case-till-oct-19/articleshow/78690182.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Try to restore normalcy in OPDs, says Badnore||Times News Network Chandigarh: UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Thursday stated that all medical institutions must try to restore normalcy in OPD treatments as the burden of corona cases had substantially come down. The directions were issued during a review meeting he chaired. He also directed principal secretary, health, to explore the possibility of strengthening satellite medical centres in various sectors by providing weekly services of specialists from major hospitals, so that there was no over-crowding at OPDs of PGIMER and other medical institutions. The administrator said regular fogging, sanitisation and cleanliness drives should be undertaken to check malaria, dengue or other vector-borne diseases.In the meeting, Mohali, Panchkula and UT deputy commissioners gave their area’s active cases as 869, 334 and 1,085, respectively. UT director, health services, Dr Amandeep Kang said OPDs of orthopaedics, gynae, dental and paediatrics had been restored to normalcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/try-to-restore-normalcy-in-opds-says-badnore/articleshow/78687472.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Nagpur||Betting ring with Kolkata link busted, jeweller held||NAGPUR: The crime branch has busted yet another racket involving a city-based bookie and his six punters from Kolkata on Wednesday. Earlier this week, city police under CP Amitesh Kumar had arrested seven top bookies and hawala traders after offences were registered against them at Lakadganj police station. In the latest raid, the crime branch team under assistant police inspector Pankaj Dharge arrested Akash Bansal from his jewellery shop at Telephone Exchange Square. He was operating his betting business through an app which cops are now probing. In a first of its kind, police have made his punters — Ankit, Satish, NG, Sunny, Mukund and Shubham — co-accused in the case. This case, too, has been registered at Lakadganj police station. It’s learnt that Bansal, a bullion trader, was accepting bets in the ongoing IPL matches from punters at Dahibazar and Kolkata when cops zeroed in on him. During the raid conducted under the supervision of Addl CP, crime, Sunil Phulari and ACP Sudhir Nandanwar, the police also seized two mobile phones. CP Kumar said the investigation in cases pertaining to bookies is under way. “If there are any issues coming to the fore then we will alert agencies like the Enforcement Directorate or the Income Tax,” he said. According to sources, many top bookies have gone underground after raids were conducted at their dens and residences this week. TOI has learnt that several bookies have also left the city to conduct their operations. During the IPL season, bookies rake in profits amounting to crores of rupees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/betting-ring-with-kolkata-link-busted-jeweller-held/articleshow/78688801.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Not interested in movie, wanted to visit for thrill’||LUCKNOW: Though very few people opted to visit cinema halls on the first day after they reopened since the lockdown, those who bought tickets were more interested in feeling the aura of a cinema hall after seven months than in watching a movie. Lakshya Mishra, who visited Inox Cinema at Riverside Mall with his three friends, said, “We just wanted to create a record of sorts by becoming the first group to visit a theatre after the Covid-19 lockdown was lifted. We had no interest in a movie.” Of 20 multiplexes in Lucknow, only three were open and merely 80 tickets were sold. Many shows sold no tickets at all. Majority of the visitors included college goers and youngsters. Shows of recent films such as Malang, Tanhaji, Thappad and Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan were screened. Devansh Prajapati, who visited a multiplex with his two friends, said, “My birthday treat was pending for the past two months, and there was no other place to get together with friends. So, we decided to come for a movie.” Some families also visited movie halls. Arsalan Abbasi, who had booked four tickets for an evening show at Umaro Inox, said, “My kids love to watch movies in a theatre. As soon as they found that cinemas had resumed, they insisted for the first day first show. My only concern was protection from Covid-19 infection, but strict protocols and safety measures helped in building confidence to visit a cinema hall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/not-interested-in-movie-wanted-to-visit-for-thrill/articleshow/78690942.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
October 16, 2020||Madurai||Reduced to penury, transgender women learn to rear cows, get back on their feet||MADURAI: Temple festival season is usually the period for Keerthana and 11 other transgender women staying with her to earn their bread and butter by singing kummipattu, for which they get paid Rs 1,000 a day. As the season has been completely washed out, a few other transexuals relying on the temple season have slipped into beggary. But Keerthana, 32, and her friends, have pooled in Rs 75,000 money and purchased two cows and are tending them. The 12 transgender women hail from various parts of Madurai. They had to leave their homes as their families did not accept for whom they are and have been staying together for a few years now. They used to get at least 10 days of work for six months in a year starting from the Tamil month of Aadi (mid-July to mid-August). However, they could not earn anything this year. “We would earn Rs 1,000 a day when we sang in temple festivals. We used to save the money and keep it for non-season days. Since our livelihood is lost, decided to pool in money to start dairy farming as we do not want to get into beggary,” said Keerthana. While transexuals are yet to be recognized in the job market, even educated among them find it hard to land a job. These school-drop out transgender women saw daily farming as their best option. They take turns to tend the animals. The intermittent showers received by the city in the last few months have also helped them a bit. There is some green cover on the Vaigai River bed near Madhichiyam, where Keerthana and her friends take the cows for grazing. They spend money only for oil cakes and husks. “We did not have prior experience in rearing cows. But we have learnt a lot during the last three months,” said Kavya, another transgender woman. They get 12 litres of milk a day, which fetches them Rs 500 a day after expenses. Although it is too less for a dozen people, they say it is better than nothing. They have sought the district administration to help them with a couple of cows so that they can earn a decent income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reduced-to-penury-transgender-women-learn-to-rear-cows-get-back-on-their-feet/articleshow/78690181.cms||V Devanathan
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||First day, flop show: Seats empty as cinemas reopen in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: After 212 days of shutdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, only three multiplexes out of 20 in the city opened on the first day with protocols for safety against coronavirus. Only 80 tickets were sold and a majority of auditorium seats were vacant in every show, while a few theatres even remained empty. According to UP Cinema Exhibitors’ Federation, multiplexes like Inox Cinema Umrao (Nishatganj), Inox Crown (Faizabad Road) and Inox Riverside Mall (Gomtinagar) opened on Thursday. While Umrao registered 45 ticket sales in four shows, data for the other two theatres was not immediately available. One show each at Inox Riverside Mall and Umrao was reported unsold. Ashish Agrawal, the chairperson of the federation, said, “Low attendance on the first day was expected, as there is still not much awareness about the opening of cinema. Besides, the movies running are old releases. We expect business to pick pace as soon the festive season begins. New releases will bring audience to cinema, while we will ensure proper Covid-19 protocol adherence.” Cinema hall business in Lucknow has taken a Rs 25-crore loss due to the seven-month shutdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-day-flop-show-seats-empty-as-cinemas-reopen/articleshow/78690949.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Jaipur||Tech students to make travel on highways safer||Udaipur: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and College of Technology and Engineering, Udaipur (CTAE) of Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT) have joined hands for betterment of highway infrastructure. Both the organisations have signed a five-year pact for sharing of expertise in civil and highway engineering field through road infrastructure development. CTAE has agreed to adopt nearby stretches of NHs and through its authorised faculty, researchers and students will carry out periodic investigation and give suggestions for improving the efficiency of existing highway assets. “We have adopted five stretches falling under Udaipur sections of the NH-8 and NH-76 as a voluntary initiative under ambit of Institutional Social Responsibility (ISR). These include four-laning of Gomti Choraha (79 km), six-laning of Udaipur-Ahmedabad stretch (113 km), six-laning of Greenfield proposed at Udaipur Bypass (23 km), six-laning of Udaipur-Chittorgarh (93km) and operation & maintenance of Swaroopganj-Pindwara section (120 km),” Ajay Sharma, dean CTAE told TOI. The CTAE team of students and scientists will work for improvement in safety provision by removing existing deficiencies, continual maintenance of the stretch using new technologies, offering localised solutions for removal of congestion points thereby increasing the average speed of traffic flow, improvements in riding comfort through cost effective measures based on innovative technologies on practices applicable in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tech-students-to-make-travel-on-highways-safer/articleshow/78690193.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||How Covid is getting on people’s nerves||NEW DELHI: A first-of-its kind study that evaluated neurological symptoms has revealed more than one-third of Covid-19 patients, especially the younger ones, suffer from headache, encephalopathy and dizziness among others. While the infection subsides in two weeks, the neurological effects remain longer, states the US-based study published in Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology (ACTN). It involved 509 patients, both men and women, of whom 134 (26%) had severe symptoms requiring mechanical ventilation. Neurologic manifestations were present at Covid-19 onset in 215 patients (42%), at hospital admission in 319 patients (62.7%) and at any time during the disease course in 419 patients (82.3%), the research found. Covid-19 can affect the brain in multiple ways. First, the viral infection is known to affect lung function, which can cause lack of oxygen in the body. If the brain doesn’t get enough oxygen, it can get affected too leading to unconsciousness, confusion and even death. Second, Covid-19 is known to cause loss of taste and smell, which means that it affects the olfactory nerve, the shortest of the nerves emerging from the brain, which is responsible for this function, say doctors. According to Dr Kameshwar Prasad, professor of neurology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) who is part of an international project for analysis of neurological manifestations due to Covid-19 from India, the infection can travel to the brain causing neurological disorders directly through this route or through bloodstream. “Covid-19 can also leave a long-lasting effect on the brain, which manifests into clinical symptoms much later,” Dr Prasad said. He added that in between 1916 and 1930, there was an epidemic due to encephalitis lethargica – a neurological syndrome also known as sleeping sickness – which affected millions globally. “The aftereffects of the viral infection were seen for many years. This included development of parkinsonism on an average two years after the infection,” the AIIMS doctor said. He advised that people who are discharged after treatment of Covid-19 need to be followed and watched systematically for at least a few months to detect any long-term consequence, for example effects on memory, concentration and other brain functions. At AIIMS, Dr Prasad said, they have come across cases where a patient suffering from Covid-19 reported with serious complications involving brain like stroke and Guillain-Barre syndrome, which is a rare disorder in which your body’s immune system attacks your nerves. In the US study, researchers found that muscle pain, headache, and inflammation of brain muscles were the most common neurological manifestations of Covid-19. More surprisingly, the ACTN study found patients presenting with any neurologic manifestations were younger than those without and had a longer time from Covid-19 onset to hospitalisation. “Most of the neurological complications have been observed to affect younger people more than the older people. This could be because the immunological reaction to the virus, which is known as the cytokine storm, is more prominent in younger people with good immunological status,” Dr Shamsher Dwivedee, chairman neurosciences and director of clinical services at Vimhans Nayati Super Specialty hospital, said. He added that early administration of anti-viral and steroids can prevent such complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-covid-is-getting-on-peoples-nerves/articleshow/78688826.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 16, 2020||Chennai||TN government transfers faculty, expedites hiring for BEd college vacancies||CHENNAI: In a bid to save the recognition of government BEd colleges, the directorate of collegiate education transferred 18 faculty members from various arts and science colleges in the state to government colleges of education. The higher education department has also asked the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) to recruit 33 faculty members for seven government BEd colleges on a priority basis. The southern regional committee of National Council of Teacher Education (NCTE) had in September stopped the admission for 2020-21 to three government colleges of education — Lady Willingdon Institute of Advanced Study in Education, Government Colleges of Education in Komarapalayam and Pudukottai — over shortage of faculty. The committee gave 90 days’ time for the vacancies to be filled and relevant documents be submitted before their recognition was withdrawn. In this context, 18 faculty members from various government colleges across the state were transferred to the three colleges mentioned, Institute of Advanced Study in Education in Saidapet and a government BEd college in Vellore. To help further, TRB is conducting recruitment for government colleges of education before arts and science colleges. “TRB has received 1,500 applications for 33 vacancies in the government BEd colleges. Caandidates will be shortlisted and interview process will begin shortly,” sources said. As per norms, BEd colleges must have student-faculty ratio 100:16 for BEd course and 50:10 for MEd course. But the seven government colleges have only half the stipulated strength and there has been no recruitment since 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-transfers-faculty-expedites-hiring-for-bed-college-vacancies/articleshow/78690216.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Temporary sites to ease Walled City parking woes||New Delhi: Caught between pedestrianisation and an under-construction parking lot, the traders at Chandni Chowk are not only finding it difficult to get enough space to park but also have to often pay fines ranging from Rs 5,700 to Rs 10,000 per vehicle due to parking in the non-motorised zone. In a meeting between traders’ bodies and the commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Commissioner on Wednesday, two temporary arrangements have been proposed near Barat Ghar Link Road and behind Town Hall, along with a shuttle service from the Lal Quila parking. A joint survey will be carried out with the traffic police before implementing the proposals, an official said. Yogesh Singhal, who heads the bullion and jewellers association at Kuncha Mahajani, said they were being harassed by the authorities. “The Gandhi Maidan parking has been closed and a new multilevel parking is coming up in its place. The on-street parking at Chandni Chowk is also not allowed. As the limited space gets quickly occupied, where should we park?” Singhal asked. He added that the civic body had been issuing hefty challans on the basis of the weight of a vehicle. “Where should our customers park and who would come to buy things in such an environment? We have appealed to civic officials to stop the challan drive immediately. If there is a legitimate parking site and we still are not using it, the corporation can impound vehicles,” Singhal said. While 150 vehicles can be parked near Barat Ghat, 20 can be accommodated at Shanti Desai Club, the traders’ body suggested. The ground behind Town Hall or the advocate club’s plot can also be used, Singhal said. Traders pay more than Rs 4 crore in taxes to the corporation, but still no parking service is being offered, the association alleged. Earlier, there was a proposal to start a parking lot in the foregrounds of Red Fort but Archaeological Survey of India had refused to allow it. In an affidavit to Delhi High Court in March last year, ASI had said the lawns were part of the world heritage site’s buffer zone and the Unesco guidelines prohibited any such move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/temporary-sites-to-ease-walled-city-parking-woes/articleshow/78688851.cms||Paras Singh
October 16, 2020||Mangaluru||MLAs from coastal dists press CM for separate sand mining policy||Mangaluru: MLAs from the coastal districts have urged chief minister BS Yediyurappa to formulate a separate sand mining policy for the three districts. Sand mining practice in the coast is unique and different from other parts of the state since it done manually using boats. the MLAs impressed on Yediyurappa to bifurcate the policy that will help the local administration supply this vital mineral to people at affordable cost. A delegation headed by Dakshina Kannada district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari urged the CM to remove restrictions on mining of sand along the river course. With the manual practice of sand mining used only on the coast, uniform sand mining policy for the state will lead to shortage of sand and also lead to hike in its cost. A bifurcated policy will also ensure that sand mined in the district equitably made available to stakeholders, they said. Non-availability of sand has hampered execution of various development works — both individual and government sponsored projects. The Civil Contractors Association accusing elected representatives of paying lip sympathy to the issue had rued their inability to purchase sand using the ‘DK Sand Bazaar’ app and steep hike in price of per truck load of sand. The construction sector has taken a major hit due to this issue, the CAA maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mlas-from-coastal-dists-press-cm-for-separate-sand-mining-policy/articleshow/78687482.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rains up risk of water-borne diseases||HYDERABAD: After two days of heavy downpour, waterlogging and flooding, residents of some localities are left worried over sewage entering their drinking water pipes, sumps and ground water, leading to water contamination. Locals also said that they have not been able to get even a single drop of clean drinking water since Tuesday. “Our streets are flooded with sewage water that is overflowing from the manholes due to rains. The same sewage water is now entering water storage units in our houses. Submerged hand pumps are also spewing contaminated water from yesterday. A few people have come to distribute food but there is no clean drinking water,” said B Gangamma, a resident of Mayuri Marg in Begumpet. Mahammad Irfan, a resident of Safdar Nagar in Borabanda said: “The water we are getting in taps is murky and tastes very bad. We suspect that the damage due to the rains in the last two days might have led to sewage water seeping into drinking water lanes. Procuring some clean drinking water has become our biggest concern now.” “There is always a high chance of water getting contaminated during monsoons. And when the city has experienced a flood-like situation where several areas have been submerged and sewage water has entered houses, the chances of contracting diseases such as diarrhoea, typhoid, intestinal infections increases manifold,” said Dr P Uma Bala, a microbiologist at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences. A possibility of seasonal diseases cannot be ruled out after heavy rains in GHMC limits. The urban pimary health centre doctors, nurses and Asha workers have been busy creating awareness among residents living in Puranapul.“Medical camps are being conducted in localities by by Asha workers and doctors,” Dr Abdul Ghani, surgeon , said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rains-up-risk-of-water-borne-diseases/articleshow/78690208.cms||Moulika.KV
October 16, 2020||Pune||Govt teachers innovate to reach out to students in rural areas||Pune: Government school teachers are using measures like making newsletters and utilizing community places to reach out to students from rural areas. However, many teachers have also complained that non-academic work is weighing them down leading to loss of quality teaching time. Shrikant Deokar (34), who joined a PMC school as a Shikshan Sevak in 2019, realized that many students in his school do not have internet access. “Newspapers with activity sheets for students used to be very popular. I thought of developing one based on age-appropriate and syllabus-appropriate activities to help students learn,” said Deokar.He started a weekly four-page Marathi newsletter Gammat-Jammat in August. Each page of the newspaper is dedicated to two classes. “I set the entire newsletter on my computer, take a colour print and then distribute it among students, who do not have access to phones,” said Deokar.Meanwhile, various government teachers have been complaining about the non-academic work given to them during the pandemic. “Since many parents take the only mobile phone when they step out to work, we sometimes end up giving lessons at 7pm or later, as per the availability of most students. Then there is the extra work of Covid-19 survey. I have done surveys three times until now. If there is so much non-academic work, how will we make lesson plans and cater to students in distance mode,” a teacher questioned.Another teacher said that the latest circular, which seeks weekly updates online, is also tough as there are many students living in villages with no internet connectivity and they need to come to the nearest town to fill the online update.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-teachers-innovate-to-reach-out-to-students-in-rural-areas/articleshow/78683137.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Former legislator, AMMK leader P Vetrivel passes away||CHENNAI: AMMK treasurer and ex-MLA P Vetrivel, who was in a private hospital in Chennai after testing positive for Covid-19, died at 6.40pm on Thursday. He was 60. He died due to septic shock, the hospital said in a bulletin. In May 2015 when he was in the AIADMK, Vetrivel made headlines when he vacated the R K Nagar seat to allow J Jayalalithaa to contest after she was discharged from the disproportionate wealth case. In 2016, Vetrivel contested and won from Perambur. But his term abruptly ended when assembly speaker P Dhanapal disqualified Vetrivel and 17 others for siding with the breakaway faction of AMMK led by T T V Dhinakaran. In 2017, Vetrivel led from the front when Dhinakaran contested the R K Nagar bypoll as an independent and won. But he himself lost the bypoll to Perambur held in 2019. Ups and downs were nothing new for Vetrivel. Given his North Chennai base, he once saved fellow party leader K V Thangkabalu from near death in a factional fight at Teynampet Congress grounds and later went on to become late TMC leader G K Moopanar confidante. Vetrivel along with ‘Karate’ R Thiagarajan accompanied then senior TMC leader S R Balasubramoniyan to meet M Karunanidhi and finalize seat sharing with the DMK for the 1996 general elections. In return, DMK leader M K Stalin created the post of opposition leader in the Chennai Corporation and elevated Vetrivel to the post when he became the Chennai Mayor. In 2001, when Moopanar died, Vetrivel played a key role, along with Balasubramoniyan, to get his son G K Vasan to succeed him. He, however, fell out with Vasan and joined the AIADMK. When he was made AIADMK’s north Chennai district secretary, it resulted in Sekar Babu moving to the DMK. But, minister D Jayakumar’s hold in the party was difficult to overcome and Vetrivel went with AMMK and Dhinakaran till his end. Dhinakaran said he was unable to come to terms with the fact that Vetrivel, who was his general “in this political battle against betrayers”, was no more. Stalin expressed shock. “When I was Chennai Mayor, Vetrivel as the leader of the opposition brought to my attention the problems and needs of the downtrodden and ensured a solution,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-legislator-ammk-leader-vetrivel-passes-away/articleshow/78690236.cms||D Govardan
October 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain forces evacuation of hundreds in Solapur district||KOLHAPUR: The incessant heavy rain in Solapur district led to the evacuation of hundreds of people from their houses to safer places on Thursday. The pilgrim town of Pandharpur, located around 70km from Solapur city, has been put on alert as the water levels of the Bhima river, popularly known as Chandrabhaga, was rising rapidly. Several parts of Solapur district were cut off with natural water bodies overflowing and roads getting submerged. Crops, livestock and property losses were reported from different places. Pandharpur town was the worst affected with the Chandrabhaga river having already crossed the danger mark. All temples on the river banks and adjacent properties have gone under water. Pandharpur sub-divisional officer Sachin Dhole said the river waters were likely to enter the town as discharge from the Ujani and Veer dams was set to be increased. He said around 1,000 people from 250 families have been shifted to safer places. Dhole said another 356 families from 46 villages situated on the banks of the river have been evacuated as a precautionary measure. Around 8,400 people have been taken to alternative places. The movement of traffic has been halted near Pandharpur. Two bridges on the Chandrabhaga, which connect Pandharpur to other parts of the district, have been closed. Officials said around 2.5 lakh cusecs water was being discharged from the Ujani dam and 25,000 cusecs from the Veer dam. District collectorate officials said 565 villages in Solapur district have been affected by the rains. These villages are mainly in tehsils like Pandharpur, Barshi, Sangola, Mangalwedha, Mohol and South Solapur. The authorities said a total 4,731 families comprising 16,954 people have been evacuated till Thursday evening. The administration has reports of 1,338 damaged houses and 350 animal deaths. Several families from the affected tehsils shifted to safer places on their own, without waiting for government assistance. Thursday night rains proved more damaging for the district as administration has estimated that 183 villages in the district getting affected. However, the number of affected villages rose up to 565 by Thursday evening. Officials said around 179 roads in the district are submerged under water. Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has suspended its services to other parts of Maharashtra as well as to neighbouring states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. (With inputs from Suryakant Asbe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-forces-evacuation-of-hundreds-in-solapur-district/articleshow/78686461.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Extensive crop loss due to Oct rain, panchanamas ordered||Aurangabad/Kolhapur: The state government issued fresh directives to all the revenue divisional commissioners on Wednesday to carry out panchanamas to assess the crop damage due to the incessant rain in October. As per instructions, all the farmlands with over 33% losses are to be put on record and categorised into A, B, C and D groups. Farmer activists have already started demanding that the state government declare a wet drought in the state and announce relief packages accordingly. As per state authorities, more than half of the 36 districts in the state have received over 100% rainfall this year when over 94% sowing had been carried out in over 1.4 crore hectare under kharif cultivation. Farmer activist Jayajirao Suryawanshi said several villagers employed as workers in the urban areas were compelled to return to their hometowns during the lockdown. “Farmers were expecting bumper crops given the considerable rainfall and the availability of adequate workforce. The incessant rain has ruined everything,” said Suryawanshi. Deepak Joshi, a progressive farmer from Paithan said, “Due to the unexpected downpour in the region, harvested soyaben kept in the farms was washed away this week before it could be transported to the markets.” Besides cotton and pulses, oilseeds, black gram and tur crops were also extensively sown in the state this year. Meanwhile, the situation down south in Kolhapur district, which has been ravaged by heavy rain for the past four days, is no better. As per reports, sugarcane crop cultivated in Shirol, Hatkanangale, Kagal, Gadhinglaj, Karveer, Ajara and Chandgad tehsils have incurred extensive damage. The cane cutting exercise has come to a halt in several places across the district with the fields getting submerged. Paddy, a major crop grown in Karveer, Ajara, Kagal, Chandga, Radhanagari and Bhudargad tehsils, has also been heavily damaged. Several farmers were about to start harvesting the crop. Heavy rain damaged the groundnut crop in Bhudargad, Hatkanangale, Chandgad, Shahuwadi and Panhala in Kolhapur district. Officials said that soyabean and vegetables grown in Shirol, Hatkanangale, Shahuwadi, Panhala and Kagal have also been badly affected. Agriculture operations in all the places across Kolhapur district have come to a standstill as farmers are unable to reach their farms which have turned into pools of stagnated water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/extensive-crop-loss-due-to-oct-rain-panchanamas-ordered/articleshow/78685572.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mangaluru||BJP into hate politics, creating rift between castes: DK DCC chief||Mangaluru: BJP has embarked on a new level of hate politics to create rift between castes, accused Dakshina Kannada district Congress Committee president and MLC K Harish Kumar. He told reporters here on Thursday that politicians should leave their caste and religion outside the purview of their political ideologies. “After entering politics, politicians should not show any kind of bias for a particular caste and religion. Yogi Adityanath has become the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and there is nothing wrong in saffron wearing seers entering politics. However, seers should not make saffron a cover for their misdeeds in politics. Democracy allows people to criticise Prime Minister, chief ministers and MLAs. Being a chief minister, Yogi Adityanath also should face all criticisms and react to it as a responsible people’s representative,” Harish Kumar said referring to the FIRs being filed by BJP workers against Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai for criticising Yogi Adityanath. “BJP has resorted to a hate politics by bringing in caste for their political mileage. There is no respect for lives of poor and Dalits — the body of a victim was burnt secretly. Congress has been raising voice against such hate politics that BJP follows. The Youth Congress leader Rai also has spoken against Yogi Adityanath. Both Rai and Adityanath are politicians. Rai has the right to criticise a chief minister. If one is not capable of accepting criticisms, then he/she is not fit to be a politician,” Kumar said. “Rai has been helping people, organising in ‘Gau Daan’ (donating cows) and ‘pili nalike’ (tiger dance) programmes to uphold the culture of our district and nation. BJP should learn Hindutva and social justice from Rai,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bjp-into-hate-politics-creating-rift-between-castes-dk-dcc-chief/articleshow/78687488.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Cop rapes woman at gunpoint for months, films act to blackmail her||BAREILLY: A police constable deputed at Patwai police station in UP’s Rampur has been booked for allegedly raping a woman at gunpoint for the past 5-6 months and blackmailing her to keep quiet. Speaking with TOI, Arun Kumar Singh, additional superintendent of police, Rampur, said, “An FIR has been registered against the accused constable at Patwai police station. An inquiry has been ordered in the case and on its basis, further legal action will be initiated against the constable.” The constable allegedly threatened the woman of framing her husband in a false case if she dared to tell anyone. He made videos of the sexual assault and warned he would circulate the clips online. Preliminary probe revealed that the constable knew the woman's husband, who owns a shop near his house. The policeman befriended the man and would often visit his house. He came to know about the household's routine and took advantage of it to exploit the woman. In her complaint, the survivor alleged that the constable would slip into the house at night on days when her husband was sleeping on the first floor while she slept in her room on the ground floor along with the children. He sexually assaulted her at gunpoint, filmed the act and blackmailed her into keeping quiet by threatening to upload the videos on social media. He allegedly exploited her for 5-6 months. Unable to endure any more, she finally broke her silence and told her husband. The couple then approached Rampur police to lodge a complaint. An FIR has been registered against the accused constable under IPC’s sections 376 (2) (whoever, being a police officer, commits rape), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cop-rapes-woman-at-gunpoint-for-months-films-act-to-blackmail-her/articleshow/78687489.cms||Maria Khan
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Teen suffers paralysis, doctors find Covid went undetected||NEW DELHI: Can Covid-19 cause sudden paralysis? This suspicion has been raised by doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) who recently came across a 19-year-old boy with sudden paralysis of all four limbs. The boy, a resident of west Delhi, didn’t have any history of chronic illness, but had a problem climbing the stairs one evening in the last week of August. By the next day, both his legs and hands were paralysed; he couldn’t walk even with support. The family rushed him to the SGRH emergency where detailed investigations revealed that the boy had developed Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), a rare condition in which a person’s immune system attacks the peripheral nerves. However, tests also showed that the boy had antibodies against Covid-19, meaning he was affected by the viral infection too. “We found antibodies against Covid-19 in the patient’s cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). It is possible that infection due to coronavirus triggered strong immune reactions leading to GBS,” said Dr Atul Gogia, senior consultant of internal medicine at SGRH. He added that the boy had no fever on admission but he couldn’t breathe. Therefore, he had to remain on a ventilator for a few weeks. “We administered immunotherapy and kept him on mechanical ventilation to save his life. Once the condition improved, physiotherapy was done regularly,” the doctor said. On Thursday, Dr Gogia added, the boy was discharged after spending nearly one and a half months in hospital. He can move his legs and lift his hands now. But there is no surety about how long it may take for the boy to be able to stand on his own. “Our hospital has seen more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases till date. Most of them have severe symptoms. But this kind of complication is rare,” said another doctor. The clinical characteristics of GBS are progressive weakness of the limbs and reduction in or loss of tendon reflexes. According to a study published in Neurological Sciences, GBS is usually caused by a viral or bacterial infection. “In response to the antigen, the immune system is activated and the nerve roots and peripheral nerves are injured because of the structural similarity of this antigen to axons and myelin. The symptoms peak within four weeks and the patients should be monitored because 20% to 30% of them will need mechanical ventilation,” the study states. As of August 2020, several case reports of GBS have been published across the world in connection with Covid-19, suggesting a link between the viral infection and this rare condition. “At the time of writing this paper, approximately 31 cases of GBS associated with Covid-19 infection have been reported,” Kaveh Rahimi, the author, has noted. Watch Delhi: Covid went undetected, teen suffers paralysis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-suffers-paralysis-docs-find-covid-went-undetected/articleshow/78688839.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Downpour floods zoo park, animals shifted to safer places||HYDERABAD: The Nehru Zoological Park which was among the worst affected places in the city due to the heavy rains remains closed for the second day in a row as the overflowing water from Mir Alam tank anicut continues to flood several areas of the park. “Water was also entering the animal enclosures from the overflowing moats that border the fencing inside the enclosures. In the primate area, monkeys were seen taking shelter on trees. Other animals have been shifted to the night shelters,” sources from the zoo said. “We have seen water from Mir Alam tank flooding the premises earlier, but it was never this severe. A 40-feet wall near the exit nala collapsed. The exit nala was built several years ago for draining the rainwater out of the zoo premises,” informed the sources. “We are going to reopen the zoo for visitors from Friday,” said N Kshitija, zoo curator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/downpour-floods-zoo-park-animals-shifted-to-safer-places/articleshow/78690214.cms||Moulika.KV
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops inspect pandals to chalk out blueprint||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police on Thursday began its last leg of preparations for Durga Puja this pandemic season with police commissioner Anuj Sharma inspecting some of the biggest pandals in central and south Kolkata to check if they were adhering to Covid-safety protocols laid out by the government. The police are also finalizing its strategy on crowd-prevention measures, both outside the pandals and at Metro stations and bus stops. “People must be aware that crowding anywhere is a health hazard, not just near or in a Puja pandal,” said a senior police officer. During the pandal inspection, police are primarily looking at three things: no crowding at the pandal entrance; adequate crowd monitoring using volunteers and technology and public address system to make key announcements. During the inspection, cops asked the Puja committees about their contingency measures. These inputs will be evaluated at the last pre-Puja centralized meeting at Lalbazar to Friday to chalk out a final blueprint on deployment from Sunday. Police are working on ways to prevent crowding at Rashbehari and Hatibagan where several big-draw Pujas are situated. “If there is an 8ft-10ft entrance, we will channel the crowd in two or three lanes. There will be thermal guns and not more than 25 people will be allowed into a pandal,” said a DCP. At Kumartuli, where dispatching of idols will begin on Friday, artisans have decided not to allow more than six members of a club into the studios. Two sanitizing channels have been installed at either end of Kumartuli. Kumartuli will deliver around 3,000 idols this year, down from 3,800-4,000 in other years. This year, most idols are smaller due to budgetary constraints. Also, since most of the idols are ekchala, fewer labourers will be required to transport them to the trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-inspect-pandals-to-chalk-out-blueprint/articleshow/78688829.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man attempts to save mobile phone gifted by daughter, killed||CHENNAI: A doting father, who refused to part with a mobile phone gifted to him by his daughter, was murdered by two bike-borne robbers at Periyapalayam on the city outskirts on Wednesday. Madhavan, a farmer and a resident of Kottaikuppam village near Periyapalayam in Tiruvallur district, was on his morning walk when he was attacked, police said. The 60-year-old man, who had undergone a heart surgery recently, used to walk on Kottaikuppam-Kattuvai road every morning. Police, quoting the victim’s wife, said Madhavan had received a new smart phone last week from his daughter, who is a doctor in the Czech Republic, after he complained about his old phone. According to eye-witness accounts, two men on a bike with helmets tried to snatch the mobile from Madhavan when he was talking on the phone. As Madhavan held on to it firmly, one of the assailants pulled out an iron rod and hit the elderly man repeatedly. The duo snatched the phone and fled from the spot. A grievously injured Madhavan attempted to walk back home about 300 metres away, but collapsed near his house on the road. Onlookers who rescued him alerted his wife and son who took him to a private hospital at Periyapalayam. Later, he was shifted to the MMM Hospital in Mogappair where doctors declared him brought dead. Doctors told police that Madhavan bled to death due to a lung injury. Tiruvallur superintendent of police P Aravindan and Uthukkottai DSP Sarathi visited to the spot. Special teams have been formed to apprehend the suspects with the help of CCTV camera footage. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-attempts-to-save-mobile-phone-gifted-by-daughter-killed/articleshow/78685577.cms||A Selvaraj
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI boosts tele-consultation to help non-Covid patients||TNNChandigarh: PGIMER’s tele-consultation, an initiative to serve the registered outdoor patients at the hospital that started on May 19, has added more dedicated lines and increased the registration timings from 8am-9.30am to 8am-10.30am from October 16.PGI director Prof Jagat Ram said, “In the pandemic, we had suspended OPDs, fearing transmission of the contagious virus. However, I am happy that our initiative of tele-consultation gained popularity over time and we took this step to broad-base the service to meet the consistently increasing demand and cater to the health needs of our non-Covid patients.”Asserting that tele-consultation will help the patients as well as PGIMER, he said, “Patients can avoid the hassle of commuting from far-off places and the institute will benefit greatly if more people use this service as it will reduce congestion in our OPDs.”Prof Ashok Kumar, additional medical superintendent and spokesperson of PGI, said, “More and more people are now using the service and the number of teleconsultation cards made per day increased from approximately 500 in the beginning to 1,600. To seek tele-consultation services, patients will have to call the dedicated telephone numbers of the respective OPD centres between 8am and 10.30am for registration. Patients will receive a call from the respective specialty and they will have to provide a working mobile number preferably with WhatsApp facility for ease of communication with doctors. However, emergency services and operation theatres will remain functional as usual.”The opening of physical OPD services will be announced separately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-boosts-tele-consultation-to-help-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78687484.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||9 new dengue cases; anti-larvae team at work||Lucknow: Nine dengue cases were reported in the city on Thursday taking the count to 215 since January and 108 since September 1 so far. The cases were from Indiranagar and Virat Khand in Gomtinagar. Health department teams also found larvae of Aedes aegypti mosquito—carrier of dengue virus—at four places after scanning 150 houses in Vineet Khand. In charge of the infectious diseases unit Dr KP Tripathi visited Vineet Khand along with an anti-larvae team and took stock of the situation. Notices have been served to owners of the houses to sanitize the premises within 24 hours. “Anti-larvae spray is being done at places from where dengue cases are being found. We have issued a circular to government hospitals instructing each to reserve 10 beds for dengue patients. Training is being given to health workers to spread awareness,” said Dr Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-new-dengue-cases-anti-larvae-team-at-work/articleshow/78690954.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Draining out water tough task for GHMC||HYDERABAD: With many houses still inundated with water after torrential rains, the question that is being asked is where will it be pumped out. Usually, the water would be removed into nalas or lakes, but these are full leaving residents in a tough spot. Speaking to TOI, EVDM director Vishwajit Kampati said, “Besides 20 disaster response force teams, we have commissioned 48 de-watering teams for this specific purpose.” On being asked where the water was being removed to, he responded saying, “Wherever possible like nalas and open areas. Basically, we are trying to give relief to citizens in any way possible first and quickly.” But in many cases residents are finding that the nalas and parks are already water-logged, leaving them without much hope. Ramakrishna Reddy, a resident of Manikonda, said: “We are using motors to pump some of the water, but most cellars here are inundated. In Netaji Colony, many houses were half submerged.” Kalpana Ramesh, founder, Rainwater Project, said she was getting similar requests for advice of what to do with accumulated water. “This is not a problem that one can tackle once the rains are here, it requires planning beforehand,” she said. The rainwater harvesting expert, who has led ‘Blue Hyderabad Campaign, recommended creation of many injection bores to recharge the deeper acquifiers and modular rainwater harvesting mechanisms — even at flyovers where massive run-off is seen. Urban planner Srikanth Peddibhotla said, “Cities rainwater management should be done in scientific manner and be designed and built for say twice the maximum recorded rainfall in the last couple of decades.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/draining-out-water-tough-task-for-ghmc/articleshow/78690235.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Doctor injured after car turns turtle||KOLKATA: A young doctor, attached with a private hospital in Jadavpur, received head injuries, while his friend fractured his left hand after the car he was driving turned turtle on hitting a guard rail at a Metro project site on EM Bypass. The incident was reported around 1.15am on Thursday close to Avishikta crossing opposite the Ruby-bound flank. Police said that it was sheer luck that only one of the four passengers in the car received serious injuries, given that the vehicle smashed into another one, which also had five people in it. The doctor, Bishal Sen (26), who received 10 stitches, was admitted to the ICU at KPC Hospital. His friend, Abhra Goswami (26) from Nabadwip, has a fractured left hand. The two other occupants — Subbhrangsh Pal (26) and Shorjya Mukhopadhyay (27)—escaped with no injury. According to police, the doctor’s sedan was speeding from Ruby crossing towards Avishikta. “When it reached near the Metro station work site, (near Metro pillar no PPL116), it rammed into the guard fencing of the Metro project and literally stayed airborne for a fraction of a second before overturning and hitting a Baleno,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doc-injured-after-car-turns-turtle/articleshow/78690956.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata chants pray-safe mantra this Puja||KOLKATA: A day after the Puja organizers at Santosh Mitra Square responded to doctors’ concerns over a spike in Covid infection during the Pujas by deciding not to allow visitors into the ground, at least two other big-draw Pujas have now decided to follow suit. Jodhpur Park and Behala’s Debdaru Fatak Sarbojanin Durgotsav have barred entry of visitors for this year. While the latter decided to take the radical step on Thursday after learning about Santosh Mitra Square’s decision, the organizers at Jodhpur Park had taken the call earlier and did not make provisions for entrance or exit gates in the pandal. “We had decided in the very beginning that entry of visitors into a confined space will be a problem. Though the pandal is open on all sides, we don’t want to take any chance. Only the priest and his assistant will be able to enter the pandal via the club house,” said organizing committee general secretary Sumanta Ray. Debdaru Phatak, which was one of the earliest pujas in Behala to introduce the concept of theme Puja 22 years ago, has decided to stop entry of visitors to minimize the risk of infection spread on its premises. “This is the year of the pandemic. Let the festivities be reserved for the next year,” Puja committee president Shaktipada Mondal said. Several other crowd-pullers are taking various Covid-safety measures this year. Maniktala Chaltabagan Lohapatti Durga Puja committee has decided to do away with two marquee events — dhak competition and sindoor khela — in which celebrities participate every year. “We have decided to scrap both the high-profile events, keeping in mind the restrictions,” said organizing committee chairman Sandeep Bhutoria. Tridhara Akalbodhan at Manoharpukur Road, one of the biggest crowd-pullers in south Kolkata, has also decided not to host an elaborate sindoor khela. “Only the senior-most woman in the neighbourhood will be given the honour to smear the vermilion on the Goddess. Those who wish to participate in anjali or sandhi puja can do so online,” said Gargi Mukhopadhyay, the media coordinator for the Puja committee. The medical fraternity has hailed the decisions. Some doctors personally visited Santosh Mitra Square to congratulate the committee members for its bold decision. “They have taken an exemplary decision voluntarily. They realize that they need to protect people at large, their local people and themselves from the virus by preventing crowd gathering. They deserve all the appreciation,” said caridiac surgeon Kunal Ghosh who dropped in at the puja. Other doctors who called on the Puja committee includes community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandyopadhyay and public health specialist Dwaipayan Mazumdar. Sajal Ghosh, general secretary of Santosh Mitra Durga Puja committee, said the members were enthused by the doctors’ visit and overwhelmed by the support from various quarters. But he was disappointed with the decision of some companies to withdraw ads as there would be no crowds. “We appeal to corporates not to desert us. We took such a step in larger interest. I hope the corporates understand this and stand by us like the medical fraternity,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-clubs-go-santosh-mitra-sq-way-to-avoid-crowding-doctors-hail-decision/articleshow/78688836.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad deluge: Low-lying areas still under water, locals cry for help||HYDERABAD: Several areas in the city remained inundated on Thursday too. Flooded cellars, tangled wires and water-logged by-lanes were a common sight. Citizens stuck in high-rises located in inundated areas sought help whenever they saw a boat or officials and politicians. Nadeem Colony, Ahmed Colony and Virasat Nagar, Anand Nagar and Prem Nagar in Moosarambagh, Shyamlal Building (Begumpet), Indira Nagar (Ramanthapur), P&T Colony and Kodandaram Nagar in LB Nagar and Ganganpahad were the worst-hit areas. Citizens who have been moved to relief camps were yet to return to their homes. Rescue operations were still underway till Thursday evening. “Since yesterday, we did not receive any food. Boats ignored people whose houses were in the middle of an inundated stretch, only those at either ends were rescued,” Rafiuddin Khan from Nadeem Colony said. As a wall of the Old Airport at Begumpet got damaged, water gushed into Shyamlal Building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/low-lying-areas-still-under-water-locals-cry-for-help/articleshow/78690228.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Kids below 6 barred from Dasara celebrations in M’luru||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru Dasara getting under way at Kudroli Gokarnanatha Kshetra from Saturday will be off-limits for children below six. With the temple management committee already prepared for low-key celebrations, given the pandemic, the Dasara celebrations will get off to a traditional start with the installation of idols of Goddess Sharada, Lord Ganapathi and the Navadurgas on Saturday, said Padmaraj R, treasurer of the committee. The celebrations will be performed keeping in mind—‘Namma Dasara, Namma Surakshe’. “The festival will be a success if all concerned take care of their personal safety,” Padmaraj said. “We do not want to compromise either on traditions associated with the festival or with the well-being of devotees coming to the kshetra,” he said. This makes it all the more important for the devotees to follow all guidelines laid down for their welfare, he said. The guidelines mandate every devotee coming to the temple to wear masks, without which they will not be allowed inside. Every devotee will undergo thermal scanning at the entrance, and those with fever and suffering from cold will not be allowed inside. Social distancing will be the norm inside the temple, and in the hall where the idols will be set up. Devotees coming in groups are not allowed. Selfies inside the temple and the hall are completely banned, he said. Able-bodied senior citizens will be given priority and honour due to them in participating in the festival rituals. Devotees need to maintain social distancing at the stalls and parking lot. Devotees should desist from touching the idols of Navadurgas and other deities. Senior citizens and those with age-related or physical infirmities should skip the festival, and be a part of the celebration in spirit, by viewing the live telecast of the same, he said. Prasad will be distributed at the glass house on the temple premises. ‘Anna prasad’ will be served on arecanut plates after afternoon mahapooja from 2.30pm. Devotees should discard the used plates in dustbins. All cultural programmes will be relayed live on local cable TV, Padmaraj said, while exhorting the devotees to follow every single instruction that the team of volunteers gives to them, in the interest of society, and to combat the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kids-below-6-barred-from-dasara-celebrations-in-mluru/articleshow/78687507.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Schools reopen fully for class IX-XII from November 2||CHANDIGARH: Even as the UT education department is yet to take a decision on reopening schools for classes I to VIII after many parents rejected such a move, students of classes IX to XII will have to attend regular classes from November 2. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has approved a proposal of the education department, sources said. Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We will be opening schools for classes IX to XII from November 2. We will be issuing orders in this regard by Friday.” Brar said attendance will not be mandatory and students will have to carry parents’ consent, as mandated by the ministry of home affairs in the guidelines. When asked if the entire strength of classes IX to XII will come, Brar said, “It seems likely. But we need not call all students. There are only four classes in two shifts.” Teachers are worried as their work will increase if they have to teach half students in classes the others online. Going by the attendance of students since September 21, teachers are not sure if all students will turn up in case attendance is not mandatory. “We don’t know what the department is planning. It will be so difficult to manage live classes and then online classes,” said a teacher Teachers are also confused to how they will maintain social distancing with all the students. A principal said, “I think there will slots for two hours or so to accommodate all. May be two shifts or three.” Sources said schools will be asked to make arrangements as per details in the standard operating procedure of the ministry of education. As many as 1,800 to 2,000 students of classes IX to XII have been attending school for two sessions of two hours each so far. The education department had first reopened government schools for classes IX to XII on September 21 following the ministry of home affairs guidelines. It was only after 50% of the parents had given consent, the schools were reopened with full precautions, like sanitisation at the gate and circles marked for social distancing. However, for reopening classes I to VIII, only around 25 to 30% parents have given consent in government schools. In private schools, the number was even lesser. Online classes will continue for these students. As per the Unlock 5.0 guidelines issued for reopening of schools and higher institutes, the states and UTs were told that they could take a decision on reopening after October 15 in a graded manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-reopen-fully-for-class-ix-xii-from-nov-2/articleshow/78687536.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Coming soon: Panchkula cinema hall owners say can’t run biz on reruns||PANCHKULA: Absence of new releases and wariness have prevented owners from lifting the curtains from their cinema halls and multiplexes here on Thursday, preferring to be in a wait-and-watch mode till November. Two multiplexes and two single screen theatres are in the city. A multiplex has three screens with a capacity of 610 seats. In Pinjore’s Amaravati Enclave NH-22 mall multiplex, there are three screens with a capacity of 750 seats. Kulbhushan Goyal, owner of the NH-22 mall multiplex, said audience might wait for 10-15 days before going to theatres but that too is not certain. He said he is not ready to open and is observing the situation. Roop Raj, the owner of a single screen theatre which has a capacity of 1,000 seats, said “No new picture is releasing this month. People will not come to see old movies. Reopening will be expensive for me without viewers. I will not be able to meet the expenses and cannot run in losses.” The city’s prominent Raj Hans multiplex management said they are finalising the markings for social distancing in the hall and are waiting for its head office’s decision. It may take a week or longer for them to open their screens. The management of Suraj Theatre, Sector 1, which has a capacity of 1,200 seats, said that they faced huge losses during the coronavirus lockdown. “We are maintaining the theatre by cleaning it twice a week but are not planning to reopen it. Our staff have been shifted to a utensils factory run by the theatre owner for the time being.” Around Diwali, a bevy of movies are lined up for release that could draw the audiences and prompt city theatres to resume the show, but till then they are unlikely to take any chances. Now shows in Mohali too The reopening of multiplexes and cinema halls has been deferred in Mohali till the orders of the state government. The owners of the multiplexes, cinema halls have demanded that they be exempted from property as they have not been operating since March following the coronavirus lockdown. In Mohali city, there is one multiplex and one cinema hall. Zirakpur has three multiplexes. However, the biggest multiplex near Kharar falling under Balongi is exempted of property tax as it falls outside council limits in rural area. Sources in the municipal corporation and municipal council said all these multiplexes owe Rs 3 crore property tax to the two civic bodies. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Civic body needs property tax to be deposited as it is one of the major sources of revenue for the MC. But the final decision lies with the state government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-theatres-stay-shut-say-biz-cant-run-on-reruns/articleshow/78687538.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 16, 2020||Pune||No uptick in registration of vehicles ahead of festivals||Pune: The regional transport offices in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have still not seen a spike in vehicle registration with the festive season knocking on th doors. “If one compares the vehicle registration between April and September this year with the same period last year, the drop is close to 70%. Registration of new vehicles generally start a month before Dasara, but we have not seen such a trend with the festival a few days away. While around 77,000 two-wheelers were registered with the Pune RTO between April and September last year, this time the figure is around 22,000. Though we are hopeful that the numbers will rise in October and November, we find the excitement missing,” an official with the Pune RTO told TOI. Sources in the RTO said that new vehicle registration started around middle of May after March this year and work towards clearing backlog began at RTO offices in April. “Altogether 21,300 cars were registered with the Pune RTO between April and September last year, while 10,444 four-wheelers were registered during the same period this year. Similar is the situation at the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO office with registration of two and four-wheelers having dropped by more than 50% this year as compared to the same period (April to September) the previous year,” another RTO official said. He added, “Till October 13 this year, 3,940 vehicles were registered in Pune and 2,709 vehicles in PCMC. With just a few days to go for Durga puja and Dasara, a major spike is unlikely,” . However, the authorities said that an improvement could be seen when it came to some individual segments. “If one talks about month-to-month figures, some segments like registration of transport vehicles and even autorickshaws witnessed an improvement in the past few months. But here we are talking about the overall figures. The overall projection of ours is that we will not see a major increase in the registration in the coming months, too. It appears that people want to save money rather than splurge on cars and motorcycles,” the official said. The Covid-19 and resultant lockdowns had proved to be a huge jolt to various industries, including the automobile sector. The sales have, however, picked up since the unlocking of the economy began in June. But they are yet to reach the pre-Covid levels. “Joblosses and uncertainty are playing on the minds of people. Having said that, the rebound has been noteworthy,” an expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-uptick-in-registration-of-vehicles-ahead-of-festivals/articleshow/78683160.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||LMC cancels allotment of bungalow to Azam’s sister||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation on Thursday cancelled allotment of the bungalow granted to Nikhat Aflaq, the sister of SP MP Azam Khan, at posh River Bank Colony. The civic body also served a notice on her to vacant the premises within 15 days. Confirming that Aflaq’s allotment had been cancelled, municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said “The notice also makes it clear that if she doesn't comply with the directions, the bungalow will be vacated with the help of police.” The bungalow was built in a 6000 sq ft area and allotted to Aflaq in March 2007 on a rent of Rs 1,000 per month when Mulayam Singh Yadav was the chief minister. Earlier, the LMC had issued a notice to Aflaq on August 29 after a probe found that she lives in Rampur and had not visited the house for the past 10 years. The probe was done on the directions of the state government following a complaint. In the show-cause notice, the LMC had given Aflaq, a retired government teacher, seven days to put her defence. In her reply, Aflaq, who is also a member of the Maulana Mohammad Ali Jauhar Trust, said that she resides in Lucknow and has currently come to Rampur to look after an ailing relative. She also said that she has been paying the rent regularly. However, Dwivedi said that she has not provided any evidence showing that she continues to live in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-cancels-allotment-of-bungalow-to-azams-sister/articleshow/78690960.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents: Divert water from Gurram Cheruvu||Hyderabad: Hafiz Baba Nagar area of Old City remained tense on Thursday after people gathered on the main road and demanded immediate diversion of water from Gurram Cheruvu. Locals blocked the main road and raised slogans asking authorities to ensure release of water from the nearby lake after their houses were inundated. Police erected barricades in the area to stop the public from moving onto the main road. The incessant rains have shaken the public as many casualties are being reported in surrounding areas, including people being washed away in rain waters. Civic authorities along with the support of locals have erected bags filled with cement and sand around residential areas. “The news of dismantling Gurram Cheruvu in Balapur is totally false, though it’s over flowing the concerned engineers are reviewing the situation,” said Mahesh Bhagwat Police Commissioner Rachakonda. Police erected barricades in the area to stop public from moving onto the main road. The incessant rains have shaken the public as many casualties are being reported in surrounding areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-divert-water-from-gurram-cheruvu/articleshow/78690244.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Vegetable prices shoot up||Hyderabad: While their prices had already seen an upward revision, owing to excess rains, the recent heavy showers further increased the cost of vegetables with the rates of many almost doubling overnight. At Chikadpally market located near Sundarayya Vignana Kendram, a customer said: “Many slums are inundated. At such a time, vegetable price hike will work as an additional burden on them.”  “Prices are being monitored,” said H Padma, secretary of Bowenpally market. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vegetable-prices-shoot-up/articleshow/78690238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wrongly failed, student wins one battle||NEW DELHI: Thursday brought a closure of sorts for Arjun Choudhary. For three years, he had been fighting for redemption after failing to clear his Class X exams for no fault of his. The cheque for Rs 1 lakh that he held in his hands validated his claim that the laxity of his teachers and education department officials had led to his failure. “I couldn’t appear for three subjects in my Class X exams because of typhoid. But I sat for the re-examination and was surprised to find when the CBSE results were announced that I had failed in three subjects: English, science and Sanskrit,” Choudhary told TOI. “I did not believe I had failed, so I filed complaints. Later, I approached even the cops. However, when nothing happened, I wrote to DCPCR about my suicidal feelings.” In its report on October 20, 2018, TOI had reported how Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) had found the education officials and teachers guilty of not having uploaded Choudhary’s internal marks and ordered the compensation. But the principal and two teachers of Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School in northwest Delhi had contested the panel’s findings in Delhi High Court. The lapses came to light when Choudhary went to get his school-leaving certificate to pursue a correspondence course. The new principal enquired about his marks from CBSE, which informed him that the student’s internal marks had never been submitted by the school. School management committee member Vikas Saini counselled the young boy and helped him file complaints. CBSE also treated it as a special case and, on the Delhi education department’s request, added the missing marks to his result. Choudhary is currently studying political science (H) from Indira Gandhi National Open University, while simultaneously undertaking an English-speaking course and computer training. He had scored 80% in his Class XII board exams. A good student, Choudhary lost eight months and was only admitted to Class XI in November 2017. One of his teachers said, “Arjun was a brilliant student and had A grades in the 13 co-scholastic areas. It was only when the new principal came and realised he was a good student that he enquired from CBSE and the truth emerged. The DCPCR inquiry indicted three teachers, but two others actually escaped punishment.” One of the indicted teachers explained why they had approached the high court. “The orders were based on a preliminary inquiry. Moreover, DCPCR also ordered an FIR against us, so we wanted a court stay on it.” Choudhary, relieved that his trauma has finally ended, wants to spend the compensation money on his education. “I will use this money to take coaching classes for the Staff Selection Commission exams and hope to qualify for a government job,” said the unassuming boy. “I come from a poor family. My father sells spices and mother is a tailor. I will need to find employment as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wrongly-failed-student-wins-one-battle/articleshow/78688922.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 16, 2020||Chennai||BJP national general secretary to see if TN unit is poll-ready||CHENNAI: BJP national general secretary C T Ravi arrived in Chennai on Thursday for a two-day programme to take stock of the party’s preparedness for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Ravi, who will hold discussions with the BJP’s state leaders, is likely to replace Muralidhar Rao as Tamil Nadu in-charge, said a source. Ravi had assisted Union minister Piyush Goyal during seat-sharing talks with the AIADMK in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He is scheduled to visit Puducherry and hold discussions with the party unit on Friday. On his return, he will meet senior leaders to assess the party’s election preparedness and other key issues on Friday evening, said party sources. Toeing PM Narendra Modi’s line in praising saint-poet Thiruvalluvar, Ravi on landing at the Chennai airport immediately tweeted: “I bow down to saints, poets, philosophers, and leaders who built the land of Thiruvalluvar. Let us pledge to work for the welfare of Tamil Makkal.” He tweeted in Tamil/English heaping praise on Tamil culture. He paid tribute to the portrait of A P J Abdul Kalam at the party’s headquarters Kamalalayam to mark the former President’s birth anniversary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-natl-general-secy-to-see-if-tn-unit-is-poll-ready/articleshow/78690248.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Register all construction workers: Delhi deputy CM||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will register 10 lakh construction workers and verify their credentials to make them eligible for various welfare schemes meant to improve their living conditions. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who has been allocated portfolios of labour and employment in a minor cabinet reshuffle, held a review meeting immediately after taking charge on Thursday and directed officials to remove all bottlenecks. Construction workers are nation builders and it is the government’s responsibility to serve them better, Sisodia said. “I do not want even a single construction worker to be left out,” he said, adding that a large-scale campaign would be organised to reach out to all. Delhi attracts thousands of construction workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and other nearby states, most of whom live in terrible conditions in different parts of the city. Delhi government has various schemes under Building and Other Constructions Workers (regulation of employment and conditions of service) Act. The workers have to get themselves registered with Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board to be eligible for these benefits. Currently, the board has 52,000 live members while 66,000 are awaiting verification. Sisodia said it would be his priority to immediately complete their verification. In August, the government had launched Niraman Mazdoor Registration Abhiyan in the 72 assembly constituencies to register construction workers. The capital has among the highest minimum wages in the country, but construction workers do not get round-the-year employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-register-all-construction-workers/articleshow/78688924.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Lucknow||Bike taxi to get you home from Metro station||Lucknow: To attract more commuters to Lucknow Metro, especially the ones who don’t have direct or quick connectivity with a station, the corporation has tied up with bike taxi service Rapido for providing last-mile connectivity. The service will start on Friday. The app-based service provider operates in 90 cities including 15 of UP. Metro commuters can book a Rapido bike after they de-board at any station. As per collaboration terms between Lucknow Metro and Rapido, the passenger will get 40% discount for a bike ride if their GoSmart card is registered on the Lucknow Metro app. For a limited period though, a discount of 30% will be given for rides to all Metro commuters. Further, commuters will also get 30% cashback for all Rapido payments through digital wallets. The starting fare for the bike ride is Rs 19. It can go up to Rs 129. Passengers can avail 50% discount on as many as 30 rides per month. According to LMRC, “All Rapido bike drivers are registered and verified for passenger safety.” Rapido comprises a fleet of 1,000 bike drivers of which 400 will be available at all times. “At every Metro station, 15-20 bike taxis will be available within 4 minutes of waiting time for arriving passengers,” said LMRC in a written reply to TOI queries. “This is a unique initiative which will not only improve last mile connectivity but also boost our ridership figures in the long run. Rapido bikes are economical and and provide connectivity till your doorstep after you de-board at any Metro station,” said UPMRC managing director Kumar Keshav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bike-taxi-to-get-you-home-from-metro-station/articleshow/78690964.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Pune||Prognostic test helps select breast cancer patients avoid chemotherapy||Pune: An advanced prognostic test is helping select breast cancer patients avoid chemotherapy, especially at a time when the scare of Covid-19 has confined many high-risk individuals to their homes. It helped doctors a great deal in the case of Prabhakar, in his 60s, who was diagnosed with a malignant tumour (breast cancer) at an early stage. “After surgically removing the breast lump, we did a risk assessment by using the advanced CanAssistBreast prognostic test. We found that Prabhakar was in a low-risk category and could avoid chemotherapy. We have put him on hormonal therapy and he is responding well,” said Ruby Hall Clinic’s oncosurgeon Amol Dumbre-Patil said.In India, the majority of early-stage breast cancer patients get treated with chemotherapy. Most of them have to bear the side-effects of the treatment in addition to the monetary drain. Breast cancer, medical experts said, is no longer a one-size-fits-all disease. Decades of research has shown that breast cancer has clearly distinguishable subtypes that need to be treated differently, they said.The prognostic test is used to predict a patient’s likelihood of developing a disease. “In the case of prognostic tests for early-stage breast cancer, the test predicts the patient’s likelihood of developing metastasis (spread of cancer cells). If the risk is very low, the patient does not need to be given chemotherapy as this would amount to overtreatment,” Dumbre-Patil said.The test is performed in the nationally accredited central laboratory-based in Bangalore. Once the patient knows they have breast cancer, they undergo a biopsy and then surgery to remove the tumour. The tumour is then fixed in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) or wax blocks. The patient’s FFPE goes for testing, which helps the oncologist decide on the course of treatment.“The same FFPE blocks, if required, can be used for prognostic testing. The patient does not have to undergo any additional procedure for the test,” said Manjiri Bakre, founder and CEO, OncoStem Diagnostics. OncoStem Diagnostics is the company that developed and launched the test in India in November 2016.The indigenous diagnostic tool has significantly brought down the cost as imported tests are beyond reach for many in India. Confirming it, Pune-based oncosurgeon Pranjali Gadgil said, “I have been using internationally available tests in this space. These imported tests, however, are cost-prohibitive.”Close to 1,000 patients across India have benefited from the test so far. Many patients have also received reimbursement from their health insurance companies for the test, thereby, increasing the access. “As with all other prognostic tests, it has to be prescribed by an oncologist and the results have to be interpreted by the oncologist,” Bakre said.The experts said the test produces a risk score ranging from 0-100. “If the patient has a score of 15.5 or less, s/he falls into low-risk. And if his/her score is 15.6 upwards, the individual falls in high-risk category,” a medical expert said, adding that the report with risk score is issued within 10 working days.Clinical studies involving close to 2,000 patients have found the test reliable. The data is on par with what Western tests have demonstrated in their clinical trials and these studies have been published in various international peer-reviewed journals, the experts said. They also said that it was based on immunohistochemistry, whcih is a method for detecting antigens or proteins in cells of a tissue section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prognostic-test-helps-select-breast-cancer-patients-avoid-chemotherapy/articleshow/78683188.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 16, 2020||Agra||BJP functionaries ‘abduct’ SDO for acting against power theft||Agra: BJP’s former Agra district general secretary Satyadev Dubey and three others allegedly abducted a sub-divisional officer of the electricity department for registering an FIR against party workers in connection with power theft. The abduction took place on September 14 while he was on an inspection. He was rescued from a house at Nagla Teja under Sainya police station within two hours. Though an FIR was registered in this regard on September 16, till date, no action has been taken against the abductors. Officials at the department said the accused continue to visit their offices and interfere in official work.According to the FIR, a copy of which is available with TOI, Rahul Kumar, Agra district’s Baad sub-divisional officer of Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL) was forcefully taken to Nagla Teja village in an SUV. A junior engineer who was with the SDO informed the higher authorities of the discom and registered a complaint on the police helpline number 112. SDO Kumar confirmed that he was abducted by Satyadev Dubey and three others. "They misbehaved with me for acting in cases of power theft related to the village. I have filed a complaint at the Sadar police station for taking action against the people involved in abducting a government employee on duty.” DVVNL chief engineer (Agra Zone) AK Chaudhary said, “Senior police officers were alerted about the entire incident. Police have registered a case and we hope they will take appropriate action." Dubey, on his part, termed the allegations “an attempt to cover up malpractices". He alleged, “The SDO had been extorting money from villagers by threatening to get them booked in cases of power theft. I had made a complaint with the senior officials of the discom.” Station house officer (Sadar) Jitendra Kumar said, "An FIR was registered against Dubey, Deepak Rawat, Ashish Parasar and one unidentified person. The case was registered under IPC section 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). The matter is under investigation.” Senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar said, “I will check the progress of the investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-functionaries-abduct-sdo-for-acting-against-power-theft/articleshow/78687557.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid death toll crosses 200 in city||Chandigarh: The city registered two Covid-19 death on Thursday, increasing the toll to 201. The victims were a 43-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher and a 66-year-old man from Sector 47. As many as 83 people tested positive, increasing the count to 13,477, with 1,044 active cases. As many as 113 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 12,232.In Panchkula, a 59-year-old man from Sector 15 died of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the toll to 105. The district reported 28 new cases, increasing the tally to 6,712, with 321 active cases.2 die, 59 +ve, 66 recover in MohaliMohali: Covid-19 claimed two lives and left 59 infected in Mohali on Thursday. The day also saw 66 patients recovering from the disease.The fatality figure has climbed to 211 and the case count to 11,618, including 860 active cases.So far, 10,547 patients have defeated the virus.Man succumbs, 28 contract virus in PklPanchkula: A man died of Covid-19 and 28 tested positive in Panchkula on Thursday.The district case count has increased to 6,712, including 321 active cases, and the toll tally to105.Chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the 59-year-old resident of Sector 15, who succumbed to the virus, had comorbidities.1 dies, 18 new cases in AmbalaAmbala: In Ambala, one patient died of Covid-19 on Thursday, increasing the toll to 107. “The victim was a 38-year-old woman of Topkhana, Ambala Cantt. She was a patient of diabetes and kept on oxygen support,” said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. Ambala reported 18 fresh cases, increasing the tally to 8,623 with 262 active cases. As many as six cases were from Ambala city, four each from Ambala Cantt and Naraingarh, two from Barara and one each from Chourmastpur and Shahzadpur, said Dr Singh. As many as 30 patients were discharged on the day, taking the recovery count to 8,254.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-death-toll-crosses-200-in-city/articleshow/78687548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Mangaluru||MU to strengthen RCPC by making patents an integral part of research||Mangaluru: Mangalore University will upgrade its research consultancy promotion cell (RCPC) by incorporating patents as an integral part of research undertaken. The Research Development Consultancy and Patent Cell so recast will have seven distinct verticals that will spur research activities, publication, file for patents and intellectual property rights, and strive for external funding. Chairing the maiden Innovation Day organised to mark the birth anniversary of former President APJ Abdul Kalam organised by RCPC of the university, vice-chancellor P S Yadapadithaya said the new cell will also spur teaching faculty to take up consultancy work for industries under a 50:50 revenue sharing model with the university. Office of research integrity will also be set up as mandated by the University Grants Commission to ensure ethical and original research, he said. The varsity will create an ambience that is conducive to research, the VC said. The norms that university uses for conferring the best teacher award on its foundation day too will be strengthened. The best researcher and best employee among non-teaching staff too will be recognised as part of this concerted effort to spur research, Yadapadithaya said. Delivering the key-note address, Karunakar A Kotegar, syndicate member of the university said the thrust of research should be to apply knowledge gained into a tangible end product and not be limited to an academic exercise. While India as a nation has climbed four places in the Global Innovation Index to 44th place, it is ranked third in terms of research articles. The aim should be to top the GII that is currently held by Switzerland, he said. Mohammad Nazeer, managing director, Mangaluru Smart City Ltd, chief guest, who released the university’s training manual said the SPV will finish around 90% of smart city projects by 2022. The SPV is laying emphasis on use of information communication technology tools to make the lives of people of the city better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mu-to-strengthen-rcpc-by-making-patents-an-integral-part-of-research/articleshow/78687546.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Mangaluru||No. of patients recovering higher than fresh cases in DK in October||Mangaluru: The silver lining in the dark Covid-19 cloud has been growing wider in Dakshina Kannada in the past fortnight with the number of patients recovering from the infection outstripping that of the fresh cases being reported in the coastal district. Between October 1 and 14, the district reported 4,492 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 6,122 patients recovered from the infection in the same period giving much cause for the district administration to heave a sigh of relief. However, the health department in the district is staying as vigilant as ever in view of the upcoming festive season, which they fear might trigger a fresh wave of infections. In all, as many as 2,09,218 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada as on October 14, of which 27,438 – 13% – have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. While 22,923 patients, that is roughly 84%, have recovered from the infection, 617 people – 2.2% – have succumbed to it in Dakshina Kannada, leaving the number of active cases at 4,200. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases being recorded since October 1, when the district reported 493 cases, has been on a downward slide since, barring October 7 and 9. However, Dakshina Kannada district health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy does not want to celebrate prematurely. “The number of fresh Covid-19 cases being reported in October has slid to 300, on average, while the number of people recovering from the infection is much higher. But we cannot conclusively say that this is a downward trend. The festival season that begins next week will last till Deepavali. It is next to impossible to curtail movement of public in the next few weeks, and the number of cases may well surge again,” Dr Bairy told TOI. Dakshina Kannada is one of the few districts that is surpassing its daily target as far as conducting tests is concerned. While the coastal district has been set a target of conducting 3,700 tests daily, the actual number is around 4,500. “We have registered a slight decline in the fatality rate in the past few months. We have been treating patients from Uttara Kannada, Kasaragod, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Kodagu, Hassan and Udupi districts. We will continue to provide treatment to all of them,” Dr Bairy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-of-patients-recovering-higher-than-fresh-cases-in-dk-in-october/articleshow/78687583.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||142 new nCoV cases across Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The district on Wednesday reported as many as 142 Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active patients to 2,353. According to a health official, three deaths were also reported in Aurangabad city on Wednesday — one at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and two at private hospitals. “With addition of new cases, the case tally has gone up to 35,776 while the deat toll has increased to 1,008. Till date 32,415 people have recovered from the contagion,” he said. “We are also continuing with the antigen tests through mobile swab collection vans. Out of the 142 cases reported on Wednesday, 80 were detected through antigen tests. The patients have been referred to Covid care centres across the district,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/142-new-ncov-cases-across-aurangabad/articleshow/78685628.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Agra||Divisional commissioner and his son test Covid +ve in Agra||AGRA: Divisional commissioner of Agra and his son have been tested Covid-19 positive. Earlier, in the last week of August, the senior official had lost his father and mother to Covid-19. So far, 10 personnel and office staffers of the divisional commissioner have tested Covid-19 positive. According to the district magistrate Prabhu N Singh, the divisional commissioner and his son are in home isolation. Their health is being monitored by doctors. Moreover, at least 53 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 6,579. Besides, a 70-year-old man died during treatment at the SN Medical College. The resident of Tajganj locality was suffering from bilateral pneumonia and severe acute respiratory infection. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 135 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 27 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 6,526 cases reported in the district, 89.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases reduced from 530 on Wednesday, to 525 on Thursday. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,919 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/div-comm-and-his-son-test-covid-ve-in-agra/articleshow/78687584.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal government to rank pujas on Covid-safety scale this year||KOLKATA: The state government has come up with a new category – Best Covid-awareness puja — in its Sharad Samman contest for organizers apart from the usual categories like best idol, best pandal, best theme, best innovation, best environment-friendly puja, best lighting, best drummer and best branding of Biswa Bangla. “The Covid safety and awareness issues will be specially evaluated,” said a senior government official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already asked Puja organizers to keep sanitizers and masks at the gates and enforce social distancing inside as well as outside pandals. A few other government agencies who organize Puja contest every year are also giving stress on Covid-safety measures in pandals. The West Bengal Pollution Control Board, under the environment department, is also holding a Covid-free green Puja contest this time where evaluation will be based on how much the organizers are maintaining the Covid protocols, apart from sticking to safe-environment practices. Puja organizers can apply through the Green Puja Contest app that can be downloaded. In New Town, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) this time has done away with all other categories and pujas will be judged only on one parameter — Best Covid-Safe Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-govt-to-rank-pujas-on-cov-safety-scale-this-year/articleshow/78690974.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lawyers hit out at ‘baseless’ charge against top judge||NEW DELHI: Influential bar associations of Delhi have strongly condemned the attempt to “overawe the judiciary” and hit out at the statements made by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy against a senior Supreme Court judge. The Delhi high court bar association (DHCBA), in a resolution, said the “ill founded” October 6 letter written by Reddy to the Chief Justice of India unfairly and without reason casts aspersions on the alleged conduct of an apex court judge and other judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and is an “abject, uncalled for interference in the due administration of justice by the high court judges.” Coming out in support of justice N V Ramana, a former Chief Justice of Delhi high court, the bar body said, “The writing of the said letter and its circulation in public domain is clearly a dishonest attempt at overawing the independence of judiciary and tantamounts to contempt”, and needs to be condemned “unequivocally, categorically and in the strongest possible terms.” It condemned the “blatant attempt to shake the confidence of the public at large in the judicial institution, which has been performing its duty of due administration of justice assigned to it by the Constitution of India.” In a similar vein, the Delhi Bar Association (DBA) Thursday also condemned the allegations against justice Ramana that he has been influencing the sittings of Andhra Pradesh High Court. DBA, the parent Bar of all the district courts in the capital, said Reddy has circulated a “baseless and ill-founded” letter, which “has been issued with a view to cause interference in the administration of justice.” The oldest bar association of Delhi, based in Tis Hazari District Courts, further said that it has been a long tradition that no one should be allowed to raise aspersions on a sitting judge of the top court or of any High Court without any basis and such action amounts to contempt of court. “The letter dated October 6 seems to have been circulated in public domain with malafide intent to interfere with the working of the judiciary,” the association said. In an unprecedented move, Reddy wrote to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde, alleging that the Andhra Pradesh High Court was being used to “destabilise and topple my democratically elected government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lawyers-hit-out-at-baseless-charge-against-top-judge/articleshow/78689002.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 16, 2020||Pune||Early Salary launches RuPay card||Pune: City-based EarlySalary has launched a zero-touch digital card providing instant credit access to salaried class to enable them to make instant purchases across thousands of merchants in India. The company hopes that about 30% of its disbursements will come from consumer financing in a couple of years. “Powered by RuPay, the salary card comes with a unique feature that allows consumers the flexibility of setting up a dynamic credit limit to suit that shopping, medical, travel, entertainment and other needs,” the company said. Early Salary is mainly into extending salary advances to customers against 2-2.5% interest per month. Most of the fintech firm’s clientèle are youngsters. “EarlySalary aims to make credit access easier to India’s digitally-savvy young generation, which drives the major consumption of products and internet services, especially during the pandemic period. The rise of zero-touch experience and the increasing credit demand, even from small towns and villages have inspired us to launch the Salary Card,” said Akshay Mehrotra, CEO and co-founder, EarlySalary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/early-salary-launches-rupay-card/articleshow/78683223.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Address power issues, says Massia||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia) has asked the state power utility to immediately address the power failure and fluctuation issues in the Waluj industrial area as many units are unable to function normally. A group of Massia representatives met officials from Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) and submitted a represenation. The officials have promised to look into the grievances. Sachin Gayake, a senior member of Massai, said they had a meeting with MSEDCL officials for drawing the latter’s attention toward the power fluctuation and outages that in turn was disturbing the production and other industrial processes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/address-power-issues-says-massia/articleshow/78685639.cms||---
October 16, 2020||India||TRP data 'flawed', dependent on 'outdated' technology: Parliament panel on IT||NEW DELHI: The Shashi Tharoor-led parliamentary standing committee on information technology that met on Thursday to discuss ‘ethical standards in media coverage’ agreed unanimously that the current system of measuring audience estimates through Television Rating Points (TRPs) is “flawed”, that the technology it depends on is “outdated”, and that the system is easily “manipulated”. The meeting of the House panel was held in the backdrop of a “TRP racket” busted by the Mumbai Police this month in which it pointed to the “fraudulent” manipulation of TRPs by three channels -- Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. On Thursday, TV rating agency BARC also hit the pause button for three months on rating individual news channels and said it would utilise the time to augment current standards of measuring and reporting data, improving statistical robustness and to “significantly hamper potential attempts to infiltrate panel homes”. Amid a general consensus that anyone who manipulated the existing systems should be held accountable, the committee also said the English news space, because of its minuscule size, was particularly susceptible to manipulation. “With a sample size of only 44,000 homes, and English TV news accounting for only about 1% of it, it was widely accepted that a relatively small manipulation of 10-20 homes can cause a big jump in user ratings in per cent terms. This is a flawed system and the committee agreed that going forward, we must look at technological solutions that universalise samples, possibly through set top boxes,” a source said. The panel also heard submissions from public service broadcaster Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati, secretary, ministry of Information and Broadcasting Amit Khare and Press Council of India chairman Justice Chandramauli Kumar Prasad. With each arm acknowledging that it had a limited remit, the committee agreed that there were difficulties in regulating the same content across platforms, especially social media, which was largely unregulated. With the day’s discussion focused on ‘media ethics in reporting’, sources said the panel also discussed the possibility of a ‘convergent media commission’, an all-encompassing body with sub-groups dedicated to each platform and drawing on international best practises. The information and broadcasting ministry is also understood to be thinking in that direction. “There was a consensus that this is an extremely wide and difficult subject to regulate or to legislate on. What may be needed, therefore, is a convergent media commission to oversee each aspect of content, combined with technological tools like Artificial Intelligence and international best practises,” the source added. Though no individual channel was named during Thursday’s meeting, the House panel is understood to have agreed that the way forward is to identify technological solutions that universalise sample collections, likely through set top boxes that can also capture rural data, while keeping in mind concerns relating to privacy and data sharing by agencies whose set top boxes are installed. Last week, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, a member of the committee, had written to panel chairman Tharoor flagging concerns over how recent issues around TRPs “have cast doubts on the legitimacy and reliability of the system”, calling for a need to understand this situation. Last week, in an interview to Times Now, Union I&B minister Prakash Javadekar had also said that the “TRP system is managed by BARC” and is a||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-system-can-be-easily-manipulated-house-panel/articleshow/78691543.cms||Swati Mathur
October 16, 2020||Pune||Four shops & a restaurant burgled in Hinjewadi||Pune: Burglars broke into four shops and a restaurant in the Hinjewadi area and made off with cash and valuables, collectively worth Rs 84,000, in the early hours of Wednesday. Vishal Nikam (34), who owns a cellphone shop at Vinode Vasti, has lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police. Along with Nikam’s shop, the burglars also broke into a pet shop, pharmacy, a restaurant and a liquor shop. Police said the suspects cut the tin at the back of Nikam’s shop and gained entry. They stole five cellphone handsets and a bag containing Rs 29,200. The suspects also broke the locks of a pharmacy near Nikam’s shop and stole Rs 2,000 from the counter. The suspects then broke into a pet shop at Laxmi Chowk in Hinjewadi and stole Rs 3,000. “The same suspects broke the door and the glass door of a restaurant and stole an inverter and two batteries, collectively worth Rs 40,000,” an officer from the Hinjewadi police said. The burglars then targeted a liquor shop along the service road of the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. They ripped off two shutters of the shop and also the tin to steal cash and valuables. “In total, the suspects made off with cash and valuables worth Rs 84,000,” the officer said. He said the police were collecting the CCTV footage from all the spots. “We have also deployed more manpower for the night patrolling,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-shops-a-restaurant-burgled-in-hinjewadi/articleshow/78683253.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||CJ: Will not disturb govt’s relief ops||HYDERABAD: Refusing to get in the way of the state government’s efforts in tackling the flood situation, Telangana high court Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan said the scale of downpour for two days was unprecedented. Stating that the state government and its machinery were seriously involved in rescue and relief operations, the CJ said he would not doubt the efforts of the state. “This is a critical stage. I have not seen this kind of downpour in my lifetime. Let’s not disturb the state at this time,” the CJ said, responding to a plea by an advocate who wanted the court to take up the current situation as a PIL. “The government’s efforts in restoring a huge number of tanks all over the state has now resulted in a huge water retaining capacity which controlled the damage to a large extent in rural areas”, he said. GO 111 had helped protect catchment areas of Himayatsagar and Osmansagar because it banned heavy construction and industry activity in the catchment areas of these twin reservoirs, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cj-will-not-disturb-govts-relief-ops/articleshow/78690278.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 16, 2020||Kolkata||Low-key festivities in West Bengal key to virus check: IMA||KOLKATA: As Covid-19 onslaught continues unabated while the city prepares for Durga Puja celebrations, various doctor organizations have been proposing a scaled-down celebration this year as a sharp surge in cases is expected after the Pujas. On Friday, Indian Medical Association (IMA), West Bengal, appealed to all stakeholders, including Puja organizers, to abide by preventive protocols that would help reduce the extent of damage. The IMA has also announced prizes for the most Covid-aware Puja. The pandals will be judged on the basis of how many safety measures they take up. “Please reduce the pomp, the lighting and festive mood. It is best if events like ‘sindoor khela’, cultural soirees, prasad distribution and vijaya sammilani can be avoided this year,” said an appeal to Puja organizers by the doctors’ body. With the daily positive cases in Kolkata hovering above 700 for 10 consecutive days, the active cases in the city has crossed the 7,000 mark. This was as low as 5,376 cases in the beginning of October. On Friday, it rose to 7,106. IMA has also suggested organizers not to allow any food stall in 100m radius of the pandal. In case the food stalls are allowed, there should be not be any sitting arrangement and only packaged food should be served. Representatives of the association had met with the state health secretary last week with a number of suggestions so that Covid-prevention measures can be taken up best by organizers. “We will have Puja protocol monitoring teams visiting various pandals to see if the safety norms are being followed. We also appeal to people not go out in groups, not to venture into crowded places and stay at home as much as possible,” said IMA, West Bengal, secretary Santanu Sen. Apart from Kolkata, the neighbouring districts, especially North 24 Parganas, have 6,809 active cases. Out of the 31,984 active cases, more than half are from Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas and Howrah together. The IMA has also decided to help doctors with admission if they get infected between Chaturthi and Ekadasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-key-festivities-key-to-virus-check-ima/articleshow/78690978.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Safety paramount as pools prepare to reopen for competitive swimmers||Bengaluru: With temperatures in Bengaluru plunging below 20C, a dip in water is perhaps the last thing on anyone’s mind — except competitive swimmers. After a wait of nearly seven months, competitive swimmers will finally return to pools, beginning Thursday. Their eagerness notwithstanding, there is an air of caution. Although the Centre permitted pools to reopen for competitive swimmers, many academies in the city may resume training only next week due to a delay in completion of Covid-19 tests. The Karnataka Swimming Association (KSA) has partnered BBMP in Bengaluru and local health authorities in other districts to test swimmers, coaches and staff for the infection. The tests began earlier this week. “We don’t want to take any chances,” said Padmanabh Rao V, head coach, Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre. “We have waited for so long a few more days won’t make much of a difference. The pool is ready, but we are conducting Covid-19 tests for 100 people on Thursday and will begin operations on Monday.” M Satish Kumar of Swimlife Swimming Academy said he would begin operations on Thursday, but at only one of their seven centres. “We have all cleared Covid-19 tests and will resume training only at our St Joseph’s Indian High School facility. Since operational costs have increased, we want to wait and gauge the response.” Training will resume in a phased manner and the Swimming Federation of India (SFI) is in the process of putting together a manual. Outlining the process, Nihar Ameen, Dhronacharya awardee and managing director of Dolphin Academy, said, “We underwent Covid-19 tests on Wednesday and hope to begin training on Saturday at Padukone Dravid Centre of Excellence (PDCE) and Halasuru pool. On the opening day, athletes will be allowed a maximum 30 minutes to re-acquaint themselves with the water. They will be gradually initiated back into training with a thrice-a-week programme against their regular 10-sessions a week routine. It will take about four months for them to get back to their pre-Covid regime.” The city is a hub for the sport and about 60% of swimmers at PDCE are outstation athletes. Most arrived in the city in August and have finished their quarantine period and prerequisite tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/safety-paramount-as-pools-prepare-to-reopen-for-competitive-swimmers/articleshow/78668137.cms||Manuja Veerappa
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Be on guard against epidemics, says KTR||Hyderabad: Minister for municipal administration KT Rama Rao on Thursday directed the officials to be on high alert as there could be an outbreak of epidemics and spread of water-borne diseases. He asked officials to set up medical camps in the city. Reviewing the flood situation with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and senior officials, KTR said the necessary measures must be taken on a war-footing to tackle the deluge even as the floodwaters had started receding in most parts of the city. He said 104 ambulance services with doctors and medicines should be arranged in all the flood-hit areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-on-guard-against-epidemics-says-ktr/articleshow/78690273.cms||---
October 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Structures on stormwater drains to be demolished||HYDERABAD: With the record rain flooding several places, the government has decided to demolish encroachments blocking the stormwater drains and drainage channels. At least 50% of 46,000 irrigation tanks in Telangana were overflowing and 101 lakes breached across the state in the heavy rains. Finance minister T Harish Rao, who was touring flood-affected areas in Siddipet, said: “I have directed the officials to remove the houses on stormwater drains and channels of lakes. We will allot houses to the displaced people in the government’s 2-bhk housing scheme.” Minister said people should stop from illegally constructing houses on nalas. “In several instances, no setbacks are followed and roads are encroached while constructing the houses. The people should be wary about the long-term damage,” he said. Irrigation department said the unprecedented rains had caused breaching of tanks and lakes across the state. “One-third of annual rainfall was recorded in one single day. Systems are designed to take a certain amount of rain. We repaired several lake bunds after they breached,” irrigation principal secretary Rajat Kumar said. He said Palle Cheruvu in Hyderabad breached because of heavy rain. Efforts were made to plug breach with sand bags initially, due to heavy rain, the lake breached. “There are encroachments in the lake. There are also revenue issues as farmers claim it is a patta land. We will act tough against encroachments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/structures-on-stormwater-drains-to-be-demolished/articleshow/78690270.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
