October 17, 2020||Bengaluru||The traditional golu display goes online this year||Dasara is just a few days away and it is expected to be a low-key celebration this year, owing to the ongoing pandemic. In the pre-COVID era, by now Bengaluru households would be setting up the traditional gombe or golu display, which would then be appreciated by friends, families and others. This year, people are either taking their display online or are keeping things minimal. Veena Ravindranath, whose golu display of 7,000 dolls attracts audiences from across the city every year, says that she is going to make use of technology this year. "I had initially planned to invite people home for the golu display. Of course, we would have sanitizers in place and would do thermal checks too. But given the number of cases that are on the rise, we are now planning to go digital. We will have online video calls and live streams everyday, starting today," says Veena, adding that her family is giving their display finishing touches. Similarly, Vinay Prashant, who manages operations for a social impact enterprise that works with local artisans who make golus, has gone digital for the first time, in addition to having an offline display at their JP Nagar studio. "During Navratri, we usually entertain a lot of walks-ins at our store and have a variety of golus on display. This year, we have two themes. We have episodes of the Ramayana and Mahabharata and Yaduveer and the Krishnaraja Wadiyar dolls. Since the celebrations in Mysuru are not going to be as grand this year, we thought of taking a part of it online and in our store as well," says Vinay, adding, "We plan to put up some videos on the website showcasing the golu display at our store. Those who wish to buy them can do so online. In fact, sales of these traditional golus have been at a peak this year." Keeping things minimalDanseuse Vani Ganapathy, who is known for her elaborate golu setup at home every Dasara, says that this year, she does not want to have any grand display. "I am going to take out just the two basic dolls that we keep on the first day of Navratri. These are kept in the pooja room on the first day with a pot that contains a gold coin inside. Once all the decorations are done, then we move these two dolls to the main display area," says Vani. "Unlike every year, when my sister, my niece and I would host our friends at home, this year, I'm not calling anyone. I feel bad, because this is a tradition my grandmother started and my mother and I followed," Vani shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-traditional-golu-display-goes-online-this-year/articleshow/78702408.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru rings in Dasara, with a simple celebration this year||The annual Nada Habba Dasara is one of the biggest festivals in the city, marked by days of celebrations and plethora of cultural and sporting activities. Although celebrations have been curtailed earlier for reasons such as floods or drought, it has never been scaled down the way it is now owing to the pandemic. This year, CM Yediyurappa announced that the government was releasing a budget of `10 crore for the Dasara celebrations this year. Whereas, on an average, the state spends around `50 crore on Dasara. So, the festival, for which preparations start weeks in advance, is set to be a low-key affair in Mysuru this year. Regular festival attractions like the food mela and sports meet have been done away with this year, to prevent large gatherings that increase the risk of spreading Covid-19. On Friday, preparations were on at the palace, where a cultural performance is set to take place today. A stage was being erected and it is expected that the CM will be inaugurating the function. Meanwhile, the lead elephant that is set to carry the Golden Howdah during the Jumboo Savari, was seen enjoying a cool shower. This year, Abhimanyu will not be doing the usual procession from Mysore Palace to Bannimantap Torchlight Parade Grounds and will instead be restricted to just the palace. Entry of people will also be restricted in keeping with COVID-19 prevention norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-rings-in-dasara-with-a-simple-celebration-this-year/articleshow/78701669.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||Leeds players very receptive to my philosophy: Marcelo Bielsa||Having returned to the Premier League after 16 years, Leeds United have made an impressive start to their campaign. With Marcelo Bielsa at the helm of affairs, Leeds have been bold and brilliant. In an exclusive email interview with TOI, Bielsa speaks about his most satisfactory project, Pep Guardiola and his goal with Leeds. Excerpts… Are you surprised that it took Leeds United 16 years to return to the Premier League?Yes, I think Leeds shouldn't have stayed in the Championship for so many years. Now that Leeds are back in the Premier League, is it about survival or punching above your weight?In relation to what position Leeds should pursue in the Premier League, the ambition in that respect will be marked by the succession of matches, which will determine what the real possibilities are. In this day and age where spending plays a huge factor in progress, is it possible for the club to secure European qualification?To think that Leeds can qualify for a European tournament in the first year of competition in the Premier League after 16 years of absence sounds like an exaggerated goal. How would you define success? A competitive squad that plays beautiful football, or a team that wins trophies?Well-played football allows you to think about winning, and successive victories allow you to think about fighting for the most significant positions in a competition. Do you believe you can do with Leeds United in England what you did with Athletic Bilbao in Spain?It is too early to think that Leeds can achieve the successes that Athletic achieved. Many things have to happen that Leeds has not yet gone through in order to know the extent of their possibilities to evolve for the rest of the competition. Pep Guardiola has always said you are the best coach in the world and that you have had the biggest influence on his coaching. How was it to face Manchester City?Playing against the big teams in the English league is always exciting. Of course, playing against Manchester City was a very attractive match for me, but in no way do I agree with what Guardiola said about me. I want to make that clear. Was it difficult to impose your philosophy in England?It was not difficult for me to convey my philosophy to the Leeds players. They were receptive and willing to incorporate the aspects that I wanted to convey to them. What would be your most satisfying project? Argentina, Athletic Bilbao, Chile, Leeds United…The most satisfactory project for me was the one I developed in 1990, 1991 and 1992 at Newell's Old Boys in Rosario, which is the club I belong to in Argentina. (Live Premier League action on Star Sports Select)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/leeds-players-very-receptive-to-my-philosophy-marcelo-bielsa/articleshow/78709322.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 17, 2020||India||Delhi lawyer held for posting ‘fake news’ on Sushant’s manager||Mumbai cyber police have arrested a Delhi-based lawyer for posting videos in which he propounded the theory that celebrity manager Disha Salian (28) was gangraped and murdered by a few celebrities and a politician from Maharashtra. Salian was celebrity manager to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The arrest is the latest instance of a pushback against the rising tide of fake news and toxic messaging on social media platforms. A police probe showed Salian died by suicide on June 9 in a Malad highrise where her fiancé resided. Suspect Vibhor Anand, 31, who continued to post defamatory content despite warnings from a city court, was picked up from his Delhi home and brought to Mumbai late Thursday night and produced before the Esplanade Court the next day. The court sent Vibhor to police custody till October 19 after he was booked under IPC sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 504 (insult), 505 (2) (mischief), 509 (insult the modesty of any woman) and under the IT Act section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material). Vibhor’s Twitter account @vibhor_anand was blocked and suspended in September, said DCP (crime) Akbar Pathan. He shifted to another handle. Hours before his arrest, Vibhor tweeted from @OfficeofVA, “Mumbai Police Cyber Crime team is in Delhi to meet me. Today is 15th October. So, Mumbai Police is finally here to Arrest me… See you soon @CPMumbaiPolice”. His lawyer Hitesh Patel said, “The FIR is politically motivated, my client has just expressed his views.” At least 14 others who posted similar content, including photos and videos through Twitter, have been shown as wanted in the case. The complaint which led to the arrest was filed by a 27-year-old Mumbai-based lawyer on August 12. She came across the content with links to videos that were tweeted, attacking well-known figures, police and Maharashtra government. Vibhor allegedly continued circulating such content despite Bombay Civil Court in September directing him and the others to immediately take down the defamatory posts. The order came on a suit by an actor-producer (whose name was dragged into the Salian case). Despite the order, Vibhor kept naming the actor. Cyber police had similarly arrested on September 28 a physical trainer from Faridabad, Pradeep Choudhary alias Saahil (33), for posting conspiracy theories based on a probe he claims to have carried out on the deaths of late actor Sushant Singh and his ex-celebrity manager Salian. Choudhary was tracked down through the internet protocol address used to upload the offensive content on YouTube. The case was registered on August 22. In recent months, state cyber police has mounted a pushback against the torrent of hate speech, fake news and denigrating messages about public figures on social media. Traction gained by toxic messaging and conspiracy theories in the wake of Sushant Singh’s suicide have led to more monitoring of social media platforms. Some YouTube channels on the incident have drawn millions of views. As reported by TOI on September 28, cyber police in Maharashtra blocked at least 4,617 posts on platforms including WhatsApp and Facebook since fake news began flooding the net in the wake of the lockdown announced in March-end. In all, 644 cases have been filed across 44 stations. Cyber lawyer, Dr Prashant Mali said the IT Act 2000 should be amended with immediate effect and should include a section that will explicitly deal with fake news. “At present, there is no specific section that sternly deals with the rising cases of fake news combined with offensive videos and content uploaded to create communal tension or spread hate,” he said. Watch Sushant death case: Mumbai police arrest Delhi lawyer for posting ‘fake news’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-lawyer-held-for-posting-fake-news-on-sushants-manager/articleshow/78711187.cms||V Narayan
October 17, 2020||India||SC: Why not use census to enumerate Dalits, OBCs?||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has sought the government’s response to a PIL seeking enumeration of Dalits and castes bunched under ‘Other Backward Classes’ with regard to their social, educational and financial status in Census 2021 to determine the eligibility of a caste for reservation in government jobs and admissions to educational institutions. Appearing for petitioner Tinku Saini, advocate Sonia Saini told a bench of CJI S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that there had been no headcount of the communities falling under the OBC umbrella since implementation of the Mandal Commission’s recommendation for 27% reservation for them in central services and the subsequent extension of the quota to admissions to central educational institutions. Nor was there any data about their social/financial status over these years, she added. The bench issued notices to the home ministry, the Registrar General and Census Commissioner and the National Commission for Backward Classes and sought their responses to the PIL, which said enumeration of social and financial status of OBCs was essential for implementation of reservation in letter and spirit as envisioned by the Constitution. “The best way to ascertain their numbers and backwardness is by collecting relevant data through the Census conducted every 10 years,” the petition said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-why-not-use-census-to-enumerate-dalits-obcs/articleshow/78711305.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 17, 2020||India||Sharpest 15-day decline of 18% in India’s Covid cases||In the sharpest fortnightly dip in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the country, the first half of October saw an 18% fall in new infections from the previous 15-day period while deaths fell by nearly 19%. India recorded 10,55,068 Covid-19 cases in the first 15 days of this month, the lowest fortnightly count since the second half of August, as per daily data collated from state governments. The number was 18.4% less than the case count in the second half of September. This was the second straight fortnight when coronavirus cases had shown a decline. In the previous fortnight (September 16-30), when the pandemic numbers had dipped for the first time, fresh cases had dropped by 2.9%. Read our coronavirus live blog for all latest news and updatesThe Covid-19 death toll has followed a similar pattern. In the first half of October, 13,474 fatalities were recorded, an 18.9% dip from the previous fortnight. The death count had dropped for the first time in the second half of September, although the fall was just 0.2%. Times ViewThe drop in the number of cases and deaths is good news in the battle against the outbreak. But there’s a big difference between a battle and a war. Statistics from across the world show that the war against coronavirus is far from over. In this scenario, while we must continue to work towards normalcy, health safety practices, both personal and social, must continue to be rigorously followed.Both the Covid-19 case count and the number of deaths had peaked in the first half of September. In that fortnight, the country had recorded 13,31,660 fresh infections (a 28.7% rise over the previous fortnight) and 16,641 deaths, up 15.4% from the previous 15 days. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageThe pandemic is clearly on the wane, but with more than 1 million new cases and over 13,000 deaths during the fortnight, the Covid crisis in India seems far from over. Meanwhile, mirroring the fall in numbers, active cases in the country dipped below the 8-lakh mark on Friday for the first time since August 31. Daily cases remained above 60,000 on Friday, at 62,587, while the death toll was 871, the highest in six days. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Bengal again bucked the general trend of falling numbers by reporting its highest single-day rise in cases for the second day running. The state reported 3,771 fresh infections and 61 deaths. Maharashtra added 11,447 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest this week, taking the total to 15,76,062. However, the daily count of cases in Mumbai dropped by 14% with 1,823 new cases, taking the tally to 2.38 lakh cases. Read AlsoCovid-19: Central teams sent to Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, WBNEW DELHI: The Centre on Friday deputed high-level Central teams to five states - Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal – reporting a surge in a number of new Covid-19 cases in recent days. The teams will support the states in efforts towards strengthening containment,The state added 306 deaths, the second day in a row to see more than 300 fatalities. The death toll touched 41,502. Tamil Nadu continued to record a drop in fresh cases with 4,389 new Covid-19 cases and 57 deaths on Friday. The cumulative death toll touched 10,529 and the case tally stood at 6,79,191. The state has 40,959 patients still under treatment for the viral infection. Meanwhile, Odisha has lowered its projection of the virus caseload for the month from 3.38 lakh to 3.14 lakh, less by 24,000, amid the dip in new infections. The state on Friday registered the lowest single-day infection count of 2,138 in the past two months. This took the virus caseload to 2,64,149. Fifteen more succumbed to Covid-19, pushing the death toll to 1,104. Watch Covid-19: Sharpest 15-day decline of 18% in India’s coronavirus cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharpest-15-day-decline-of-18-in-indias-covid-cases/articleshow/78711458.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
October 17, 2020||Goa||Private medical sector should work with govt to save lives: GMC dean Bandekar||PANAJI: Goa Medical College dean and the head of Covid hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar, in an exclusive interview to TOI speaks about managing the epidemic in the state, the strategies in place and how he handled the psychological impact on patients and staff, as the state government struggled to meet infrastructural demands.How are you managing with the increased caseload of Covid-19 with average daily admissions being 20-25?We (at GMC) treat only critically critical patients. Non-critical Covid patients are either shifted to the ESI-Covid hospital or South Goa district hospital, which has been converted into a Covid hospital. It must have been difficult to have beds that meet requirements of Covid patients in GMC due to lack of infrastructure? What do you do when suddenly the need for more beds is felt with rise in critical cases and some patients end-up on stretchers?We have the situation now under control. As of now there are no patients on stretchers. We have put additional beds in ward 113. So, if any patient needs to be given oxygen and there is no such bed free, we give him a bed in ward 113 and put an oxygen cylinder by his bedside. Do you plan to add more Covid beds?Bed capacity of the South Goa district hospital is 500. If we utilise that capacity, we don’t think we will need more. So, there is no need to have more beds for Covid patients in GMC?The main purpose of GMC is to give critically ill patients the right care. All the 20-25 patients coming to GMC daily may not be critically ill. Some can be accommodated in the step down ICU and still some can be shifted to the South Goa district hospital. We have been managing in this fashion, but if cases rise, we may have to add more beds. What is the biggest lesson you learnt from this unprecedented crisis?Covid-19 has really shaken our whole set-up. Right from teaching to other services have been affected. Ours was the first medical college in the country to start online classes soon after the lockdown. But there is a lot of difference in online and actual teaching. Due to Covid-19, patients delayed their tertiary care treatment and refrained from coming to GMC. They thought they would contract the virus if they came to us. I do knee replacement surgeries, so I have seen several patients suffer, including a cancer patient since they deferred treatment. Non-reporting by patients is an important fallout of the virus. At times, people told me that they feared even standing outside the GMC gate. Covid-19 is also the biggest social problem. There are lots of myths and misunderstandings about it. It affected the administrative set-up of the hospital. We had to convince people to come for work and on time. We counselled multi-task workers to work in wards where Covid patients are kept, repeatedly telling them that no harm will come to them if they wear protective gear and adequate precautions are taken. They are given protective personal equipment. You were appointed to head Covid hospitals late, coinciding with a rise in infections in Goa. What was your biggest challenge then?The biggest challenge was to reduce mortality rate. An expert committee to advise the government was appointed. We started with finding out what was the major cause for rise in mortalities. Also, a treatment advice committee was formed. We evaluated every day and went into details of cases and some things became clear. We modified infrastructure for treatment of Covid patients. The ICU beds were increased, and high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) units were ordered. Plus, we started patients on physiotherapy called “prone” which helps improve ventilation in the lungs. It has worked well. We also introduced psychological therapy for patients. Since patients remained in isolation and were not able to speak to anyone, some went into depression. More such cases were seen in the ESI-Covid hospital in the beginning. We have now occupational therapists visiting Covid wards, who work as counsellors. More importantly, we started a plasma mission to save lives. Has it picked up?Yes. A total of 444 patients have received plasma therapy so far and 90% have benefited from it. It must be understood that timing of the therapy is very important. If it is given within first three days of the patient showing the symptoms, results will be excellent. Ayush minister Shripad Naik and our director of health services were given plasma, and both recovered. The government is under tremendous pressure to totally open GMC for Covid patients. Isn’t it a better option in managing the crisis?We will open the entire medicine block of GMC with 500 beds for Covid patients if the need is felt. Two floors of the block are used for Covid patients. We never shied away from opening new wards for Covid patients. Almost every week we have added a new ward. We have 11 wards each having an average bed capacity of 25 for Covid patients. If the need is felt, we will add more, but we cannot stop our tertiary care facility. Basically, we can’t turn down emergency cases. We have all major super specialities and combination of such facilities is difficult to find under one roof. Just because of Covid-19, treatment of cancer patients can’t be stopped. Delaying their treatment means denying it. Similarly, treatment can’t be refused to accident patients. Considering the demand of non-Covid patients of Goa, we cannot think of converting the whole of GMC into a Covid hospital. If there was a parallel hospital as big as GMC, which could take off our load, then GMC could exclusively cater to Covid patients. Till date the government has shouldered maximum responsibility towards Covid patients. The GMC is providing care for seriously ill patients, yet you have been at the receiving end. There is a malicious campaign against the GMC. Comment.Right from the beginning, the government and the teams from GMC and the health services are trying their level best to give the best care to Covid patients. If people still have grievances against us, they can either come to the office of the dean or director of health services and state their objections rather than venting out their anger on social media or through any other medium. The government is spending crores of rupees to give the best possible medical care to people. Yet some people may feel that proper care was not given to them in the public health facility. Even in countries with the best medical care, these issues exist. All said and done, we can’t give personalised and 100% attention to all with our caseload being high. It is easier to manage if patient volume is less. We are doing our best like any other private health care facility. What are your expectations from the private medical sector in the pandemic?They should work shoulder-to-shoulder with the government. At times, we may not have a bed for a critical patient. In such times, patients should be able to avail treatment in private hospitals. Private doctors and we in the government set-up work to save lives. So, when we fall short of beds, they should fill the gap and save lives. Is it true that in some patients Covid treatment may lead to aggravation of comorbid condition if any?It is not entirely true. Covid patients are given steroids in the condition of cytokine storm, but it can increase blood sugar in a patient having diabetes. Such patients are not given steroids, only plasma therapy, so that their comorbid condition remains under control. It happens only in diabetic patients. The government lost the first three precious months of the pandemic, which it could have used to build necessary infrastructure for Covid management, as it failed to foresee that the virus would escalate to this extent in Goa. At the initial period of any pandemic, not much information is available about the disease in force. The same applies to Covid-19. So, I can’t say the government lost time, but it is true that we never faced this type of crisis in the past. Basically, we lacked experience during initial months in understanding how Covid-19 would pan out. We hardly had any cases till April-May and then suddenly cases rained. What was your personal understanding of the pandemic at the beginning when you were not at the helm of affairs?Looking at the kind of spread we saw in European countries and the US, we knew that Covid-19 was a very contagious disease. It leaves a disastrous effect on a patient’s respiratory system. Based on this information, we could have done something to tackle it, such as readied oxygen therapy units, installed more HFNO units. Why is HFNO preferred in patient management in ICUs?We know that oxygen therapy is the hallmark of Covid treatment. If a breathless patient is put on HFNO, his oxygen saturation level improves immediately. His recovery is faster if his lungs are cleared of infection. The HFNO is a better mode than having a patient on a ventilator support. Once a patient is on ventilator, chances of recovery lessen. HFNO and non-invasive ventilation are two important modalities that need to be used in patient management. Should the government undertake sero survey at this stage?Sero survey has meaning at the time of peak. It is done to gauge herd immunity in the population. I think we will have to wait. So, you are saying we are not close to the peak?I don’t think so because winter is yet to set-in. Even though winter in Goa is not harsh as elsewhere in the country, conditions of asthmatic patients worsens in December. So, we will have to wait to see the results. Recently, the government released data that showed no significant variation in mortality rate six month prior to the pandemic and six months after. How would you read it?There is no doubt that people are dying of pneumonia. But mortalities due to other causes have decreased. Now, we don’t have many cases of falciparum malaria. We have fewer dengue-related mortalities. We cannot deny Covid deaths. If the death count of the last and this year is compared, the numbers may tally. The reason being deaths caused due to high velocity accidents were reduced because of restrictions in place. Deaths occurring because of non-Covid causes may have lessened owing to one or more reasons and the gap is matched by Covid deaths. We need to have an exact number of pneumonia deaths from a total of mortalities reported though, in some cases, Covid-19 may be incidental. When will GMC be able to restart its regular services?We are still doing a lot of non-Covid work, but the magnitude of work is a little less than during normal times. As Covid cases decline, we will resume all our regular services, which may be either by the year-end or early next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-medical-sector-should-work-with-govt-to-save-lives-gmc-dean-bandekar/articleshow/78711648.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 17, 2020||India||Shaurya Chakra awardee shot dead in Punjab||TARN TARAN: Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who fought terrorists since the heyday of militancy in Punjab, was shot dead by two unidentified assailants outside his office and next to his residence at Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district early on Friday. He was 62. Balwinder, who had been targeted 42 times since the beginning of terrorism in Punjab, was hit by five bullets at point blank range as soon as he opened the gate of his school on hearing the doorbell. He was rushed to the nearest hospital but was declared brought dead. “It is a terrorist attack, we have no personal enmity with anyone,” the deceased’s wife Jagdish Kaur Sandhu told TOI on Friday. She said the family was targeted by terrorists due to Referendum 2020 as her husband had always been opposing terrorists. Tarn Taran SSP DH Nimble said the police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of IPC and 25 and 27 Arms Act against unknown persons. He said police were investigating the incident but no one had been arrested till the time of filing of this report. Read AlsoPunjab: Family refuses to conduct last rites of Shaurya Chakra awardee until his killers are arrestedThe family members of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who was shot dead by two unknown assailants in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, have refused to cremate the body unless the accused are arrested.‘42 registered cases of attack on Balwinder’Sources, however, indicated that there were criminal cases pending against Balwinder’s sons and the incident could be linked to some kind of rivalry or animosity. Balwinder’s widow said her husband was first attacked by terrorists on January 31, 1990, and since then he had been bravely battling them. “There are 42 registered cases of attack on my husband and many are unreported,” she said and blamed the police for withdrawing her husband’s security time and again. The police had earlier provided two security persons to them, she said but they had recalled one and the remaining one too was often called back by the police. “Almost every week, we have been sending emails to DGP to reinstate Balwinder’s security given his opposition to terrorists and the risk he faced.” Saying that the police should have assessed the threat to her husband’s life, Jagdish Kaur aid the family had been fighting against the terrorists at a time when the terrorists were indiscriminately killing Hindus in the state. “We are of the view that Punjab is for Punjabis, and not for the Sikhs alone. Think, what if the same thing happened to Sikhs living in other states, where will they go.” Had faced attack by 200 terrorists for 5 hours in 1990According to the Shaurya Chakra citation, the Sandhu family was opposed to terrorists and were on their hit-list. Till April 14, 1993, terrorists had made 16 attempts in an 11-month period to wipe out the Sandhu family but every time the family foiled their attempts to kill them. The deadliest attack on the Sandhu family was made on September 30, 1990 when a group of 200 terrorists surrounded the Sandhus’ residence from all sides and attacked them for five hours with deadly weapons, including rocket launchers. The attack was well planned and the approach road to their house was blocked so that no help from the police force could reach them. Undaunted, the Sandhu brothers and their wives fought the terrorists with pistols and stun guns provided by the government. The resistance shown by the Sandhu brothers and their family members forced the terrorists to retreat. Watch Punjab: Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu shot dead||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shaurya-chakra-awardee-shot-dead-in-punjab/articleshow/78711782.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 17, 2020||India||10 yrs after bid to kill friend, two techies get 7 years in jail in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Ten years after an engineering student was thrown off the terrace of a three-storied building in KR Puram, sending him into a coma, two of his college mates — now software engineers — have been sentenced to seven years in jail for attempt to murder. Souvik Chatterjee, who came out of coma nearly a year after the incident, recalled the events on recovery and led investigators to the culprits. A sketch of the scene of crime drawn by Chatterjee, now 29, proved crucial for the prosecution in nailing Shashank Das, 29, from Assam who works with a private bank in Delhi; and Jitendra Kumar Sahu, 32, of Odisha, who works with an IT major in Bengaluru. Chatterjee has been bed-ridden after the attempt on his life and lives in Kolkata. Two unidentified locals who assisted in the crime are at large. Das was Chatterjee’s classmate then while Sahu was a postgraduate student in an engineering college near KR Puram. Investigations revealed that Chatterjee, a third-semester BE student, was a close friend of Sonali (name changed), who studied at a women’s college on the same campus. Das too had a crush on Sonali. Chatterjee cut off ties with Das after the latter passed lewd remarks against his mother and Sonali. An angry Das narrated the events to his friend Sahu. “Das called Chatterjee around 9am on December 6, 2010 and regretted his behaviour. Das asked Chatterjee to go up to his terrace. There, he was assaulted and thrown over by Das, Sahu and two unknown persons,” a police officer said. The incident occurred at Chatterjee’s rental house in Hirandahalli village near KR Puram. Chatterjee sustained head injuries and slipped into coma. He was treated for over two months in a private hospital in Bengaluru and then shifted to Kolkata. He regained consciousness in August 2011 and in the months that followed, recalled what had happened to him. Avalahalli police registered a case of attempt to murder under IPC section 307 against Das and others on December 23, 2011 based on complaint sent by post by Sunil Chatterjee, Souvik’s father. Police arrested Das and Sahu in 2012 and they were given bail later. Watch Teen in coma wakes up, nails friends who tried to kill him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-yrs-after-bid-to-kill-friend-two-techies-get-7-years-in-jail-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78711934.cms||Santosh kumar.B
October 17, 2020||India||Bihar minister succumbs, 20th lawmaker in India to have died with or of Covid||Another Bihar minister died of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the number of serving legislators in the country who have lost their lives to the disease — or complications arising out of it — to 20. Kapil Dev Kamat, 70, is the second minister and the third legislator from poll-bound Bihar to die of the virus or due to post-Covid complications. Earlier, Cabinet minister Vinod Kumar Singh had died on October 12 due to post-Covid complications. With Kamat’s death, seven ministers — including Union minister Suresh Angadi and two ministers each in Bihar and UP and one each in Jharkhand and Nagaland — have succumbed to the virus or from its side effects. Of the 20 legislators who died, six died from post- Covid complications and the rest died of the virus. Kamat was admitted to AIIMS Patna on October 1 and was put on ventilator after his condition deteriorated. Sources said Kamat was admitted for dialysis at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, where he tested positive for the virus. He was then shifted to AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-minister-succumbs-20th-lawmaker-in-india-to-have-died-with-or-of-covid/articleshow/78711967.cms||---
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar minister succumbs, 20th lawmaker in India to have died with or of Covid||Another Bihar minister died of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the number of serving legislators in the country who have lost their lives to the disease — or complications arising out of it — to 20. Kapil Dev Kamat, 70, is the second minister and the third legislator from poll-bound Bihar to die of the virus or due to post-Covid complications. Earlier, Cabinet minister Vinod Kumar Singh had died on October 12 due to post-Covid complications. With Kamat’s death, seven ministers — including Union minister Suresh Angadi and two ministers each in Bihar and UP and one each in Jharkhand and Nagaland — have succumbed to the virus or from its side effects. Of the 20 legislators who died, six died from post- Covid complications and the rest died of the virus. Kamat was admitted to AIIMS Patna on October 1 and was put on ventilator after his condition deteriorated. Sources said Kamat was admitted for dialysis at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, where he tested positive for the virus. He was then shifted to AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-minister-succumbs-20th-lawmaker-in-india-to-have-died-with-or-of-covid/articleshow/78712030.cms||---
October 17, 2020||India||Hathras girl’s family wants to leave village||Unsure of what will unfold after police and media are gone, the family of the deceased Hathras girl wants to move out of the village that has been their home for generations, reports Anuja Jaiswal. “It will be impossible to stay on after all that has happened. It would mean a lot if the government helped us move to Delhi. We want to start all over again, away from the glare,” the victim’s elder brother told TOI on Friday. “It would be easier on us if we went somewhere else,” the victim’s elder brother said. “We will move … Police security is present at the moment. It won’t be here forever.” The family’s request to move the case from UP to Delhi was placed before the Allahabad high court on October 12. There are about 60 upper caste families and four Dalit families in the village. Earlier, on the basis of a complaint by the girl’s family that the families of the four accused were threatening them, additional police forces were deployed at their house. Later, the victim’s father and brother had told visiting politicians that they were “not feeling secure” in their village, pressure exerted from all sides. The victim’s younger brother said it had been a hard decision. “Our identity is tied to this village. This is where we were born, where we grew up. For generations, we have lived here. It’s not easy, but we will move,” he said. “There have been many good memories for all of us here. But now, the bad ones are overpowering. Being here will be a constant reminder of what happened to our sister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-girls-family-wants-to-leave-village/articleshow/78712130.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 17, 2020||India||Floods in western Maharashtra leave 27 dead||PUNE: Heavy rain on October 14 that caused flooding across western Maharashtra left 27 people dead across Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, and Kolhapur districts, officials confirmed on Friday. Solapur district was affected the most, accounting for 14 deaths. At least 1,716 houses were destroyed and over 34,000 hectares of agriculture land were inundated. Around 478 heads of cattle were killed. Nine people died in Sangli, three in Pune and one in Satara district. One person has been reported missing in Pune, where the victims were swept away by floodwaters at Rajegaon in Daund. The Pune divisional commissioner’s office said over 21,000 people had been evacuated so far in the division, 17,000 in Solapur alone. The district received over 100mm of rain on Wednesday. Congress MLA Praniti Shinde from Solapur told TOI that farmers should get the highest possible compensation for the damage they suffered in the deluge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/floods-in-western-maharashtra-leave-27-dead/articleshow/78712163.cms||---
October 17, 2020||India||UP court to hear plea to remove mosque at Krishna Janmabhoomi||The Mathura district court on Friday admitted an appeal against the dismissal of a civil suit seeking ownership of the 13.37-acre Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi land and removal of a 17th century Shahi Idgah mosque. The appeal filed on Monday by a lawyer and five others on behalf of the deity ‘Lord Sri Krishna Virajman’, claimed that the mosque is built exactly where Lord Krishna was born. Additional district judge Chhaya Sharma, while rejecting the petition on September 30, had cited the Places of Worship Act, 1991 as the reason. According to the law, the religious character of any place of worship built before August 15, 1947 cannot be changed. The law had also barred any legal proceedings to change the character of any religious place. But it had left out the Babri dispute case from its ambit. tnn One of the petitioners and lawyer Ranjana Agnihotri, who was present in the Mathura court on Friday, said that after the dismissal of the civil suit on September 30, she along with the five others filed an appeal before the district judge. On Friday, district and sessions judge Sadhna Rani Thakur issued notices to UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, Committee of Management, Trust, Shahi Masjid Idgah, Shree Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust, Mathura, Shree Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sansthan and others. The next date of hearing is November 18, she said. The suit, filed by Lucknow resident Ranjana Agnihotri and five others, including a Delhi resident, claims that the mosque is exactly where Krishna was born and they have sought the ownership of the entire 13.37-acre land. It also sought cancellation of a compromise decree between the governing body of the temple complex and the management trust of the mosque in 1968.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-court-to-hear-plea-to-remove-mosque-at-krishna-janmabhoomi/articleshow/78712168.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Single screens open doors, but insist on e-tickets for safety||Cinephiles finally rejoice, as months of wait got over on Friday when several single-screen theatres opened doors after a long pause. While a couple of multiplexes started operations on Friday, standalone theatres, including Indira, Priya, Basusree and others, too, reopened with a host of old films, like Kedarnath. However, given the present scenario, most of the halls are insisting on e-tickets, e-payments and alternate seating arrangements. “Yes, we are insisting on e-tickets but also have the provision of printed tickets for those who do not use a smartphone,” said Sourav Basu of Basusree. At Priya, there will be a special screening of a new Bengali film, Ebhabei Golpo Hok. “We are expecting a slightly larger crowd. We have made all the necessary arrangements for safe screening. There will be constant sanitisation, thorough fumigation and dispersed seating,” said Arijit Dutta of Priya. While many theatres are operational already, certain theatres and multiplexes will open on October 21 to showcase Durga Puja releases. ‘We wanted to make this day a memorable one’My friend, Julee Gupta, and I study in Jogamaya Devi College, just near Basusree. While our college is not open yet, we came here for some other work. And since we are meeting on a day like this, we decided to make it memorable by watching a film together. Julee is a Sushant Singh Rajput fan and we are sure we will enjoy Kedarnath once again on a big screen. — Anjali Shaw, a college student ‘It was a bit weird watching a film in the new normal’It was fun watching a film in the new normal. I came to watch a film at Indira, more so because I will be shifting to Mumbai in a few days and watching Bengali films in a theatre won’t be possible anymore. However, it was a bit weird watching the film by maintaining social distancing. Though I was with my friend Meera Rai, it felt as if I was watching the film alone because she was sitting a couple of seats away from me. Nevertheless, I enjoyed every bit of the film. — Sneha Singh, a young professional ‘Watching a film on big screen matters more’I have taken a casual leave from office, so that I can watch the first-day show after theatres re-open. I have watched Kedarnath before but it doesn’t really matter, as for me the experience of watching a film sitting in a theatre is more important. — Sanjoy Ghosh, a professional||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/single-screens-open-doors-but-insist-on-e-tickets-for-safety/articleshow/78710585.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
October 17, 2020||India||Prasar Bharati ends subscriptions of PTI, UNI||NEW DELHI: Public service broadcaster Prasar Bharati has terminated its subscriptions of news agencies Press Trust of India and United News of India (UNI), raising questions in certain quarters over whether the move was connected to unhappiness with PTI’s coverage of the border stand-off with China. PB said the decision was taken keeping in mind its commercial interests and due to a need to rationalise expenditure on news agencies. The Editors Guild of India reacted with “dismay and concern” at the “vindictive manner in which governments, including their agencies, have acted against media organisations’’. The EGI in a statement said, “A few months ago, a senior official of Prasad Bharati had criticised PTI for what he believed was its ‘anti-national coverage’ of news pertaining to India-China ties…The Guild believes that such actions threaten as well as undermine the independent functioning of media organisations and should be withdrawn forthwith.” Prasar Bharati officials, however, denied the decision had anything to do with PTI’s coverage. They said PB would call for fresh proposals for bringing domestic news agencies on board after it finalises specifications of its current requirements by year-end, and both PTI and UNI would be free to apply again. The PB decisions comes months after the national broadcaster wrote a sharply-worded letter to PTI, calling its coverage of the India-China border clash in Ladakh “detrimental to national interest” and accused it of undermining India’s “territorial integrity”. It was particularly aggrieved with the news agency, India’s largest, for an interview it did with China’s ambassador and suggested that the reporter did not question the diplomat on his version of the confrontation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/prasar-bharati-ends-subscriptions-of-pti-uni/articleshow/78712301.cms||Swati Mathur
October 17, 2020||India||Why did Bihar police take 21 years to arrest a man in dowry death case, asks SC||NEW DELHI: Shocked by two glaring instances of lethargy on the part of the law — a 21-year delay on part of Bihar police to arrest a dowry death accused and a 733-day delay in uploading of a Patna HC judgment on its website — made the Supreme Court seek explanation from the state director general of police and the HC registrar general. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose declined bail to a BSNL employee who is accused of murdering his wife for insufficient dowry in February 1999. Digging deeper, the bench found that her death took place within seven years of marriage and there was a history of dowry demand and torture at her matrimonial home. The woman's brother lodged an FIR in February 1999 complaining that his sister was continuously harassed by Bachcha Pandey, the BSNL employee, and his family who had thrown her out of her matrimonial home. After a compromise, she went to live with the husband. Her family was later informed about her death after the cremation had taken place. After nearly 10 years, Bihar police filed a chargesheet claiming sufficient evidence against accused persons named in the FIR, including Pandey, for the dowry death. Patna HC, while declining bail to Pandey, noticed that as per the police case, “very highly poisonous substance was detected in the viscera examination of the deceased”. The Justice Ramana-led bench said, "Despite the seriousness of the allegations, it is quite alarming that no actions were taken by the police against Pandey. After a lapse of more than 21 years since the incident and the registration of the FIR, Pandey was arrested in the case only on June 7 this year." The bench noted that his bail pleas had been rejected by the trial court and the HC. While declining bail to Pandey, the bench said, "Admittedly, the petitioner is a central government employee working with Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited. The flagrant delay in conducting the investigation and prosecution of the accused in connection with a serious crime involving death of a young married woman is extremely troubling, and the reasons for the same are unclear. "We consider it necessary to issue notice to the director general of police, Bihar, as well as the registrar general of the Patna High Court with a direction to them to place before us a report about the particulars of the present case, particularly with respect to the reasons behind such inordinate delay, in four weeks.” Another bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Dinesh Maheshwari was equally surprised by the alleged time gap of 733 days between the pronouncement of a judgment by Patna HC on January 24, 2018, and its uploading on the HC website on May 1, 2019. The bench said, "There is an inordinate delay of 733 days as stated by the counsel (not 333 days as set out in the application and the office report). This aspect (needs to) be verified by the registry. We call upon the registrar general of Patna High Court to submit the report to us whether the aforesaid facts are correct and the reasons for the same." It sought the report by October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-did-bihar-police-take-21-years-to-arrest-a-man-in-dowry-death-case-asks-sc/articleshow/78712304.cms||Dhananjay Sinha
October 17, 2020||India||SC: Stay on proceedings must not exceed 6 months||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has ordered that any stay on criminal and civil proceedings will not continue beyond six months and the trial court can proceed in the case without waiting for approval from higher courts if the stay is not extended. A bench headed by Justice R F Nariman said the SC’s 2018 verdict in which it had ruled that a stay on proceedings must not exceed six months must be implemented in its true spirit. In a bid to ensure speedy justice and discourage delaying tactics adopted by the accused, the SC had ruled lower courts could proceed after a six-month period, preventing accused from dragging on the trial. Referring to a trial court order directing a complainant to get approval from the HC, which had stayed proceedings in a criminal case, the SC said “this kind of orders fly in the face of our judgment. We expect that magistrates all over the country will follow our order in letter and spirit”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-stay-on-proceedings-must-not-exceed-6-months/articleshow/78712328.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Business||Govt to conduct survey of domestic workers||As a part of its ongoing efforts to enumerate India’s unorganised sector, the labour ministry has set up an expert group on labour bureau to undertake the first-of-its-kind surveys of domestic workers, migrants and professional bodies. The effort to gather data on the most vulnerable groups in the working class was fuelled by the migrant workers’ crisis and which highlighted the plight of domestic workers. “The pandemic highlighted the existing poverty and need for extensive data on the working class; domestic, construction workers and migrant workers and the extent of access they have to social security schemes. Theis will inform policy making and will ensure that migrants are better cared in future,” said Prof Amitabh Kundu, distinguished Fellow at the Research and Information System for Developing Countries, and chairman of the expert group on migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-conduct-survey-of-domestic-workers/articleshow/78712413.cms||---
October 17, 2020||India||Govt has no count of number of times it shut off internet in the country||NEW DELHI: The government has no data on how many times it ordered the snapping of internet services in various parts of the country, nor how such bans were beneficial in maintaining law and order, representatives of the ministries of electronics & information technology and home, besides the governments of Delhi and Bihar told the parliamentary standing committee on information technology at its meeting on Friday. The panel, headed by Congress’s Shashi Tharoor, sought to know from the government the efficacy of internet shutdowns whenever they were implemented. Since the Centre and the two states were both unable to explain the link between internet stoppage and what it sought to achieve, the House panel gave them time until November-end to return with data on internet lockdowns, the methodology involved in imposing such bans, the objectives sought to be achieved and how imposing such restrictions helped. The lack of data comes at a time when India has been listed among 26 countries with the steepest decline in internet freedom scores in 2020. According to a Freedom House report titled ‘Freedom on the Net 2020: The Pandemic's Digital Shadow’, internet freedom in India has declined for a third straight year with government authorities increasingly shutting off connectivity to quell protests. The report also said India is home to more government-imposed internet shutdowns than anywhere else in the world, “justified by authorities for reasons including the need to counter disinformation, protests, communal violence and cheating on exams”. During the panel’s meeting, Bihar said restrictions on internet were imposed based on local intelligence inputs, and on the basis of reports from district administrations about the possibility of violence or disruption of public peace. Delhi said there was no disruption in internet supply in the national capital except for four hours during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests on December 19 last year. None, however, could answer pointed questions by some members whether there was any direct correlation between internet fuelling riots, nor provide data on whether such instances had increased since internet became available in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-has-no-count-of-number-of-times-it-shut-off-internet-in-the-country/articleshow/78712422.cms||Swati Mathur
October 17, 2020||Patna||HC seeks updated report on recruitment in state police||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday asked the state home department to submit an updated report in four weeks on the recruitment process to fill up more than 29,000 vacancies in state police. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing the matter related to filling of vacant posts in state police. The high court has taken suo motu cognisance on the Supreme Court’s direction. The court was keen to know about the development in the recruitment of officers and constables in police department since the last hearing on February 5 this year. The state government assured that it would submit a supplementary affidavit on the progress made in the recruitment process till now. During the last hearing, the home department had brought the facts on record that results of examination for recruitment against 2300 posts of sub-inspectors in state police in the first phase were declared on January 27. Besides, the high court was also informed that against the 12000 vacancies of police constables in the first phase, one set of examination in two sittings was conducted on January 12 while another set of examination scheduled on January 20 was postponed due to unavoidable circumstances. For recruitment of driver constables in state police, the home department apprised the high court that the process of inviting online applications had been completed and examination was scheduled to be held on April 12. That time, the high court had directed it to file a fresh status report before the next date of hearing on May 11. However, the matter could not be taken up for hearing due to restricted working amid Covid-19 pandemic. On August 2 Last year, the high court had come down heavily on the state government for its plan to complete recruitments against vacant positions of 4586 sub-inspectors, 22655 constables and 2039 driver constables in state police till 2023. The high court observed that the state machinery had virtually decided to proceed at a snail’s pace, which prima facie was unacceptable. “There is no explanation in the affidavit as to why this extended period of almost four years has been adopted to provide a force for the most essential function of the State of protecting life and property,” the court had observed. The court had also observed that it amounted to failure on the government’s part not to provide infrastructure or adequate facilities for recruitment in order to fulfil immediate needs, which were not only urgent, but fell within the first constitutional duties of state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-updated-report-on-recruitment-in-state-police/articleshow/78705476.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 17, 2020||Patna||City theatres await govt nod to reopen||PATNA: The Centre may have given its nod for reopening of theatres from Thursday, but the owners of cinema halls and multiplexes in Bihar are still waiting for the state government’s approval in this regard. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi told this newspaper that the state government had not issued any guidelines for reopening of cinema halls yet due to which their owners would have to wait a little longer. According to the Centre’s guidelines, measures like proper distancing, longer intervals between shows, markers on floor, digital transactions, installation of fibre and glass shields and free hand-sanitizing machines will have to be taken. Sharad Gupta, the manager of a multiplex near Gandhi Maidan, is waiting for a confirmation from the district administration. “We have made all the necessary arrangements and are waiting for the DM’s instruction for screening movies,” he said. The general manager of a mall in Patliputra, Ratneshwar Kumar, claimed that he had sent a letter to the administration regarding reopening of multiplexes, but “no response came”. “We will take all the precautionary measures and follow social distancing norms. People can book tickets online or get them at our counters with the help of WhatsApp,” he added. Vishal Boobna, the proprietor of a Hajipur-based multiplex, said, “We will have staggered shows, proper ventilation inside the halls and floor markings. After each show, the halls will be properly disinfected by our staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/city-theatres-await-govt-nod-to-reopen/articleshow/78705556.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 17, 2020||Patna||Postponement of Inter sent-up test irks colleges||PATNA: Postponement of the intermediate sent-up test by the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) at the eleventh hour has drawn flak from several principals of the colleges under Patliputra University (PPU) as well as guardians of the students. The test was to be held from October 15 to October 21 as per the notification issued by the BSEB earlier. Reacting to the sudden postponement of the test, B D College principal Pravin Kumar said the BSEB had released a revised programme to hold sent-up test for intermediate students from November 11 to 19 and submit the results to the BSEB office latest by November 24. “It is now not possible as the revised programme clashes with the festivals like Dhantetars on November 12, Chhoti Diwali on November 13, ‘nahay khay’ of Chhath on November 18 and Chhath ‘kharna’ on November 19,” he said. A N College principal S P Sahi said the BSEB should have given a thought before releasing the revised programme. He said Diwali and Chhath are most important festivals during which people get completely engaged in various kinds of works. “Students hardly take interest in studies during festivals,” he said. According to B D College principal, the greatest challenge is maintaining social distancing norms and Covid-19 health protocol during sent-up test in the examination halls. “Considering spurt in Covid-19 cases in the city, the BSEB should have exempted intermediate students from appearing for the sent-up test as a special case this year or defer it to December,” he said, adding even if the tests are held as per the revised schedule, it is not possible for the college to get the answer books evaluated in hardly four days and submit results to the BSEB office by November 24. Meanwhile, several guardians have questioned the university over the schedule of the test. “The BSEB should have exempted the students from the test and allowed them to appear for the final examinations on the basis of their earlier test performances,” said an aggrieved father of a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/postponement-of-inter-sent-up-test-irks-colleges/articleshow/78705642.cms||Kumod Verma
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Patuli market set to float again from Saturday||KOLKATA: The Bangkok market-styled floating market in Patuli that was devastated by cyclone Amphan earlier this year has been revamped and is to be reopened on Saturday. Inaugurated in January 2018, with 112 boats and around 200 hawkers, the floating market had become an instant hit and was among the city’s most talked about projects in recent times. But the place lost its sheen over months and after Amphan struck on May 20, almost 90% of the boats and parts of the approach and had been shut. The hawkers and vendors had shifted to the footpath alongside the market. Over the past four-and-a-half months, officials of Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) — the custodians of the market — said they spent around Rs 3 crore on renovation. On Saturday, state urban development and municipal affairs department minister Firhad Hakim will unveil the revamped floating market. “Phase II of the floating market was mostly damaged. We have undertaken large-scale renovation work of the entire project, which will be inaugurated by the minister. Most of the old vendors will be back from Saturday itself,” said KMDA chief executive officer (CEO) Antara Acharya. Times ViewA concept like this can become immensely popular if executed intelligently and maintained properly. The first edition was an instant hit because of the novelty factor but, then, several problems started surfacing. Hopefully, lessons have been learnt.Arup Chakraborty, the local KMC ward coordinator said that he, along with the KMDA CEO, had been planning how to rejuvenate the market. “A detailed survey and planning was carried out to renovate the market. It will start afresh with 57 boats from Saturday and the rest are expected to be ready by December 25,” he said. The plan is to have over 100 new boats in the market when fully operational. Chakraborty added that to avoid the boats being in direct contact with water, a platform of fibre coating has been set up under the vessels. The local KMC authorities will keep in touch with the hawkers and vendors to check if they face any new problems. Conceived and developed by KMDA at Rs 10 crore, on the lines of the floating markets in Thailand, the Patuli market initially had four separate zones — a fish market, a zone for chicken, mutton and eggs, another zone for fruits and vegetables and a grocery section. Later, locals started distancing themselves from the market over allegations of malfunctioning weighing machines and difficulty in approaching and buying goods from the vendors. As a result, it became more of a tourist destination than a marketplace profitable for vendors. Many vendors complained of dipping sales. By the end of 2019, a majority of boats were also damaged, forcing KMDA to undertake large-scale repairs and procuring some new boats. They also set up benches on the pathway and installed new lights for the convenience of buyers. Work got stalled after the Covid-induced lockdown in March before Amphan wreaked havoc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patuli-market-set-to-float-again-from-today/articleshow/78709364.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Bodh Gaya set to witness ‘symbolic’ husband-wife fight||GAYA: At home, they are made for each other. However, when it comes to politics, they are rivals, at least on paper. Kumar Sarvjeet and his wife Seema Kumari have filed nomination papers from same constituency, Bodh Gaya. Sarvjeet is seeking re-election from Bodh Gaya as Grand Alliance (GA) candidate on the ticket of RJD, while Seema has filed nomination as independent. During scrutiny on October 9, papers of both were found admissible. The deadline for withdrawal of nomination elapsed on October 12, but none of the two withdrew their papers. Having tested Covid positive, Sarvjeet was undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. He, therefore, filed his paper through online mode instead of appearing physically in the office of returning officer of his constituency. Sarvjeet, who was elected from Bodh Gaya as RJD candidate in 2015, said, “I got myself admitted at AIIMS-Patna on October 1 from where I filed my nomination through online mode. Scared about my health condition and to avoid any risk of my nomination getting rejected, I asked my wife to file papers as independent.” He added, “Of course, she is my rival on paper. However, my wife has taken command of the campaigning in my favour along with my cousins and party activists. She is requesting people to vote for me. I have returned home after being discharged from the hospital. While distributing relief materials among migrant workers, some of my family members, including wife, had tested Covid positive. My mother died of the virus.” Apart from the husband-wife duo, former MP Hari Manjhi is in the fray as BJP candidate, while LJP has fielded ex-MLA Ajay Paswan from Bodh Gaya. Voting in Bodh Gaya is scheduled in the first phase on October 28, when 2,88,981 voters, including 1,38,655 women, will exercise their franchise. Regarding his priorities, Sarvjeet said, “Modified security arrangements in and around Bodh Gaya that do not disturb the business prospects of local businessmen is necessary. I will also work to open a college between Fatehpur and Tankuppa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bodh-gaya-set-to-witness-symbolic-husband-wife-fight/articleshow/78713741.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Clubs get 24 hours to declare plans||KOLKATA: Based on declarations made by the committees of some big-budget Pujas that they are limiting access to pandals to locals, the crowd circulation movement at certain pockets of Kolkata — especially at College Street, Rashbehari Avenue and Sarat Bose Road — is all set to change. Kolkata Police brass now wants the organizers to declare in the next 24 hours if they were planning to ban outsiders. “We will ask them to use social media and other forms of media so that everyone knows about their decisions,” said a joint CP. Senior officers, who brainstormed one last time on Friday before the real test begins on Saturday with the lifting of idols from Kumartuli, stated that changes will be made across CR Avenue, College Street, DH Road and Sarat Bose Road in the wake of these announcements. The brass felt that the crowd this year will be moving more towards Chetla Agrani and Suruchi Sangha at New Alipore via 66 Pally and Badamtala Asar Sangha given a few big pujas on Rashbehari Avenue towards Gariahat have decided to scale down the celebrations. This would mean more allocation of manpower on the Chetla side. Similarly, with Jodhpur Park not allowing visitors and 95 Pally scaling down celebrations, the police are expecting the rush to be on the narrower roads of Babubagan and Selimpur on the opposite side of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clubs-get-24-hours-to-declare-plans/articleshow/78709293.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 17, 2020||Business||Shortage of labour, parts delays motor insurance claims||Chennai: Labour shortage and gaps in spare parts availability due to supply chain issues resulted in delays in settling motor insurance claims, particularly for repairs. Time taken to settle claims went up from an average of 3-4 days to 15-20 days between June and September. Bajaj Allianz General Insurance business head (motor) Aditya Sharma said, “Such delays are mostly seen among large-value motor claims, where vehicle owners decide to repaint or change vehicle parts after not using the car for many months due to lockdown. Even the cost of labour and paint has gone up by 7%-8% since June and the average size of motor claims increased by 5%-10%. Besides, delayed supply of vehicle parts, further delay seen in the logistics segment too.” Chennai-based auto component maker, which produces sheet metal pressing, Sri Hari Industries’s MD & CEO VN Sujeesh said, “We have seen a huge demand for sheet metal pressing since August, as it is used in the production of transmission, brake, suspension and many more vehicle parts. However, there is a supply gap caused by various reasons, from shortage of supervisory staff and semi-skilled labourers, increase in cost of raw material by 10%-12%. It is not easy to go for new recruits as that would mean an additional cost for training them.” ICICI Lombard General Insurance also has seen a delay in settling motor insurance claims due to supply chain disruptions faced by OEMs (original equipment manufacturers), component makers and auto sub-system assemblers. ICICI Lombard head of underwriting, claims & reinsurance Sanjay Datta said “Most claims settlements for private cars are cashless, and don’t see why there should be a delay. However, there has been delay in repair of vehicles due to lack of labour. Hence, the repair time has increased and caused a 10%-15% delay in settling claims compared to pre-Covid time.” Insurers say motor insurance claims applications coming in have reached to pre-Covid levels of 100% in September. ICICI Lombard said it settles over 1 lakh motor insurance claims a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/shortage-of-labour-parts-delays-motor-insurance-claims/articleshow/78709939.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Daily tally of new cases drops below 385 in Nashik||Nashik: The city has reported a drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases over the five-day period between October 11 and 15. The number of new cases being reported daily during this time has been below 385. While the fewest cases (280) were reported on October 12, the most (381) were on October 14. A similar trend was seen in the second half of July as well. NMC officials said there had been a significant rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in September, as 50% of all the 51,472 cases reported till September 30 emerged in that month alone. In September, every day around 850 new cases were being reported. By early October, the number had halved. More recently, it has dropped further, with an average of 330 cases per day in the past five days, said the NMC officials. They said they expect the number of new cases to drop below 200 per day by the time the NMC health survey is completed by October-end. “We have been focusing on tracing and testing of Covid-19 suspects for early detection of the patients and provide timely treatment. This has yielded good results. The recovery rate has increased from 75% to over 91% over the past two months. The death rate has reduced from 1.9% on September 30 to 1.4% now,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/daily-tally-of-new-cases-drops-below-385-in-nashik/articleshow/78707397.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 17, 2020||Patna||‘Nitish Asambhav’: Chirag’s battle cry to fight CM in Bihar polls||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan sharpened his attack on Bihar CM and JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar on Friday with his new battle cry, ‘Nitish Kumar Asambhav’. In an appeal to his party-men and supporters, Chirag said the time has come to fight Nitish. Chirag, who last week lost his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, said if he wanted to remain in power, he would have continued to side with Nitish. “I cannot see Bihar getting destroyed further. I cannot accept the leadership of Nitish Kumar,” Chirag said refuting the state BJP’s assertion on Nitish’s leadership. He will start campaigning for his party’s 143 candidates from October 21. Bihar BJP leaders, including state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, had made it clear while announcing the seat-sharing arrangement on October 6 that only those, who accept Nitish’s leadership will be part of NDA. The 37-year-old LJP chief, however, said state BJP leaders are giving such statements under pressure from Nitish as he is “scared” of LJP. “Although PM Modi is in my heart and I believe in his ideologies and development model, LJP is not using his photograph in its posters. Moreover, Nitish ji seems to be more desperate in using PM’s photos in his posters than anyone else. He knows there is heavy anti-incumbency against him and is probably thinking that PM Modi’s image might save him,” he told TOI on Wednesday. Amid the repeated attempts being made by Bihar BJP leaders to clarify that the saffron party is not in alliance with LJP in Bihar, Chirag has been maintaining that LJP is still in alliance with BJP at the Centre and the next government in Bihar will be formed by BJP-LJP under the leadership of the former. On Friday, Chirag also released a short video on a couplet earlier narrated by his father in the Lok Sabha, which read: “Zulm Karo Mat, Zulm Saho Mat. Jina Hai to Marna Sikho, Kadam- Kadam Par Ladna Sikho.” Asked about how far he thinks LJP can go from two MLAs in the current Assembly, Chirag told TOI, “As of now, my priority is to increase the percentage of votes polled for the party. It has plunged from 12.5% in 2005 when the party contested the election alone to around 5% in the last election. I think our voting percentage is more when we contest alone. Besides, I have the priority of defeating every candidate of JD (U) as even one vote to them will force our children into migration and deterioration of Bihar.” LJP releases second list: LJP on Friday released its second list of 53 candidates for the assembly polls. Maithil Brahmins and Bhumihars among other forward castes have been given sufficient number of seats, along with Dalits. Out of the candidates announced for 95 seats so far, LJP will be in friendly fight on five seats. Tickets have also been given to a few BJP and JD(U) turncoats. Besides, 16 women and 30 people under the age of 40 have been given tickets by LJP, which is contesting 143 seats. It has fielded maximum candidates on seats being contested by JD(U). Paswan’s ashes to be taken to all districts: LJP founder and ex-Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan’s ashes will be taken by party workers to all 38 districts, where they will pay tributes and immerse following rituals. Chirag told TOI that the last rites ceremony of senior Paswan will be held on October 19 at his ancestral village Shaharbanni in Khagaria district, where his father was born. “The ashes will be sent to every district upon request of party workers. Following the last rites rituals in Shaharbanni, Shradh ceremony will be held at Patna on October 20,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-asambhav-chirags-battle-cry-to-fight-cm-in-polls/articleshow/78715469.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 17, 2020||Patna||PM, Nitish to usher in growth in Bihar: JP Nadda||PATNA: BJP president J P Nadda on Friday sought votes for his party’s candidates in Goh, Aurangabad and Karakat assembly constituencies in the name of work done by PM Narendra Modi, maintaining at the same time that the state will “forge ahead under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and blessing of PM Modi”. At Aurangabad, Nadda pointed to the increase in volume of the state’s budget from Rs 24,000 crore in 2005 to Rs 1.12 lakh crore in the current fiscal, besides double-digit growth made in the gross state domestic product (GSDP) till recently, and also strides made in the agriculture sector. “Under the leadership of PM Modi and CM Nitish Kumar, industries will come to Bihar,” he said while accusing the Congress governments in the past of being responsible for the neglect of the state’s industrialisation. While Aurangabad, Goh and Karakat will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28, the BJP’s candidates for them are former minister Ramadhar Singh, Manoj Kumar Sharma (sitting MLA) and Rajeshwar Raj, respectively. Nadda addressed meetings at Aurangabad and Karakat. In the Grand Alliance, the Aurangabad and Goh assembly seats have gone to the Congress and the RJD and their respective candidates are Anand Shankar Singh and Bhim Singh. Similarly, the Karakat seat has gone to the CPI(ML) and its candidate is Arun Singh. Nadda invoked the name of PM Modi around a dozen times and that of CM Nitish Kumar four times. He praised Nitish for containing the Bahubalis like former Siwan MP Shahabuddin and improvement of the law and order in the state. “What was the RJD-Congress government in the state like? There was Shahabuddin who fired a shot at the DGP. When Nitish came to power, he was sent to the jail. There was the case of the murder of Gopalganj DM G Krishnaiah. That was the jungle raj. Nitish transformed the state from ‘loot raj’ to the ‘law and order raj’,” Nadda said. The BJP president dwelt at length on the contributions made by PM Modi to the state’s development with the package worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore. “The PM gave Rs 40,000 crore more than that. The package money was used on the building of roads and educational institutions in the state,” Nadda said. Nadda also referred to the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya, abrogation of the Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the recent skirmishes of the Indian Army with the PLA of China. “You know why there is so much of ‘khalbali’ in China? It is because PM Modi’s government has launched road and bridge construction activities in the border areas,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-nitish-to-usher-in-growth-in-bihar-nadda/articleshow/78715556.cms||Abhay Singh
October 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Kosi commissioner and Buxar ADM removed||PATNA: Senior IAS officer K Senthil Kumar and additional district magistrate (ADM) Chandra Shekhar Jha were removed from their respective posts ahead of the state assembly election scheduled from October 28. The two officers will not be engaged in any election-related work. According to the notification issued on the directive of Election Commission (EC) and also from the state chief electoral officer (CEO), Kumar and Jha have been asked to assume charge in the general administration department till further orders. While Kumar, a 1996-batch IAS officer, is currently posted as divisional commissioner of Kosi, Jha is a Bihar administrative service officer and posted in Buxar district. Both the officers were transferred with immediate effect. Earlier, the EC had removed 2008-batch IAS officer K Dhanji, who was posted as excise commissioner, for his alleged laxity in discharge of his duty. The EC was unhappy over his role in containing the supply of illicit liquor in Bihar from outside despite total prohibition in the state. Senthil, a native of Tamil Nadu, had hogged the limelight when Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached his assets worth Rs2.51 crore located in Patna and Chennai in March 2018. He was then a member in the state revenue board. The ED’s move had come in the wake of a chargesheet submitted by the vigilance investigation bureau in connection with a case lodged against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The case was registered following a raid at his office in Patna Municipal Corporation where he was posted as commissioner. Jha, who is at present posted as additional collector-cum-additional district magistrate in Buxar, was also on the EC’s radar. Authoritative sources said the EC swung into action after receiving complaints about the two officers from people’s representatives about their role in the ensuing election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kosi-commissioner-and-buxar-adm-removed/articleshow/78715661.cms||Ramashankar
October 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: 33% of RJD candidates are Yadavs, Congress fields 48% from upper castes||PATNA: The RJD-led Mahagathbandhan (MGB) comprising the Congress and Left in Bihar has tried to strike a balance among upper and backward castes, extremely backwards, Dalits and Muslims in their candidates’ selection. While Congress has given over 48.57% of its tickets to the upper castes, RJD has fielded 58 Yadavs, which accounts for nearly 33% of the party’s share of tickets in this state assembly election. Altogether, the Mahagathbandhan has given over 38% of the tickets to candidates from OBCs, 20.16% to upper castes, a little over 14% to Dalits and nearly 14% to the extremely backward castes (EBCs). Minorities have managed to get 12.75% of the tickets across the alliance. The ticket distribution pattern shows how political parties as an individual have tried to woo their vote banks while maintaining a balance. While Congress has fielded 34 upper caste candidates out of 70 seats it has got to contest, compared to 12 out of 144 by RJD and total three out of their 29 seats by the Left parties. A Congress leader said the party has got most of the seats in areas where BJP has stronghold and it was also trying to woo upper caste voters, which had been its vote bank earlier. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre, however, denied any such strategy and said, “Don’t see Congress in particular; rather look at the ticket distribution among all the MGB partners in a holistic way. You will see that every caste has got proper share.” Total 31 minority candidates are contesting from the MGB — 18 on RJD’s ticket, 10 on Congress and three from CPI-ML. RJD has given 69 tickets to OBCs with the maximum share to Yadavs, followed by eight tickets to Kushwaha, two to Vaishya and one to Kurmi castes. It has given 16 tickets to the scheduled caste candidates, including seven to Ravidas community, four to Paswans and two each to Pasi and Musahar castes. RJD has also fielded 2 scheduled tribe candidates on reserved seats. Total 35 SC candidates are in the fray from MGB (RJD 16, Congress 13 and Left parties six). As far as EBCs are concerned, RJD has given tickets to 26 of them, Congress (3) and Left parties (4). RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said his party had tried to give representation to all sections of the society. “Even among EBCs, we have given tickets to communities which had negligible representation, like ‘Lohar’. We are fighting this election on ideology and not castes and this is reflected in ticket distribution,” Gagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/33-of-rjd-candidates-are-yadavs-congress-fields-48-from-upper-castes/articleshow/78715779.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 17, 2020||Patna||Nitish shares dais with Manjhi after five years||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday campaigned in favour of his predecessor and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi for the first time more than five-and-a-half years after their break-up that led to the unceremonious fall of the Manjhi-led government in the state on February 20, 2015. Manjhi was sworn in as Bihar’s 23rd chief minister on May 20, 2014 on the wish of Nitish. Before taking oath as the CM, Manjhi was a cabinet minister in Nitish-led government. However, just nine months later, he was asked to resign to make way for Nitish to return as the CM. As Manjhi refused, he was expelled from the JD(U) on February 9, 2015, leading to a political crisis in his government. After that, Nitish and Manjhi had parted ways. After Manjhi was expelled from the JD(U), the then governor asked him to seek a vote of confidence on February 20, 2015, the first day of the Budget session of the assembly. However, Manjhi resigned from the CM post before seeking trust vote in the assembly. In May 2015, Manjhi formed Hindustani Awami Morcha (Secular) and contested the 2015 elections in alliance with the BJP. On the other hand, Nitish had joined hands with Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD and the Congress in the 2015 assembly polls. But on Friday, Nitish not shared dais with Manjhi and sought votes for him in Gaya’s Imamganj (SC) constituency. “Ab toh ham saath saath hain. Ab kaahe chinta karte hain. Aap jo chahte hain, woh sab hoga (We are together now. Why are you worried? All your wishes will be fulfilled),” Nitish told Manjhi at the rally. Earlier, Manjhi, in his speech, had urged the CM to upgrade Imamganj, presently a block headquarter, into a sub-divisional headquarter and make Sherghati a separate district. Manjhi also urged the CM to set up a degree college in his Imamganj constituency. Imamganj goes to polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-shares-dais-with-manjhi-after-five-years/articleshow/78716015.cms||Madan Kumar
October 17, 2020||---||Nitish shares dais with Manjhi after five years||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday campaigned in favour of his predecessor and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi for the first time more than five-and-a-half years after their break-up that led to the unceremonious fall of the Manjhi-led government in the state on February 20, 2015. Manjhi was sworn in as Bihar’s 23rd chief minister on May 20, 2014 on the wish of Nitish. Before taking oath as the CM, Manjhi was a cabinet minister in Nitish-led government. However, just nine months later, he was asked to resign to make way for Nitish to return as the CM. As Manjhi refused, he was expelled from the JD(U) on February 9, 2015, leading to a political crisis in his government. After that, Nitish and Manjhi had parted ways. After Manjhi was expelled from the JD(U), the then governor asked him to seek a vote of confidence on February 20, 2015, the first day of the Budget session of the assembly. However, Manjhi resigned from the CM post before seeking trust vote in the assembly. In May 2015, Manjhi formed Hindustani Awami Morcha (Secular) and contested the 2015 elections in alliance with the BJP. On the other hand, Nitish had joined hands with Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD and the Congress in the 2015 assembly polls. But on Friday, Nitish not shared dais with Manjhi and sought votes for him in Gaya’s Imamganj (SC) constituency. “Ab toh ham saath saath hain. Ab kaahe chinta karte hain. Aap jo chahte hain, woh sab hoga (We are together now. Why are you worried? All your wishes will be fulfilled),” Nitish told Manjhi at the rally. Earlier, Manjhi, in his speech, had urged the CM to upgrade Imamganj, presently a block headquarter, into a sub-divisional headquarter and make Sherghati a separate district. Manjhi also urged the CM to set up a degree college in his Imamganj constituency. Imamganj goes to polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-shares-dais-with-manjhi-after-five-years/articleshow/78709684.cms||Madan Kumar
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: ‘NDA to share report card with people’||PATNA: The NDA on Friday announced that it will release its ‘report card’ containing the details of the work done by the Nitish Kumar government in state in the last 15 years. It will also narrate the work done by the Centre under PM Modi’s leadership. The report card will be shared with people across the state during the assembly polls. The three-phase election in the 243 assembly constituencies would be held on October 28, November 3 and 7, while the results will be declared on November 10. Making the announcement about the report card at a press conference, state health minister and BJP’s election management committee chairman Mangal Pandey said: “The report card will be for mass distribution among maximum number of people possible.” Among those present on the occasion included former Maharashtra CM and the BJP’s state election incharge Devendra Fadnavis, BJP’s publicity incharge and union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, JD(U) national general secretary and minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) spokesman Danish Rizwan and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) spokesman Vishwanath Ram, as well as state BJP general secretary Devesh Kumar. The party’s national media co-incharge and MLC Sanjay Mayukh conducted the programme. Ravi Shankar set the tone and tenor of the NDA’s stridency towards the opposition, including the RJD, when he, without taking the name of its CM face Tejashwi, said he was busy rearranging the photographs to be used on the banners and posters by dropping the posters of his parents Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. “If they use the family photographs (read of Lalu, Rabri), it will remind the people of the atmosphere of ‘khauf’ (fear) marked by kidnapping, loot and corruption,” Ravi Shankar said, adding: “RJD was born to protect their leader (read Lalu) from corruption.” Citing his own personal experience, he said after he was attacked at Nokha, the police did not record his statement for two months. His statement could be recorded only after Nitish came to power. “In RJD, the generation has changed, but its basic nature and drive has remained unchanged,” JD(U) general secretary Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-to-share-report-card-with-people/articleshow/78709637.cms||Abhay Singh
October 17, 2020||Patna||‘It is shameful to call me an outsider’||PATNA: Veteran actor Shatrughan Sinha’s son and Congress nominee for Bankipore, Luv Sinha, has followed his legendary father’s footsteps to enter active politics. In an interview to TOI’s Sheezan Nezami, he talks about the need for progressive politics and his connection with Bihar. How difficult is it to come out of a famous father’s overwhelming shadow to make a mark as Luv Sinha? To make a mark, everyone has to work hard and give their best. And both in politics and films it’s the people who finally decide your fate. I am working hard and giving my best. What inspired you to join active politics so early in life? Your father took this decision much later in life. I have always wanted to do something for people, something for my state. Good people avoid entering into politics, but I have come without any selfish motive. I am thankful to the people of Congress, who saw my work and gave me an opportunity. My father neither approached anyone in the film industry nor in politics did he bargain for my ticket. I am into politics since 2009, campaigning for my father. But earlier I had been at the back and from now on I’ll be at the forefront. You are contesting from Bankipore, which is a BJP stronghold. How difficult will it be for you to woo voters? My goal is to be a progressive leader and to make a difference by using my exposure. There are seats dominated by others, which does not mean we will stop fighting. The reality is that ‘Jan Shakti’ and ‘Dhan Shakti’ matters a lot. Pushpam, Sahu Ji and we all have the right to contest. List five problems your constituency faces. Not only Bankipore, but entire Bihar is facing the problem of education and health infrastructure. Again unemployment is a big issue for the entire state. Every year flood devastates lakh of lives. What is the government doing for the past 15 years? They did not even have the will power do a little. Just go out and see my own Kadamkuan locality and you will find a mountain of garbage. How will you connect with the locals? Your opponents are calling you an outsider and the ones who have come from the glamour world. I am a son of Bihar. It is not my fault if I am exposed to many things. My father left this place in a position when he could not afford a bicycle. He is a self-made man. He joined BJP at a time when the party had little representation, unlike Nitin Nabin who got this seat in virasat (inheritance) from his father. It is shameful that he is calling the son of Bihari Babu an outsider. You grew up supporting your father as a BJP guy. It was only in a previous parliamentary election that he switched to a party which follows Gandhi’s ideology. Would you have joined Congress, if your father would have been in BJP? BJP has now transformed into a different party. This is the reason, my father left it. Earlier there was nothing like IT cell. But now there is no decorum. Will your father, mother and sister campaign for you? My mother is already here with me in Patna. This is my father’s home town and he keeps coming and will be there with me. As far as Sonakshi is concerned, let that be a surprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/it-is-shameful-to-call-me-an-outsider/articleshow/78708581.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara fights its way off first Covid-19 peak||Vadodara: The city seems to have braved the first onslaught of Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from new cases, the number of active cases, including those in serious conditions, have gone down significantly. After making a peak of 135 new cases on September 19, the number of new cases reported every day had started going down significantly. But the concern for active cases remained as the number maintained a rise consistently till October 11 after which it started to trickle down. Another major concern was the rise in the number of patients on ventilators or BIPAP machines, but even these showed a downward trend after October 10. Sources in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) said that with ventilators and BIPAPs now vacant, patients, who may not be in dire need of one, too were often put on non-invasive ventilators or BIPAPs for better utility of unused machines. “The downward trend has now sustained for almost a month and we can safely say that the city is off the peak. The pattern in the rural areas of the district is very different and the numbers there may not go down soon. But the overall number of new cases in the district will reflect the same trend as a bulk of the cases were from the city,” said an official. The administration, however, is in no hurry to reduce the number of beds for Covid-19 treatment. The situation in some countries in the west and even in Delhi where there was a second wave was a distinct possibility even in Vadodara in the coming days, sources said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-fights-its-way-off-first-covid-19-peak/articleshow/78707309.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 17, 2020||---||PM, Nitish to usher in growth in Bihar: JP Nadda||PATNA: BJP president J P Nadda on Friday sought votes for his party’s candidates in Goh, Aurangabad and Karakat assembly constituencies in the name of work done by PM Narendra Modi, maintaining at the same time that the state will “forge ahead under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and blessing of PM Modi”. At Aurangabad, Nadda pointed to the increase in volume of the state’s budget from Rs 24,000 crore in 2005 to Rs 1.12 lakh crore in the current fiscal, besides double-digit growth made in the gross state domestic product (GSDP) till recently, and also strides made in the agriculture sector. “Under the leadership of PM Modi and CM Nitish Kumar, industries will come to Bihar,” he said while accusing the Congress governments in the past of being responsible for the neglect of the state’s industrialisation. While Aurangabad, Goh and Karakat will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28, the BJP’s candidates for them are former minister Ramadhar Singh, Manoj Kumar Sharma (sitting MLA) and Rajeshwar Raj, respectively. Nadda addressed meetings at Aurangabad and Karakat. In the Grand Alliance, the Aurangabad and Goh assembly seats have gone to the Congress and the RJD and their respective candidates are Anand Shankar Singh and Bhim Singh. Similarly, the Karakat seat has gone to the CPI(ML) and its candidate is Arun Singh. Nadda invoked the name of PM Modi around a dozen times and that of CM Nitish Kumar four times. He praised Nitish for containing the Bahubalis like former Siwan MP Shahabuddin and improvement of the law and order in the state. “What was the RJD-Congress government in the state like? There was Shahabuddin who fired a shot at the DGP. When Nitish came to power, he was sent to the jail. There was the case of the murder of Gopalganj DM G Krishnaiah. That was the jungle raj. Nitish transformed the state from ‘loot raj’ to the ‘law and order raj’,” Nadda said. The BJP president dwelt at length on the contributions made by PM Modi to the state’s development with the package worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore. “The PM gave Rs 40,000 crore more than that. The package money was used on the building of roads and educational institutions in the state,” Nadda said. Nadda also referred to the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya, abrogation of the Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the recent skirmishes of the Indian Army with the PLA of China. “You know why there is so much of ‘khalbali’ in China? It is because PM Modi’s government has launched road and bridge construction activities in the border areas,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-nitish-to-usher-in-growth-in-bihar-nadda/articleshow/78708339.cms||Abhay Singh
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: 33% of RJD candidates are Yadavs, Congress fields 48% from upper castes||PATNA: The RJD-led Mahagathbandhan (MGB) comprising the Congress and Left in Bihar has tried to strike a balance among upper and backward castes, extremely backwards, Dalits and Muslims in their candidates’ selection. While Congress has given over 48.57% of its tickets to the upper castes, RJD has fielded 58 Yadavs, which accounts for nearly 33% of the party’s share of tickets in this state assembly election. Altogether, the Mahagathbandhan has given over 38% of the tickets to candidates from OBCs, 20.16% to upper castes, a little over 14% to Dalits and nearly 14% to the extremely backward castes (EBCs). Minorities have managed to get 12.75% of the tickets across the alliance. The ticket distribution pattern shows how political parties as an individual have tried to woo their vote banks while maintaining a balance. While Congress has fielded 34 upper caste candidates out of 70 seats it has got to contest, compared to 12 out of 144 by RJD and total three out of their 29 seats by the Left parties. A Congress leader said the party has got most of the seats in areas where BJP has stronghold and it was also trying to woo upper caste voters, which had been its vote bank earlier. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre, however, denied any such strategy and said, “Don’t see Congress in particular; rather look at the ticket distribution among all the MGB partners in a holistic way. You will see that every caste has got proper share.” Total 31 minority candidates are contesting from the MGB — 18 on RJD’s ticket, 10 on Congress and three from CPI-ML. RJD has given 69 tickets to OBCs with the maximum share to Yadavs, followed by eight tickets to Kushwaha, two to Vaishya and one to Kurmi castes. It has given 16 tickets to the scheduled caste candidates, including seven to Ravidas community, four to Paswans and two each to Pasi and Musahar castes. RJD has also fielded 2 scheduled tribe candidates on reserved seats. Total 35 SC candidates are in the fray from MGB (RJD 16, Congress 13 and Left parties six). As far as EBCs are concerned, RJD has given tickets to 26 of them, Congress (3) and Left parties (4). RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said his party had tried to give representation to all sections of the society. “Even among EBCs, we have given tickets to communities which had negligible representation, like ‘Lohar’. We are fighting this election on ideology and not castes and this is reflected in ticket distribution,” Gagan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/33-of-rjd-candidates-are-yadavs-congress-fields-48-from-upper-castes/articleshow/78708498.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 17, 2020||Bhopal||In battle of crorepatis, Imarti has double the assets of Raje||BHOPAL: In Dabra constituency, while both the candidates are crorepatis (worth Rs 10 million or more), they have another thing in common— both have educational qualifications only up to higher secondary or less. While the former Congress leader and now BJP candidate Imarti Devi has wealth almost double that of her opponent and Congress candidate Suresh Raje, she also has an edge over her rival formal education than him. Imarti Devi is 12th pass and has a net worth of Rs 3.7 crore while her rival from Congress Suresh Raje has a net worth of Rs 1.49 crore and is only Class 8th pass. BJP had fielded Imarti Devi, a minister in the present Shivraj Singh Chouhan government Congress has fielded Suresh Raje, her relative. Imarti is among the 22 rebel INC MLAs who had defected to BJP with Jyotiraditya Scindia, leading to the fall of the then INC government, the situation that has now led to by-polls. While Raje has informed in the affidavit that he does not own any weapon, Imarti Devi has informed that she owns a revolver. Both the leaders seem to have penchant for gold, as Imarti Devi has informed that she owns gold jewellery worth Rs 17 lakh, Raje has also informed that he owns gold jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh. Imarti Devi has declared her annual income is Rs 8.75 lakh, Raje has informed that his annual income is Rs 3.89 lakh. Imarti Devi as per the affidavit has no criminal cases against her, but Raje has said that he has been booked in one case under Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/in-battle-of-crorepatis-imarti-has-double-the-assets-of-raje/articleshow/78710243.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||TMC MP writes to govt on easing 6-city flight curbs||KOLKATA: Senior Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy has written to the state chief secretary, urging him to take fresh stock of the partial ban on flights from six Indian cities to Kolkata following a meeting with the airport operator and representatives of multiple airlines. The Dum Dum MP, who is chairperson of the Kolkata Airport Advisory Committee (AAC), said he was approached by representatives of multiple airlines at the meeting last Wednesday, explaining to him the need to restore flights to the city from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur to daily from thrice-a-week service at present. “The airline representatives said they were losing a lot of passengers and revenue due to the partial ban and requested me to take up the issue with the government. I have written to the state government to review the decision afresh depending on the current situation,” Roy told TOI. The flight count drops from 125-130 to 95-100 on days the restrictions are in place, with passenger count dipping by 6,000-7,000. In October, passenger flow has been in excess of 30,000 on the three allowed days. The ban on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur had been announced in July to stem the spread of the virus from cities with high incidence of Covid-19 cases. The blanket ban on flights was partially relaxed in September, when the state allowed thrice-a-week operations. At present, the flights operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Those with urgent business in Kolkata on Tuesdays, Thursday, Saturday or Sunday have to take flights via other cities. Around September-end, the authorities at Kolkata airport and the travel trade industry had pitched for the lifting of the curbs, citing the onset of the festive season with Durga Puja when Kolkatans residing in these six cities return to celebrate at home. Roy said he was satisfied with the sanitisation and social distancing measures at the airport. “The steps taken by the airport operator and airlines are extremely satisfactory. That is also a reason why I reasoned for the need to take a fresh decision on the partial ban of flights from the six cities to the airport,” he added. Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi and Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni had individually submitted letters to the state government, urging for the lifting of curbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-mp-writes-to-govt-on-easing-6-city-flight-curbs/articleshow/78710224.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 17, 2020||Hubballi||Police presence keeps visitors away from Chikhale Falls||BELAGAVI: It has been more than three years since the gruesome murder of journalist-activist Gauri Lankesh in Bengaluru, and police are still on the prowl for some of those involved in plotting her assassination. Information that her killers are allegedly lurking around Chikhale in Belagavi has resulted in police stepping up surveillance in and around the village. However, increased police activity has had an adverse impact on tourism activity in the region. The atmosphere of suspicion prevailing around the village is keeping tourists away from a popular hotspot in the border district. Following the arrest of Gauri Lankesh’s assailants, cops hauled them to Chikhale in Khanapur taluk, which is where they allegedly underwent training before proceeding to Bengaluru. A resort close to Chikhale Falls, where the alleged killers had stayed, was subsequently shut, and a checkpost set up close to the village by the forest department to keep an eye on those entering and leaving it. The increase in police monitoring, while irking locals, left tourists extremely wary of visiting the waterfall. The plentiful rain that Belagavi district has been blessed with in the past two years has meant that Chikhale Falls is in the flush of its cascading prowess, and the sight of the gushing waters is truly one for soe eyes. However, a tourist who visited the waterfall in the first week of October said that there were hardly 50 other visitors at the site. “Forest officers at the checkpost asked me several questions to verify my identity. I was asked to show my ID card before I was allowed to pass,” the visitor said. Chikhale resident and president of Khanapur APMC Sanjay A Patil said that cops and foresters prowled the village every day, with cameras in hand. “Increased police activity in the village is bound to make tourists think twice about visiting the waterfall. Many tourists from across Belagavi visit the waterfall during and immediately after the monsoon. But since most of them are aware of the situation, the number of people from within the district visiting Chikhale Falls has dwindled. Covid-19 has also added to the problem,” Patil told TOI. Chikhale gram panchayat member Appanna Gavade opined that the local tourism industry had suffered a setback for no fault of the locals. “That Chikhale became the epicentre of the probe into Gauri Lankesh’s death affected tourism in this region. Police questioned people coming to visit the waterfall, and the closure of the resort, which attracted tourists in droves, has had a very bad impact on the industry. The tourism department needs to chalk out new plans to bolster activities in Chikhale,” he added. A cop from Kankumbi, defending police department from these complaints, said that they were merely doing their duty to keep the forested area free from criminal activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-presence-keeps-visitors-away-from-chikhale-falls/articleshow/78711423.cms||Shreyas HS
October 17, 2020||Patna||250 in Patna to be booked under CCA: SSP||PATNA: Altogether 250 antisocial elements in Patna district are likely to be booked under the Bihar Crime Control Act (CCA) to prevent them from creating any law and order problem during the state assembly election. They would have to report before their police stations in the district. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said the proposal against the antisocial elements has been forwarded to the district administration and it would be cleared anytime soon for execution. Patna district has 14 assembly constituencies of which Mokama, Barh, Masaurhi (SC), Paliganj and Bikram would go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. Bakhtiyarpur, Digha, Bankipur, Kumhrar, Patna Sahib, Danapur, Maner and Phulwari (SC) in Patna district are among the 94 seats to go for polls in the second phase on November 3. Sharma said besides action under CCA, 15 notorious criminals had been shifted from Beur central jail to other districts as they might create trouble in the election. “At least 27 companies of paramilitary forces reached Patna and have been deployed in different areas. They are conduction flag marches at different locations for area domination and building confidence among the electors,” he said. SSP said that a large number of companies are yet to arrive in Patna which would take count of deployment to 10-15 companies in every assembly seat. Sharma said there would be reinforced deployment of paramilitary personnel in Masaurhi and Paliganj in Patna as precautionary measures as they had been Maoist affected earlier. “At least 100 booths these two constituencies would have strengthened security deployment,” he said. “There would be strategic deployment of security personnel on highrise buildings around a polling booth for security point of view,” the SSP said. He said borders would be sealed as per standard practice 24 hours before polling. Sharma said three flying squads and three static squads are functioning in each of the 14 assembly seats of Patna to check any attempt to influence the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/250-in-patna-to-be-booked-under-cca-ssp/articleshow/78705703.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||MC restores full-fledged booking of community centres||Chandigarh: The community centres across the city are once again open for booking by residents for any purpose other than political and religious. Following the Covid-triggered lockdown, the Chandigarh municipal corporation had restricted such bookings in March.According to an order of the civic body, the officials concerned of the e-Sampark centres have been asked to allow community hall bookings from Friday onwards.The move comes in the wake of numerous requests from the people to allow bookings not only for marriage parties and last rites ceremonies with limited gatherings but also for events like retirement parties, engagement ceremonies, birthday parties etc.“We have issued orders to start booking of the community centres for various functions and events following the SOPs (standard operating procedures) issued by the central government and the Chandigarh administration. Anyone found violating the SOPs during the function will be punished as per the legal provisions,” said Sorabh Arora, joint municipal commissioner, who heads the booking branch of the corporation.Sources in the civic body revealed that all bookings would be done through e-Sampark centres only.Since new community centres developed in the past few years are quite spacious and well designed, it is expected that people will prefer those instead of going for costly hotels and marriage palaces.BOX:Source of revenueThe community centres bring a significant amount of money to the municipal corporation. But, due to the pandemic, all bookings were halted and later the halls were allowed to be booked only for marriage and last rite ceremonies with limited gatherings, which did not fetch much revenue to the civic body. But now, with bookings for all purposes restored, the civic body expects to earn revenue at par with the pre-lockdown days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-restores-full-fledged-booking-of-community-centres/articleshow/78708502.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt warns against fake job ad||Gandhinagar: The labour and employment department has warned the public against a fraudulent recruitment advertisement that was published in newspapers on Thursday. The advertisement, issued in the name of one ‘Gujarat Employment Services’, invited applications from candidates for several government posts. The advertisement is clearly aimed at trapping unsuspecting applicants, a government statement said, adding that legal action will be initiated against the so-called recruitment agency. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-warns-against-fake-job-ad/articleshow/78710236.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Priests’ Covid test must at Kolkata's Bodyguard Lines||KOLKATA: Residents of the Alipore Bodyguard Lines — comprising kin of police, the weather department and some other central government employees — have planned to strictly adhere to safety rules during the Puja this year. While no resident will leave the compound between Panchami and Ekadasi, unless necessary, all three priests conducting the puja will have to undergo Covid test. The cooks who will arrive from Mayapur will also be tested. “We are not going to allow crowding near the idol. Those who will attend anjali will stand at a distance from the main pandal, six feet away from each other. The flowers used in anjali will be chemically treated. The bhog will be packed in plastic containers and distributed and there will be no cultural functions. The immersion, too, will take place in a local water body,” said an organizer who is also a senior official in the West Bengal police welfare board. About 100 volunteers have been selected for all the work and every time they have to come in contact with an outsider for necessary puja work or while distributing bhog, they will have to use sanitizer from a special vending machine being set up. Residents have also been told to attend the puja only if they wear masks and carry sanitizer. The steps, the residents agreed, are necessary given that several Covid cases have been reported from the Bodyguard Lines and Police Training School since May. “It is not merely about setting standards. It is also about our safety given that a vast section of men and women from here will be on duty on the roads this Puja,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/priests-cov-test-must-at-bodyguard-lines/articleshow/78709200.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Kosi commissioner and Buxar ADM removed||PATNA: Senior IAS officer K Senthil Kumar and additional district magistrate (ADM) Chandra Shekhar Jha were removed from their respective posts ahead of the state assembly election scheduled from October 28. The two officers will not be engaged in any election-related work. According to the notification issued on the directive of Election Commission (EC) and also from the state chief electoral officer (CEO), Kumar and Jha have been asked to assume charge in the general administration department till further orders. While Kumar, a 1996-batch IAS officer, is currently posted as divisional commissioner of Kosi, Jha is a Bihar administrative service officer and posted in Buxar district. Both the officers were transferred with immediate effect. Earlier, the EC had removed 2008-batch IAS officer K Dhanji, who was posted as excise commissioner, for his alleged laxity in discharge of his duty. The EC was unhappy over his role in containing the supply of illicit liquor in Bihar from outside despite total prohibition in the state. Senthil, a native of Tamil Nadu, had hogged the limelight when Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached his assets worth Rs2.51 crore located in Patna and Chennai in March 2018. He was then a member in the state revenue board. The ED’s move had come in the wake of a chargesheet submitted by the vigilance investigation bureau in connection with a case lodged against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The case was registered following a raid at his office in Patna Municipal Corporation where he was posted as commissioner. Jha, who is at present posted as additional collector-cum-additional district magistrate in Buxar, was also on the EC’s radar. Authoritative sources said the EC swung into action after receiving complaints about the two officers from people’s representatives about their role in the ensuing election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/kosi-commissioner-and-buxar-adm-removed/articleshow/78708435.cms||Ramashankar
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects pre-arrest bail to mom-in-law based on videos||MUMBAI: Relying on videos of “harassment’’ shot by a woman before her suicide, Bombay high court rejected a pre-arrest bail plea by her mother-in-law while underscoring the “gravity of the offence’’. The mother-in-law, accused of abettment of suicide and cruelty to wife under section 498(A) of Indian Penal Code, was seeking anticipatory bail for the July 7 death of her 30-year-old daughter-in-law here, who married in 2018. Her counsel Aabad Ponda pleaded that videos recording her last moments of life, when the mother-in-law was allegedly quarrelling with her, be viewed before passing orders. He said the mom-in-law was “avoiding her and threw a bedsheet on her to stop the quarrel’’. After hearing Sujit Shelar for the intervenor-complainant and state prosecutor S H Yadav, Justice Sarang Kotwal rejected the “unusual request’’, saying it was not a stage where HC can opine on contents of the video which can only be during trial. But the judge noted that the panchanama was detailed and described contents of the video vividly. HC relied on details of three video-recordings to say that it shows the quarrel, the shouting, and her requesting her husband to tell the mother-in-law to stop abusing. The husband was arrested, but the father-in-law was granted pre-arrest bail and mother-in-law similarly sought protection. HC said “instigation’’ was an important aspect for abetment and “the act on the part of the applicant certainly comes within the meaning of instigating any person to do that thing’’. It said section 306 of IPC (abetment of suicide) was applicable’’ and added that the “ultimate act of committing suicide was a result of continuous harassment’’ she had to “endure’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-to-mom-in-law-based-on-videos/articleshow/78710140.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Business||First state bond OMO for Rs 10,000 crore on October 22: RBI||MUMBAI: The RBI on Friday said it will conduct the first-ever open market operation (OMO) for state government bonds on October 22 worth Rs 10,000 crore and also assured more would be done as and when required. On October 9, in its post-monetary policy meeting, the RBI had said it will conduct OMOs for state bonds, the first such move by the central bank. The move is expected to lower the cost of borrowings for states and also indirectly help keep the rate of interest in the economy under check through yield management. The central bank’s notification on Friday shows that the RBI will buy bonds with tenures of 9 years and 10 years each, issued by 15 state governments, listed alphabetically from Andhra Pradesh to Maharashtra. Bonds issued by the remaining states will be in the next OMO, market players said. The RBI will purchase the state bonds through a multi-security auction using the multiple price method. “There is no security-wise notified amount,” the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/1st-state-bond-omo-for-rs-10k-cr-on-oct-22-rbi/articleshow/78710581.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: ‘NDA to share report card with people’||PATNA: The NDA on Friday announced that it will release its ‘report card’ containing the details of the work done by the Nitish Kumar government in state in the last 15 years. It will also narrate the work done by the Centre under PM Modi’s leadership. The report card will be shared with people across the state during the assembly polls. The three-phase election in the 243 assembly constituencies would be held on October 28, November 3 and 7, while the results will be declared on November 10. Making the announcement about the report card at a press conference, state health minister and BJP’s election management committee chairman Mangal Pandey said: “The report card will be for mass distribution among maximum number of people possible.” Among those present on the occasion included former Maharashtra CM and the BJP’s state election incharge Devendra Fadnavis, BJP’s publicity incharge and union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, JD(U) national general secretary and minister Sanjay Kumar Jha, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) spokesman Danish Rizwan and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) spokesman Vishwanath Ram, as well as state BJP general secretary Devesh Kumar. The party’s national media co-incharge and MLC Sanjay Mayukh conducted the programme. Ravi Shankar set the tone and tenor of the NDA’s stridency towards the opposition, including the RJD, when he, without taking the name of its CM face Tejashwi, said he was busy rearranging the photographs to be used on the banners and posters by dropping the posters of his parents Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi. “If they use the family photographs (read of Lalu, Rabri), it will remind the people of the atmosphere of ‘khauf’ (fear) marked by kidnapping, loot and corruption,” Ravi Shankar said, adding: “RJD was born to protect their leader (read Lalu) from corruption.” Citing his own personal experience, he said after he was attacked at Nokha, the police did not record his statement for two months. His statement could be recorded only after Nitish came to power. “In RJD, the generation has changed, but its basic nature and drive has remained unchanged,” JD(U) general secretary Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-to-share-report-card-with-people/articleshow/78716155.cms||Abhay Singh
October 17, 2020||Business||NCLAT asks auto parts company to settle row||CHENNAI: An appellate tribunal has asked for a negotiated settlement of a two-decade-long family dispute in 82-year-old Amalgamations Group, one of India’s oldest auto part makers. Scheduling the next hearing on November 26, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has given a final opportunity to Amalgamations and Shankar Sundaram, grandson of the company’s founder S Anantharamakrishnan, to reach a settlement. Sundaram, who holds 10% in the company, had levelled charges of oppression and mismanagement against the company, and had appealed against a ruling by the Chennai bench of NCLT, which did not find merit in Sundaram’s claims. His plea for a board seat in the company was also shot down by the NCLT. Amalgamations is the holding company of auto part makers including Simpson & Company, India Pistons, Amco Batteries and tractor maker Tafe. It was founded by S Anantharamakrishnan in 1938, who assembled Austin cars in India. After the death of Anantharamakrishnan in 1964, the shares were inherited by his descendants and their family members.Shankar inherited the 10% stake after the death of his mother Kalyani Sundaram in 1999, daughter of Anantharamakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nclat-asks-auto-parts-co-to-settle-row/articleshow/78710029.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
October 17, 2020||---||‘Nitish Asambhav’: Chirag’s battle cry to fight CM in Bihar polls||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan sharpened his attack on Bihar CM and JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar on Friday with his new battle cry, ‘Nitish Kumar Asambhav’. In an appeal to his party-men and supporters, Chirag said the time has come to fight Nitish. Chirag, who last week lost his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, said if he wanted to remain in power, he would have continued to side with Nitish. “I cannot see Bihar getting destroyed further. I cannot accept the leadership of Nitish Kumar,” Chirag said refuting the state BJP’s assertion on Nitish’s leadership. He will start campaigning for his party’s 143 candidates from October 21. Bihar BJP leaders, including state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, had made it clear while announcing the seat-sharing arrangement on October 6 that only those, who accept Nitish’s leadership will be part of NDA. The 37-year-old LJP chief, however, said state BJP leaders are giving such statements under pressure from Nitish as he is “scared” of LJP. “Although PM Modi is in my heart and I believe in his ideologies and development model, LJP is not using his photograph in its posters. Moreover, Nitish ji seems to be more desperate in using PM’s photos in his posters than anyone else. He knows there is heavy anti-incumbency against him and is probably thinking that PM Modi’s image might save him,” he told TOI on Wednesday. Amid the repeated attempts being made by Bihar BJP leaders to clarify that the saffron party is not in alliance with LJP in Bihar, Chirag has been maintaining that LJP is still in alliance with BJP at the Centre and the next government in Bihar will be formed by BJP-LJP under the leadership of the former. On Friday, Chirag also released a short video on a couplet earlier narrated by his father in the Lok Sabha, which read: “Zulm Karo Mat, Zulm Saho Mat. Jina Hai to Marna Sikho, Kadam- Kadam Par Ladna Sikho.” Asked about how far he thinks LJP can go from two MLAs in the current Assembly, Chirag told TOI, “As of now, my priority is to increase the percentage of votes polled for the party. It has plunged from 12.5% in 2005 when the party contested the election alone to around 5% in the last election. I think our voting percentage is more when we contest alone. Besides, I have the priority of defeating every candidate of JD (U) as even one vote to them will force our children into migration and deterioration of Bihar.” LJP releases second list: LJP on Friday released its second list of 53 candidates for the assembly polls. Maithil Brahmins and Bhumihars among other forward castes have been given sufficient number of seats, along with Dalits. Out of the candidates announced for 95 seats so far, LJP will be in friendly fight on five seats. Tickets have also been given to a few BJP and JD(U) turncoats. Besides, 16 women and 30 people under the age of 40 have been given tickets by LJP, which is contesting 143 seats. It has fielded maximum candidates on seats being contested by JD(U). Paswan’s ashes to be taken to all districts: LJP founder and ex-Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan’s ashes will be taken by party workers to all 38 districts, where they will pay tributes and immerse following rituals. Chirag told TOI that the last rites ceremony of senior Paswan will be held on October 19 at his ancestral village Shaharbanni in Khagaria district, where his father was born. “The ashes will be sent to every district upon request of party workers. Following the last rites rituals in Shaharbanni, Shradh ceremony will be held at Patna on October 20,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-asambhav-chirags-battle-cry-to-fight-cm-in-polls/articleshow/78708393.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Bodh Gaya set to witness ‘symbolic’ husband-wife fight||GAYA: At home, they are made for each other. However, when it comes to politics, they are rivals, at least on paper. Kumar Sarvjeet and his wife Seema Kumari have filed nomination papers from same constituency, Bodh Gaya. Sarvjeet is seeking re-election from Bodh Gaya as Grand Alliance (GA) candidate on the ticket of RJD, while Seema has filed nomination as independent. During scrutiny on October 9, papers of both were found admissible. The deadline for withdrawal of nomination elapsed on October 12, but none of the two withdrew their papers. Having tested Covid positive, Sarvjeet was undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. He, therefore, filed his paper through online mode instead of appearing physically in the office of returning officer of his constituency. Sarvjeet, who was elected from Bodh Gaya as RJD candidate in 2015, said, “I got myself admitted at AIIMS-Patna on October 1 from where I filed my nomination through online mode. Scared about my health condition and to avoid any risk of my nomination getting rejected, I asked my wife to file papers as independent.” He added, “Of course, she is my rival on paper. However, my wife has taken command of the campaigning in my favour along with my cousins and party activists. She is requesting people to vote for me. I have returned home after being discharged from the hospital. While distributing relief materials among migrant workers, some of my family members, including wife, had tested Covid positive. My mother died of the virus.” Apart from the husband-wife duo, former MP Hari Manjhi is in the fray as BJP candidate, while LJP has fielded ex-MLA Ajay Paswan from Bodh Gaya. Voting in Bodh Gaya is scheduled in the first phase on October 28, when 2,88,981 voters, including 1,38,655 women, will exercise their franchise. Regarding his priorities, Sarvjeet said, “Modified security arrangements in and around Bodh Gaya that do not disturb the business prospects of local businessmen is necessary. I will also work to open a college between Fatehpur and Tankuppa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bodh-gaya-set-to-witness-symbolic-husband-wife-fight/articleshow/78689385.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Patna||4 expelled from JD(U) for 6 years||PATNA: The JD(U) on Friday expelled its four senior leaders, including Rajgir MLA Ravi Jyoti Kumar, from the party for six years on charges of anti-party activities. The expelled leaders are contesting the assembly elections against the NDA’s official candidates. “Apart from Rajgir MLA, two former MLAs – Ram Chandra Sada and Lalan Ram –and the party’s Kaimur district organisational incharge Rajiv Ranjan Kumar alias Raju Gupta have been expelled from the party,” JD(U) state general secretary Navin Kumar Arya said. Sources said Ravi Jyoti had recently joined the Congress after denial of ticket by the JD(U). The Congress has now fielded him as its candidate from Rajgir (SC) seat. He is contesting against JD(U)’s Kaushal Kishor. A former police sub-inspector, Ravi Jyoti had quit the job in 2015 after JD(U) fielded him as its candidate from Rajgir assembly seat in 2015 polls. He defeated a BJP veteran and seven-term MLA, Satyadeo Narain Arya, in the 2015 elections. Arya is now governor of Haryana. Former MLA Ram Chandra Sada, who won Alouli (SC) seat on the JD(U) ticket in 2010 assembly polls, is contesting the current election from the same seat against JD(U)’s Sadhna Sada. Former MLA Lalan Ram alias Lalan Bhuiya, who won Kutumba (SC) seat in the 2010 polls, is contesting the current election from the same seat against the NDA’s official nominee. Sources in JD(U) said Raju Gupta was expelled from the party as he is contesting the assembly election from Dehri (Rohtas) seat against the NDA’s official candidate. Earlier on Tuesday, JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh had expelled 15 leaders from the party for six years on charges of anti-party activities. Those expelled on Tuesday were Dumraon MLA Dadan Singh Pehalwan, former MLAs Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha, Ranvijay Singh, Sumit Kumar Singh, Rameshwar Paswan, former women cell chief of JD(U) Kanchan Kumari Gupta, Pramod Singh Chandravanshi, Arun Kumar, Tazmul Khan, Amaresh Choudhury, Shiv Shankar Choudhury, Sindhu Paswan, Rakesh Ranjan, Mungeri Paswan and Kartar Singh Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-expelled-from-jdu-for-6-years/articleshow/78708472.cms||Madan Kumar
October 17, 2020||Patna||Navaratra celebrations begin today||PATNA: The auspicious nine-day ‘Navaratra’ begins on Saturday with ‘kalash sthapana’ and prayer ceremony on the first-day of the Durga Puja celebrations. Unlike previous years, people will miss the grand Durga Puja ‘carnival’ this year due to Covid-19 pandemic as the state government has imposed restrictions on organizing Ram Leela, dandiya or any other cultural activities. Even big pandals are also prohibited this Durga Puja, which would be celebrated in a simple manner. There would be no Ravan vadh either on Dussehra, which used to draw a huge crowd at the Gandhi Maidan to mark the end of the evil as well as the festival. Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Friday said police personnel have been deployed at every nook and corner to maintain social distancing during the festival. They would also ensure that the temples and puja committees adhere to the state government’s guidelines for the festival. “There will be no food stall, prasad distribution, bhoj or pandal at any place for Durga Puja. People will observe the festival at their homes while prayer ceremony is allowed only in temples. The use of toran and pandal on any theme is strictly restricted in view of Covid. Hand sanitiser should be used in temples during prayer ceremony and social distancing should also be maintained,” Ravi said.  “Police personnel will also be deployed at various locations to keep watch on any untoward incidents and look out for rumourmongers,” the DM added. As the Saptami is on Thursday when the devotees start having darshan of Durga idols after ‘pran pratistha’, the puja samitis are busy in preparation of small mandap to welcome the goddess. Sanjiv Prasad Toni, the chairperson of Navyuvak Sangh Shri Durga Puja Samiti said a small mandap has been made near the Dak Bunglow crossing, where ‘kalash sthapana’ would be held after the prayer service. “The celebration would take place in accordance to the state government’s guidelines,” he said.Ashok Chakravarty, the convener of Prachin Kalibadi Mandir, said goddess Durga idol would not be installed in the temple this time. “We are keeping the celebration simple. Only prayer service will be held and kalash would be placed with all the rituals (vidhi),” he said. The Bengali Akhara Durga Puja Samiti would install a four feet idol of Maa Durga on its premises. Ashok Ghoshal, the convener, said people can take blessing of goddess Durga on October 21 by maintaining social distance. “All arrangements would be made as per the guidelines for the containment of the virus. Hand sanitiser would also be given to the devotees,” he said. As per Drik Panchang, the shubh muhurat (auspicious time) for kalash sthapana is between 6.23am and 10.12am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/navaratra-celebrations-begin-today/articleshow/78705314.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: No local train service likely before Durga Puja||KOLKATA: The Union railway ministry is unlikely to allow public train services before Durga Puja. Despite demands from certain sections of the state for running local trains, the ministry felt it was not possible to finalize the dates so fast. According to sources, the ministry felt that once the services resume, stations may become overcrowded. Given the pandemic situation, the ministry wants to be cautious when starting local train operations again. Earlier this month, Eastern Railway had sent a letter to the state asking for a primary discussion over the modalities of running the local train services. According to a railway ministry official, ER and the state will have to jointly prepare a blueprint. Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta and BJP’s Lok Sabha MP Locket Chatterjee had sent a letter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal demanding resumption of local train services soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-local-train-service-likely-before-puja/articleshow/78709319.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Garbage generation dips by almost 227MT per day||NAGPUR: Even though partial commercial activities were allowed from June 5 and completely from September 5, the quantum of garbage collected in the city has reduced significantly. Garbage collected in September was 28,086.61 metric tonnes daily, while pre-lockdown it was 1,163.01MT. As per the data procured from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s solid waste management department, the city’s garbage generation dipped by almost 227MT per month in September compared to pre-lockdown. The civic body’s two garbage operators — AG Enviro and BVG India — collected 32,131.75MT in 31 days in March for a daily average of 1,036.50MT per day. The average collection was 1,255 metric tonne per day last year. NMC collected 1,180.52MT per day in January and 1,145.50MT per day in February or an average of 1,163.01MT daily. During the lockdown (March 21 to 31), garbage collection started witnessing a dip at 952.72MT per day. Of the 10 zones, Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli, Nehru Nagar and Mangalwari zones witnessed a sharp decline in the quantum of garbage generated by both residential and commercial properties. However, Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Lakadganj, and Ashi Nagar zones saw a sharp rise in waste generation. Laxmi Nagar zone witnessed a significant dip in garbage generation. In July, it generated 3,105.25MT waste per month which came down to 2,786.47MT in September. Waste generation, however, witnessed a sharp increase in Lakadganj zone. The zone had recorded 2947.43MT of garbage in July and witnessed a northward direction with 3379.09 MT garbage in September, the data revealed. Deputy municipal commissioner (SWM) Dr Pradip Dasarwar said that garbage generation has reduced significantly due to various reasons. Segregation of both dry and wet waste, too, has led to reduction in dumping of garbage in Bhandewadi yard, he added. “The practice of preparing compost from kitchen waste has also increased since the lockdown,” pointed out Dasarwar. Sources, however, attributed the sharp decline in garbage generation to irregularities by both the firms who were also lifting mud. Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari and west Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, too, exposed such practices in the recent past. FACTS TO THE FORE Last year: 1,255 Pre-lockdown: 1,163.01 Post-lockdown: 936.22 Jan ’20: 1,180.52 Feb: 1,145.50 Mar: 1,036.50 Lockdown from Mar 21 Mar 1-20: 1,082.59 Mar 21-31: 952.72 Apr: 912.62 May: 925.32 June: 920.53 July: 930.19 Aug: 919.21 Sept: 936.22 (Figures in metric tonnes per day)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/garbage-generation-dips-by-almost-227mt-per-day/articleshow/78707371.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 17, 2020||Allahabad||HC orders govt not to demolishproperties till disposal of appeals||Prayagraj: In an important judgment, the Allahabad HC has directed the state government authorities not to demolish constructions raised on private properties till the interim application filed in statutory appeals is disposed of by the authorities concerned. The court directed the state authorities to wait for taking any action for actual demolition till the statutory period of appeal comes to an end. Besides, the court directed that the appellate authority be empowered under the U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 as well as UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-orders-govt-not-to-demolishproperties-till-disposal-of-appeals/articleshow/78708070.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||AAP releases manifesto, to fight max seats||Jaipur: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday released their manifesto for the civic polls. Party’s state spokesperson Deepak Mishra said the party would be contesting on maximum seats this year. Jaipur division in-charge Amit Sharma Leo said people were affected badly because of corruption and malpractices in Jaipur Municipal Corporation. “If AAP forms the board, attention will be given to CCTV, cleanliness by cutting-edge equipment, relaxations in UD tax etc,” he said.Jaipur general secretary Mubarak Ali said the dictatorial attitude of corporation officials in the name of licenses of dhabas and restaurants will end. Women state secretary Chandramukhi said the party would implement free toilet facility in every market for women. AAP secretary Amit Chauhan, Jatin Gehlot and Afzal Khan from Youth Wing said facilities such as free parking and health insurance for cleaning workers will be introduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aap-releases-manifesto-to-fight-max-seats/articleshow/78711470.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal parking & sanitation Adarsh Nagar’s major woes||Jaipur: The residents of various wards in Adarsh Nagar assembly segment are peeved over the apathy of councillors in resolving their problems. Illegal parking, sewerage and dirty lanes are some of the important civic issues here.Many residents alleged that various wards are suffering from basic amenities. They said that they have requested the councillors to resolve their problems, however, it fell on deaf ears. The only time they visit us is during elections and make a lot of promises. However, they never fulfill there assurances, they said.In Johari Bazaar, people are forced to pay high fees for parking. Manisha Goyal, a resident of Johari Bazaar, said that for the last five years, we are facing sanitation and sewerage problems.“Sanitation workers do not visit congested lanes and garbage lifting vehicles can’t enter. Decades-old sewerage lines get choked often. Every five years, local politicians assure us, but once elections are over, they never visit our places,” said Goyal.Residents in the Adarsh Nagar legislative assembly area will never forget the time of August 14 when flood-like situation made their lives miserable. Many of them blamed outdated drainage system in the area. This year, none of the dirty lanes in the Walled City areas were cleaned. Even, the tenders to clean the drains of the city were not given on time.Residents of Laal Dungri area where more than 100 houses submerged under mud after the August 14 rainfall, we are still waiting for compensation. In Adarsh Nagar, where civic life is better with wide roads and street lights, residents complaint about not making roads properly.“Officials just do carpeting on roads instead of starting the work from scratch. Due to this, level of road is rising and foundation of houses is going down. Most of the houses are now five to 8 inches lower than what they used to be,” said Sushil Aggarwal. This assembly is a close call between the BJP and the Congress. In 2014, the saffron party had won five wards out of 10, while Congress was able to get three and rest went to independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-parking-sanitation-adarsh-nagars-major-woes/articleshow/78711473.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||17-year-old girl held captive, gang-raped||Ludhiana: A 17-year-old girl was held captive and gang-raped for four days by her neighbour and his friend.The minor said in her police complaint, “The main accused was my schoolmate and neighbour. After befriending me, he introduced me to his mother and said he wanted to marry me. In August, on my birthday, he asked me to meet him. When we met at a restaurant on Tajpur Road, he told me that he had my morphed pictures. He sought money to not upload those on social media and said he did not want to marry me.”The girl stole money from her house and gave it to the accused. “One day, he sought Rs 20,000 to buy a motorcycle. When I refused, he started threatening me. I stole my mother’s gold earrings, sold them and gave the money to him,” she added.On October 10, the accused called her up and asked her to meet him the next morning. “He threatened to kill my brother if I did not come. Without telling anyone, I left home in the morning of October 11. He picked me up on his bike and took me to a house. There, he raped me. He would come there every day, give me food and sexually assault me. When leaving, he would lock the door from outside. One day, his friend came there and raped me. On the night of October 14, when the accused left, he forgot to lock the main door. I escaped from there, reached home and told my parents about it,” she said. ASI Japal Singh said a case was registered on Thursday under sections 363 (kidnapping), 366-a (procuration of minor girl), 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) against the main accused. His friend has been booked for rape. A case under section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the main accused’s mother. The suspects were on the run. “It will be ascertained after the arrest whether the main accused is a minor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/17-year-old-girl-held-captive-gang-raped/articleshow/78708562.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Industrial area boards re-formed||GANDHINAGAR: After experimenting with the idea of giving local industries management powers in 22 major notified industrial areas, the state government has decided to once again exercise control over management of these areas.  The government issued a circular last week under which the governing boards of all major notified industrial areas will be reconstituted. The role of local industries will be reduced and local officers of the Gujarat Industries Development Corporation (GIDC) will be appointed in charge of industrial areas.  By this circular, boards will be reconstituted in 22 industrial notified areas like Vasna (Borsad), Nadesari, Vaghodia, Por-Raman Gamdi, Kalol (Panchmahal), Bharuch, Ankleshwar, Panoli, Valia GNFC, Sachin, Vapi, Valsad, Sarigam, Umargam, Kalol (North Gujarat), Chatral (Gandhinagar), PCC, Vadodara, GSFC, Vadodara, Hazira, GSFC (Jamnagar Sikka Unit), Valia, Jhagadia and others.  Moreover, the state government has bifurcated industrial areas on the basis of size. Industrial areas with a size of above 500 hectares will be managed by regional GIDC directors, while those which are less than 500 hectares will be managed by an officer appointed by the local government body.  The president and secretary of industry associations will be members of the new boards, but will not have the authority they earlier had. About three years ago, the government had experimented with the idea of giving local industries management powers of industrial estates.  A key government officer said, “The government intended to give all management powers of industrial areas to local industries, but it was observed that dominant industries attempted to harm the interests of competing local industries. In order to ensure that such occurrences do not happen in future, and to bring objectivity in functioning of notified industrial areas, we have decided to reconstitute the boards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industrial-area-boards-re-formed/articleshow/78710339.cms||Kapil Dave
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Tainted tehsildar on panel for violations near Katepurna sanctuary||NAGPUR: Three months after illegal extraction of murrum and gravels in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the Katepurna Wildlife Sanctuary in Akola district, the authorities have set up three committees to fix responsibilities. The decision was taken at the joint meeting on October 14 with the district collector and divisional forest officer (DFO) for territorial. Both the officials are respectively chairman and member-secretary of the ESZ monitoring committee. Whistleblower Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul has termed these committees an eyewash as those who have been named in these committees are themselves involved in blatant violation of Supreme Court orders prohibiting any sort of mining in ESZ. Sheikh alleged that over 600-800 truckload of murrum was extracted from survey number 45 in Waghgad on the south-eastern part of the sanctuary in July-August. TOI reported the scam on September 29. Complicating matters, the three committees include one to probe extraction, another related to tree felling and one for identifying to whom the area where the extraction took place belongs. “It is shocking that Barshitakli tehsildar Gajanan Hanmad, who allowed road construction company Swami Samarth Engineering (Pune) to extract material has been named as member-secretary of the extraction committee,” said Sheikh. The whistleblower doubts whether justice will prevail. “ACF (wildlife) Vasanta Sable, who submitted a false report on the illegal extraction, RFOs Santosh Dange, and Bhanudas Pawar, all of whom turned a blind eye to the violations are part of the other committees. How will you expect justice?,” said Sheikh. Regarding his complaint, Sheikh said, “I had filed the complaint on August 23 after learning about the illegalities, but committees have been set up two months later. The illegal extraction has also been done in the sanctuary area as boundary pillars were also uprooted but senior officials are silent on the issue and are just pushing papers.” Akola DFO Vijay Mane justified the decision. “There is no doubt that there have been serious violations. We have given representation to all departments and committees have been criss-crossed so that the ball is not kept rolling like it is happening now. All the three committees have been told to submit reports in one week. Responsibilities will be fixed,” said Mane. The Supreme Court directions in such cases are very clear. The final ESZ notification of Katepurna (73sqkm) is yet to be published. In view of the ESZ delay, the default area of 10km is treated as ESZ. Proposals involving mining of minerals within the ESZ or one kilometre from the boundaries of national parks and sanctuaries, whichever is higher, is prohibited as per SC order of August 4, 2006, in the matter of TN Godavarman Thirumulpad vs Union of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tainted-tehsildar-on-panel-for-violations-nr-katepurna-sanc/articleshow/78707406.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Reopen parks, say residents||Coimbatore: While the state government has relaxed lockdown norms and restarted bus operations and opened malls, people want the government to reopen parks also. S Muruganantham, 64, of Venkapuram, who had been walking regularly at Bharati Park, said he is forced to walk on the road. “Vehicular movement starts to increase from 7am and it becomes extremely difficult to use the roads. Along with traffic, air pollution also increases,” he said. Doctors have prescribed walking on a regular basis, Muruganantham said. “People like me had no issue when the parks were open as we could walk even after 8am.” “Now, the parks need maintenance. The corporation should clean them before opening them. The civic body should have taken steps to maintain them,” he added. S Anand of Vadavalli agreed. “As parks are closed, most of the elderly people – who are advised to walk at least for a few minutes – are forced to walk on the road. It is not safe. When the government has relaxed the lockdown norms and reopened beauty parlours, shopping complexes and gyms, why is it reluctant to open parks?” Elderly people and women will have a safer option if parks are opened, said V Mahendran of Alamu Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/reopen-parks-say-residents/articleshow/78710284.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||On Day 3, 23 nominees file poll papers||Jaipur: On the third day of filing nominations for the municipal corporation polls in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, 25 nominations were filed by 23 candidates. In all, 33 candidates have filed 36 nomination papers in three days. Of the total, three nominations were filed by 2 candidates (Wards 65, 48) in Jaipur Heritage and four nominations were filed by 4 candidates (Wards 11, 16, 41, 102) in Jaipur Greater municipal corporation.Meanwhile, five nominations were filed by five candidates in Jodhpur North and seven nominations were filed by 7 candidates in Jodhpur South municipal corporation. In Kota North, two candidates have filed two nominations and in Kota South, four nominations were filed by three candidates.Jaipur Collector and and district election officer Antar Singh Nehra on Friday directed the officials to take strict action against those officers who absent themselves from special poll training sessions without any valid reason.He also warned those officers who try to get their poll duties cancelled through recommendations. He expressed displeasure over employees not attending the special training sessions. “Many are submitting applications requesting to get their poll duties cancelled, but they are not citing valid reasons. Such employees should also be prepared for facing strict action,” said Nehra.He also directed the officials to appoint extra officers in the election cells in the polling teams. He also said 1,000 women employees should be given election training. He also appointed 400 government school principals as Covid master trainers for creating awareness about precautionary measures.Rs 30L for kin of deceased on poll duty: Rs 30 lakh for families of deceased: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday approved the proposal to give an ex-gratia grant of Rs 30 lakh to the families of the employees, who die due to Covid during poll duty. This will be applicable for panchayat and other elections in the state. The proposal was sent to the government by the state election commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-day-3-23-nominees-file-poll-papers/articleshow/78711477.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Bhopal||Battle of MBAs in Surkhi, BJP’s Rajput takes on Congress’s Parul Sahu||BHOPAL: The battle for Surkhi assembly seat is witnessing a stiff contest between two MBAs— Govind Rajput of BJP and Parul Sahu of Congress. They are old rivals having contested against each other in the 2013 assembly elections but from different parties. This time, both have changed their parties, Rajput to BJP and Sahu to the Congress. Rajput was among the 22 rebel MLAs of INC who had defected to BJP with Jyotriaditya Scindia leading to the fall of the then Kamal Nath government. Congress had fielded Parul Sahu who was a BJP MLA till 2018 and was not given a party ticket by BJP in 2018. Both are post-graduates in management as per their affidavit submitted before EC, albeit with a minor difference that Govind Rajput is a PG from India while Parul Sahu is a PG in management from UK. Rajput as per his affidavit had pursued MBA from Punjab Technical University, while Sahu had pursued MBA from University of East London, UK. Both the candidates are crorepatis, as per the affidavit, the total worth of assets owned by Govind Singh Rajput and his spouse is around Rs 5.39 crore, Parul Sahu’s net worth, along with spouse is also Rs 7.77 crore. Govind Singh has informed in the affidavit that he owns a revolver, a rifle and a gun, while Parul Sahu does not own any weapon. Neither of them have any criminal cases against each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/battle-of-mbas-in-surkhi-bjps-rajput-takes-on-congs-parul-sahu/articleshow/78710341.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nashik||I-T department unearths Rs 20 crore from 6 traders||NASHIK: The Income Tax (I-T) department has unearthed unaccounted income amounting to Rs 20 crore and documents from six of the 12 big onion traders in Nashik district whose offices and residences were searched in the last two days. “The unaccounted income is expected to increase after the investigation of all the documents that have been seized during the searches is completed,” sources in the I-T department said on Friday. Eighteen teams of I-T officials from Nashik, Pune and Aurangabad conducted conducted the search operation from 3pm on Wednesday to Thursday late night. “We have found some traders involved in showing bogus expenses to show less profit,” said the sources. The seized documents showing transactions will be verified to find out if taxes were evaded,” said the sources “It will be too early to comment on the unaccounted income of the onion traders. There are also some legal procedures that are yet to take place,” said Nandakumar Daga, president, Lasalgaon onion traders association. Daga said he is disappointed as onion traders only from Lasalgaon are targeted by the I-T department always. Ten of the 12 traders whose premises were searched are from Lasalgaon and one each from Pimpalgaon and Nashik city. The I-T search operation was conducted to check if traders were hoarding onions or indulging in black marketing, following a sharp increase in the prices at the wholesale markets, especially Lasalgaon APMC, in Nashik district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/i-t-dept-unearths-rs-20cr-from-6-traders/articleshow/78707413.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Viewers trickle in but hall owners keep fingers crossed||KOLKATA: Over 200 viewers turned up for the premiere of ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’ at the evening show of Priya. This was a massive jump from the number of viewers who had turned up at Priya for the morning show of ‘Kedarnath’. They were happy that viewers had started trickling in while most city theatre owners couldn’t manage a three-digit occupancy on Friday. Satadeep Saha, distributor of ‘Kedarnath’, who also attended the premiere at Priya, was happy with the turnout. “This is an impressive turnout during the pandemic. Even the sale figures of ‘Kedarnath’ are better than expected. At New Cinema in Cooch Behar, the sale figure for ‘Kedarnath’ on Thursday was Rs 11,000. For a two-year-old film, this is unprecedented,” said Saha. However, the scene at Sealdah’s Prachi theatre wasn’t flattering. Only five viewers turned up for the first show of ‘Kedarnath’. Its owner, Vidisha Basu, didn’t expect any better since the film was old and there were no promotions. She didn’t rule out the chances of a few dropping in a theatre for other reasons than love for an old film. Basu is worried about maintaining of social distancing once the lights are put out. “The evening show had to be cancelled because of no viewers. But I don’t know what can be done if we have just a few viewers in a big theatre. We have CCTV cameras but what can be done if people sit together in the darkness?” Basu asked. Priya’s owner Arijit Dutta too is worried about that. “We can monitor at the beginning and intermission. But it is impossible for us to spot who is flouting the norms and sitting together. Even a mother with two kids might want all her family members to sit together. I apprehend major friction brewing if we stop them,” Dutta said. Amit Sengupta, manager of Humayan Properties Ltd that runs New Empire, said some 30 viewers watched the first show of ‘Chhichhore’.Meanwhile, Menoka couldn’t open on Friday because of pricing problems with digital cinema distribution networks. Its owner, Pranab Kumar Roy, said, “If all goes well, Menoka will begin screening from Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/viewers-trickle-in-but-hall-owners-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/78710300.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Two tourists from Rajasthan killed near Atal tunnel||MANALI: Two tourists from Rajasthan were killed and two others sustained injuries after the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge at Dhundi near the south portal of Atal tunnel. According to Kullu SP Gaurav Singh, police received information from Dhundi that a car (RJ32CA3448) fell near Dhundi bridge. “Four persons were in the car which was being driven by Amit Singh Chauhan, resident of Jaipur. Amit and Mohit died on the spot while Ajeet Rawat and Nikhil sustained injuries and were rushed to a hospital in Manali. We are investigating the reasons behind the accident,” he said. According to sources, the car may have met with the accident in the night but nobody noticed it until Friday morning when some local people saw the car and its occupants including two bodies. A large number of road accidents, all because of rash driving and human negligence, have been reported from the tunnel and it’s approach roads since October 3 when it was dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thousands of people are visiting the tunnel every day. Hundreds of vehicles are making beeline to the tunnel. While some people are returning back from tunnel, most visitors are going to Lahaul valley. Both Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti police are dealing strictly with traffic rules violators. Hundreds of vehicles have been challaned this month. Even then rash and dangerous driving has become a headache for the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-tourists-from-rajasthan-killed-near-atal-tunnel/articleshow/78711480.cms||Suresh Sharma
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: AG Enviro terminates services of 140 workers||NAGPUR: Unable to bear the establishment expenditure of excess employees, AG Enviro Infra Project Pvt Ltd, one of the door-to-door garbage lifting companies, has terminated 140 employees. In the termination letters, the firm cited severe financial crisis since the last six months. Sources, however, said that both the firms — AG Enviro Infra Project Pvt Ltd and BVG India —have appointed 719 excess employees from the previous employer Kanak Resources and Management Limited (KRML), which was running the operations with a 1,492 workforce. AG Enviro has a staff strength of 1,257, while BVG has a workforce of 954 employees, added sources. TOI has learnt that AG Enviro appointed excess staff due to pressures from leaders of various political parties. Following the development, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s solid waste management deputy commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar issued show cause notice to the firm citing irregularity in door-to-door garbage collection. Shiv Sena MLC Dushyant Chaturvedi met municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and demanded reinstatement of all the sacked employees. Strongly condemning the layoffs, Shiv Sena city coordinator Nitin Tiwari termed the AG’s action inhuman. “Given the pandemic situation, it will be very difficult for the sacked workers to get jobs. Terminating them just before the festival season is very disappointing,” said Tiwari. Sources in the NMC’s sanitation department said that the ousted firm KRML had been doing door-to-door garbage collection with a manpower strength of 1492 workers which included office staff. However, the new firms — AG Enviro Infra Project Pvt and BVG India — which took over from Kanak in November 2019, have been doing the same work with a workforce of 2211 workers, including office staff. Sources said that most of the terminated employees were appointed because of pressure from various parties, including the BJP and Congress. It has become difficult to continue the services, said a representative from the firm. “The firm, however, gave all the termination benefits to the discontinued employees which included two month salary, retrenchment compensation, two year bonus, leave encashment and one month notice pay salary,” the official said. The official, however, refuted the charge of not lifting door-to-door garbage daily and said their efforts have helped the NMC to improve its ranking in the Swachh Bharat Survey. Responding to a query, the official said that the firm did not sack any employee during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The firm has taken the decision (to terminate employees) now,” the official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ag-enviro-terminates-services-of-140-workers/articleshow/78707393.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: DCP proposes body cameras for traffic cops on duty||NAGPUR: With a view to keep a tab on traffic constables’ activities, the deputy commissioner for police (traffic) has proposed to procure 1,000 body-worn cameras that would be attached to their uniform. In an affidavit filed before the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali stated that the cameras would be effective in monitoring constables’ performance and also protect them from false allegations/complaints. “With a view to ensure minimization of obstruction in discharge of official duties to traffic police constabularies and also to maintain transparency and accountability, such cameras would be provided to them along with other beat marshals and those in police stations,” he said. The affidavit was submitted in response to HC slamming constables for remaining engaged on mobile phones while ignoring rampant traffic violations in the city. The HC’s censuring came while hearing a suo motu PIL (No7/2019) on rampant traffic violations where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed as amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. After a review meeting on October 5, the commissioner of police (CP) had instructed DCP to constitute ten flying squads, one in each zone, to start enforcement of traffic rules on war footing and deal with violations. “The mandate of these squads would primarily include monitoring and supervising activities of traffic controllers. Its members can also take action against vehicles jumping signals, two-wheelers driving without helmets or triple seat, fancy number plates, riding on opposite carriageways, black films on vehicle windows and using mobile phones while driving,” Sali said. This flying squad would directly operate under the DCP, who will have day-to-day supervision on them. The DCP was told to have surprise elements regarding spots of enforcement during drives to ensure that the presence of this squad was felt across the city. Sali said he had directed every traffic zone to have another flying squad under the police inspector for specifically acting against illegal parking and abandoned vehicles. “This squad would take care of all haphazard, illegal and corner parking in all zones. The members are told to comply with the home department’s circular of October 9, 2018, for disposing of abandoned vehicles. The inspector was told to personally monitor the squad’s action and rotate duty of its members to avoid developing vested interests while undertaking no-parking drives,” he added. The DCP had suspended a woman constable who was found engaged on a mobile phone while on duty at Mohammed Rafi Square by the HC judge, and departmental proceedings were also initiated against her. The CP had instructed City Operating Centre (COC) officials to identify traffic violators through CCTV cameras and effectively use a public address system for ensuring decongestion at signals. They were also told to periodically check all 158 squares for ensuring that the traffic cops are on duty. He told the DCP to coordinate with NMC for finalizing tender for towing van for enforcing no-parking. “Various drives have been started in last one month against violators. Total 83,116 cases are registered that are three times higher than those in September 2019 which were 28,391,” Sali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcp-proposes-body-cameras-for-traffic-cops-on-duty/articleshow/78707411.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Elocutionist Pradip Ghosh dies of Covid||KOLKATA: Veteran elocutionist Pradip Ghosh died of Covid at his Jodhpur Park home on Friday. He was 78. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, mourning his demise, wrote: “He was a shining star in the art of elocution. He has worked as a joint director in the state information and cultural affairs department. My condolences for Pradip Ghosh’s family and fans.” A leading elocutionist since the late 1960s, Ghosh worked towards popularizing the art to the hilt, with his live performances and scores of albums recorded in cassettes and CDs. The social media was agog with condolences since Friday morning as the news of his untimely demise spread. People posted pictures of the celebrated elocutionist who was well known for his inimitable style of recitation. The state government in 2017 awarded Ghosh the ‘Kaji Sabyasachi award’ for his contribution to the field of performing art. Ghosh started his career, reciting with Kaji Sabyasachi, who was the son of celebrated poet Kaji Nazrul Islam. “Tagore is my first love,” Ghosh would say as he honed a unique, everyday style of performing the bard’s poetry, especially those penned for children. He was inspired by his father Chinmay Jiban Ghosh and started reciting poems before he learned to read or write. He delved deep into the lines he uttered, presenting cultural programmes on Tagore abroad as well as different other Indian cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elocutionist-pradip-ghosh-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78710342.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 17, 2020||Allahabad||City markets, temples buzz with activity as Navratri begins today||Prayagraj: Preparations for Navratri, the nine-day festivities slated to begin from Saturday, are in full swing in the city. All the markets and shops selling items that are offered to Goddess Durga, have been witnessing heavy turnout of devotees since Friday evening. While Chaitra Navratri was a low-key affair this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, markets are buzzing with activity again as Sharda Navratri has fallen post Unlock 5.0. Several temples of the city were also seen gearing up as the nine-day festival begins from Saturday. Puja and havan items such as coconuts, bangles, red chuniri, incense sticks, dry sticks sold like hot cakes on Friday evening. Similarly, shops selling CDs also made brisk business by selling video and audio CDs of devotional songs dedicated to Goddess Durga. Devotees were seen giving final touches to the decoration and making other arrangements in all the big of small Durga temples of the city, including Kalyani Devi temple, Alopibagh and Lalita Devi (one of the 51 Shakhti Peeths of the country). Strictly following the Covid protocol, the temples have sanitised their premises and made arrangements to thermally scan each devotee and sanitise their hands before allowing entry. Meanwhile, many restaurants and sweet shops across the city have stocked up items for Navratri thalis, which are very popular among all devotees, even those who aren’t fasting. “A Navratri thali usually consists of Kuttu ki roti/puri, fried potatoes, swang ke chawal, saboodane ki tikki or khichdi, kheer, saboodana papad and pakodas,” said Raju Jaiswal, owner of a renowned restaurant in Civil Lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-markets-temples-buzz-with-activity-as-navratri-begins-today/articleshow/78708121.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Varanasi||Double murder case: Man kills mother, nephew; 5 held||Gorakhpur: The Gorakhpur police on Friday arrested five accused of double murder within 16 hours from a garden behind Bansmandi under Shahpur police station area in Gorakhpur and recovered two knives with blood stains, clothes of two accused with blood stains and a motorcycle (UP 53AK0962) which was used in escaping from the crime scene, SSP Gorakhpur Jogendra Kumar said during a press conference on Friday. All accused are of Shahpur area and they are booked under sections 302 (murder) and 120 B (whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of IPC. The arrested accused are Vishal Singh, Golu Vishwakarma, Virendra Singh, Ranjana wife of Vishal Singh, and BN Singh aka Bhrigunath Singh. As per reports, main accused Vishal Singh along with his friend Golu Vishwakarma killed his mother Chanda Singh, 60, and nephew, Naitik Singh, 14, on Thursday with two sharpedged knives. Before killing them he shared his plan with his father Virendra Singh, wife Ranjana and brother-in-law BN Singh and they agreed to his plan. During interrogation, accused Vishal Singh told police that his mother Chanda Singh, sister Soni Singh and nephew Naitik Singh on October 12 came to live in his father’s house, he made a plan to kill them and shared his plan with his father, wife and brother-in-law and they all agreed. He called his friend Telai Vishwakarma and along with him he executed the murders with knives kept at home. They hid the blood-stained knives and the blood -stained clothes in almirah and escaped, the SSP said. Virendra Singh is a retired railway employee. Deceased Chanda Singh was living separately from her husband in a rented house at Pachpedwa for the past seven years, and three days before after compromise with his husband and son, she returned with her grandson. Soni used to visit them regularly, but at the time of murder she was not in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/double-murder-case-man-kills-mother-nephew-5-held/articleshow/78708622.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Demand low, artisans settle for PoP Durga idols due to shortage of time||LUCKNOW: Every September, Raju Singh’s workshop bustled with activity with workers from Kolkata moulding clay idols, his children helping in making small intricate carvings, and customers coming in to book their orders. This time, it doesn’t feel like the festival is nearing, thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, with paucity of time and little or no availability of material required to prepare idols, sculptors are using plaster-of-Paris (PoP) to make idols for Durga Puja beginning from October 21. “There has been shortage of material for five months. Since artists from Kolkata prepare Durga idols, they bring the material, especially clay from the banks of river Ganga, and other stuff from Kolkata itself. As they are not here this time, we are facing difficulty. I had prepared a few 5ft Durga idols from the material left after Ganesh Utsav, but since we didn’t receive any information regarding the festival till September, we thought there would be no celebration this time,” said Singh. “Since the guidelines came considerably late, we were short of time and orders came rushing in, especially from small-scale pandals. We had to settle for PoP which can be moulded and can dry faster,” added Singh. Idol maker Rakesh in Talkatora said they start ordering raw material in March but due to lockdown they couldn’t do so. “Orders for stacks of bamboo poles, mud, dry grass, hay, wood, decorative items, ornaments, all of which that goes in idol making comes from different places. We did away with PoP four years ago, but since its is affordable, and doesn’t require much time, it is back in demand,” he said. Kanchan, an idol maker in Saadatganj, is taking the natural way and preparing idols from mud or clay brought from Kakori. “Local artisans have been bringing raw material from Kakori. So far we have prepared 45 idols. It takes time for clay to settle down but we have been using fire and high-speed fans to dry them fast. Hopefully, all idols will be delivered timely,” she added. Business hot severely: Business is down for idol makers in the city as demand for large idols has dropped. Idol makers say they are staring at a grim future, with very few orders to mark Durga Puja. Instead 10-13ft idols for puja pandals every year, this time only small idols of 4-6ft with minimal material are being ordered. Artisans say that their business is hit with an approximate 60% drop in domestic orders. Since idol making is a capital-intensive business, artisans fear they will not be able to pay bank loans in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/demand-low-artisans-settle-for-pop-durga-idols-due-to-shortage-of-time/articleshow/78711484.cms||Aditi Singh
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Building supplanting heritage house razed||Ahmedabad: The AMC on Friday demolished 4,811 sq ft of illegal construction that was coming up on the site of a razed heritage building. The demolition was carried out in the Shaikh Munjal Mohalla. AMC officials said the heritage building that had been razed was a Grade III structure. The officials said the construction of ground, first, and second floors of the new building had been under way. The officials said that the corporation had issued a notice ordering the construction to be halted; the notice was ignored. The AMC had then sealed the site, but the construction continued with the owners breaking the corporation’s seal. The officials said that since the site is in a sensitive area, the AMC had ensured adequate police protection. The officials said that to promote the conservation of heritage buildings in the city, the AMC has decided to give additional FSI to the owners of such buildings. The owners can sell the same and use the amount received for the maintenance of the buildings. But in many cases, the owners sell the houses to facilitate commercial construction. A senior officer said that the illegal construction has called into question the vigilance of the field officer. The officer said the AMC ground staff should have lodged a police complaint against the owners immediately after the seal was broken. On Friday, across the city, the AMC freed up 20,800 sq ft area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/building-supplanting-heritage-house-razed/articleshow/78710372.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: FIR against khap members for ostracising man for 12 years||UDAIPUR: An FIR was registered against 21 members of the Dangis Patel panchayat in Shambupura police station in Chittorgarh district on Friday for alleged social boycott of a 65-year-old man for 12 years. Shivlal, a resident Nimbahera tehsil, complained to the police that the khap panchayat members in a meeting held on September 30 passed the ‘hukka pani bandh’ diktat and ordered that whoever kept any social interaction with him or his family would have to pay a fine of Rs 1.10 lakh. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said the complaint has been registered and an investigation is underway. Shivlal said he stood against child marriages and ‘mausar’/mrityubhoj ritual (feast held on death of a family member). On July 30, the panchayat meeting was held at Mahadev temple where the members were asked for their opinion on continuation of these practices in the community and Shivlal opposed it strongly. They warned Shivlal that whoever opposed the panchayat decision would have to pay a heavy price. The panchayat reserved its decision for the next meeting scheduled for September 30 at the same place. On the decided date everyone met and the khap panchayat ordered social boycott of Shivlal and his family. He also told the police that the diktat was not just oral but even recorded in the ‘bhaat-ki-pothi’ which is a traditional document for maintaining panchayat decisions. The elderly man filed a complaint at the police station and on Thursday when he knew that the panchayat members were secretly holding a meeting, he went there with policemen. On seeing the cops, the men left the place hurriedly. On Friday, the complaint was registered under Sections 384 and 500 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/fir-against-khap-members-for-ostracising-man-for-12-yrs/articleshow/78711487.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: More than 1,900 cops promoted as per seventh pay commission||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has brought some cheer in the force by ensuring 2,250 cops, including 1,935 being promoted, under the benefits of seventh pay commission which was implemented in March last year. Kumar on Friday promoted 392 head constables who had completed 30 years of services. Another 623 Naik police constables, having completed 20 years of service, were also promoted. Around 1,000 constables were promoted after having completed minimum 10 years of services. CP has also sanctioned the third benefit of the pay commission to 395 assistant sub-inspectors who had completed 30 years of their service in the department. The latest decision of the tough top cop comes shortly after he had suspended 15 personnel for remaining absent from their duties. His decision to ban the mobile phone use by the cops on duties at ‘visible points’ had generated mixed reactions in the personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-than-1900-cops-promoted-as-per-seventh-pay-commission/articleshow/78707420.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 17, 2020||Agra||Month on, Hathras village shuts itself in silence||HATHRAS: The village that was home to the 19-year-old Dalit girl has clamped shut. It has been a month since she was allegedly gang-raped, strangled and left to die. And the village has grown guarded and evasive. “We have work to get to,” a Dalit woman says when asked if she could speak for a bit. There are four Dalit families in the village — the girl’s was one — who had been trained in keeping to themselves. Now, they know, is the time to fall back on that. All of them refuse to talk. The otherwise vocal upper caste families — there are 60 — have decided they would rather not get into this. And the families of the four accused, all upper caste, are, at best, economical with their speech. A CBI investigation is under way — the seriousness of the crime and its implications appear to have hit home. The immense scrutiny the case has drawn is not something life here prepares you for. The way to the victim’s house is a heavily monitored one. There are three levels of checks (up by a level since the last time TOI visited) — at the entry to the village, around the victim’s house and then at the house itself. The metal detector is still in place outside. The glare of the CCTV cameras, being installed the last time TOI visited, misses no one. Just to be sure, cops posted outside the house make a note of every individual entering and leaving the house. When a media person starts talking to the family, a local intelligence unit official jumps in and starts recording the conversation on video. “We need to have a record of all statements the victim’s family makes,” the official said. “It is only for their safety. It is to ensure no one misguides the family into saying something. If they refuse, conversations will not be recorded.” The family steps out once or twice a day, but goes back inside after brief interactions with the media. The questions are often the same, the answers repeated under the watchful eyes of the police and cameras. The women come out and cook, wrap up household chores and feed the cattle. But for the most part, the doors are shut. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/month-on-hathras-village-shuts-itself-in-silence-stays-behind-bolted-doors/articleshow/78706320.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Chilling prospect: Covid, pollution add to woes of homeless||NEW DELHI: The homeless in the capital will be facing an unparalleled crisis this winter owing to Covid-19, pollution and the chill. Providing shelter to the homeless, who number in thousands, would also be a challenging task for the government due to the pandemic as social distancing and other guidelines would need to be implemented. Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which is responsible for running night shelters, has started drawing the winter action plan keeping in mind all these challenges. The government shelters witness a huge turnout during winter from people seeking relief from the biting chill. They also get free food, warm clothes and basic medical facilities. DUSIB launches its winter action plan in the first week of November every year. Apart from the 212 permanent night shelters, around 70 temporary ones are set up during winter to accommodate the homeless. According to the 2011 census, there were 46,000 homeless people, including loaders, rickshawpullers and roadside hawkers, and many of them did not stay in government shelters. A recent report revealed that the Covid-19 infection rate was far lower in special surveillance groups, which primarily included the homeless and slum residents. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said the current shelters were adequate to accommodate over 10,000 people. “As social distancing is a must now and a six-feet distance needs to be maintained between two people, it will reduce the capacity and create a need for more shelters. We will need to double the number of temporary shelters to ensure social distancing,” he added. Recently, Supreme Court constituted a state-level monitoring committee on night shelters and asked Delhi government to increase the number of temporary facilities to ensure social distancing. It suggested that the government use two shelter home buildings, one of which was ready and the other under construction, at Dwarka and Geeta Colony for this purpose. “The two buildings can accommodate nearly 800 people. We are planning to use them this winter,” said a DUSIB official. Indu Prakash Singh, a member of the monitoring committee, said the homeless would be facing an unprecedented crisis this winter. “Winter may increase the chances of the spread of the novel coronavirus among this section of extremely vulnerable people. They are more exposed to polluted air than others. The government should take proper care of them,” Singh added. The DUSIB official said that Covid-19 management would be one of the key components of the winter action plan. Temperature check upon arrival, sanitisation of hands and the premises, social distancing, regular Covid-19 screening and tests would be the major precautionary measures. “Any person testing positive for the virus can put the others at risk. That’s why the government must carry out regular random tests to detect infection and carry out isolation,” Singh said. A survey has been ordered to identify locations where tents can be set up. Usually homeless are found in crowded areas like Chandni Chowk, Anand Vihar ISBT, AIIMS, Kashmere Gate, Nizamuddin Railway Station, Sarai Kale Khan and Ramlila Maidan where they sell their wares, set up small shops or engage in various other activities to earn a living. “All tents will have mobile toilets set up by DUSIB, while water will be supplied by Delhi Jal Board. As the homeless spend a considerable time outdoors during the day, they are susceptible to greater health risk,” said the official. The homeless would be provided three meals a day. An inter-departmental meeting would be held soon to give a final shape to the winter action plan. A health department official said vulnerable people would be given high priority this winter. “The district authorities will carry out regular antigen tests at night shelters following extensive screening of the people there so that those infected with the novel coronavirus can be identified and isolated. All symptomatic individuals who test negative on antigen tests will be followed up with RT-PCR tests,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chilling-prospect-covid-pollution-add-to-woes-of-homeless/articleshow/78711496.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 17, 2020||Agra||Farmer installs CCTV cams in farm, plans motion sensors next||Agra: A 46-year-old farmer in village Bamroli Katara under Sadar sub-division has caused a stir by installing CCTV cameras in his 12-acre field for surveillance of his crops. He has announced he will also fix motion detection sensors in his field. According to farmer Govind Katara, the main reason for installing CCTVs was to ensure that stray animals do not trespass and cause damage to his crop. He had earlier put barbed wire around the field, but it got stolen at night, along with his farming instruments. He said, “I can’t keep watch on the field all the time. So I decided to install four CCTV cameras in different directions that are connected via Wi-Fi to my smartphone. That way, I can view live footage of the field all the time,” he said. Katara is a graduate in Arts with a deep interest in technology. He bought CCTV cameras from Delhi and installed them all by himself. “All four high-resolution CCTV cameras have night vision and can record clear footage up to a distance of 80 feet. The Wi-Fi is installed in a small room in the field. The entire set-up cost Rs 22,000,” Katara said. Katara has become famous in neighbouring villages for his adoption of technology. Already, dozens of farmers are visiting his field asking for help in installing CCTV cameras in their field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmer-installs-cctv-cams-in-farm-plans-motion-sensors-next/articleshow/78706317.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 17, 2020||Allahabad||Harnessing power: Prayagraj to house state’s first, world’s tallest solar tree||Prayagraj: The state’s first solar tree and perhaps the tallest in the world will be erected in Sangam city under the Smart City project. Two city parks would be chosen for installing the hi-tech tree which would harness around 0.5 kilowatt (KW) of electricity. A solar tree is a single-pillar structure saddled with modules to mobilise solar energy like a tree trunk and can be an artwork or a power generator. And the twin solar trees would be special. “Besides being the first in the state, the tree would be 8metre high, surpassing the world’s tallest tree at Tourism London (Ontario, Canada) by 1 metre,” said mission manager, Smart City, SK Sinha. Currently, the world’s largest solar tree is installed at the residential colony of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Durgapur in West Bengal. Here, a solar tree came at a cost of Rs 7.5lakh and the installed capacity was above 11.5 KW. However, the project cost of solar trees at Prayagraj is being hammered out, said Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/harnessing-power-prayagraj-to-house-states-first-worlds-tallest-solar-tree/articleshow/78708150.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bhopal||Manuabhan Tekri rape-murder case: CBI seeks more info||Bhopal: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has asked for more details of the 2019 rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl in Manuabhan Tekri before deciding whether to take up the probe. Last week, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had issued orders to transfer the unsolved case to CBI, saying criminals should be punished severely in cases of crime against girls. The victim’s father was not satisfied with the investigation and had been demanding a CBI inquiry. Sources in the home department said the central agency has sought more information so that it can take a decision. Officials refused to comment, but sources say the police investigation floundered as DNA samples were mishandled and there were several loose ends in the probe. The investigation into this brutal rape and murder case of April 30, 2019, has been in controversy since the beginning. As one of the key witnesses in this case is a juvenile, police couldn’t question her at length for more details. Case No. 276/19 was registered under IPC sections 363, 366 and 376 and POCSO Act. During Kamal Nath’s regime, Chouhan had staged a protest, demanding justice for the 12-year-old girl. She was raped and bludgeoned to death with a stone in a cave on Manuabhan Ki Tekri. Her body was found by police. Investigators claimed that the victim's aunt (a minor) and her boyfriend, then an 18-year-old, quarreled on the Tekri hillock, after which she walked away in a huff, leaving the 12-year-old with him. The suspect, police claimed, was raping her when a pointed stone “fell on her head, and she became unconscious”. Scared, he picked up the same stone and battered her head with it, police had said, claiming that the suspect confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/manuabhan-tekri-rape-murder-case-cbi-seeks-more-info/articleshow/78710368.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kanpur||Landlord rapes tenant’s sister||KANPUR: A landlord allegedly raped his tenant’s 20-year-old sister in a locality under Ghazipur police station of Fatehpur district on Thursday. Taking advantage of the absence of the woman’s brother and sister-in-law, the accused entered the rented portion, gagged and raped her, said the police. The survivor was living with her brother and sister-in-law in a house in a locality under the limits of Ghazipur police station for the last one year. On Thursday, Prasad noticed that the woman’s brother and sister-in-law, who are private workers, were not present,He forcibly entered the house and raped her, he said. “Accused Bhola Prasad had gagged her using clothes and raped her. He threatened her with dire consequences, if she informed anyone,” said Inspector Ghazipur police station Sandeep Tiwari. After her brother came home, she informed him about the incident. When he went to Prasad and questioned him, he was threatened. However, the victim lodged a complaint. Subsequently, the accused booked under relevant sections of IPC besides SC/ST Act and was arrested. The girl has been sent for medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/landlord-rapes-tenants-sister/articleshow/78708681.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Street plays to spread Mission Shakti message||Lucknow: The festival of Navratra has been dedicated to women’s safety, dignity and empowerment. A special campaign called Mission Shakti will be launched from October 17 across the state. ADG, police recruitment and promotion board, Renuka Mishra has been made the nodal in charge of Lucknow for spearheading the initiative focused on women’s safety, security, dignity and self-reliance. She told TOI that campaigns, street plays and awareness activities will be organised at each police station, along with inauguration of pink booths and pink patrol on October 17 in the city. “Gender sensitisation, training, events in Durga pandals, functions at police stations, and awareness at rural level will be part of the mission. The whole campaign will run till Navratra in April next year,” she said. Mishra also said that the overall idea is to make a girl/woman feel safe in the city even if she travels late in the night all alone. “We will also take up investigation of pending cases of crime against women and girl child. We will take their suggestions,” she added. She said that her twitter handle @renukamishra67 can also be used for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/street-plays-to-spread-mission-shakti-message/articleshow/78711490.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Many serious Covid patients still at risk||Lucknow: Data from the health department on Covid-19 reveals that though the number of new infections have come down in the past three weeks, serious cases have not not decreased in similar proportion, resulting in a high death rate. Serious cases mainly comprise patients who have several comorbidities or those who reach hospital in the advanced stages of the disease. Occupancy of high-dependency units (HDU) and intensive care units/ventilator beds in Covid hospitals shows that about 700 serious/critical patients are under treatment at present. Average daily cases have dropped by about 56%, from 900 in September to 400 in October, but average deaths per day have declined only by 30% from 12 to 8 in a day. Further, the death rate with regard to the caseload has dropped fractionally from 1.4% to 1.3%. The reason, said experts, is that the number of serious patients is still high and since the mortality rate in this group is more, the death rate has not declined in proportion to the cases. Hospital bed occupancy makes the picture clear. The number of isolation beds meant for mild symptomatic patients in all 29 Covid hospitals in the city taken together is 2,825. Of these, only around 250 are occupied. However, more than 80% of the 403 ICU/ventilator beds and over 50% of HDUs are occupied by critical patients. Doctors said that the number of serious cases has dropped only by 30% in comparison to over 60% drop in mild cases. Medical superintendent of Covid-19 facility at RMLIMS Prof Srikesh Singh said that over 80% of serious patients are elderly with comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, heart issues and kidney diseases. As the immune system of such patients is already weak, the impact of novel coronavirus infection is high, he added. Citing comorbidities and old age as the main reasons for the high number of serious cases and deaths, head of medicine department at KGMU Prof Virendra Atam said that critical patients also take time to recover, hence beds remain occupied for a long period. KGMU spokesperson Prof Sudhir Singh said that it has also been seen that many patients take the infection casually or are not able to gauge from breathlessness that they have the infection. IIMS director Dr Zafar Idris said that many patients are still arriving at the end stage of the disease with lungs badly damaged by the virus. In most of such cases, it has been found that patients do not monitor health regularly at home and rush to hospital when the condition turns critical, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/many-serious-covid-patients-still-at-risk/articleshow/78711505.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 17, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia shooting: Kingpin on run, five others held||VARANASI: A day after the murder of Jaiprakash Pal in Ballia’s Durjanpur village in full public view in the presence of SDM, CO and policemen, the police could not nab the prime accused and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker Dhirendra Pratap Singh alias Dabloo, although his cousin Devendra Pratap Singh and four others were arrested on Friday. However, BJP MLA from Bairia Surendra Singh, who initially denied his connection with Dhirendra, came in his support demanding the officials to ensure an impartial probe into the Durjanpur incident instead of taking any one-sided action as seven family members of Dhirendra including his sister, sister-inlaw have also suffered grave injuries. He said he would also meet ‘Maharaj Ji’ (CM Yogi Adityanath) to demand a high-level probe by agencies like CBCID in Thursday incident at Durjanpur village. On Friday morning, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan and divisional commissioner Azamgarh Vijay Vishwas Pant also reached Ballia, where DIG Azamgarh (range) Subhash Chandra Dubey was already camping. Regarding the action initiated in this case so far, the ADG said, “Eight identified and 25 unidentified persons were made accused in FIR lodged in Durjanpur firing incident on Thursday. Prime accused Dhirendra’s brother Devendra Pratap Singh, who was involved in attacking people of rival group, and four of their accomplices had been arrested.” DM Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi also claimed initiating exemplary action against Dhirendra. Shahi said that Dhirendra had opened fire with his licenced revolver. Apart from his revolver the details of all arms licences issued in his family and close ones had been sought to initiate the process of their cancellation, said Shahi. Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Bairia was busy in replying the questions of media persons at his residence. Singh said, “Dhirendra had extended all cooperation in assembly and parliamentary polls and I accept it. Some people are making my video with him viral on social media. As Dhirendra was a helping one for me I welcomed him like my all other guests who come to attend functions at my place. But, I dont consider his act of opening fire as correct.” The BJP MLA alleged that not only media showed one-sided news but administration is also initiating action on the same line. “Officials present at Durjanpur know it very well that who attacked first. Dhirendra family members including his sister, sister-in-law, father and he himself suffered injuries in the attack of rivals. Nobody is talking about six persons hospitalized from the side of Dhirendra. The arms licences are issued for self-defence and Dhirendra took the decision to open fire by keeping the circumstances in view, although I do not favour his act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/durjanpur-case-key-accusedabsconding-5-others-arrested/articleshow/78708423.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 17, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Woman held 19 years after killing hubby’s first wife||JAIPUR: Nineteen years after a woman was killed by her husband and his second wife, cops arrested a 38-year-old Prerna Kumari following the court’s order of her arrest. She had been sentenced to life imprisonment but had been absconding since 2001. “The woman, along with her husband, had murdered his first wife who he had not been legally separated from in 2001. The woman who hails from Maharashtra was staying in Ajmer with her mother when she was arrested,” said an official of Harmada police station who arrested her. While the murder happened in Chomu, the case was lodged at Harmada. The accused husband is already imprisoned while the woman was being traced and finally the cops found her. There was court’s arrest warrant for her and she had been sentenced to life imprisonment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/woman-held-19-yrs-after-killing-hubbys-first-wife/articleshow/78711492.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Two held for beating Raikot youth to death||LUDHIANA: The police on Friday arrested two employees of a liquor vend in Raikot of Ludhiana district for allegedly beating a person to death on September 30. Two more accused, including the vend manager, are still at large, the police said. The arrested accused have been identified as Sukhdev Singh of Bhaini Baringa and Balwinder Singh of Mohalla Valimki. Liquor vend manager Anmol Singh hails from Uttar Pradesh and fourth accused Manoj, main salesman of the vend, belongs to Hari Singh Nalwa Chowk in Raikot. In her police complaint, bereaved mother Darshan Kaur of Kalsiyan village stated that her husband Lakshman Singh and elder son Gurwinder Singh work in Toronto of Canada, while deceased Jasvir Singh, 30, was her younger, who stayed at home and would do some social work. On September 30, Jasvir went out with his uncle Hari Singh on a motorcycle at 4pm to plant saplings but did not return till late evening. Later, she came to know that her son had heated arguments with the staff of a liquor vend, who beat him up and he was admitted to Raikot civil hospital. As his condition worsened, he was referred to PGI, Chandigarh, from where he was discharged on October 6 after his condition improved. However, the complainant said, Jasvir would tell her that he did not remember anything. On October 12, after having lunch, her son went to sleep and did not wake up after that. A doctor declared him dead. The police have booked the accused under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Raikot DSP Sukhnaz Singh said while two accused have already been arrested, a manhunt has been launched to arrest the other two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-held-for-beating-raikot-youth-to-death/articleshow/78708704.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Doctors make a case against reopening of Delhi schools||NEW DELHI: Schools should be reopened only when the local epidemiological parameters of Covid-19 are favourable, a report prepared by a task force constituted by Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) has recommended. The report, which has been published online in Indian Paediatrics, recommends the number of new cases in the district should be steadily decreasing for the preceding two weeks before schools can be reopened. Also, case positivity rate – number of positive cases from those tested – should be less than five for preceding two weeks, it adds. The ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines allow reopening of schools in a graded manner from October 15. However, many states and union territories, including Delhi, have decided against it due to high incidence of Covid-19. In Delhi, the case positivity rate is above five per cent and even the absolute number of cases is on the rise over the past few days. On Thursday, for example, Delhi recorded 3,483 positive cases of Covid-19 and the case positivity rate was 6.23. Dr Vinay Aggarwal, executive member of Delhi Medical Council (DMC), also said that the current situation wasn’t suitable to reopen schools in Delhi. “It may be difficult to maintain discipline among school students, for example to check intermingling, ensure hand hygiene, coughing etiquettes and wearing masks,” he added. The IAP task force, which studied policy adopted by countries like the US to reopen schools, has suggested students should be divided and called in different batches, in different shifts/alternate days and in staggered timings once the schools are reopened. It has also recommended that classrooms should be kept ventilated by opening the doors and windows and air-conditioners should be put off and, wherever possible, outdoor spaces like school grounds should preferably be utilised to conduct classes. “A distance of at least one metre should be strictly maintained between any two individuals on school premises. School gates, assemblies, toilets, libraries and breaks should be strictly monitored to avoid overcrowding. Eating during school hours or meal sharing should be discouraged,” the IAP task force has stated in its report. Nearly 240 million school going students in India are homebound owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the IAP report says, adding further that the loss in learning in the pandemic is estimated to be up to 50% of the expected academic level. Remote learning has been adopted by many institutions for continuity of education during the pandemic. However, according to Dr Suneela Garg, president elect of Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine (IAPSM), digital reach isn’t adequate in India. Online classes, she added, are leading to a lot of stress and children are not able to take classes seriously. “Parents have limited resources at home like smart phones which have to be shared with children,” Dr Garg said. The IAPSM president said strict adherence to physical distancing, good hygiene practices and taking care of sick children are important. Watch Covid-19: IAP recommends guidelines for reopening of city schools||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-make-a-case-againstreopening-of-city-schools/articleshow/78711524.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||Voluntary group facilitates 200 nCov patients’ treatment daily||Vadodara: When Nagarwada in the city became the first Covid-19 hotspot in the city, not only residents of the area but even officials also were apprehensive as to how the situation could be diffused before the trickle of cases snowballed into a crisis owing to panic and ignorance.Anxiety had spilled over to the Covid-19 treatment facility at GMERS Hospital, Gotri where some unpleasant incidents took place. But unlike in other cities where matters turned acrimonious, things took a dramatic turn within a couple of days in Vadodara with people cooperating during the door-to-door visits. This was made possible by a unique plan of engaging community like Baroda Muslim Doctors Association (BMDA) where such organisations took to the rider’s seat while officials consciously took the backseat in the war against Covid-19 in these sensitive areas.“There was a lot of panic and the officer on special duty Dr Vinod Rao called us to work in the area. Initially, the idea was to counsel people in Nagarwada and ensure that they cooperated. Then we decided to start a Covid care centre at the Ebrahim Bawani ITI on Ajwa Road to take care of asymptomatic patients,” said activist Zuber Gopalani, who had coordinated the efforts. The next step was setting up a full-fledged Covid hospital at the Muslim Medical Centre (MMC).After this there was no looking back and soon BMDA took over the Kalavati Hospital to start a Covid hospital there. The treatment at both the hospitals is free even as the Covid care centre at the ITI was subsequently discontinued. Put together, both hospitals have a combined capacity of 165 patients while more than 4,000 patients have been treated there so far.The BMDA is also overseeing work at a 55-bed Covid care centre in a mosque in Godhra, a Covid hospital in Jambusar with 60 beds and a Covid hospital in Valan with 25 patients’ capacity. Inspired by the activity, treatment facilities were also started by likeminded people in Anand, Ahmedabad, Dholka, Modasa, Palanpur and Balasinor.Dr Mohammed Hussain who has been spearheading the BMDA’s efforts said that donors including people who had been treated at BMDA facilities had been supporting their efforts besides the government. “Even members of the BMDA provide aid whenever needed. Staff has also been mobilised from the facilities of the member doctors for Covid treatment,” Hussain added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/voluntary-group-facilitates-200-ncov-patients-treatment-daily/articleshow/78707330.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 17, 2020||Nashik||BJP group leader urges NMC to not start bus service||Nashik: BJP group leader Jagdish Patil has urged municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav to refrain from resuming the city bus service until the financial health of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) improves. Patil urged the municipal commissioner to ask Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to take care of the city bus service for time being. He also raised doubts over the state transport utility’s intention for not starting the city bus service even as it had a good opportunity to earn more revenue as private vehicles were not permitted.Patil said MSRTC started bus service in rural parts of the district and sent around 75 buses to Mumbai. “Now, MSRTC needs to provide city bus service for the time being in order to facilitate the city residents,” he said.Patil has written to the civic chief after learning about NMC’s plans to start the city bus service during Diwali. “The financial condition of the civic body has been affected due to drop in revenue. Moreover, the state government has also given its nod to the NMC to implement Seventh Pay Commission for its officials and employees. This will increase liabilities on the civic body. At this juncture, it will not be appropriate to start the city bus service and incur the losses,” Patil said.The NMC had plans to deploy 400 buses, including 200 CNG, 50 diesel and 150 electric from April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bjp-group-leader-urges-nmc-to-not-start-bus-service/articleshow/78707454.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||59 new village co-op societies||Registrar Cooperatives Muktanand Agarwal on Friday informed that approval has been given for formation of 59 new village cooperative societies in the state. The new societies will be formed in 59 gram panchayats of 17 districts. About 30,000 farmers have already got themselves registered through the societies. With formation of the societies, farmers will get loan facilities in their panchayats itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/59-new-village-co-op-societies/articleshow/78711498.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP: More recoveries than fresh cases, daily caseload drops to 1352||BHOPAL: With a steady improvement in Covid-19 cases in the state, recovery rate in the state has is inching towards 90%. On Friday, the recoveries outnumbered new cases reported for the sixteenth consecutive day. Overall 1,352 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Friday taking the count of positive patients in the state to1,57,936. A total of 1,556 people recovered. With these new people recovering the count of total people who had recovered from the disease reached 1,41,273. The recovery rate of covid-19 patients as on October 16, stood at 89.44 % which has improved as it was 76% on August 31. Apart from the new cases, 25 deaths were also reported in the state, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 2,735. Fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of state. Among the districts where fresh cases were reported, maximum cases were reported from Indore where 342 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 232. In Jabalpur 78 people tested positive and Gwalior where 37 people tested positive for Covid-19. Of the total 25,747 samples tested on Friday, 1352 were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate stood at 5.2%. The overall positivity rate as on October 16, in the state was 6.23%. This has increased in past one month as it was only 4.6% on August 31. As on October 16, there were a total of 13928 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-recoveries-than-fresh-cases-daily-caseload-drops-to-1352/articleshow/78710414.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders investigator in Pocso case to ensure victim’s education||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered an investigating officer in Banaskantha district to make arrangements for education of a 13-year-old Pocso victim, who has agreed to live with her parents after she was allegedly kidnapped twice in the recent past. The girl, when sent to a women’s protection home in Palanpur, expressed interest in studies. The HC had ordered for formal education and computer training for all inmates of the shelter home. However, a month later, she returned to the court extremely unhappy with the protection home and agreed to return to her parents. Meanwhile, a criminal complaint has been filed against the alleged kidnapper under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Looking at her interest in education, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Nirzar Desai ordered, “The arrangement of her education shall be made by the Investigating Officer. If he finds it difficult, he shall take aid of District Legal Services Authority or the office of Collector for the said purpose.” Since the girl was apprehensive that she would be married off by her parents soon, the high court has asked her parents to give an undertaking to the court that they would not give her in marriage before she completes 18 years. The high court has also ordered that a welfare officer from the women and child welfare department should visit the girl’s family once in six weeks initially and later once in three months. A report will be placed before the principal district judge. If anything adverse is noticed, police should be informed and the high court should be moved soon, if there is requirement of any direction. Since the girl is a victim of a Pocso case, the high court has also ordered the legal services authority to assess the compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme and to deposit the amount in a joint account of the girl and her parents. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-investigator-in-pocso-case-to-ensure-victims-education/articleshow/78710407.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Himmat Singh to attend Gujjar meet||Jaipur: As Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti, led by Kirori Singh Bainsla, has called a Mahapanchayat at Adda village in Bayana (Bharatpur) on Saturday to discuss the pending issues on 4% MBC (most backward class) quota, the Himmat Singh faction of Gujjar community will also attend the meeting, the leader confirmed. Meanwhile, CM Ashok Gehlot, taking note of the Mahapanchayat, has spoken to DGP M L Lather and enquired about the law and order situation. He has sent IAS officer Neeraj K Pawan to Hindaun City to have a dialogue with Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla and convince him not to hold the mahapanchayat. Also, district administration has issued an order to suspend internet services in the areas where panchayat will be held. However, holding the Mahapanchayat is a gross violation of Covid norms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/himmat-singh-to-attend-gujjar-meet/articleshow/78711509.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Kanpur||Two arrested for gang rape of 16-year-old girl||KANPUR: Two persons were arrested on Friday on charges of gang-raping a 16-year-old minor in Sachendi police area of the district on Thursday evening. Brijesh Kumar Srivastava, superintendent of police, rural, said that the minor was gang-raped at an isolated field near her house, which falls under the jurisdiction of Sachendi police station, on Thursday evening. The rape survivor’s family members lodged a police complaint, wherein they named the two accused for abducting and sexually assaulting her. The accused took her to an isolated place and took turns to sexually assault her, before dumping her in the fields in a village on Thursday evening, the complaint alleged. The rape survivor, gradually managed to reach her home. She shared her ordeal with her parents, who then filed a named FIR at Sachendi police station under sections 376 D (gang rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation. —Whoever commits, the offence of criminal intimidation shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both; If threat be to cause death or grievous hurt) of IPC. “A police team and forensic experts have inspected the spot, where the crime was committed. The accused, identified as Govind Balmiki (19) and Ajay alias Shiv Bodhan (30) of Surar village, have been arrested and sent to jail. The rape survivor underwent a medical test at the district government hospital and her statements have also been recorded. Further investigations are on,” said station house officer Ajay Pratap Singh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-arrested-for-gangrape-of-16-year-old-girl/articleshow/78708737.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kanpur||Minor girl elopes with youth, recovered||Kanpur:A minor girl, who had allegedly eloped with a teenage youth, was recovered along with her alleged boyfriend from the city late on Thursday night. Police said the accused, Owais (18), a resident of Ajitganj area of the city, had made the girl (13) coming from other religion, elope with him on Thursday, while she had gone out for shopping along with her elder sister at a nearby market from her residence in Naubasta locality. The girl’s elder sister returned home and narrated about the incident to their parents following which they filed an FIR against Owais and his sister Ghazala at Naubasta police station on Thursday night. Subsequently, the police swung into action and recovered the girl and arrested both the brother-sister duo. As soon as the brother-sister duo was arrested, their family members and relatives created ruckus outside Naubasta police station. Owais worked as a labourer at an under-construction site in Naubasta. “As per the girl’s parents, the youth Owais used to chat with their daughter with a different identity. They have also accused Owais’s sister Ghazala for assisting him in the crime. We have arrested both Owais and Ghazala and registered a case under relevant sections, including 363 of the IPC, against the brother -sister duo. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” said Inspector Naubasta Kunj Bihari Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/minor-girl-elopes-with-youth-recovered/articleshow/78708708.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi Adityanath to install kalash at Gorakhnath temple today||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit Gorakhpur on Saturday and install Kalash at Gorakhnath temple on the first day of Navratra on Saturday, said media in-charge of Gorakhnath temple Vinay Kumar Gautam. As per the tradition, the Peethadheeshwer of Gorakshpeeth installs Kalash at Shakti Durga Peeth on Gorakhnath temple campus on the first day of Shardiya Navratra and also performs puja of Goddess Durga, he said. Adding to the Navratra festivities, the light and sound show near Bheem Sarovar at Gorakhnath temple, which was stopped from past 6 months due to Covid-19 pandemic, has been started from Thursday evening. On the 30 feet water screen, the glory of the Nath sect and Guru Gorakshnath was showcased amidst the spiritual voice of Harish Bhimani on Thursday evening as the devotees reached the temple to enjoy the beautiful spiritual experience. The temple office secretary, Dwarika Tiwari said that Covid protocol was followed during the show and all the spectators also followed the protocol. The show will be organized regularly from now onwards, he added. The light and sound show was prepared by the tourism department on Shivavtari Mahayogi Guru Gorakshnath and the history and glory of the Nath sect .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-to-install-kalash-at-gorakhnath-temple-today/articleshow/78708585.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court’s interim relief to Sachin Pilot’s media advisor||Jaipur: Almost a fortnight after an FIR was registered against two journalists including Lokendra Singh, the media advisor of Sachin Pilot, for allegedly spreading fake news and criminal conspiracy, a single bench of Rajasthan High Court on Friday provided relief to him. The bench has sought the case diary from the investigating police officer and also stayed any coercive action against him. Singh and Sharat Kumar of a private news channel were booked by Jaipur Police for allegedly putting out fake news in August during the power tussle between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Pilot. An FIR was also lodged against the two at Vidhayakpuri Police Station on October 1. Singh handles Pilot’s press releases on social media. SS Hora, counsel for Singh said, “ It is evident that filing of FIR is an endeavour of the state government to curb reporting of fake news by the media. Also, the incident according to the government, took place in August. The petitioner can’t be arrested for false allegations.” Justice Govardhan Bardhar directed police to ensure no coercive action be taken against the petitioner and has also sought the case dairy in this regard. FIR was filed under Sections 505 (1) and (2) (statement conducing to public mischief), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 76 of the Information Technology Act. “Section 505(1) deals says whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report with an intent to cause alarm to the public or to any section of public whereby any person may be induced to commit offence. So, in this case no such thing has taken place,” Hora added. In the FIR, police had accused the duo of fabricating a news report that illegal phone tapping of Congress MLAs and ministers who were staying in a hotel in Jaisalmer at that time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-hcs-interim-relief-to-pilots-media-advisor/articleshow/78711531.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Varanasi||Oral, breast cancers predominant in district||Varanasi: Outcomes of a population based cancer registry (PBCR) in Varanasi district conducted by Tata Memorial Centre (TMC), Mumbai, an autonomous institute under the department of Atomic Energy, Government of India, in collaboration with Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University and district health department authorities, has made it clear that oral and breast cancers are predominant cancers in males and females of the district. Releasing the cancer registry record prepared on the basis of patients registered in the district in a period of one year in 2017, the director of TMC’s Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Mahamana Madan Mohan Malaviya Cancer Centre, Dr Satyajit Pradhan and co-investigator Dr Divya Khanna on Friday said, “In 2017, the cancer registry recorded 1,907 cancer cases of which 1,058 were males and 849 females. In per lakh population incidence rate for males was 59 and females was 52. The registry recorded 762 cancer related deaths of which 429 were males and 333 were females, said Khanna adding, 24 male and 20 female on per lakh population died due to cancer. Oral cancer is the predominant cancer in males as out of every three cancer cases, one case is of oral cancer, she said adding, breast, cervix uteri, and gallbladder cancers were leading cancers in females. The mouth cancer burden is high in urban areas as compared to rural areas while the cervix uteri cancer incidence rate is double in the rural area than in the urban area, she added. Mentioning the quotes of TMC director Dr Rajendra A.Badwe, she said, “Early cancer detection and cancer awareness programmes for oral, breast and cervical cancer in Varanasi district community, schools, colleges and for all health care workers should be initiated. It is also recommended that there should be easy access to diagnosis of symptomatic cases..” “The objective of the cancer registry is to measure the burden of cancer in terms of incidence and mortality due to cancer and to know the patterns of cancer in the district,” said Khanna. According to Pradhan, Varanasi’s population-based cancer registry was the first cancer registry in the state of UP. The registry covers 4 million population of the district, covering 1,295 villages in the eight blocks (Arajiline, Baadgaon, Chiraigaon, Cholapur, Harahua, Kashi Vidyapeeth, Pindra, and Sewapuri), 90 wards of municipal corporation, 10 wards of nagar-panchayat Gangapur and 25 wards of Ramnagar palika, 38 new census town. Around 57% population of the district is rural. Full report onwww.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/oral-breast-cancers-predominant-in-district/articleshow/78708454.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||LU second in UP with uploads on online library||Lucknow: Lucknow University was second in the state and first in the city in uploading the highest amount of e-content on the online digital library of the state government launched on September 5 with an objective to make students available subject wise online study material free of cost. The online library is called Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Digital Library. This was revealed by the UP higher education department on Friday on the completion of 45 days of the initiative. A total of 20,641 online study material was uploaded by 21 state universities, including government aided and private. Dr BR Ambedkar University, Agra, has, so far, uploaded the highest (5,071) amount of e-content on various subjects in the state followed by LU with 4,366. The other two universities based in Lucknow which have contributed include Dr Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University and Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University which have uploaded 482 and 550-e-contents respectively. In all, contents on 50 subjects have been uploaded. Highest 2,744 e-contents were related to science followed by sociology 1,554 and technical 1,475. “State universities have done really well in terms of making the e-content available to students. In just 45 days we have crossed over 20,000 uploads. The portal was readied with the help of NIC with an expenditure of about 8 lakh in three weeks, at a minimal cost we have successfully made a bank of online study material by finest teachers of higher education institutes said," additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg. Colleges’ contribution not up to mark: Only 19 higher education colleges in the state have contributed to the online library. Number of uploads by these colleges are 398. No college from Lucknow figures in the list. TERI PG College, Ghazipur tops the list with 128 contributions followed by Kumari Mayawati Government Girls PG College, Gautam Budh Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-second-in-up-with-uploads-on-online-library/articleshow/78711529.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||History-sheeter who duped job seekers held from MP||KOTA: A Kota police special team has arrested a man from Indore city in Madhya Pradesh for duping several people of lakhs of rupees in Kota, Jhalawar, Indore, Devas cities, on pretext of providing jobs in state medical and health department and for facilitating license for medical shops. The accused, during interrogation under remand confessed his crime. The court on Friday extended his police remand for one day for further interrogation. Kota city SP Gourav Yadav on Friday said, one Mohanlal, a resident of Dadwada area under Bhimganjmandi police station lodged a report around one-and-a-half years ago and alleged that one Banwarilal Bairwa (aged 35 to 40), who lived in a rented house in Dadwada, duped him of Rs 85,000 on pretext of getting his two sons appointed as LDCs in Maharao Bhim Singh (MBS) Hospital in Kota. Bairwa had introduced himself to Mohanlal as a resident doctor at MBS and had claimed that his father-in-law was a senior officer in state health department in Jaipur, whom he had also introduced, he added. Investigating officer of the special team Subash Chand, following intensive investigation, arrested Banwarilal Bairwa, on the basis of his mobile location, from Indore in MP three days ago and produced him before the court that handed him to the police for remand, the SP city said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/history-sheeter-who-duped-job-seekers-held-from-mp/articleshow/78711520.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Libraries in Nashik city open doors||Nashik: Libraries in Nashik began opening their doors on Thursday, marked as ‘Vachan Prerna Divas’, the birth anniversary of Dr A P J Abdul Kalam, after being shut for over six months.The libraries like the city’s oldest one — Sarvajanik Vachanalay Nashik (SaVaNa as it is fondly called) — and the Government Reference Library at Nashik Road are two of the major libraries in Nashik city that were out of bounds for the people over the past six months.While SaVaNa, established in 1883, has started its operations, the government reference library is all set to start its operation in the next couple of days. Jayaprakash Jategaonkar, the chief secretary of SaVaNa, said they have over 10,000 members including children and senior citizens. On the safety of books and members visiting the library, Devdatta Joshi, the secretary of SaVaNa, pointed out that books coming in from people would not be redistributed at least for 48 hours. “They will isolated in a room post sanitization before being given to the next reader,” Joshi said. The library has made it mandatory for visitors to wear masks and sanitise their hands before entering the premises. The employees have been provided with gloves and face shields .Even the government reference library at Nashik Road is considering similar precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/libraries-in-nashik-city-open-doors/articleshow/78707474.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 17, 2020||Udaipur||Cages to trap leopard that killed woman in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: A day after a leopard mauled a woman to death in Kewde ki Naal forest area, panic prevailed in the settlement throughout Friday. Though teams from the forest department had been stationed at three different points to trace the wild cat, residents were apprehensive and restrained themselves from moving around freely. Multiple cages and traps have been set up in the locality to catch the leopard, forest officials said. Meanwhile, the autopsy was held in the morning and the body was handed over to the family members of victim. The post-mortem report said the woman was killed by a wild animal. Some portion from the neck and breast had been eaten away partially. Ex gratia as per the government norms was sanctioned to the deceased’s relatives. The forest department has advised the villagers not to go inside the forest for next 10 days. Bhanwari Bai, wife of Ramesh Meena, was attacked and killed by the big cat when she had with a group of women gone into the forest on Thursday afternoon to collect grass for making brooms. DFO Ajay Chittora said it is customary for locals specially women folk to go to the forest to cut grass for making ‘buhari jhaadu’ (brooms) around this time of the year. “Since it was the first day of collecting grass, the women had divided themselves in three groups. Bhanwari was the fourth one in her group who was left a little behind while they were returning and the man-animal interface happened,” he said. Officers, who went to the spot on Friday, observed the woman was dragged 200 metre inside dense bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cages-to-trap-leopard-that-killed-woman-in-udaipur/articleshow/78711527.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Six armed robbers strike at gold finance firm, three held||LUDHIANA: Six armed robbers struck at the Dugri Road branch of Muthoot Finance on Friday morning. Three of them were held with the looted gold, while three managed to flee with cash. Around 8.45am, security guard Gurmeet Singh and employee Rajan Kumar reached outside the finance company’s office located on the first floor of a building. Soon, five robbers struck there and their accomplice stood guard downstairs. Gurmeet said, “At gunpoint, they asked us to open the office. We told them that three keys were required to open it, so they would have to wait for another employee. Minutes later, staffer Umesh Kumar reached there and the robbers made us open the office. Two more employees, Jyoti and Diksha, and janitor Shubham also arrived. The accused made them sit on the floor, tied their hands with ropes and taped their mouths.”  “They asked us to stay quiet and said they would not harm us. Then, they asked Rajan to accompany them and collected cash and gold jewellery mortgaged by people for loan. They filled their bags with 30kg gold and Rs 2.75 lakh and went downstairs,” he added. Meanwhile, the company’s headquarters had smelled a rat. As the employees had not marked their attendance online, the company headquarters checked their CCTVs and found them hostage at gunpoint. They alerted their other branch employees and the Ludhiana police. When the accused came downstairs, police and MS Alagh, an employee of the Gill Road branch of the company, were present. As Alagh intercepted them, the robbers opened fire. Alagh sustained a bullet injury on his arm, but did not let them go, said eyewitnesses. “The robbers fired at least 20 shots. Daljit Singh, who works at a nearby car market, also sustained an injury on his leg. While three robbers fled with the cash bag, police nabbed three others with the help of the public,” said an eyewitness. The police recovered 30kg gold from them. The spot is about 500m from Atam Nagar police post. Robbers came from Bihar to execute robbery Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “All the robbers, who were wearing masks and gloves, hailed from Bihar and had come to the city to execute the robbery. Those arrested include Roshan Kumar, 23, Saurav Kumar, 19, and Kamlesh Kumar, 23. They had made the plan one-and-a-half month ago and were living in a rented accommodation in Chandigarh. They started visiting the city for a recce about 20 days ago. They kept an eye on staff and their timings and even did a rehearsal two days ago. After committing the robbery, they had planned to return to Chandigarh.” Agarwal added, “Saurav is a proclaimed offender in a case of robbery at Central Bank of India, Vaishali, Bihar, which was executed in March, and in another case of loot at a filling station, also in Bihar. Roshan is facing kidnapping and robbery cases and we are checking criminal records of the other accused.” On why Ludhiana was targeted, he said, “Because it is the financial capital of Punjab. The case is being investigated. We are also probing if any company employee was involved. The accused knew that a password is required to enter the office and had disconnected the system.” The seizure Police have recovered three pistols, 30 live cartridges, five magazines, nine bullet shells, three motorcycles, a black bag containing tapes, ropes, a screwdriver, three keys, one cutter, one nail cutter and two hammers from them. The robbers’ associates on the run included Sushil, Alok Singh and Varun, all from Patna. Three nabbed Three of the accused managed to escape, but the other three were not so lucky. While they were trying to flee, two pillion riders fell from the speeding bike and were nabbed by people and the police. In the meantime, an SUV hit the bike and its rider was also caught. People thrashed the accused before handing him over to the police. ‘Police did not fire’ Agarwal said the robbers fired nine shots and four persons suffered bullet injuries. They included three employees of the company: Aditya Sharma, MS Alagh and Surinder Kumar. The fourth one is Daljeet. Another employee, Umesh Kumar, suffered a fracture in his hand. “The police did not open fire. People helped us nab the accused,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/six-armed-robbers-strike-at-gold-finance-firm-three-held/articleshow/78708724.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Five die of deadly virus, 68 infected||LUDHIANA: Five patients from Ludhiana and two outsiders died of Covid-19 and 68 from the district tested positive for the disease on Friday. As per the local media bulletin, the five deceased from Ludhiana included a 13-year-old girl of Sandhu Sundar Singh Colony with acute kidney injury, a 62-year-old woman of Phallewal village with hypertension and kidney injury, a 57-year-old woman of Gurpal Nagar, a 37-year-old woman of Shimlapuri with chronic kidney disease and a 60-year-old man of Krishna Nagar, Khanna, who also had acute kidney injury. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the total number of deaths from the district has risen to 817 and 295 outsiders have succumbed to the virus in Ludhiana hospitals to date. He said of the 68 patients from Ludhiana who tested positive, 15 were from the flu corner, 13 positive cases’ contacts, 28 from OPD, three healthcare workers, eight from tracing process and one preoperative case. The Ludhiana case count has increased to 19,552 and that of outsiders to 2,552. So far, 18,382 patients have recovered, constituting 94.01% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/five-die-of-deadly-virus-68-infected/articleshow/78708734.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||No medical admission till governor decides on 7.5% quota bill: Tamil Nadu to HC||MADURAI: In a decision that could upend the admission schedule of medical colleges in TN this year, the state government told the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday that it will not issue prospectus for medical admissions till a decision is taken by the constitutional authority on a bill to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students in admissions to undergraduate medical courses. The submission was made by advocate general Vijay Narayan before a bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi during the course of hearing of two PILs filed by S Ramakrishnan and V Muthukumar seeking direction to implement the horizontal quota this year. When the advocate general told the court that the TN governor was yet to take a decision on the bill, Justice Kirubakaran turned emotional and recalled the plight of government school students in getting seats in medical colleges. It is saddening to know that a decision has not been taken on the bill yet, the court said. The bench observed that though government students constitute 41% of total students in the state, their admission to medical courses has been in single digits over the past three years. Because of this (poor result) students have not been applying for NEET, the court said. Lauding the political parties of the state for passing the quota bill unanimously in the state assembly, the court said that reservation of 7.5% is only a limited measure to provide a level-playing field to government students. The state government decided to implement the quota following a recommendation of a commission headed by retired high court judge P Kalaiyarasan. The court then adjourned the case to October 29 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-to-hc-no-med-admission-till-guv-decides-on-7-5-quota-bill/articleshow/78710456.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pujo’s muted but craving for ‘bhog’ is getting louder||NEW DELHI: There is gloom in the capital’s Bengali households this year with Durga Pujo – the annual community celebration with both religious and cultural significance – wiped off the calendar by Covid-19. Shopping for new clothes hasn’t happened. And there won’t be any culinary exposition either, beginning with the traditional Anandamela – which showcases cooking skills – and stretching to a gastronomic orgy at various stalls in pandals, each with its own speciality. WhatsApp messages are being exchanged for seeking information about any pujo committee that may have decided to go ahead with the celebrations, howsoever muted. The news is grim and even the Bengali mecca of Chittaranjan Park is not taking any chances. Most organisers are doing a formal ghat puja without the throng. Now that a clear picture is emerging, many households are waking up to the fact that the daily prasad after pushpanjali and bhog, too, won’t be available. That’s a calamity because apart from the fact that during the Pujo days most Bengali households do not cook, the bhog – primarily khichudi and occasionally pulao with vegetable fritters and dishes like labra and chachari besides chutney and payesh or kheer – is one Pujo staple that they can’t do without. It is said that it has a distinct flavour attributed to community cooking that cannot be replicated. It is an offering to the goddess that the devotees eagerly wait to partake. The goddess can be worshipped virtually this time and even entertainment programmes may be streamed but how do you get the bhog? Chittaranjan Park Kali Mandir Society is organising the Pujo with restrictions, and in keeping with the times, assuring home delivery of bhog on all four days, beginning October 22, within a 2km radius. Residents can book online with advance payment. The kitchen will be run by a staff of six to ten who will be tested for Covid days before and not allowed to leave the premises thereafter for four-five days till Dashami. Estimating a demand for about 800 bhog platters daily, Anjanesh Bhattacharya of Kali Mandir Durga Puja Samiti says each portion will feed three or four. The information is being shared through posters and on social media. The bhog will be delivered at your doorstep complete with a little packet of flowers from the deity’s feet. Much planning has gone into making this possible. Steel tiffin carriers have been specially ordered for this purpose. “The steel is from Gujarat and the tiffin carriers are being fabricated in Wazirpur,” says Bhattacharya. Caterer Madan K Bhanja’s team has been tasked with cooking the bhog and he is primed for the task. He has a team for cooking, another for packing the food, and yet another for delivery. “Of the 12 pujos in Chittaranjan Park, only one will be organising bhog this year,” says Bhanja. Across the town, at Arambagh, near Paharganj, another Pujo has scaled down its celebrations. “There are going to be no food stalls or cultural programmes this year and only limitedbhog for the goddess would be prepared. It will be distributed to members based on pre-booking,” said Abhijit Bose, chairman of the puja samiti. “No cut fruits will be used during puja and not be given as prasad either. Instead, for prasad, our volunteers will be preparing sealed pouches with mishri, dry fruits etc. in a sanitised environment wearing gloves,” he said. The bhog at Mayur Vihar’s Milani Pujo is a huge draw every year. While there would be no bhog this year, general secretary of the association Mrinal Kanti Biswas said that every day, at least 200 underprivileged people, such as rickshaw pullers, hawkers etc. would be given food packets containing atta, daal, rice, cooking oil etc. “We will also distribute face masks and sanitizers along with the food packets,” he said. Meanwhile, Delhi’s oldest Durga Puja at Kashmere Gate is coming to terms with the changed situation in its 111th year. “There would be huge queues every evening for biryani, korma, kebabs and ghugni. However, no food stalls have been allowed this year,” rues Som Prakash Mitra, president of the Samiti. “We will be making a limited bhog offering to Ma Durga, which will be served to only a few Samiti members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pujos-muted-but-craving-for-bhog-is-getting-louder/articleshow/78711552.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Let’s begin poll work from today, OPS, EPS tell cadres||Chennai: After announcing the party’s chief ministerial candidate and members of a steering committee, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday called upon cadres to begin pre-election work for the party’s victory in the 2021 assembly  right away. On the AIADMK’s 49th founding day on Saturday, deputy chief minister Panneerselvam will garland the statues of party founder M G Ramachandran and former general secretary J Jayalalithaa at the headquarters in Chennai and hoist the party flag. Chief minister Palaniswami, who left for his native village of Siluvampalayam in Salem district after the death of his mother, will observe the ritual too. In an epistle to partymen, the leaders said, “Like Puratchi Thalaivar MGR and Puratchi Thalaivi Amma, we worked tirelessly for the party’s victory in consecutive assembly elections. For the golden jubilee celebrations, let us create history again,” the leaders said, recalling how Jayalalithaa had vowed in 2015 to win consecutive terms when the party was set to celebrate MGR’s centenary year. Similarly, the cadres should pledge to register a massive win in the upcoming polls, they said. Founded by MGR in 1972, the ruling AIADMK had governed the state for 29 years. “We should aim for an egalitarian society based on social justice,” the leaders said. The party should uphold the principles of Tamil pride, ensure that people live happily and peacefully, and the state reaches great heights in education and economy. Law minister C Ve Shanmugam said the party remained a fortress, thanks to the unity and hard work of its workers. “It is a cadre-based movement. Every time the party suffered a challenge or setback, the cadres stood in unison and overcame it. The strength of our cadres is immense. We will form the government next when we celebrate the golden jubilee,” the minister said. AIADMK leaders foresee no threat to the party’s unity even after jailed leader V K Sasikala’s release. Former minister and AIADMK leader C Ponnaiyan said the party was gearing up for a massive victory. “The leadership has the wholehearted support of the cadre and people. Sasikala is not a member of our party. When she is promoting and guiding the activities of AMMK, headed by T T V Dhinakaran in her absence, there is no question of her getting inducted into our party,” Ponnaiyan said. The AIADMK is chalking out strategies to set up various committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lets-begin-poll-work-from-today-ops-eps-tell-cadres/articleshow/78710478.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Govt fines polluting aqua farms 67L||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government has imposed a fine of Rs 67 lakh on aqua farms in Chennai’s suburbs for polluting water bodies and affecting agriculture in nearby fields. Inspections this week revealed that only 84 out of the 295 shrimp farms in and around Ponneri have valid licences and the remaining 65% were functioning illegally, Tiruvallur collector Mageswari Ravikumar told the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Tuesday. The fisheries department wants the illegal units shut. The case was originally filed by agriculturists from Pakkam village in Ponneri. Water bodies of the village are a source of drinking water for Chennai city and part of the Pazhaverkadu bird sanctuary. In the early 2000s, shrimp and prawn cultivation flourished in the area as water availability was abundant. But the aqua farms began releasing saline water in nearby water bodies, affecting groundwater quality. When borewells in agricultural fields drew contaminated water, it affected the paddy yield. Local law restricts the functioning of such farms within 1km radius of Pulicat Lake. But complaints to state agencies about such farms close to Pulicat Lake on poromboke lands were not addressed. NGT Southern Zone, while hearing the case, constituted a panel to look into farms on not only poromboke land but also registered patta land, and study if they had caused any environmental damage. Accordingly, the committee inspected the area and found out that the region had 182 shrimp farms in the brackish water area and another 113 farms in areas with freshwater. The fisheries department has instructed closure of 119 brackish water shrimp farms functioning without licence and suspend activities at 113 inland freshwater shrimp farms as these were within 1km of Pulicat Lake. The fisheries department sent these farms notices and cut power supply. Fines were imposed on 28 illegal farms against which the committee was able to record significant evidence of polluting water resources and land. On hearing the committee’s submission, NGT members Justice K. Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta directed the committee to inspect soil and water quality in the area. In response, the committee said samples were collected and sent to Dr MGR Fisheries College and Research Institute, Ponneri, and Agricultural Lab, Kakkalur. Results of these tests are awaited. The next hearing is scheduled on December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-fines-polluting-aqua-farms-67l/articleshow/78708758.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||All India NEET topper has Lucknow connection||Lucknow: He belongs to Odisha, but All India Rank (AIR) one Soyeb Aftab has a special connection with Lucknow as well. The city helped him in his preparation for NEET UG-2020 during the Covid times and the subsequent lockdown. The 18-year-old, who lives in Kota, scored a first ever 720/720 score in the coveted medical entrance. “During the lockdown Soyeb had joined online classes of Ashfaq sir in Lucknow which helped him immensely,” said elder brother Rizwan. In a video interview to the coaching institute, the young achiever said, “I was preparing from the resource material provided by the Kotacoaching but I wanted something new to study during the lockdown.” “Don’t waste your time, study daily and revise constantly,” Soyeb tipped future aspirants. “I wasn’t expecting AIR one at all, but was hoping to get 200-500 AIR and admission in Delhi.” “Soyeb was our best student. He was passionate about medical and NEET and Ashfaq offered him full help during the Covid crisis,” said spokesperson of the Lucknow based coaching Shadab Khan. Hours after results were declared, many aspirants could not know their rankings till late night due to crashing of the website. However, the National Testing Agency (NTA) reported that UP’s Abhiuday Pratap Singh (EWS category) had secured AIR 17 and Vinita Tiwari topped the list of top 10 female candidates in the persons with disabilities (PwD) category. Lucknow resident Ekta Thakur ranked 3,639. Daughter of a clerk mother at Lucknow University’s law department, Ekta wants to become a gynaecologist. “My score was 651/720 so I expected better but this time the ranks have been pushed back. It was my third attempt and I had kept six to seven hours of daily self-study apart from coaching,” she said. Murad Ali of Kotwara in Lakhimpur Khiri and Deepak Mishra of Dangha, Shravasti studied at a Lucknow based coaching and it was the second attempt at NEET for both of them. Murad got AIR 2,329 and Deepak got AIR 3770.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-india-neet-topper-has-lucknow-connection/articleshow/78711546.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nashik||157 people booked for not following Covid norms||Nashik: Continuing with their action against people not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing in public places, police have booked a total of 157 people under sections of the Maharashtra Police Act between Wednesday 5 pm and Thursday 5 pm. Police officials said of the people who were booked , 16 people were found not maintaining social distancing in public places, six people were crowding in front of shops, five people were found spitting in public places and 130 people were moving without wearing a mask. People who are booked are taken to the police station after which a complaint is registered against them and then they are taken to the court for legal action. The court generally slaps a fine, said the officials. Early this month, the police issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the IPC under which certain restrictions have been clamped on citizens like not moving around in public places without wearing a mask, not making crowding in front of shops and not spitting in public places The police said Covid-19 cases would continue to increase if people fail to take basic precautions. So, if people are booked under legal provisions, they would refrain from neglecting the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/157-people-booked-for-not-following-covid-norms/articleshow/78707486.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Palani temple procures jaggery from farmers||Sugarcane farmers in Erode district expressed happiness after the Palani devasthanam procured brown sugar (nattu sakkarai) from the Tamil Nadu state agricultural regulated marketing committee in Kavindapadi again.The devasthanam, which used to procure nattu sakkarai and jaggery from the farmers for more than 30 years for making Panchamirtham given as prasadam, had stopped to do so from November 29, 2014.Officials from the devasthanam will visit the marketing committee every Saturday to procure nattu sakkarai from the farmers through auction. They will procure 300 bags (60kg each) nattu sakkarai every week. The quantity will increase during the Sabarimala season, when the devasthanam will procure more than 4000 bags.Sugarcane is cultivated in more than 70 villages in Gobichettipalayam taluk. While some of the farmers sell their produce to private and cooperative sugar mills, most of them manufacture jaggery and related products in their own units. “We usually sell our products through the Kavindapadi regulated marketing committee every week,” said P Dhanapal, a sugarcane farmer in Kavindapadi. “We make chemical-free nattu sakkarai specifically for Palani devasthanam as they have been procuring it from us for more than 30 years,” he told TOI.The farmers who sell nattu sakkarai and jaggery through the marketing committee will get cash immediately after procurement. “Farmers will earn profit every week,” said V Saravanan, another farmer. “All of us prefer to sell our produce to the temple.”The farmers were shocked after the devasthanam stopped procuring nattu sakkarai from the marketing committee six years ago. The devasthanam had decided to procure directly from the open market after the farmers started selling at a higher price. Some of the farmers sold adulterated products to the temple, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/palani-temple-procures-jaggery-from-farmers/articleshow/78710454.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||2 schoolteachers placed under suspension||Two government schoolteachers were placed under suspension in Erode district after they allegedly attempted to convert some of their students from Hinduism to Christianity. District educational officer (DEO) Mathesan issued the suspension order after an inquiry. The DEO initiated action against an assistant headmistress and a teacher of a government panchayat union school at Sellathapalayam after BJP Modakurichi union secretary Sundara Narayanan submitted a petition with collector C Kathiravan on October 9. “Assistant headmistress Arul Mani and teacher Saranya were attempting to convert students by issuing religious books and CDs,” Sundara Narayanan said. The collector forwarded the petition to DEO. During inquiry, the DEO seized books, posters and CDs related to Christianity from their office rooms. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-schoolteachers-placed-under-suspension/articleshow/78710451.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ranchi||14-day quarantine norm hits festive travel||RANCHI: With the state government’s mandatory 14-day quarantine norms for all those arriving in Jharkhand from outside the state continuing into Unlock 5.0, the coronavirus pandemic has thrown the travel industry in Jharkhand into a tailspin. In a normal year, hundreds of tourists from across West Bengal soak in the flora and fauna of the Betla National Park and Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR) as parks reopen after the customary closure during monsoon months. But this season is like no other seen in the past. The loss of tourists from the neighbouring state is having a heavy impact on the top destinations. One of the most sought after properties during Durga Puja, Jharkhand Tourism Development Corporation’s (JTDC) Hotel Van Vihar in Betla is staring at losses as the compulsory quarantine period has put off tourists from neighbouring states from visiting the forest popularized by several Bengali films. Talking to TOI, Van Vihar manager Kunal Rajak said, “Nearly 90% of our guests at this time of the year used to belong to West Bengal, but with the 14-day home quarantine mandatory, we are not taking any bookings for our rooms yet. The hotel has 23 operational rooms and most are lying vacant. Even people from Jharkhand are not visiting as Betla and PTR awaits government orders to reopen for leisure visits.” About 95km from Betla, JTDC’s Prabhat Vihar hotel in Netarhat Hills is witnessing lukewarm business. “Of the 50 rooms we have, nearly 40% are booked for the Durga Puja days. All the guests are from Jharkhand as we are not accepting bookings from outsiders,” Arun Kumar Singh, senior manager at the hotel, said. JTDC’s hotels in Patratu and Deoghar are also staring at dull business this festive season. Besides JTDC-run hotels, private hotels in Ranchi are also staring at huge revenue losses. “During Durga Puja, Ranchi’s hotels do not get corporate guests as offices here and in neighboring states are closed. It is primarily the tourists who visit Ranchi for a stopover in their journey to Betla, Netarhat and other places,” Kaushik Gupta, manager of Landmark Hotel in Lalpur, said. Gupta added, “Usually, the tourists stay in Ranchi for a couple of days for seeing local sights like Patratu Valley and Hundru, Jonha and Dassam falls before moving on to other parts of the state. But with most trains not running, it is unlikely that there will be any tourist here this Puja season. Like hoteliers, companies “that rent out vehicles are also facing an existential crisis. “Usually, outstation tourists hire vehicles for several days at a stretch. But this time, railway services are stalled along with inter-state bus service. Tourists are not coming and the locals, who are travelling to Netarhat and other places for the weekends, are using their personal cars,” Surender Singh, a city-based cab agency owner, said. Sanjiv Kumar Besra, the director of state tourist department, said: “We are expecting only local tourists at prominent sites during this year’s festivities as long as the mandatory home quarantine provision is in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/14-day-quarantine-norm-hits-festive-travel/articleshow/78711986.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s 267 cases in day highest since September 25||KARNAL: Haryana burnt its thickest bundle of straw on Thursday. Its space applications centre caught 267 fresh cases, biggest single-day spike since the first fire on September 25. Most fires were in Karnal (69), followed by adjoining Kurukshetra (53) and Kaithal (49). The total reached 1,835. The state pollution control board says Karnal totalled 374 cases to overtake Kurukshetra (372), while the Thursday’s figures for Kaithal (273), Ambala (243), Fatehabad (137), Yamunanagar (112), Jind (125), Hisar (62), Sirsa (31) Sonipat (30), Palwal (20), Panipat (22), and Panchkula (15) were also released. No case was reported from Nuh, Charkhi Dadri, and Faridabad. Board’s regional officer S K Arora said: “We are calculating the area under stubble fire in the ongoing paddy harvest season.” Karnal agriculture department deputy director Aditya Dabas said even imposing an environment compensation of Rs 70,000 and filing two FIRs (first-information reports) had failed to deter farmers in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hrys-267-cases-in-day-highest-since-sept-25/articleshow/78710482.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Processions banned in Lucknow, Section 144 extended||LUCKNOW: People will not be allowed to take out processions in the city in upcoming festivals, including Navratri, Valmiki Jayanti, Barawafat and Chhath Puja. The district administration on Friday decided to extend prohibitory orders under Section 144 till November 25 in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic. This means that approval of the district administration would be a must for any event involving more than five persons. Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora said that anti-social elements might try to vitiate the atmosphere during festivals. Hence, Section 144 has been imposed to maintain peace and harmony, he said. Arora also said that some relief has been given for setting up Durga Puja pandals and organising Dussehra which is strictly in adherence to guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/processions-banned-sec-144-extended/articleshow/78711576.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Salem||Anna University does not need IoE tag, can’t lose 69% quota: Tamil Nadu minister||SALEM/CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu higher education minister K P Anbalgan on Friday declared that Anna University does not require Institute of Eminence (IoE) status as it posed a threat to the existing 69% reservation policy of the state. With Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa independently approaching the Centre for the IoE status, the issue involving the state’s premiere engineering institution has snowballed into a major controversy. Last week, Surappa, in a letter to the MHRD, said the university had its own means to generate revenue of Rs 1,570 crore for five years as required for the IoE status. “The stand of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was to protect the students and the government is not ready to sacrifice anything for IoE status,” the minister told reporters in Dharmapuri. The state government had sought an explanation from the vice-chancellor on Tuesday over his proposal to the Centre. “The Centre is ready to grant the IoE status because of the importance given by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to higher education,” said the minister. “But there is apprehension that the long-fought reservation of 69% will become a question mark, entrance examination will be announced for the students and the fees will be hiked… The IoE status is not required. We have already improved the varsity and will develop it further with state funds,” the minister said. He sought to affirm his government’s commitment to maintain status quo of the existing system of reservation, no-entrance exam norm nor fee hike for students. Hours after the minister’s announcement, BJP, a key ally of the ruling AIADMK, rose in strong support of the vice chancellor and dismissed suggestions that the IoE status would affect reservation. “It will not affect reservation at any time, in any way. It is a lie. Reservation is a constitutional right and it will remain. How can it be taken away?” BJP state president L Murugan said. DMK president M K Stalin took to Twitter and said that mere announcement (of the minister) was not enough. “It should be conveyed to the Centre. The chief minister should recommend Surappa’s sacking,” Stalin said. The UGC Regulations, 2017, state that the IoE shall implement the reservation policy in admissions and recruitment in accordance with any “Act of Parliament”, for the time being. Anbalagan said this would result in the state being deprived of its reservation policy, and the students of Tamil Nadu being denied admission in the event of an entrance examination. The state would not support entrance test, hike in fee and go against the reservation under any circumstances. On the vice chancellor’s remarks that Union HRD ministry has clarified on the reservation policy, Anbalagan said the communication from officers (of the ministry) on the reservation policy was in contradiction to the minister’s statement that he had not received any representation from the state government. “The regulations released in 2017 need to be modified. Otherwise, it result in the state being deprived of everything,” the minister said, pointing to students from outside the state joining the institutions after they got IoE status. Anbalagan took a dig at the vice chancellor for his “narrow-minded” focus on four institutions for IoE status, including College of Engineering, Guindy, AC College of Technology, Madras Institute of Technology and School of Architecture and Planning, when the varsity runs 13 constituent colleges, regional campuses and 461 affiliated colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/anna-univ-does-not-need-ioe-tag-cant-lose-69-quota-tn-minister/articleshow/78712726.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||Vasco girl hits Goa’s best-known score at NEET(UG)||PANAJI: Vasco resident Rubiya Shaikh has bettered the best-known score from Goa at NEET(UG), results for which were announced on Friday, scoring 675 out of 720. The student of Cujira-based Mushtifund Aryaan higher secondary school has now set her sights on joining one of the top-ranked medical colleges in Delhi. In 2017, Pratheek Rebello had scored 660 out of 720 from Goa, which was the best-known so far from the state at the all-India medical entrance test in its NEET(UG) format. However, Pratheek had bagged an all-India rank of 189, whereas Rubiya’s rank is 922 despite having a better score, as a single test covering all medical institutes was enforced this year, raising competition. “I have always wanted to pursue medicine,” said Rubiya, the daughter of Mormugao Port Trust engineer Shaikh Abdussalam and former NIO researcher Mamtaz. “I wanted to do my MBBS from AIIMS, but because of various factors, my rank went to 922. I have a good rank at JEE(Advanced) as well. But I want to ideally join one of the top ten medical colleges in the country, five of which are located in Delhi. My dream is to do my medical programme in Delhi.” “If I had appeared in 2018 or 2019 and got the same score, I would be in the country’s top 200,” she said. Nevertheless, she has a better rank from Goa than that recorded last year. In 2019, Jaiprakash Gurav was ranked 1,300. In 2020, besides Rubiya, Yash Tar with an all-India rank of 1,179, Siddhant Govekar with 1,361 and Kaushal Naik with 2,071 are some of the other scores within the first 5,000, as was known until late Friday evening. All are students of Mushtifund Aryaan. “Following Pratheek, Aumkar Shah in 2018, Jaiprakash Gurav in 2019 and now Rubiya are all our students,” said Vyankatesh Prabhudesai, director of Mushtifund Aryaan. This year, competition was tough and Rubiya’s rank is 922 of the 13.5 lakh students who took the test.” Meanwhile, a lower number of students from Goa appeared for NEET(UG) this year, but the percentage of those who qualified for a seat was higher. As against 3,465 students who appeared for the test in 2019 from Goa, 3,135 answered it this year, amidst the pandemic. But, of those who appeared in 2020, 50.4% qualified for a seat, up from 2019’s 48.4%, as per data released by the NTA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-girl-hits-goas-best-known-score-at-neetug/articleshow/78711319.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Report on new education policy in 4 months’||PANAJI: Shiroda MLA and chairman of the state-level task force committee on national education policy, Subhash Shirodkar on Friday said that the report on implementing the new education policy would be submitted to the government in the next four months. CM Pramod Sawant said that the state government wants to implement the policy from June 2021. Shirodkar said that the sub-committee will be formed by Tuesday for the new education policy. The task force held a meeting with Sawant and a 35-member committee has been given the task to give recommendations to the government on how to implement the policy. “By February 2021, the report on implementation of the policy would be ready,” Shirodkar said. He said that the committee will visit all talukas and get suggestions from the public over implementation of the policy. He said that the CM gave valuable suggestions at the meeting. During the meeting, members were briefed about the policy and the role they will have to play. “Work will start once the sub-committee is formed,” Shirodkar said. He said that as per the new policy, a new issue has cropped up as aanganwadis were run by women and child development department and nurseries by the private sector. “Now, aanganwadis and nurseries will become formal education. So, we are looking at how to implement this,” he said. Shirodkar said that in classes VI, VII and VIII, vocational education would be introduced. He said that classes IX, X, XI and XII will be be in one level. “The sub-committee will submit recommendations to the main committee on these matters,” he said. Shirodkar said that as per the new policy there will be semester exams till Class XII. “There will be no Class X exams,” he said. He said that technical education will begin from Class VI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/report-on-new-edu-policy-in-4-months/articleshow/78710481.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chennai||In a first, Tamil Nadu student among top 10 NEET rankers||CHENNAI: For the first time since the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for MBBS admissions seven years ago, a student from Tamil Nadu has broken into the top 10. Srijan R got the 8th rank nationally scoring 710 out of 720 marks. Two other candidates from the state, Mohanaprabha Ravichandran and G Swetha, scored 705 and 702 respectively and secured the 52nd and 62nd ranks. Last year, the state topper was Shruthi K, who scored 685 out of 720 marks and secured the 57th rank. Of 1,21,617 students who had registered for the test from the state, 99,610 took it. Of them, 57,215 students (57.4%) qualified. Last year 48.5% qualified. N Jeevith Kumar student of Siluvarpatti Govt Model Higher Secondary school, Siluvarpatti, Theni who obtained 664/720 in the NEET examinationIn 2019, the cut-off for MBBS admissions in government medical colleges went up by nearly 100 marks in most categories because of a surge in scores. Last year, the cut-off for OC category was 520 marks and for BC it was 470 marks. The cut-off for BCM and MBC was 458 marks and for SC category 360 marks. For SCA it was 301 and ST 267 marks. Going by the high scores in NEET this year, the cut-off for medical admissions will likely increase. This year’s state topper R Srijan, a native Vellakoil in Tirupur district, attended a coaching centre in Namakkal. Talking to reporters in Namakkal, Srijan said he has been passionate about medicine and wants to specialise in cardiology. Srijan had attempted NEET last year and appeared again this year to better his scores. Mohanaprabha Ravichandran, who is also from the same coaching centre, emerged second in the state. Mohanaprabha said she wants to specialise in neurology. N Jeevithkumar, a student of Tamil medium Government Model Higher Secondary School, Siluvarpatti, Theni district, has scored 664/720. He is the second student pursuing medicine from the school and has scored just over 99% in physics, chemistry and biology. He has secured the 1,823rd rank at the national level. His father K Narayanamoorthi rears goats for a living and his mother N Parameswari takes up work under the MNREGA. He had undergone NEET coaching in Namakkal district and this is his second attempt at NEET. “Last year, the all-India topper scored 691 marks. This year, one of our students scored 700 out of 720 marks and he was ranked 105. So, it means that 105 students have scored above 700 and we expect more high scorers in NEET,” said Chandan Chand, regional director, Aakash Institute. (With inputs from Madurai and Coimbatore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-a-first-tn-student-among-top-10-neet-rankers/articleshow/78710521.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Anna University does not need IoE tag, can’t lose 69% quota: Tamil Nadu minister||SALEM/CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu higher education minister K P Anbalgan on Friday declared that Anna University does not require Institute of Eminence (IoE) status as it posed a threat to the existing 69% reservation policy of the state. With Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa independently approaching the Centre for the IoE status, the issue involving the state’s premiere engineering institution has snowballed into a major controversy. Last week, Surappa, in a letter to the MHRD, said the university had its own means to generate revenue of Rs 1,570 crore for five years as required for the IoE status. “The stand of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was to protect the students and the government is not ready to sacrifice anything for IoE status,” the minister told reporters in Dharmapuri. The state government had sought an explanation from the vice-chancellor on Tuesday over his proposal to the Centre. “The Centre is ready to grant the IoE status because of the importance given by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa to higher education,” said the minister. “But there is apprehension that the long-fought reservation of 69% will become a question mark, entrance examination will be announced for the students and the fees will be hiked… The IoE status is not required. We have already improved the varsity and will develop it further with state funds,” the minister said. He sought to affirm his government’s commitment to maintain status quo of the existing system of reservation, no-entrance exam norm nor fee hike for students. Hours after the minister’s announcement, BJP, a key ally of the ruling AIADMK, rose in strong support of the vice chancellor and dismissed suggestions that the IoE status would affect reservation. “It will not affect reservation at any time, in any way. It is a lie. Reservation is a constitutional right and it will remain. How can it be taken away?” BJP state president L Murugan said. DMK president M K Stalin took to Twitter and said that mere announcement (of the minister) was not enough. “It should be conveyed to the Centre. The chief minister should recommend Surappa’s sacking,” Stalin said. The UGC Regulations, 2017, state that the IoE shall implement the reservation policy in admissions and recruitment in accordance with any “Act of Parliament”, for the time being. Anbalagan said this would result in the state being deprived of its reservation policy, and the students of Tamil Nadu being denied admission in the event of an entrance examination. The state would not support entrance test, hike in fee and go against the reservation under any circumstances. On the vice chancellor’s remarks that Union HRD ministry has clarified on the reservation policy, Anbalagan said the communication from officers (of the ministry) on the reservation policy was in contradiction to the minister’s statement that he had not received any representation from the state government. “The regulations released in 2017 need to be modified. Otherwise, it result in the state being deprived of everything,” the minister said, pointing to students from outside the state joining the institutions after they got IoE status. Anbalagan took a dig at the vice chancellor for his “narrow-minded” focus on four institutions for IoE status, including College of Engineering, Guindy, AC College of Technology, Madras Institute of Technology and School of Architecture and Planning, when the varsity runs 13 constituent colleges, regional campuses and 461 affiliated colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-univ-does-not-need-ioe-tag-cant-lose-69-quota-tn-minister/articleshow/78710486.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Amritsar||‘Tough steps won’t help, give us machinery & financial aid’||BATHINDA: The Supreme Court, National Green Tribunal, and the Union government have all tried and failed to reduce field fires in Punjab and Haryana. The defiance is rather most pronounced in four years. Engaged in fighting three new agri-marketing laws, the farmers also insist on burning paddy stubble till they have a viable alternative. Punjab’s tillers are angry over the unpaid Rs 2,500 an acre for last year’s restraint apart from no new budget for compensation, while Haryana has kept Rs 300 crore for the purpose. On Friday, the Supreme Court appointed retired justice Madan B Lokur to find ways to reducing the straw fires of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. The chief secretaries of these states will help the committee file a report in 15 days. On Thursday, the central government had decided to send 50 teams to these states to stop the blazes. Farm unionist Resham Singh Yatri of the Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Sidhupur said: “Whatever measures the governments or the courts may adopt, stubble fires will rage until farmers are compensated duly. Neither fines nor red entries in land records will work. The only solution is to win over the farmers with money.” BKU Ekta Ugrahan state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “The farmers want Rs 200 a quintal as bonus or Rs 4,000 per acre as compensation. Rent-free crop residue management (CRM) machinery is meaningless without affordable tractors and diesel. Lasting solutions ought to be more serious.” On November 27, 2019, the state farmers’ commission had a panel discussion with the tillers and other stakeholders. Even at that time the farmers had suggested paying compensation, giving CRM to those tilling less than 10 acres, removing fines, building stronger marketing network and minimum support price (MSP) system for alternative crops, and no more villainising farmers or making red entries into land records. “Not much has been done on these ideas,” said BKU Ugrahan president Joginder Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/tough-steps-wont-help-give-us-machinery-financial-aid/articleshow/78710470.cms||Neel Kamal
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||‘Gadgets, apps, self-defence sprays not enough to stop rapes’||Dehradun: With incidents of crimes against women making headlines, more and more women are looking for options that can come handy in case they encounter any trouble. While gadgets are sought after, mobile applications are easy and popular. However, those who are using them say there are issues with many of these. For example, Hawk Eye — the Telangana Police department’s women safety app — which has over five lakh downloads, has managed to get only an “average” rating from its users. While some women users appreciated the app and confirmed that they received a follow-up call from the Cyberabad police station, others complained of the problems they faced. “Every time we need to log on this app if we are in an emergency situation, this app will ask for a login… this is time consuming,” one user said. Likewise, users of Delhi Police department’s Himmat app, which has over 50,000 downloads, had a unique problem — it was not compatible with cellphone number series starting with six. “My contact number starts with a six, and it is not getting registered. It keeps telling me to use valid numbers,” said a Delhi-based college student. Users of B Safe said that they were “appalled by the fact that the company was charging for life-saving emergency messages.” Apoorva Bhatnagar, a former bank employee in Mumbai, said, “The biggest problem with using security applications is that one does not know about the authenticity of the application. Today, every smartphone user is facing the challenge of losing data and at times, we are unaware if any malware is active on our phones. Sharing a live location with one application can be dangerous at times. I now use WhatsApp to share my location with my family.” Surya Krishnamurthy, a medical student in Bengaluru, said, “I often return late at night from work or after meeting friends and, hence, downloaded a security application which claimed to alert my family during any emergency. But I could not even register myself on the application as the system did not accept my cell phone number. After trying several times, I finally uninstalled it.” Head of People Against Rape in India, a social organisation, Yogita Bhayana, said, “Technology can only be of help once the infrastructure of the entire system is ready. The biggest change can be brought by changing the mindset of the people. Technology is useful at times but any smart wearable with a panic button or phone applications can only be useful if the responders can reach within no time, once alerted.” Cyber security expert Rakshit Tandon said that he would still bat for phone-based apps. “With over 70 crore internet users in the country, technology surely has potential and offers hope, and it is constantly evolving. Women safety-app makers are working on features like sending distress alerts by shaking the phone rigorously. But at the same time, app makers must not stop at the production stage. They must work on feedback mechanisms and regular monitoring for bringing in improvement,” he said. Women activists say that apps and gadgets should only be in the “stop-gap solution” category. “The root of the problem needs to be addressed. It is a mindset barrier and unless issues like gender-sensitive education and upbringing are taken seriously, the problem will never find a final solution. Till then, I recommend that parents should send their daughters for self-defence training and teach the boys to treat the opposite sex with respect,” said Neelam Singh, an activist from Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gadgets-apps-self-defence-sprays-not-enough-to-stop-rapes/articleshow/78708810.cms||Abhijeet Singh
October 17, 2020||India||Pakistan law mantri attends virtual meet hosted by India||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Council of Heads of Government meeting, which India plans to host on November 30, the government on Friday held a virtual meeting of the law/justice ministers of SCO member-states that also saw the participation of Pakistan. India invited Pakistan for the meeting and the latter participated in the event which was addressed by law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. The event is seen as a precursor to the heads of government summit for which India will soon be sending out invites, including one to Pakistan PM Imran Khan. Prasad highlighted the initiatives taken by the government for providing affordable and easy access to justice for all. While maintaining that there could be no bilateral dialogue with Pakistan until the latter put an end to cross-border terrorism, the government also made it clear that it won’t shy away from working together with Pakistan at a multilateral forum like the SCO. In fact, India had said in January this year that Khan would be invited for the meeting in keeping with the SCO charter. The government had said last month that it is expanding and enriching India’s imprint on the organisation by assuming the chairmanship of the SCO’s Council of Heads of Government later this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-law-mantri-attends-virtual-meet-hosted-by-india/articleshow/78712523.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||3 weeks on, paddy payment awaited||KARNAL: Farmers and arhtiyas of various grain markets in the district are awaiting payments even after three weeks of procurement. The farmers have been running from pillar to post to get the payment. Farmers said this was happening even though the state government had claimed of disbursing payment in 72 hours of procurement. Though the government had claimed that they had made payments to those whose form-I had been approved till October 7, the majority of farmers and commission agents alleged they have not received even a single penny so far. As per the official data, until October 15, three state procurement agencies— the food and supplies department, Hafed and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HWC) — had procured over 6.14 lakh MT paddy from 52,058 farmers in the district. On Friday alone, farmers brought 60,831 MT paddy across 13 mandis in the district. The A grade paddy is being procured at MSP of 1,888 per quintal. Parveen Kumar, a farmer of Nilokheri block, said, “I had sold the paddy grown in 4 acres of land. I have to buy seeds and other things for wheat sowing, for which I need money immediately. But I have not received a single rupee so far. The government should make the payment at the earliest.” Rajneesh Choudhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiya Association, said the government through its agencies should immediately release the payments and keep its promise of releasing payment within 72 hours of purchase. Chander Shekhar Khare, director, food, civil supplies & consumer affairs, Haryana, said, “We have started making payments to the farmers. Till Friday evening, we have cleared dues of around Rs 320 crore against the form-I.” The officers said further: “The payments for paddy procurement are being electronically disbursed into the bank accounts of farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) within seven days of the approval of form-I. We will ensure to make the remaining payment at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-weeks-on-paddy-payment-awaited/articleshow/78710487.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain floods even dry areas in western Maharashtra this year||KOLHAPUR: Three generations of Madhav Sabnis’s family in Chimangaon village, of Koregaon taluka in Satara district, have always prayed for rain. This year, however, they want the heavy showers to stop. Sabnis said he had taken up ginger cultivation over the past few years, as ginger needs little water. This season, the crop has been completely damaged because of the heavy rainfall. “I have never seen such rain. Neither have I heard of such rainfall from my father and grandfather,” the 60-year-old said. His sentiments echo through the dry belt of Satara, Sangli and Solapur districts. Even the Marathawada region of central Maharashtra and parts of north Maharashtra that are drought-prone, have received heavy rainfall, indicating a change in the rainfall pattern. The area towards the east of south Maharashtra struggles for adequate drinking water. Farmers in six talukas in Sangli district, five talukas in Satara and seven talukas in Solapur depend on the withdrawal phase of the monsoon in October for their share of rain. These 18 talukas have already received heavy rain this year. Nearly 565 villages in Solapur district, of which, 267 are drought-prone, have received very heavy rainfall this week. B N Patil, a retired government officer, who now looks after his ancestral farm in Pandharpur taluka, said that all his life, he had only known about waiting for some rainfall. “This year, I will have to ask for compensation as my crop is completely damaged because of two heavy spells of rain,” he said. Barshi taluka in Solapur district recorded 140 mm rainfall in 12 hours on Wednesday, leaving the residents shocked. Randhir Patil, a farmer and poultry owner from Barshi taluka of Solapur district, said they were caught unprepared this year. “It was completely unexpected. I don’t know whether it is good or bad for us,” he said. Solapur district, situated on the border of Marathwada and south Maharashtra, had exceeded the average rainfall quota last month. Maanganga river, which flows through Satara and Solapur districts, is flooded after the fresh spell of rain. In Sangli district, 420 villages are affected and majority of them are from the dry talukas of Aatpadi, Jat, Kavthe Mahankal, Tasgaon, Vita and Miraj. Vita taluka has 1,106 mm rainfall in the current season, almost double its annual average. Tasgaon taluka recorded 85 mm rainfall on Wednesday. Yerala river, that passed through the taluka, crossed the danger mark for the first time in 12 years. Sharad Thorat, a farmer from Manerajuri village in Tasgaon taluka of Sangli said that the sight of a flooded river has only been an image on TV or movies. “It was unbelievable to see Yerala river flooding. We have never experienced it. We have always been given drought-relief packages. This time, people are demanding a package for wet drought,” he told TOI. The river also flows through parts of Satara district such as the Khatav taluka. Initial reports coming from Satara suggest heavy damage to the crop in dry talukas such as Phaltan, Maan, Khatav, Koregaon and Khandala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-floods-even-dry-areas-in-western-maharashtra-this-year/articleshow/78707546.cms||Satyajit Joshi
October 17, 2020||Goa||Goa Express staffer nabbed with ganja||VASCO: The railway police at Vasco arrested a person employed in the pantry of the Goa Express for possessing 60g of ganja, worth Rs 10,000. Police said that the accused, a native of Muzaffarpur-Bihar, was to sell the drugs to a customer in Vasco. The railway police said the accused, Gulzar Sheikh, 33, had come down to Vasco for the second time in the Goa Express. Since the past three months, Sheikh was employed by the pantry contractor as a water bottle seller and would earn 8% commission. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-express-staffer-nabbed-with-ganja/articleshow/78710493.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chennai||NCPCR directive irks child rights bodies||CHENNAI: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights’ (NCPCR) directive to restore more than 87,000 children living in institutions in the state back to their families or find new families for the orphans, all within 100 days has not gone down too well with child rights bodies. They said that merely sending them home without understanding the family’s situation will only make the child vulnerable. “What if the families are unwilling to look after them? Or a member of the family was an abuser? What will happen to the children then? You cannot give a blanket instruction without taking all these aspects into account,” asked Joseph Leo, director of Don Bosco Anbu Illam. Last month, the NCPCR had directed all the child care institutions in Tamil Nadu and seven other states to restore children back to their families. The commission also ordered officials to prepare a child care plan, devise ways to strengthen their poor families, and submit a report on the same. They “Poverty is not the only reason why children are sent to institutions. They are also victims of child abuse, child marriage and there are several other factors why they live here. How is it safe to send them back to the same household which caused them harm?” asked Isabel Richardson, director of the Madras Christian Council for Social Work. Irked by the directive, several child rights bodies have written to the commission and the state authorities to look into the matter. “Institutionalisation is the last resort and family is the first. But when the families are themselves vulnerable due to the pandemic or are perpetrators of abuse we don't see how it is helpful for the children,” said Father Leo. There are 1,647 children’s homes in Tamil Nadu, one of the highest in the country. More than 1,500 children were abandoned and at least 5,900 children were orphans. The commission also asked the state to expedite the adoption process and put up the rest under foster care, all within 100 days. “But the adoption process is yet to commence due to the pandemic, and the foster programme is not yet successful in the state. The directive is unreasonable and we have asked them to take it back,” said a senior official from the social defence department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ncpcr-directive-irks-child-rights-bodies/articleshow/78708833.cms||Aditi R
October 17, 2020||Kanpur||Widow of armyman complains against land sharks||Kanpur: Widow of an Army personnel, of Vinayakpur village in Akbarpur tehsil of Kanpur Dehat district has complained to the district authorities, that local land sharks have been trying to usurp her property. According to Usha Devi’s complaint, local land sharks, in connivance with the local police and district administration employees and others, have been trying to usurp her husband’s ancestral property on which she and her son Kamal Kumar Trivedi are doing farming since the past many years. Her husban, had died a few years ago. The complainant further said that the land sharks are demanding to give them a four-feet passage through their agricultural fields. She also said in the complaint that recently, while she was getting a house constructed in her fields, the local police stopped them from doing so and chased the masons and labourers. ADM (administration), Kanpur Dehat, Pankaj Verma, meanwhile, said, “We have come to know about the whole issue. A team under the supervision of the tehsildar has been formed to conduct and submit a report in this regard. Everything will become clear after the inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/widow-of-armyman-complains-against-land-sharks/articleshow/78708755.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Trichy||School draws flak for lending its premises for political meet||Trichy: A private CBSE school in Trichy district came under criticism for allowing its premises for political meetings. Sai Vidyalaya CBSE School located in Lalgudi of Trichy district was the venue for the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Mandal training camp – 2020.More than 60 BJP functionaries, including the newly-inducted members from Lalgudi region attended the meeting. The two-day event was held on October 12 and 13 at the school where the classrooms were used for the orientation programme.Dhanasekaran, a BJP district functionary, was one of the speakers at the event. He said that functionaries were trained on taking schemes of the Union government to the people and work for increasing the vote bank of the party.Asked if it was appropriate to use school premises for political meetings, he said the correspondent of the school was part of the education wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Further, some of the colleges in Trichy that are owned by the BJP leaders are being used for party meetings and events, he said.When contacted, the correspondent of Sai Vidyalaya CBSE School, P Siva Kumar said that the members of RSS had approached us asking for one classroom for a training programme. Later, we came to know that they all are part of the BJP. They said they are using the premises for yoga training, he said.Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi said that she will conduct an enquiry with the school as political meetings should not be conducted on school premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-draws-flak-for-lending-its-premises-for-political-meet/articleshow/78712024.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Trauma mgmt as subject will help kids: Experts||Lucknow: The training on prevention and management of trauma cases, especially in children, should be included in school curriculum. This was the suggestion given by the experts on the eve of World Trauma DayThe recommendation came in the wake of rising number of paediatric trauma cases recorded in Lucknow. A high percentage of children suffering from trauma end up with either temporary or permanent disabilities or comorbidities even after treatment. This issue needs to be addressed by the policy makers, experts said. As per the data of pediatric trauma cases from 10 hospitals in Lucknow, 3,071 children underwent some form of trauma emergency, including orthopedic, trauma surgery and neurosurgery, in 2019. Of them, 83% (2,541) children underwent treatment in top five premier medical institutions — KGMU, SGPGI, RMLIMS, Balrampur hospial and Civil hospital. Figures released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) also show that children account for 25% of the total trauma deaths in India. Of this, about 45-50% children are left with some disability even after treatment. “Training and inclusion of preventive techniques in NCC/NSS curriculum and schools can help reduce trauma related deaths and complications to a large extent,” said head, paediatric orthopaedic surgery, KGMU, Prof Ajai Singh. “Police, bus conductors, drivers are generally the first ones to reach the spots in case of any mishap which often involves children. If these personnel are trained into handling children in such situations, it would help in bringing down trauma cases in kids,” Prof Singh added. The transport department, National Rural Health Mission, medical education or health departments should frame policies on such training,” Prof Singh suggested. Dr Sandeep Tiwari, head, trauma surgery department, KGMU, said that putting policies already in place is a required task. “Five Es are important in trauma prevention: Engineering of roads, transportation; Education of public about road signs; Emergency response as golden hour is extremely vital; Enforcement of policies, and Environment relation between weather and roads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trauma-mgmt-as-subject-will-help-kids-experts/articleshow/78711578.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Allahabad||Two human traffickers held, five minors saved||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) arrested two human traffickers and rescued five children on Thursday, said SSP Jogendra Kumar on Friday. Acting on tip-off AHTU team including the unit in-charge sub inspector Dinesh Kumar along with four constables, under the guidelines of SSP Jogendra Kumar and SP Crime Ashok Kumar Verma reached Gorakhpur railway station at platform number 2. During investigation and interrogation police came to know about two human traffickers taking five children to Hisar. After Covid-19 test, the children were handed over to Child Line Gorakhpur and the traffickers were booked under section 370 (5)(Trafficking of more than 1 minor), 79 Juvenile Justice Act (Exploitation of a child employee) and 3 Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-human-traffickers-held-five-minors-saved/articleshow/78708542.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kanpur||Dairy owners attack mayor, KMC team||Kanpur: Mayor Pramila Pandey was again attacked by private dairy owners on Friday when she along with a Kanpur Municipal Corporation team went to the railway ground in Govind Nagar to remove illegal dairies. They allegedly pelted stones at the mayor and KMC officers following which a BJP worker reportedly suffered injuries. The attackers managed to escape from the spot before the police force reached there. A few days ago the mayor had to face strong resistance in Chamanganj while leading a campaign against private milk dairies. At that time, the dairy owners had pelted stones at the cattle catching squad and the mayor. Under the Swachhata campaign, when the mayor visited Juhi Kalan locality on Friday, the local residents told her that some dairy owners were running their dairies from railway ground in Govind Nagar. She along with Dr Ajay Shankhwar and some corporators reached the railway ground. When they infiltrated around 300 metres inside it, they found milk dairies in operation. On the mayor’s direction, as soon as they started counting animals, the dairy owners accosted the squad and started pelting stones at them, said a official. The mayor was later rescued by the officers and BJP workers. After adequate police force arrived at the spot, the mayor once again went inside the ground. Punjab Singh, stated to be a BJP worker, suffered injuries in stone pelting. The dairy owners started running away from the spot when the mayor’s gunner made a video of the incident. As many as 17 animals were seized by the cattle catching squad. Expressing anger over the inaction of the CO Govind Nagar for not sending police force in time to handle the incident, the mayor said that she would lodge a complaint with the DIG against the CO. Later, talking to reporters, the mayor said, “The campaign against illegal milk dairies being run in the city limit will continue. as KMC has no other option except to comply with the orders of the HC and the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dairy-owners-attack-mayor-kmc-team/articleshow/78708823.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Shimla||2 Raj tourists killed in accident near Manali||MANALI: Two tourists from Rajasthan were killed, while two others sustained injuries after the car they were travelling in fell into a gorge at Dhundi near south portal of the Atal Tunnel on Thursday. According to Kullu SP Gaurav Singh, “Four persons were in the car which was being driven by Amit Singh Chauhan, resident of Jaipur in Rajasthan. Amit and Mohit died on the spot while Ajeet Rawat and Nikhil sustained injuries and were rushed to a hospital in Manali. We are investigating the reasons behind the accident,” he said. Locals alerted the authorities on Friday morning, when they spotted the mangled car in the gorge. A large number of road accidents, all because of rash driving and human negligence, have been reported from the tunnel and it’s approach roads since October 3, when it was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hundreds of vehicles have been challaned this month but still there are cases of rash and dangerous driving. The Palchan-Atal tunnel and Sissu-Atal tunnel roads have been made super smooth and wide. Visitors ignore the traffic rules and the sharp curves to driving at high speed, risking lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-raj-tourists-killed-in-accident-near-manali/articleshow/78710497.cms||---
October 17, 2020||India||Demand for work under MGNREGA falls for fourth straight month in Sept||NEW DELHI: The September work demand under MGNREGA has been identical to the previous month, notching a straight fourth month decline in households seeking employment under the distress scheme during the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 2 crore households sought work under the job scheme in September, which is a slight dip from August when around 2.02 crore households applied for employment. These figures, however, mark a sharp fall from July. The decrease comes amid reports that sections of migrants have returned to cities after the end of the nationwide lockdown. The reverse migration of workers from cities to villages at the peak of the coronavirus outbreak, captured by the heart-rending scenes of families with women and children walking hundreds of kilometres to their native places, compounded the already soaring work demand caused by the collapse of the informal economy as well as traditional job hubs in the countryside. After the restrictions were partially relaxed on April 20, the need for work under MGNREGA shot up manifold from previous years. As many as 1.30 crore households applied for work in April for just the last 10 days of the month. In May, the number of households seeking jobs increased to 3.46 crore and then to 4.06 crore in June. It is after June that MGNREGA witnessed a steep decline which has continued during the July-September period. According to the rural development ministry, the downward graph, that seems to surprise all given the dismal state of the informal economy, is because of three factors — monsoon, agriculture operations and return of some migrant workers to cities. In terms of trends, MGNREGA witnesses seasonal swings. The demand is lesser during monsoons as workers are engaged in farm operations of their own to a lesser extent while largely finding work in the fields of big farmers. On the other hand, the demand is higher during summers and during calamities like drought. Going by history, the dip in work is not extraordinary but follows the pattern witnessed over past years. In 2019-20, the work demand rose from 2.18 crore households in May to 2.23 crore in June before slipping to 1.50 crore in July to 1.04 crore in October, before picking up again to maintain an upward trend till February. However, during the pandemic period, the margins of increase have been unprecedented. If MGNREGA’s past is taken as the marker, then the job demand may fall in October too before picking up. What will be interesting to see is if the rise again is as sharp as seen in the April-June phase. It will have a direct bearing on the budgetary support required for the demand-based programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/demand-for-work-under-mgnrega-falls-for-fourth-straight-month-in-sept/articleshow/78712482.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 17, 2020||Pune||Police probe murder of 55-year-old woman||Pune: The Wakad police are investigating the death of a 55-year-old woman and a serious injury caused to her relative after her son registered a complaint stating that the duo were attacked in their sleep by intruders between 4am and 5am on Friday. Police said the deceased, Chhaya Gunjal; her husband Pandurang; a relative, Mangal Satvadhar (48); and her mother-in-law were sleeping in one room of their Kalewadi house. Police said as per the family’s claims, Chhaya’s mother-in-law went to a vegetable market around 4am on Friday. “She did not lock the main door,” a relative told police. The family claimed that intruders entered the house and attacked Chhaya and Mangal with a blunt object and that no one else, including the two sleeping in the same room, heard any commotion. The duo were later taken to a hospital, where Chhaya was declared dead. “We are looking into various angles and verifying statements to ascertain the motive,” senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-probe-murder-of-55-year-old-woman/articleshow/78708862.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Puducherry||Chennai, north Tamil Nadu to get pre-monsoon spells||CHENNAI: Weather conditions may not be favourable at the moment for the onset of northeast monsoon, but the city can expect pre-monsoon spells as weathermen have forecast moderate showers accompanied by thunder and lightning over the city for the next two days, due to an atmospheric circulation. Weather enthusiasts said the city as well as parts of north Tamil Nadu may continue to receive spells till October 28 due to a convergence of opposing winds. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, said due to an upper air circulation and convective activity, several northern Tamil Nadu districts such as Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Ranipet, coastal district of Nagapattinam and eastern districts such as Dharmapuri, Salem and Krishnagiri are likely to receive light to moderate rain or thundershowers for the next 24 hours. The agency’s five-day forecast indicates light to moderate rain or thundershower likely to occur at isolated or at a few places over North Tamil Nadu till October 20. “Chennai and its suburbs are likely to receive light to moderate rain or thundershowers over some areas for the next 48 hours. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 36C and 27C,” he said. According to IMD’s regional weather inference, a low pressure area is likely to form over east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea on October 19 and will become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours over Central Bay of Bengal. It is likely to move west-northwest direction towards Andhra Coast. Weather enthusiasts said this low pressure, which is likely to be weak and elongated over a large region, may move towards Andhra Pradesh and bring rainfall for north Tamil Nadu including Chennai till October 20. “A westerly trough or an elongated area of low atmospheric pressure in the westerlies is also likely to develop and we may have rainfall all along the east coast,” said weather blogger Pradeep John. He said as the system moves inland, a western disturbance, which is an area of reduced air pressure originating from the Mediterranean region moving from west to east, may push it out again, bringing rain again to north TN and other regions along the east coast of the country till October 28. While there is rainfall activity in the south, Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at Skymet Weather, said southwest monsoon, which is seeing a delayed withdrawal, may retreat from parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat but may take a few more days to leave northeast India before Northeast monsoon commences around November 3. Experts said as of now, models indicate the entry of easterlies, the first sign of northeast monsoon, around October 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/city-north-tn-to-get-pre-monsoon-spells/articleshow/78714207.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||Budding engineers use lockdown period to innovate||Vadodara/Anand: A home automation system that can be controlled by any smartphone, a line follower robot that can save manpower and an automatic floor cleaning device. These are some of the social projects that future engineers developed recently using the time that they got during lockdown. “The innovative projects are prepared by members of Tech-Club which is managed by our students,” said Dr Nilay Patel, head of electrical engineering department at the Chandubhai S Patel Institute of Technology of Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT University). A student Vishal Kesur has developed a home automation system with bluetooth connection. The automation system connects to the smartphone via bluetooth and sends control signals to turn on or off home appliances. Another student Anjali Lalvani has developed a robot that senses obstacles in the way, determines its direction and reaches its destination. “Such a robot can be used in defence field,” she said. Student Dhairya Patel has created a robot that can help all, especially disabled people, at shopping centres or public areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/budding-engineers-use-lockdown-period-to-innovate/articleshow/78707350.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kanpur||Woman kills specially abled teenage daughter-son, ends life||Kanpur: In a shocking incident, a 37-year-old woman allegedly hanged self to death after allegedly strangulating her mentally and physically challenged teenage daughter and son to death in Ait twon of Jalaun district on Friday evening. The incident, however, came to light on late Friday evening after her neighbours, on peeping from the window of her house, spotted the woman’s body hanging from the ceiling while her daughter and son were lying dead on the floor. The neighbours immediately alerted the police. The woman’s husband works as a truck driver, and was not present at home at the time of incident. According to the investigators, the locals said that the woman killed her daughter and son and later resorted to extreme step to relieve herself of the hardships of looking after her mentally and physically challenged daughter and son. Mushtaq (43) and his wife Shabana (37) lived with their daughter Roshni (19) and son Ashiq (15) in Ait town of the district. The incident has shocked Mushtaq, who on being informed reached home. Ait police station incharge Kamlesh Prajapati said, “We came to know about the incident from locals. We will investigate the matter. The bodies of the mother and her children have been taken to district hospital for postmortem.” He, however, said that locals told the investigators that Mushtaq, a truck driver usually remains away while his wife Shabana used to look after their mentally and physically challenged children. “They also stated that Shabana was upset over their poor financial condition, and was undergoing several hardships in taking care of her disabled children,” said Prajapati further. Primary investigation revealed that the teenage children were strangled to death and their mother was found hanging from the ceiling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-kills-specially-abled-teenage-daughter-son-ends-life/articleshow/78708786.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||AYUSH docs seek rules for Covid mgmt||Lucknow: The Collective of AYUSH Practitioners and Promoters (CAPP), a body of associations and individuals, has urged the Union and state governments to come out with specific guidelines for management of Covid-19 patients through the AYUSH systems like Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa and homoeopathy. In a representation to the governments handed over on Friday, the CAPP said the guidelines should be based on the ongoing clinical studies being conducted by their research institutions and experience from clinical practices besides empirical evidence and biological plausibility. Stating that guidelines would also help practitioners develop integrated protocols for management of Covid-19 besides paving way for research in other diseases, the body underscored the need for translation of guidelines in regional languages too. More than 100 practitioners and researchers in AYUSH shared their views in a virtual conference held recently to derive consensus about the representation. Ayurveda promoter Shachi Singh, who attended the session, said the consensus was that a pathway needs to be defined for integrative medicine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayush-docs-seek-rules-for-covid-mgmt/articleshow/78711605.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai, north Tamil Nadu to get pre-monsoon spells||CHENNAI: Weather conditions may not be favourable at the moment for the onset of northeast monsoon, but the city can expect pre-monsoon spells as weathermen have forecast moderate showers accompanied by thunder and lightning over the city for the next two days, due to an atmospheric circulation. Weather enthusiasts said the city as well as parts of north Tamil Nadu may continue to receive spells till October 28 due to a convergence of opposing winds. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, said due to an upper air circulation and convective activity, several northern Tamil Nadu districts such as Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, Ranipet, coastal district of Nagapattinam and eastern districts such as Dharmapuri, Salem and Krishnagiri are likely to receive light to moderate rain or thundershowers for the next 24 hours. The agency’s five-day forecast indicates light to moderate rain or thundershower likely to occur at isolated or at a few places over North Tamil Nadu till October 20. “Chennai and its suburbs are likely to receive light to moderate rain or thundershowers over some areas for the next 48 hours. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 36C and 27C,” he said. According to IMD’s regional weather inference, a low pressure area is likely to form over east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea on October 19 and will become more marked during the subsequent 24 hours over Central Bay of Bengal. It is likely to move west-northwest direction towards Andhra Coast. Weather enthusiasts said this low pressure, which is likely to be weak and elongated over a large region, may move towards Andhra Pradesh and bring rainfall for north Tamil Nadu including Chennai till October 20. “A westerly trough or an elongated area of low atmospheric pressure in the westerlies is also likely to develop and we may have rainfall all along the east coast,” said weather blogger Pradeep John. He said as the system moves inland, a western disturbance, which is an area of reduced air pressure originating from the Mediterranean region moving from west to east, may push it out again, bringing rain again to north TN and other regions along the east coast of the country till October 28. While there is rainfall activity in the south, Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at Skymet Weather, said southwest monsoon, which is seeing a delayed withdrawal, may retreat from parts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat but may take a few more days to leave northeast India before Northeast monsoon commences around November 3. Experts said as of now, models indicate the entry of easterlies, the first sign of northeast monsoon, around October 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-north-tn-to-get-pre-monsoon-spells/articleshow/78710560.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Agra||Nothing left for us here, says Hathras girl's family, wants to leave village that has been home||Hathras: Unsure of what will unfold after the police and media are gone, the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died after being allegedly gang-raped in Hathras wants to move out of the village that has been their home for generations. “It would be impossible to stay on after all that has happened. It would be easier on us if we went somewhere else,” the victim’s elder brother told TOI on Friday. They are considering Delhi. “We want the case to be transferred to Delhi. We will move … Police security is present at the moment. It won’t be here forever. It would mean a lot if the government helped us move to Delhi. We want to start over, away from the glare in Hathras.” The family’s request to move the case from UP to Delhi was placed before the Allahabad high court on October 12. There are about 60 upper caste families and four Dalit families in the village. Earlier, on the basis of a complaint by the girl’s family that the families of the four accused were threatening them, additional police forces were deployed at their house. Later, the victim’s father and brother had told visiting politicians that they were “not feeling secure” in their village, pressure exerted from all sides. The victim’s younger brother said it had been a hard decision. “Our identity is tied to this village. This is where we were born, where we grew up. For generations, we have lived here. It’s not easy, but we will move,” he said. “There have been many good memories for all of us here. But now, the bad ones are overpowering. Being here will be a constant reminder of what happened to our sister.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nothing-left-for-us-here-says-hathras-girls-family-wants-to-leave-village-that-has-been-home/articleshow/78707575.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 17, 2020||Pune||No political motive behind Jalyukta investigation: Maharashtra deputy CM||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the probe into the Jalyukta Shivar scheme was not politically motivated. Speaking on the sidelines of a programme in the city, he said it was not done on purpose or with any “political vendetta”. He claimed that it was an inquiry based on the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report. The CAG report was tabled in the two-day assembly session. The chief minister issued the probe order after discussions. “Tanaji Sawant, the in-charge of the water conservation department during the Devendra Fadnavis regime, had said in the Legislative Council that there was corruption in the matter,” Ajit Pawar said. The deputy chief minister said the state government would provide all possible assistance to the flood-hit people and requested the central government to help. He also said the state government had ordered the administration to register a case of culpable homicide in the Pandharpur wall collapse incident on October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-political-motive-behind-jalyukta-investigation-dy-cm/articleshow/78708882.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Trio detained for torching 6 two-wheelers in Yerawada||PUNE: Tension ran high at Laxminagar locality in Yerwada early on Friday after three men damaged and set ablaze six two-wheelers parked on the road following an altercation with an autorickshaw driver on Thursday night. While fleeing the scene, the three men also assaulted a resident of the area with an iron rod when he tried to stop them. Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh and inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police and their team rushed to the site to bring the situation under control. They detained the trio for questioning later the same day. Police said the trio were sitting in a parked autorickshaw in the locality and were having a chat on Thursday night. Autorickshaw owner Somnath Gaikwad spotted them around 11pm on Thursday and asked them to leave. This led to an argument. Police said the trio threatened him and left the spot but returned around 2am on Friday. They damaged six two-wheelers with iron rods and stones, and subsequently set them ablaze. The trio started running away when residents raised an alarm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-detained-for-torching-6-two-wheelers-in-yerawada/articleshow/78708877.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||Khola picnic spot turns into eyesore, panchayat files plaint||POINGUUNIM: A rivulet which cascades over a small hillock in Cabo de Rama, in Khola village of Canacona, attracts a lot of people from South Goa every weekend. However, they leave their mark even after their return in the form of garbage strewn all over the area. The rivulet flows through the picturesque area and then pours out into the Arabian sea. When contacted, Khola sarpanch Purna Nayak said, “It is a fact that lately, a lot of people have been flocking this place, especially on Saturdays and Sundays. They create a mess, and when we ask them why they can’t keep the place clean, they snap back rudely.” Guru Velip, the panch member who represents the area, said that since the picnickers refuse to behave themselves and dirty the environment, he, along with the villagers have blocked the path leading to the small waterfall. “But despite that, the visitors still find alternate paths and reach here,” Velip added. “We are upset that our verdant environment is being spoilt. We cleaned up the place twice, but we can’t come here all the time. The panchayat has written to the Cuncolim police and requested for action to be taken,” the Khola sarpanch said. When contacted regarding the complaint filed by the panchayat, Cuncolim police inspector Therron D’Costa said he will check and “accordingly take appropriate action”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khola-picnic-spot-turns-into-eyesore-panchayat-files-plaint/articleshow/78710573.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 17, 2020||India||What people around the world spend on food||NEW DELHI: On an average an Indian spends 3.5% of their daily income for a plate of food compared to 0.6% by a New Yorker, according to the “Cost of a Plate of Food” report released by the UN’s World Food Programme (WFP) on Friday. The report said that a plate of food is most expensive in South Sudan where people on average would have to spend 186% of their daily salary on basic ingredients. In the list that features 36 countries across the globe, India stands at the 28th position. The report brought to light how countries in sub-Saharan Africa feature heavily in the list with 17 nations from this region occupying thetop 20 slot. “The region’s high dependency on food imports leaves it vulnerable to global economic conditions, while high use of informal labour means many workers are vulnerable to sudden losses of income,” it said. The report said that such a difference brings into sharp focus the huge inequalities at play between people living in the developing countries and others in more prosperous parts of the world. Now the Covid-19 pandemic has added another layer to the challenges faced by the most vulnerable groups, through increased unemployment, loss of remittances and weak economies that prevent countries offsetting the worst effects of the pandemic, the report highlighted. It has recommended that with more investment in the short term to support people from the fallout of Covid-19, and greater emphasis on building sustainable food systems in the long term as a foundation for access to affordable, nutritious food, the issues of inequalities can be addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/what-people-around-the-world-spend-on-food/articleshow/78712540.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Dip in fresh cases continues, state has 41K active infections||Chennai: Tamil Nadu continued to record a drop in fresh cases with 4,389 new Covid-19 cases and 57 deaths on Friday. The cumulative death toll touched 10,529 and the case tally stood at 6,79,191. The state has 40,959 patients still under treatment for the viral infection. In the past 24 hours, the state tested more than 89,497 people using RT PCR kits. Officials say they have ensured they don’t reduce testing. Early initiation of therapy has prevented complications and deaths even among senior citizens and people with comorbidities, said health minister C Vijayabaskar. The state has a recovery rate that is nearly 92% and case fatality rate close to 1.5%. Chennai, the worst affected district, continued to report more than 1,000 fresh cases. On Friday, the district reported 1,140 fresh cases while neighbouring districts Chengalpet (261), Tiruvallur (195), and Kancheepuram (130) together reported 586 cases. The Chennai region together had 21 deaths including 15 from Chennai. The region had 17,457 active cases with 13,289 of them in the city. The other seven northern districts reported 549 cases and nine deaths. Together, the 11 districts in the north – Chennai included – reported 2,275 cases and 30 deaths. The north zone had nearly half of the active cases (21,492). The western districts reported the second most cases and deaths. The districts had 11,672 active cases, and active cases in Coimbatore fell below the 4,000 mark. The district had 3,902 under treatment and 2,189 in Salem. Together the eight western districts logged 1,272 cases and 16 deaths. Coimbatore (387) had the second highest number of fresh cases after Chennai. There were 244 cases in Salem. The 10 southern districts together recorded 428 cases compared to 414 in the central zone. The eight central districts reported seven deaths, while the south logged four. All districts in the two zones reported cases in two digits. Highest number of cases in the central zone was from Thanjavur (98) and Trichy (80). Madurai (84) and Kanyakumari (70) reported the highest number of cases in the South. The south had 4,195 active cases and the central zones had 3,584 people still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dip-in-fresh-cases-continues-state-has-41k-active-infections/articleshow/78710609.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||On Jagan's wishlist to Gadkari: New national highways for AP||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy renewed the request for sanction of new National Highways and improved connectivity on existing highways, including the Outer Ring Road for Vijayawada. The chief minister made this request to Union minister for surface transport, Nitin Gadkari, during the inauguration of two flyovers in the city and laying of the foundation stone for new national highway projects. The chief minister requested the Union minister to release Rs 2,611 crore to the state from the Central Road Fund (CRF), which was sanctioned during 2019-20. As the amount was not released during the year, the chief minister requested the Union minister to release the amount this year at the earliest. The chief minister said the state government has already sent the proposals to the CRF. Referring to increasing vehicular traffic in Vijayawada, the chief minister emphasised the need for the Outer Ring Road. He added the city had a bypass road connecting Hyderabad-Kolkata national highway on its southwestern side. The chief minister requested the Union Minister to sanction another bypass road connecting the Chennai-Kolkata national highway on the northeastern side of the city. This would require a 5.2 km-long bridge across the Krishna river and would also provide connectivity to Machilipatnam Port, the chief minister said. Stating that vehicular traffic on this section would be higher and profitable if built in a BOT (build-operate-transfer) mode, the chief minister requested the Union minister to relieve the state from the financial burden of land acquisition. Responding to the chief minister’s requests, the Union minister said they are examining the Benguluru-Vijayawada greenfield highway and take a decision shortly. He added that the central government is spending Rs 5,000 crore on the Benguluru-Chennai NH, which will pass through AP. Promising to complete the Anantapur-Vijayawada expressway, the Union minister asked the chief minister to visit the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/on-cms-wishlist-to-gadkari-new-national-highways-for-ap/articleshow/78708887.cms||Gopi Dara
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: KGMU satellite centre to have 300-bed hospital||LUCKNOW: The foundation stone of the 300-bed hospital slated to come up at King George’s Medical University’s satellite centre and medical college in Balrampur district was laid in a humble ceremony on Friday. Dedicated to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who started his political career from this district, the medical college aims to extend quality health care in the remote area of the state. Stating that Balrampur was one of the 101 aspirational districts in the country, CM Yogi Adityanath said that the eastern UP district scored low on 49 indices of quality of life including health, education and nutrition. “With the medical college coming up in the backward district, the life of people will change for the better,” the CM stated, informing that concerted efforts over the past few years have improved the district’s ranking. “Balrampur rose to become number one among reformed districts as per NITI Aayog’s list released in July 2020,” said an official communique issued by the government. Officials in the state medical education department said that with the establishment of the KGMU satellite medical college and hospital, residents in the neighbouring country of Nepal will also benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-satellite-centre-to-have-300-bed-hospital/articleshow/78711614.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Private colleges in Mangaluru to start classroom lessons in November||MANGALURU: A handful of private undergraduate colleges in the city offering BA, BSc, BBA, BCom and PG courses are mulling to start regular classes, and if all goes well, the classes are likely to commence from November. However, the classes won’t be held the same way as before, as the college managements have devised plans to maintain social distancing on campus, as well as inside classrooms. According to the management of private college in Milagres, students from three streams will be requested to come on campus on alternate days. “Each stream will get two days a week on campus. Further, a batch of 100 students will be divided into two,” said a person from a college management. The number of classes will also be increased to five, from the existing four online classes. Apart from it, Saturday will be a full working day. Sources from St Aloysius College told TOI that the institution is planning its first classes to be held on campus for postgraduate courses. “Based on the success of PG classes, after two weeks, the college is likely to start other undergraduate courses. Currently, all the classes are held online.” The PG final year classes on campus will begin from Monday. At St Agnes College, they are still following the wait-and-atch policy. Principal Sister M Venissa said that classes are being held online since three months. “We have not yet decided on reopening the college. The decision will be taken only after the government gives a go-ahead and guidelines are issued.” “The government has given a green signal to start classes on campus from November 1. However, we are yet to receive detailed SOPs. Meanwhile, I have recommended colleges to experiment with a blended approach, both classes on campus and online classes. This will reduce the burden, both on students as well as lecturers,” said P S Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, Mangalore University. Test all staff: Circular A circular issued by the department of college education on October 12 has asked government and private colleges in the state to test all their teaching and non-teaching staff for the novel coronavirus. The test reports are to be kept for future reference at the college as well as the regional joint director’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-colleges-in-mluru-to-start-classroom-lessons-in-november/articleshow/78707599.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Safety gets smooth ride on Ahmedabad bus for women||A comparative study of how safe college-going women felt while travelling in a public bus was conducted by a team of experts before Covid lockdown. The AMTS and the BRT were chosen for the survey. Another city chosen for this comparative survey was Bangalore and the findings were shared with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The study found close to 90% of college-going women, who were approached for the survey at bus stands, felt safe in Ahmedabad city buses. In contrast, only 62% of respondent women in Bangalore said they felt safe in buses. However, a quarter of these women in Ahmedabad reported having experienced at least one issue while commuting in a bus. Surprisingly, 72% of Ahmedabad respondents stated that their friends and relatives have experienced issues while travelling. Of the 9% women in city who felt unsafe in buses, 24% had experienced an issue while commuting in a bus. Moreover, 83% of those who felt unsafe stated that their friends and relatives had faced issues while travelling. TimesViewWhile we aim at improving public transport passenger footfall, there is a serious dearth of perception studies of commuters about travelling in public transport. The perception of safety in public transport — not just with respect to crime or gender harassment alone — but perception studies on safety at bus stands and while boarding buses or alighting, can aid policy makers to understand the influencing factors to ensure that women can travel safely.In case of Bangalore, 36% of the total women who felt safe said they had faced issues on board and 46% have friends or relatives who had faced issues. In both Ahmedabad and Bangalore the majority of the respondents ranked travelling at late night as most unsafe. The bus travel safety perception study involved assistant professor M Manoj of IITDelhi, associate professor Ashish Verma of IISc Bangalore, Nikhita Rodeja a student from Cept University, Ahmedabad, and assistant professor Meghna Verma from MS Ramaiah Institute of Management, Bangalore. A total of 230 and 500 survey forms were collected from young women using public buses from Ahmedabad and Bangalore respectively. “Women feel unsafe while travelling in buses due to lack of trust in people. The study captures the notion of fear of victimization among young women which is attributed to perception of safety. This influences women’s decisions about mode and time of commute,” claims the study. It adds, “It is documented that women’s greater propensity to transfer past experiences and memories of victimization to present can be a possible reason behind their fearfulness.” The data revealed that in Ahmedabad 20.7% respondents travel sometimes and 37.3% travel rarely by public buses. In contrast, in Bangalore, 31.8% respondents travel sometimes and 20.10% travel rarely in public buses. It was also observed by researchers in Ahmedabad that AMTS and BRTS have almost the same percentage of women using each service — 40% opted for AMTS while 42% opted for BRTS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/90-of-college-going-women-feel-safe-in-abad-city-buses/articleshow/78711638.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Patna||11 more pairs of festival special trains to run from Oct 21||PATNA: The railways has decided to run at least 11 more pairs of festival special trains on different routes falling under the jurisdiction of East Central Railway (ECR) to cope with the huge rush of passengers. This arrangement will be in addition to 12 pairs of other festival special trains which will run from October 20 to November 30 on various routes to facilitate people either to reach their native places conveniently during the festive period or return to their respective places safely soon after the festivals. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways will run a festival special train ( 02741 /02742) between Patna Junction and Vasco de Gama from October 21 to November 25 to clear the rush during festive period. The weekly festival special train will leave Patna junction every Saturday while it will leave Vasco de Gama every Wednesday for Patna Junction, he said. Similarly, railways will run a bi-weekly festival special train ( 03259 /03260 ) between Patna Junction and Mumbi to fulfil the needs of people inclined to visit their native places in Bihar during festive period . While it will leave Patna every Wednesday and Sunday, it will leave Mumbai every Tuesday and Friday on its return journey from October 21 to December 1, the CPRO said. A festival special train ( 05251 /05252 ) will run between Darbhanga and Jalandhar City from October 24 to November 28 . This train will leave Darbhanga every Saturday and every Sunday from Jalandhar end. Besides these, the railways will run a daily festival special train ( 02397/02398 ) between Gaya and New Delhi from October 20 to November 30 to clear the huge rush of passengers on this particular route during the festive season in Bihar . Likewise railways will run a festival special train ( 02395/02396) between Rajendra Nagar Terminal and Ajmer from October 21 to November 25. “This weekly special train will leave Rajnedra Nagar Terminal every Wednesday and every Thursday from Ajmer,” the CPRO said  The weekly Bhagalpur–Jammu Tawi festival special train ( 05097/05098 ) will run from October 29 to November 26 during the festive season. While it will leave Bhagalpur every Thursday, on its return journey it will leave Jammu Tawi every Tuesday to facilitate pilgrims to visit Jammu. Besides, Gorakhpur – Shalimar festival special train ( 05021/05022 ) will run from October 26 to November 30 via Siwan- Chhapra – Sonepur – Hajipur – Muzaffarpur – Samastipur – Barauni – Kiul route. “This special train will leave Gorakhpur every Monday and every Tuesday from Shalimar in West Bengal,” the CPRO said adding. Jayanagar-Sealdah a daily festival special ( 03185/03186 ), will run from October 20 to November 30 to fulfil the needs of people during the festive season. “The railways has also decided to run daily festival special trains—Howrah – Raxaul ( 03021/03022 ) and Howrah– Kathgodam special ( 03019/03020 )— from October 20 to November 30, while a bi-weekly festival special (02331/02332) will run between Howrah and Jammu Tawi from October 20 to November 29, he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11-more-pairs-of-festival-special-trains-to-run-from-oct-21/articleshow/78705413.cms||Kumod Verma
October 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Duo taking selfies fall into Mutha river, swept away||PUNE: A youth and a teenager from Tadiwala road were swept away by a strong current after they fell into the Mutha river from Vateshwar ghat, near Baba Bhide bridge, around 6pm on Friday. The Pune Municipal Corporation and the fire brigade were searching for the duo till Friday night along the channel that flows to the Sangam bridge. Police said Omkar Tupdhar (17) and Saurabh Kamble (20), along with their friend Chetan Kamble, were going back home from the Dandekar bridge area on two two-wheelers when they halted at the ghat to take photos of the river. The ghat is one of the immersion points for Ganesh idols. The current there was strong because of the heavy rainfall over the past couple of days, paired with water discharge from Khadakwasla. On Friday, though, water was being discharged at 3,000 cusec. “Chetan said Omkar and Saurabh walked down a ramp leading to the water. He said he urged them not to do so since the current was very strong,” said senior inspector Ram Rajmane of the Deccan Gymkhana police. Chetan told the police that he stayed with the vehicles, while Omkar and Saurabh reached the riverbank and started taking selfies. “At this point, they lost balance on the wet, slippery surfaces and fell into the flowing water,” Rajmane said. Bystanders who witnessed the incident raised an alarm and tried to grab the duo, but they were swept away, police said. Chetan said they had gone to the Dandekar bridge area to buy clothes for the upcoming festival season. “Omkar had cleared his Class 10 exams recently while Saurabh has completed his Class 12. Omkar’s father is employed with the railways,” police said. “Omkar and Saurabh would always move around together and were fond of taking photos and selfies,” one of the victim’s cousins, who rushed to the site, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-fall-into-mutha-river-swept-away/articleshow/78708904.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 17, 2020||Goa||Need main block for Ribandar PHC, says Panaji MLA||PANAJI: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate wants the state government to allot the main block of the old Ribandar hospital for the 30-bedded primary health centre (PHC). Monserrate said the space currently allocated is not in good shape and not enough to fulfil the needs for a 24x7 medical facility. Monserrate appeared unhappy with the space offered by the state government and said he would speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant about it. “I feel that place is not even sufficient to have a dispensary,” said Monserrate. “The place is really in a bad condition. I will seek an appointment with the chief minister and ask for the main building, the original medical centre.” The state government had proposed to set up a day care dispensary at Ribandar under the Smart City Mission. Monserrate said the funds and refurbishment of the PHC could be done by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) or by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation. Though the government has not fixed a timeline for the commissioning of the project, Monserrate is counting on the health centre being ready in time for the Corporation of the City of Panaji elections. Health minister Vishwajit Rane and Monserrate said that they would meet Sawant and ask for the main hospital block to be given for the 30-bedded primary health care centre. “We will have senior specialists of GMC visiting this place on a rotation basis. We will place interns, directorate of health services staff and other resident doctors here,” said Rane. He added that the need for a 24x7 facility at the old Ribandar hospital in justified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-main-block-for-ribandar-phc-says-panaji-mla/articleshow/78710596.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Marginal rise in number of elderly patients, 2,610 more test positive||LUCKNOW: While the overall case positivity rate is on the decline, the number of elderly taking ill due to Covid-19 has increased marginally, according to an assessment of data from state health department. Expressing concern over the trend, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad urged people in the state to take extra care of the elderly at home. “As on date over 9.5% of the Covid-19 patients belong to the 60 plus category which was about 9.4% last week. This is the age group which has the highest level of co-morbid conditions and we have to keep them safe,” he said. “Data shows that 31% of all those who died were above 60 years. Also, 15% of all novel coronavirus positive elderly patients in UP died. Thus, prevention is of immense importance in this age group,” said a senior health officer. Experts also pointed out that it is important to take care of the elderly in the ongoing transition of season which usually comes with problems for the ‘grey generation’. Explaining the risk to the elderly, specialist in geriatric health issues, Dr Abhishek Shukla said: “The fact that most elderly suffer from at least one kind of a lifestyle disease such as diabetes, hypertension or cardiovascular condition is an undeniable fact. The change of season makes aged bodies an easier prey to infections than younger persons. This is also a time when the grey generation needs to titrate their medication to cope up with the season specific needs. Therefore, families must continue to take care of their elderly ensure sanitisation and infection control measures around them.” Meanwhile, 2,610 new cases were reported in 24 hours which took the state tally to 4.49 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/marginal-rise-in-no-of-elderly-patients-2610-more-test-ve/articleshow/78711621.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 17, 2020||Meerut||Beat drums, wear helmets, neckpads to keep away leopards: Forest dept to farmers||Bijnor: With barely a fortnight left before the sugarcane harvest season begins, the forest department authorities have asked farmers in the region to beat drums, wear helmets and neckpads and take a dog along while visiting their fields. Leopards had claimed the lives of six persons here last year.Forest authorities have intensified their awareness programmes to minimize the man-animal conflict in the region which is in the vicinity of the Amangarh tiger reserve. Posters have been put up outside ration shops in rural areas. Besides, several teams are visiting villages and holding meetings with the farmers to make them aware of the safety measures. Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran said, “The sugarcane harvesting season is set to kick in on October 15. There are many big cats in the sugarcane fields which provide perfect sanctuary to them. To mitigate the man-animal conflict, we are making the farmers aware that they should go to the fields by wearing helmets and neckpads. They should make a noise by beating drums or playing loud music on mobile or radio while working in the fields. In addition, they should venture out in groups and also carry dogs with them. If farmers spot any big cat in their respective areas, they should inform forest officers whose contact numbers are written on the posters being pasted on the walls in rural areas. We have formed a special task force to take quick action on the tip-off about big cat sightings.”There are hundreds of leopards and their cubs in these sugarcane fields which have turned into their habitats. Leopard attacks are common in the district and last year, a rogue leopard had killed six persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/beat-drums-wear-helmets-neckpads-to-keep-away-leopards-forest-dept-to-farmers/articleshow/78706511.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 17, 2020||Meerut||UP panel gives nod to 111-km highway to replace ‘killer’ Ganga canal road connecting Ghaziabad to Haridwar||Strap: Highway will be built in 2 years with a budget of Rs 628croreMeerut: One of the deadliest stretches of Uttar Pradesh, the Upper Ganga canal road connecting Ghaziabad to Haridwar had earned several sobriquets -- the ‘shortcut to hell’ or the ‘killer bypass’. Motorists used it to escape the rush of NH-58. But, due to its “flawed design”, scores of people ended up inside the 16-metre deep Ganga canal running parallel to the 111-km stretch.A rough estimate suggests that close to 40 vehicles fell into the canal leaving at least 50 dead on the stretch in the last two years. “In Muzaffarnagar stretch alone, we have witnessed at least 20 vehicles plunging into the canal in the last two years leaving as many dead,” Muzaffarnagar SP Satpal Antil said. Apparently due to high fatality rates on the stretch, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had in 2018 promised that a highway will replace the canal road. This week, a financial committee gave its nod to Rs 628crore project to construct the two-lane highway which will run parallel to the canal road. The work on the stretch will start soon after the UP Cabinet sanctions it.Engineers are now promising an “accident free road infrastructure”.“Geometrical deficiencies of the past will be rectified now,” says Sandeep Kumar, chief engineer of public works department (PWD) Meerut.The new road will come up on the left side of the canal on the irrigation department land. It will be a 60-metre wide road with a 9-metre buffer zone adjacent to the canal. Besides, a 3-metre high crash barrier embankment will be installed to stop vehicles from falling into the deep canal after crash, if it occurs.“The project will also include reconstruction of 10 cross bridges, some of which are more than 150 years old. A flyover in Purkazi area of Muzaffarnagar and a railway over bridge will also be built,” Kumar added.The project has been approved by the expenditure and finance committee of the UP government with an aim to reduce the load on NH-58 and will be forwarded to UP Cabinet for final approval. The highway will be completed in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-panel-gives-nod-to-111-km-highway-to-replace-killer-ganga-canal-road-connecting-ghaziabad-to-haridwar/articleshow/78706513.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 17, 2020||Bareilly||Over 18k bottles of smuggled liquor for ‘Bihar election use’ seized in UP||Bareilly: Ahead of Bihar assembly election, at least 18,600 bottles of smuggled liquor worth Rs 50 lakh, "billed as medicine", were seized from a container truck in Uttar Pradesh. The Bihar-bound truck was coming from Punjab and its driver said that he was carrying the "medicine" for poll use in the dry state.The driver was arrested in Kalan area of Shahjahanpur on Thursday night. The bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) were packed in 550 cartons. Papers he had on him said he was carrying “medicine”.Identified as Chetanram, the driver is a resident of Barmer district in Rajasthan. He got the "assignment" near the Delhi border in Haryana and was supposed to hand over the truck to another driver in Varanasi district who would take it to its final destination in Bihar's Muzaffarpur district.Divulging details of the operation, Kalaan SHO Dileep Singh Bhadauria told TOI, “We received information of liquor being smuggled in a container truck. Upon spotting the truck, we found that the container was sealed and the driver had documents of a medicine firm which looked original. After questioning the driver and asking him to put us through to the firm's manager, he tried to flee. We, then, opened the container and recovered 550 cartons of whisky."The driver said that he was offered Rs 30,000 for delivering the consignment. The liquor was supposed to reach Bihar to "impact" the elections, he claimed.SHO Bhadauria further said, “The kingpin is yet to be identified. Our probe suggests the role of a professional gang. They even prepared stamps, paid tax and completed almost every paperwork to deceive the people.”The liquor mafia are coming up with innovative methods of smuggling to Bihar and "we need to be smarter than them”, said Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand.Bihar goes to polls on October 28, November 3 and 7. The results will be declared on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-18k-bottles-of-smuggled-liquor-for-bihar-election-use-seized-in-up/articleshow/78705434.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 17, 2020||Meerut||Kayakalp scheme: Deadline over, no work started in 58.5% state-run schools in UP||Meerut: A report prepared by the UP education department has revealed that no activity of Kayakalp scheme has been started in 58.5% of the total 1.22 lakh state-run schools despite the September 2020 deadline.Operation Kayakalp was launched by the state government for the facelift of schools, which includes building separate toilets, fresh drinking water, multiple hand washing units, construction of school walls, doors and windows and electrification.The report cited lack of support by the village heads and secretary as the reason. According to the report, out of the 1.22 lakh state-run schools in Uttar Pradesh, 71,702 are yet to start any Kayakalp Scheme activity.Out of the 71,702 schools, 61% failed to conduct any activity under the scheme due to non-cooperation from the village pradhan, the report read. Of them, 35% have given the reason for shortage of money in the gram panchayat scheme. The schools in the rural areas were supposed to utilise funds given to the panchayat by the state authorities, and the schools in the urban areas were asked to utilise the funds given as a part of Smart City fund.Satish Chandra Dwivedi, minister of state (independent charge) for primary education, said, “Inter departmental cooperation is required for Operation Kayakalp. Taking the inspection and report into mind, the matter will be probed and action will be taken against the block education officers found responsible for the lapse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kayakalp-scheme-deadline-over-no-work-started-in-58-5-state-run-schools-in-up/articleshow/78706514.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Actor Soori seeks CBI probe into case against former DGP||Chennai: Actor M Soori has moved the Madras high court seeking to transfer a cheating case filed against retired IPS officer and former DGP Ramesh Kudawla to CBI. Soori has alleged that Kudawla and three others cheated him to the tune of Rs 2.7 crore. When the plea came up for hearing on Friday, Justice T Ravindran directed the Adyar police to produce probe details and adjourned the hearing. Noting that the Adyar police registered an FIR and are investigating the case after a magistrate court directive, Soori moved the high court claiming that Kudawla could influence the probe by state police as he was a former DGP with state police. Therefore, he wanted the court to transfer the probe to either CBI or any other independent investigation agency. On October 9, the city police registered FIR Anbuvelrajan, Ramesh Kudawla, Ananthan and Loganathan based on the complaint made by the actor that they have cheated him of Rs 2.7 crore. Soori stated in his complaint that he came to know Ramesh Kudawla in 2015 after he was booked to act in a movie ‘Veera Dheera Suran’, in which the ex-cop’s son played the lead role, and a remuneration was fixed as Rs 40 lakh. Later, the movie name was changed as ‘Kadhanayagan’. On the other hand, Ramesh Kudawla and his friend Anbuvelrajan, a film producer, showed several properties for him to invest in and 1.8 acres in Siruseri was chosen, Soori said. Anbuvelrajan claimed to be power agent of the property owned by Ananthan and Loganathan and he paid Rs 2.1 crore, the actor added. Some documents were found to be fabricated subsequently, prompting the actor to lodge a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/actor-soori-seeks-cbi-probe-into-case-against-former-dgp/articleshow/78710639.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Meerut||M'nagar girl tops B.Pharm course test||Muzaffarnagar: Riddhi Singhal, 20, a girl from Muzaffarnagar, made her city proud with her feat of coming first in the B.Pharma undergraduate course test of Uttar Pradesh State Entrance Examination (UPSEE). The exam was conducted by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU). Soon after, Singhal's family was ecstatic.Giving credit to her parents for the achievement, Riddhi said, "I want to be a doctor and waiting for the result of NEET." According to sources, she scored 512 marks out of 600. Her father Sunil Singhal is a businessman. He said, "I am proud of my daughter. She made our society proud today."Notably, in May last year, Karishma Arora, 18, a student of a school in Muzaffarnagar, topped the country in the CBSE by securing 499 marks out of 500, sharing the feat with another girl, Hansika Arora of Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mnagar-girl-tops-b-pharm-course-test/articleshow/78706518.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt eyes BPS to mop up additional revenue||Amaravati: With the deadline for Building Penalisation Scheme (BPS) coming up this month-end, the state government has directed local bodies, particularly urban civic bodies, to step up efforts to mop up additional revenue. The state government, which has already pocketed nearly Rs 464 crore, is hopeful of making another Rs 200 crore in the next two weeks through the BPS. The government has also asked district collectors and municipal commissioners to focus on Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) to net revenue. The deadline for LRS has been extended till December 31 keeping in view poor economic activity following the Covid-19 outbreak. Municipal commissioners received nearly 41,000 applications under BPS in the last few months. Initially, builders and realtors feared that the government might not extend the BPS following the bulldozing of Praja Vedika, an illegal structure constructed adjacent to the then chief minister Chandrababu Naidu’s residence. The CM directed the collectors not to spare any illegal structure, particularly those constructed violating environmental laws. Subsequently, the government extended the BPS and LRS scheme to facilitate regularisation of illegal structures and layouts. Sensing the mood in the government, all builders and realtors, who had ignored the warnings of field-level authorities in the past, filed applications for regularisation of deviations. Sources said municipal commissioners across the state have issued proceedings for payment of BPS fees in about 33,000 applications. A majority of builders paid fees to avoid further action, including demolition of structures. Sources said the government has already pocketed nearly Rs 464 crore from BPS. Municipal commissioners in different civic bodies directed town planning officials to focus on clearing remaining applications. As per rules, builders would be allowed to pay BPS fee only when all specifications in their applications are in the prescribed format. Sources said around 1,200 applications were rejected due to improper claims. Officials are looking into the other 7,000 applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-eyes-bps-to-mop-up-additional-revenue/articleshow/78708940.cms||Samdani MN
October 17, 2020||Meerut||Leopard lifts 10-yr-old girl in Bijnor village; body found in U'khand||Bijnor: A leopard pounced on a 10-year-old girl near a brick kiln in Rehar area of Bijnor on Thursday evening and dragged the child away. After hours of search, her partially eaten body was found in a sugarcane field in neighbouring Uttarakhand, about 500 metres from the spot from where she was lifted A pall of gloom has descended over village since the attack.A team of forest officials who rushed to search for the girl identified the animal to be a big cat from its pugmarks. M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer, said the victim, identified as Fiza, is the daughter of Jummebax, a brick kiln worker at Markandpur village, under Rehar police station. The village borders Uttrakhand's Udhamsingh Nagar district. "Forest team found her body on Friday morning in a sugarcane field in Uttrakhand. The body has been sent to Udhamsingh Nagar district hospital for an autopsy. Further probe is on," the DFO added.Giving details, Semmaran said Fiza along with two other children, aged between 10 and 14 years, was loitering about the makeshift huts where the kiln workers live on Thursday evening. According to the children with her, an animal suddenly appeared from the thicket and dragged away Fiza, melting into the darkness. It happened so quickly that all that the other children could say was that a dark animal took away Fiza, he added.The victim is survived by three sisters and one brother. Her father is a native of Pilibhit district.This is the first death due to a big cat attack at the onset of winter season in the district. Last year, six people fell prey to leopard attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/leopard-lifts-10-yr-old-girl-in-bijnor-village-body-found-in-ukhand/articleshow/78706515.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Girl found hanging in Pudukottai||Trichy: A 15-year-old girl was found hanging from the ceiling of her house at Alangudi in Pudukottai district on Thursday evening. Though preliminary investigation hinted at a possible suicide, a detailed probe is on. The deceased, M Abinaya of Kummakulam south street, was living with her grandmother and her father Murugesan, 45, a construction labourer. After her mother died a few years ago, she was staying in Trichy while studying in a government aided school. The girl has been at home ever since the lockdown. On Thursday, when her grandmother returned home after work, she was shocked to find her hanging inside. Neighbours rushed her to a nearby hospital where she was declared brought dead. Alangudi deputy superintendent of police Muthuraja said there were no traces of any sexual assault or rape attempt as suspected by some family members. No suicide note could be found. According to relatives, Abinaya was dejected over the last one week as her father had refused to recharge her mobile phone, irked over her excess usage. A case of has been booked under section 174 for suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girl-found-hanging-in-pudukottai/articleshow/78712063.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Surat||VNSGU forms assurance cell to improve education quality||Surat: After a delay of over one year, the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has finally formed an Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) for improving the quality of education and administration in the university. The cell’s term had ended in November 2019 but the university didn’t take any steps to form a new body, putting VNSGU’s National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading at risk. TOI had recently highlighted the undue delay in formation of IQAC following which the university immediately set up the new cell. VNSGU’s in-charge vice-chancellor (VC) Hemali Desai is chairman of the cell and the head of physics department, K C Poria has been appointed as the director. Senior professors, students’ representatives, industry experts and citizens have also been appointed in the new body. “The university has formed IQAC and the new committee will start working on its tasks as per the requirements,” said Desai.“One of the important tasks of the new cell would be to form an alumni association as it has a weightage of 20 marks in NAAC grading. This task can be completed at the earliest. Also, VNSGU is yet to complete some key tasks suggested by NAAC,” Poria told TOI.VNSGU will be up for NAAC assessment in 2022. And it is necessary for each NAAC accredited higher educational institute to form an IQAC that works on maintaining and improving the quality of education. VNSGU is required to prepare a detailed report and undertake various projects regularly but all the plans were on hold due to delay in forming the new cell. IQAC’s term ended during the tenure of former VNSGU vice-chancellor Shivendra Gupta and in-charge registrar, Rajendra Patel as in-charge registrar but no steps were taken to form a new cell. Gupta’s term as VC ended in August this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-forms-assurance-cell-to-improve-education-quality/articleshow/78707561.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 17, 2020||Meerut||Youth crushed to death after tractor topples during stunt||Muzaffarnagar: A youth on tractor trying to scale an elevated dirt road was killed, after the tractor turned turtle. The incident was captured on camera.The incident happened in Thana Bhawan area of UP’s Shamli district. In the video, scores of people can be seen gathered around the field, watching the youth perform the “stunt” on his tractor, after being challenged by another person to scale an elevated dirt stretch leading from the field to the main road.Gaurav Sharma (33), resident of village Titarsi in Shamli district, can be seen in a video clip captured by an onlooker on the latter’s cell phone — which he then uploaded on the internet — trying to climb the steep slope and failing in several attempts. Eventually, he manages to climb the incline, but just near its end, the tractor turns turtle.He was taken to hospital where he died during treatment. According to a villager, “He was egged on to climb the tractor by another man who was driving a tractor in the field.” According to other sources, several other people also encouraged him to climb the tractor. Thana Bhawan SHO Prabhakar Kenthura said, “He was cremated without informing police. Preliminary investigation revealed he was taking part in a competition to climb the incline on the tractor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-crushed-to-death-after-tractor-topples-during-stunt/articleshow/78706527.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||Singer Vatsala Patil joins RSP in city||Vadodara: Prominent city-based singer Vatsala Patil joined the Rashtriya Samaj Paksha (RSP). Patil was inducted into the party at a small gathering by city unit president Rajesh Ayre. Patil, a former central excise and GST officer, was more popular for her garbas and used to sing in India as well as abroad. Ayre said that he had been in talks with Patil since quite some time now. “We had to wait for her retirement from office that took place last month,” said Ayre. The decision has, however, not gone down well with the BJP. Several prominent BJP leaders had a good relation with Patil and she had also performed at the state-sponsored Navratri festival in Ahmedabad. Patil was also amongst the singers who performed at an event that was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to Ayre, the induction of Patil was a part of a strategy to induct prominent and deserving faces in the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/singer-vatsala-patil-joins-rsp-in-city/articleshow/78707382.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Meerut||5 UP cooperative sugar mills selected for godown project||Pilibhit: Godowns will be constructed for cooperative sugar mills in UP for enhancing their storage capacity. Under a pilot project, the godowns will be constructed at five cooperative sugar mills of the total 24 in the state, said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in government. These are Gajraula sugar mill in Amroha district, Belrayan in Lakhimpur Kheri, Tilhar in Shahjahanpur, Nanauta in Saharanpur and Kayamganj sugar mill in Farrukhabad.The proposed godown for Kayamganj sugar mill will have a capacity of 50,000 quintals while other four mills' godowns will have one lakh quintals each, he said.“Under present arrangements, the cooperative sugar mill development societies are paid for various services rendered to mills at the rate of Rs 5.50 per quintal of the procured sugarcane. Of this payment, 40% has been earmarked to meet the management expenditure of societies while the remaining 60% is utilized in various development works. The proposed godowns will be constructed out of these funds," Bhoosreddy said.These godowns will be rented by sugar mills from societies on the basis prevailing market rate, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/5-up-cooperative-sugar-mills-selected-for-godown-project/articleshow/78706523.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||Cooperate with govt, witness Dasara online: Minister||MYSURU: Public participation in the world famous Mysuru Dasara has been limited owing to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and people of Mysuru and devotees are urged to cooperate with the government, said district minister ST Somashekar here on Thursday. “All arrangements have been made to facilitate the public to witness the celebration online and through live telecast. Sitting at home, people can be a part of the celebration and get the blessing of the deity,’ the minister said. As there is no vaccine for Covid-19 yet, allowing any big gathering could invite more trouble. Once the vaccine is on hand, the festival can be conducted magnificently next season, he added. Somashekar, who inspected arrangements atop Chamundi Hills, requested the public not to make any gathering and take ‘wefies’ in public places. People must understand the situation and cooperate in this hour of crisis, he added. Later, Somashekar interacted with priests about the rituals and preparation. As per the suggestions of technical experts committee, seating arrangements have been made for only 200 individuals atop Chamundi Hills where Dasara will be inaugurated by Dr CN Manjunath, director of Jayadeva Hospital on Saturday. About 35 seats are reserved for VIPs, a few for media persons. Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri and Legislative Council chairman K Prathapchandra Shetty will participate in cultural events at Mysuru Palace at 7pm. Except for agriculture Minister BC Patil, none of the ministers will partake in Dasara events owing to Covid-19. Grand Dasara next year This year’s festival will be simple but next year it will be celebrated on a grand scale. As currently there is no vaccine for Covid-19 we can’t allow people to gather. We hope a vaccine is made available soon to fight the virus. ST Somashekar, Mysuru district minister Pt Torvi to get Sangeet Vidwan award Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will present the prestigious Sangeet Vidwan Award to Indian classical vocalist Pandit Vinayaka Torvi at Mysuru Palace premises on Saturday. “At 6pm on Saturday, Pandit Vinayaka Torvi will be presented with the award on a stage set up for cultural programmes at the palace premises, said department of Kannada and Culture assistant director Channappa H. The officer, who is also the secretary for Dasara cultural programmes sub-committee, said cultural programmes have been restricted to the Mysuru Palace premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cooperate-with-govt-witness-dasara-online-minister/articleshow/78708415.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 17, 2020||Meerut||Power corp team out to check line loss thrashed in Meerut; 4 booked||Meerut: A five-member team of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), which had gone to check line losses due to power theft at Allipur village in Meerut’s Kharkhauda on Friday, was allegedly thrashed by residents. early Friday morning. The team included the sub divisional officer. A case has been filed against the brother and brother-in-law of the village pradhan at the police station here.“When a team of the power corporation reached Allipur village to check power theft, four people allegedly attacked a contractual employee and thrashed him. A case has been filed against two named and two unnamed people. No arrests have been made so far but efforts are on to arrest the accused,” said Arvind Mohan Sharma, station house officer, Kharkhauda police station.A case has been filed against the four under IPC section 147 (punishment for rioting), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 332 (whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/power-corp-team-out-to-check-line-loss-thrashed-in-meerut-4-booked/articleshow/78706521.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Post lockdown, region sees minor spurt in crimes||MANGALURU: The undivided Dakshina Kannada has been witnessing a minor spurt in crimes post lock down. The region recorded a spate of chain-snatching, robbery, burglary, cell phone snatching and other crimes. The trend has left police worried as crimes are being reported very often in the districts. Some senior police officials say the rise in crimes is due to post-lockdown unemployment and related factors. “A lot of people are unemployed due to the pandemic. As a result, they are turning to unlawful activities,” said an officer. Mangaluru city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said the rise in crimes was predicted soon after lockdown was lifted. “We were aware that once people come out of their homes, there will be an increase in crime. The department had prepared well in advance to avert and investigate if any such incidents took place. The city did have several robberies and related cases. Police swooped on perpetrators immediately and arrests were made,” he said, adding that the investigation of alleged sexual assault and robbery in Konaje police station is under progress. “We have made good progress on the case,” he said. Dakshina Kannada police have been in touch with home alone women and senior citizens. “Our beat police constables have been calling them once or twice a day to speak to them. Patrolling has also been increased all over the jurisdiction. Extra check posts have been put up at vantage points and night rounds too have increased in every police station,” said BM Laxmi Prasad, superintendent of police, Dakshina Kannada. The taluks which border districts like Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu have seen several unique crimes. One among them is in and around Sullia taluk, where car-jackers from other districts target only Omni cars, which are owned by many here, compared to other taluks. “There were a couple of such Omni car thefts and cases are under investigation,” said Prasad. He also pointed that crime against children has reduced to 20% compared to previous year. “It is because most of the children are staying indoors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/post-lockdown-region-sees-minor-spurt-in-crimes/articleshow/78707652.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 17, 2020||Hubballi||Dedicated police station for HDBRTS corridor hangs fire||HUBBALLI: The crippling shortage of resources that the state government is faced with, not to mention the allocation of a vast chunk to the fight against Covid-19, has resulted in many proposals hanging fire across Karnataka. Among the projects that is yet to get the nod from the government is the dedicated police station for the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS). Sources admitted to TOI of the chances of the government greenlighting the project, given the prevailing circumstances, were rather slim. “The proposal to have an exclusive station for HDBRTS was submitted a year ago. The number and frequency of accidents along the dedicated corridor prompted twin cities’ police to express to the government the need for a separate station for the lane,” a source said. The proposal for a dedicated police station for HDBRTS was submitted when MN Nagaraj was the police commissioner for twin cities, and P Rajendra Cholan the managing director of North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC). However, the government had returned the proposal, and sought clarification on a few points. Responding to the government’s queries, Cholan and R Dileep, who took over from Nagaraj as the police commissioner, drafted a fresh proposal. Although the senior officials in the government had responded positively to the redrafted proposal. However, Covid-19 has pushed the brakes on the project. Although security personnel have been deployed at all bus terminals along the HDBRTS corridor, and traffic cops stationed at key intersections to prevent other vehicles from straying into the road, the lack of segregation on roads that the dedicated lane runs beside renders it near impossible for officials to secure the road exclusively for buses. HDBRTS public relations officer Manjunath said that he was not aware where the proposal was stuck within the corridors of the government. Meanwhile, Hubballi-Dharwad police commissioner R Dileep said that sanctioning a dedicated station would mean that their force would be supplemented with more personnel. “I am optimistic of the government approving a station for HDBRTS,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dedicated-police-station-for-hdbrts-corridor-hangs-fire/articleshow/78711536.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||SIT seeks extension to submit Hathras report||LUCKNOW: Special Investigation Team (SIT) investigating the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras is likely to seek a second extension to table its probe, encompassing all aspects of the crime, including allegations of mishandling of the case by the district officials and local cops. The SIT was scheduled to submit its findings on Saturday after the 10-day extension of its original deadline of October 7. Sources said, the report will probably be handed over to the chief minister on Monday. The three-member panel headed by state home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop, DIG Chandra Prakash and IPS officer Poonam, was constituted on September 30. A senior home department officer said, SIT needs more time to document the report after collating evidence and eyewitness accounts. The team was constituted following allegations of botched handling of the case by the local administration and police and was mandated to probe the crime and conduct of officials and cops, who allegedly threatened the victim’s family. The SIT dug its heels in the village for over a week and took down statements of every member of the victim’s family and cops deployed on duty. Sources said, the statements of over 100 persons have been recorded. Later, local cops have gone on record to say the unrest in the village during the girl’s cremation was pre-planned. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-seeks-extension-to-submit-hathras-report/articleshow/78711643.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kochi||HC summons corp secy over bad roads||Kochi: Kerala high court on Friday ordered Kochi corporation secretary to appear before it to explain municipal body’s “inaction in maintaining the roads of the city”. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order after considering a periodical report and a set of photos filed by amicus curiae appointed by the court to study the condition of roads. Advocates P Deepak, Vinod Bhat and S Krishna are the amicus curiae. Roads of Kochi have been washed away by the monsoons as usual and it is becoming an annual feature and presents a persistent malady to the citizens of the city, the court said. In spite of the court’s judgment making contractors and engineers personally responsible for the upkeep of the roads, the corporation remains deaf, blind, and mute even to the deplorable condition of the road in front of their main office on Park Avenue, the court noted. In the order, justice Devan said, “This court certainly fails to understand why the corporation is adopting such a casual attitude, particularly when craters and potholes on the roads can cause accidents at any point of time, leading to even loss of life. The unfortunate death of a young man by name Yadu Lal is still etched in the minds of this court and I am certain that such an incident cannot be allowed to happen in future.” The court then ordered the corporation secretary to appear personally before it on October 21 to explain the condition of the roads as mentioned in the amicus curiae’s report and also place on record the details of the contractors and engineers responsible for all such roads so that action can be taken against them. It is the prima facie intention of the court to make the contractors and engineers responsible and the court will decide on the action to be taken against them after hearing the corporation secretary on October 21, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-summons-corp-secy-over-bad-roads/articleshow/78709042.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP festive sop: Interest-free advance, financial package||LUCKNOW: Handing out a festival bonanza for its employees on Friday, the state government announced two special schemes — interest-free advance and a special financial package in lieu of leave travel allowance. The twin incentives are likely to put a financial burden of Rs 2,000 crore on state coffers. The state cabinet’s nod to the festival package is similar to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s recent announcements for Central government employees to “shore up their finances in festival season and encourage spending to boost the economy”. The scheme, which will be in place till March 31, 2021, allows employees to request Rs 10,000 advance before any major festival. The amount will be disbursed through State Bank of India RuPay cards which will be repayable in not more than 10 instalments. An official said, the advance will be sanctioned against restricted and public holidays in the festive season declared by the UP government. If practical problems crop up during implementation, a final decision will be taken by the cabinet after the chief minister’s approval. The second scheme allows state government employees to avail of a special cash package instead of LTA, since majority staff have been unable to travel due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This will be applicable to employees who are eligible for LTA till March 31, 2021. And Rs 6,000 per person has been approved as deemed return fare and will be given for a maximum of four persons in a family. To avail this benefit, an employee has to spend four times the money claimed in digitally purchasing an item from a vendor, who is registered under GST and the item purchased has minimum 12% GST levy. Employees would have to present purchase vouchers, which mention the GST number and tax charged for funds to be sanctioned. The government said, 50% of the claimed amount will be issued as advance in the employee’s bank account and final payment will be made after submission of vouchers. The claim has to be made within the financial year. However, if vouchers are not presented after issue of the advance, the amount will be recovered with penal interest. The amount released under the special cash package will be taxable like LTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-festive-sop-interest-free-advance-financial-package/articleshow/78711656.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||State sets up 56 welfare corporations for BCs||Amaravati: The state government on Friday set up 56 welfare corporations for backward class communities. Each community with a population of more than 30,000 got an exclusive welfare corporation. Sources said the list of board governors for the new corporations is likely to be announced on Sunday. Although the government had finalised the list last fortnight, it was put on hold following the chief minister’s directives to incorporate more women into the boards. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the BCs are integral to society and had promised to create exclusive welfare corporations for the overall development of small and marginal sections. “Jagan is fully committed for the uplift of the backward classes as he does not want to keep them as backward anymore,” said MLC and YSRC BC cell chairman Janga Krishna Murthy. He said that the constitution of separate corporations is going to be a gamechanger in the development of the backward classes in the state. Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, Rajya Sabha member and former minister, said Jagan has again proved that he is a man of deeds. Setting up 56 BC corporations is a Dasara gift for the BCs, he added. “In its endeavor to bring sustainable development in BC communities and to bring down disparity in the development index, the state government has decided to form welfare corporations for small groups of BC communities. Backward classes’ welfare is very important to bridge the gap in development,” said K Praveen Kumar, principal secretary, BC welfare, in the GOs issued on Friday. In order to provide economic support to BCs, the schemes implemented in the past were inadequate and the benefits of schemes that were implemented through a few corporations were not distributed equitably, with a major share often cornered by dominant communities alongside rampant discretion in selection of beneficiaries, said Praveen Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-sets-up-56-welfare-corporations-for-bcs/articleshow/78709005.cms||Samdani MN
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD hospital carries out complex surgery||Tirupati: The Balaji Institute of Surgery, Research and Rehabilitation for the Disabled (BIRRD), the TTD-run orthopaedic superspecialty hospital, performed a complicated surgery on spinal deformity on a thirteen-year-old girl. The patient, C Indu from West Godavari district, was diagnosed with Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis, which required surgical intervention. The girl, who was able to walk on the third day after the surgery, is recovering well. BIRRD director Madan Mohan Reddy announced here on Friday that the surgery was performed for Rs 2.2 lakh and the patient charged only for the implants used. Dr Reddy also said the hospital is in the process of procuring high-end robotic equipment for patient rehabilitation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-hospital-carries-out-complex-surgery/articleshow/78709045.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Reserved beds to deal with Covid surge, Delhi HC told||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government on Friday told Delhi High Court that the policy decision directing 33 big private hospitals to reserve 80 per cent of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients was taken as a stopgap and temporary measure to deal with the surge of coronavirus cases in the capital. It defended its decision and opposed a plea challenging the government’s September 13 order that directed all private hospitals having bed strength of 50 or more to reserve at least 80% of their total ICU bed strength for Covid-19 patients. In an affidavit filed before Justice Navin Chawla, the AAP government has denied that the decision, which was stayed by the high court on September 22, violates any fundamental right of the citizens of Delhi and termed the petition by “Association of Healthcare Providers” as wholly misplaced and baseless. The court then granted a week’s time to the association, which earlier sought to quash the September 13 order, to file rejoinder to the government’s affidavit and listed the matter for hearing on November 18. The government has separately already challenged the single judge’s stay order before a division bench, which has listed it for November 27. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing the government, said there was a prediction that during the upcoming festive season, the number of Covid-19 cases would go up. In its affidavit, the government has taken the stand that it is a settled law that courts will ordinarily exercise restraint while dealing with a challenge preferred to a policy decision of the State. Several other states like Maharashtra and Odisha have taken similar steps to combat the pandemic, it added. “On account of the pandemic graph taking an alarming rise nationwide and also impacting upon the cases in the national capital, the Government of the NCT of Delhi has been adopting a hands-on dynamic approach for the management and mitigation of this disaster,” the affidavit said. The government said when the emergency meeting was convened by it on September 12, out of the 33 private hospitals, 25 participated in it and none of them raised any objection to the decision to reserve the ICU beds. The order only covers 33 private hospitals and nursing homes, out of over 1,150 private nursing homes and hospitals across the city, it added. It said no patient, suffering from a critical illness other than Covid, has objected to the government’s order or complained of having been deprived of medical treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reserved-beds-to-deal-with-covid-surge-hc-told/articleshow/78709031.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Sewer links in auto mode to save Yamuna||NEW DELHI: In an effort to reduce the pollution level in the Yamuna, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has decided to automatically provide connections in all areas where sewers are being laid or will be done in the near future so that untreated sewage can be stopped from flowing into the drains. Last year, DJB had waived sewer connection fees for new applicants. A senior DJB official said the liability to take a sewer connection was currently on the consumers. “Even after laying sewer lines and notifying such areas, a large number of consumers do not take connections as they do not want to pay the fees. Because of this, sewage continues to flow in the drains. At the same time, sewage treatment plants (STP) remain underutilised. The dependency on consumers will end when we start providing connections automatically,” he added. The economic survey of Delhi mentioned that of the 720 million gallons sewage generated daily, only 473 MGD was treated and the existing capacity of STPs was not utilised. DJB data showed that of the 1,799 colonies in the city, sewer lines were laid in 443. Work was in progress in 537 colonies and in the tendering stage in another 116 colonies. DJB estimates that by 2021, only 5% of Delhi will remain without sewers. “We are planning to cover all areas in the next three years. The scheme will benefit all colonies with new sewers. While 443 colonies will be covered under the CM’s free connection scheme, connections will be added automatically free of cost in the remaining 1,356 colonies,” the official said. The socio-economic survey of Delhi government showed that while 60.1% of households were connected to the sewage network, 36.7% used septic tanks. The remaining used toilets that opened in drains. “The main thrust of the two schemes is to bring septic tank users within the ambit of the sewage network so that waste can be brought to the STPs. A large number of houses that are not connected to the network, both directly and indirectly, contribute towards dumping of untreated sewage in the Yamuna,” said the official. The water utility has decided to amend the contracts with the agencies laying the sewers. “Work is in progress in 537 colonies. The scope of work will now be expanded. For this, an increase in cost has been approved. However, 152 colonies that fall in O-zone or forest land are still awaiting NOC for sewerage work. Interceptor drains will have to be laid to prevent sewage from reaching the river,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sewer-links-in-auto-mode-to-save-yamuna/articleshow/78709053.cms||Paras Singh
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||‘Kalanamak’ rice to get global tag||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said his government will push for international branding of Kalanamak variety of rice, making it as popular as Basmati. Speaking at a CII event on India Food and Agri Week, the chief minister spoke on the importance of agriculture in UP’s economy, saying even during Covid months, the state took care of its farmers. “All sugar mills functioned during the lockdown and not a single worker was infected with the virus,” the CM said, adding the state set up more than 4,000 purchase centres for wheat, paddy and chana. The government is now setting up a farmer producer organisation (FPO) in each of the 825 blocks in the state, building cold storages, upgrading mandis and constructing two mango pack-houses. “We are taking measures to improve the condition of our farmers, about 92% of whom are small and marginal. Through the ‘One District One Product’ scheme, agricultural produce from various districts is being promoted. Under this scheme, the Kalanamak variety of rice has a registered GI tag now. We want it to be known internationally like Basmati rice,” the CM said. The move will help UP rake in foreign exchange through export. For this, a mega networking project has been approved for Indian Agricultural Research Institute in Delhi, Agriculture University in Ayodhya and agricultural science centres in Gorakhpur, Siddharth Nagar and Deoria. The state government’s plan to set up a FPO in every block will help in providing raw material to needy farmers. They will also be able to sell their produce at the right price, for which the government has already relieved 45 agricultural products from mandi fee. The CM added about 27 mandis were being developed as modern centres and additional storage facility for agricultural produce was being created in the state. “We are in the process of creating cold storage and ripening chambers. There are two mango pack houses in Lucknow and Saharanpur and two more are being set up in Amroha and Varanasi. The agri sector has provided a new direction to our economy in time of Covid slowdown. UP remains among the top states in production of sugar, milk and vegetables. During this year, we purchased 36 lakh tonnes of wheat and 39,000 tonnes of chana at the MSP,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kalanamak-rice-to-get-global-tag/articleshow/78711665.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||ESI scam: Director of private company held||Vijayawada: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) made one more arrest in the ESI scam on Friday. In a press release issued by ACB, Thunuguntla Dinesh (30), director of Prodigy Computers and Laptops Private Limited, is accused number 17 in the FIR filed in relation to the alleged scam. The accused was arrested in Vijayawada for allegedly colluding with then ESI director CK Ramesh while selling biometric devices at an exorbitant rate. ACB officials alleged that Dinesh had given five quotations, including four fake, to supply biometric devices. Officials alleged that Ramesh had issued a work order to Dinesh for 100 biometric devices for all ESI dispensaries in the state on nomination basis at an exorbitant rate. ACB officials further alleged that Dinesh continued to collude with G Vijay Kumar who succeeded CK Ramesh as ESI director and paid a bill of Rs 73.6 lakh on December 18, 2017. According to ACB, the loss to the government exchequer was to the tune of Rs 53.67 lakh. The scam, in its totality, is said to have caused a loss of Rs 404 crore to the exchequer and involves several irregularities in purchase of medicines, surgical equipment, electronic machines and furniture for four ESI hospitals, three ESI diagnostic centres and 78 ESI dispensaries across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/esi-scam-director-of-private-company-held/articleshow/78709063.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Join drive to clean up Tannirbavi Beach tomorrow||MANGALURU: Now the beaches of Kudla have a dedicated army to protect them–the Beach Rejuvenation Army—who are a group of young minds that consider the Earth to be their home, and believe that there is no alternative planet. It was a year ago that Damodar Hegde, a model from Bengaluru, realized the importance of clean beaches, after he sustained an injury, when a piece of glass from a broken liquor bottle pierced his foot during a morning walk by the seashore. Soon after this, Hegde with the help of his cousin Ganesh Mulky Nayak, launched an online campaign via social media, for a dedicated Beach Rejuvenation Army for beaches, to preserve and protect the beaches of Mangaluru. Though the response was initially very poor, at present, the army has more than 500 followers, of which more than 50 unite every day, to clean beach stretches voluntarily. Hegde told TOI, “During our morning walk, we found trash including syringes, broken bottles and plastic bags sully the purity of beaches. Further, on September 22 last year, I sustained an injury, when a piece of glass pierced my foot. The next day, we posted a live video on social media, and commenced a cleanliness drive, which included a 30-minute workout and 30 minutes of cleaning. Within a week, we received a response from 6-7 people, and at present we have more than 500 people interested in taking part in our Beach Rejuvenation Army drives,” he said, adding that most of the participants are students and people who work. Ganesh Mulky Nayak, a motivational speaker, said, “We have not invited anyone, but all of them have joined us voluntarily. We have carried out drives continuously in the past 21 days. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, we have been taking extra care that the participants are divided into many groups of 25 members, and they are assigned to clean various stretches. Many clubs and organisations also have been contacting us, expressing their willingness to join our drive.” The next cleanliness drive held by them will be from 6.30 am onwards on Sunday at the Tannirbavi Beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/join-drive-to-clean-up-tannirbavi-beach-tomorrow/articleshow/78707697.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||All set for navaratras, but with precautions in mind||LUDHIANA: The city is all set to worship nine forms of Goddess Durga with the beginning of Navaratras from Saturday. The city temples will wear a decorative look for the worship of the Goddess. Though the temple managements will be following all Covid norms during the celebrations for avoiding spread of coronavirus, entry will be allowed to all in the temples. Most of the temples are planning of going live at the time of ‘aarti’ or other rituals for people, to help them watch live while staying at home. Pardeep Dhall, general secretary, Geeta Mandir, Vikas Nagar on Pakhowal road, said, “We will kick off a signature campaign for girl child empowerment and there will be decorations in the temple.” He said they would also light up 108 lamps in front of the Goddess Durga idol. He further said they had given a new shape to the idol as well and they have also kept Mata Chintpurni Pindi for darshan of public at a shrine in Himachal Pradesh. Besides, people above 60 years of age will not be allowed to enter. Subhash Duggal of Navdurga Mandir, Sarabha Nagar, said, “Public entry will be allowed with all precautions like masks, sanitisers and social distancing. We are not celebrating Dussehra this time, but Navaratras will be celebrated, but not a grand scale as it used to be earlier. The temple has been decorated and we are also planning to organise a ‘mata ki chowki’ on social media for the public.” He said due to coronavirus all necessary arrangements were being made because safety was very important. He said people should come and pray in temple, but they would not be allowed to gather in large numbers. Balbir Gupta of Durga Mata Mandir said, “We have done decorations in the temple like previous years and all rituals will take place in a similar manner. There will be no social gathering allowed outside or inside the temple premises. People can come, pray and go.” He said there would be a live telecast of ‘aarti’ daily in the morning and evening, so people could watch the same in their homes. He claimed that they had arranged for sanitisers and maintenance of distance among the devotees who would come for worshipping the goddess.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-set-for-navaratras-but-with-precautions-in-mind/articleshow/78705553.cms||---
October 17, 2020||India||Jaishankar: Ties ‘profoundly disturbed’ by Galwan clashes||NEW DELHI: India-China relations have been “profoundly disturbed” by the Galwan clashes in June in eastern Ladakh, said S Jaishankar, external affairs minister on Friday. Speaking at an Asia Society event on a virtual platform, Jaishankar said, the Galwan clashes, which saw casualties on both sides, had a huge impact on political and popular perceptions of China in India. Over the past three decades, he said, India and China had built a relationship “and a basis for building that relationship has been peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control.” Read AlsoTalks between India and China are going on; do not want to prejudge: JaishankarIndia and China are engaged in talks to resolve the border standoff and what is going on is "something confidential" between the two sides, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Asked specifically about the outcome of the ongoing talks during an online conclave, the externalHe said there are multiple agreements, starting from 1993, which created the framework for that peace and tranquillity, which limited the military forces that came to the border areas, how to manage the border, how border troops behave when they approach each other. Read AlsoLadakh and J&amp;K integral part of India, China has no locus standi: MEAThe ministry of external affairs(MEA) today slammed China for its comments on Ladakh made earlier this week, saying the Union territory of Ladakh is an "integral" part of India." China had earlier this week said that it does not recognize the UT of Ladakh, which is "illegally" established by India,“So, from the conceptual level down to the behavioural level, there was an entire sort of framework out there. Now, what we saw this year was a departure from this entire series of agreements. The massing of large amount of Chinese forces on the border was clearly contrary to all of this. “And when you had friction point which was large number of troops at different points very close to each other, then something tragic like what happened on 15th of June happened,“ he said. “To underline the enormity of that, it was the first military casualty we had after 1975. So what it has done is, it has obviously had a very deep public impact, very major political impact and it has left the relationship profoundly disturbed,” the external affairs minister said. Watch India-China ties ‘profoundly disturbed’ after Galwan clashes, says S Jaishankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jaishankar-ties-profoundly-disturbed-by-galwan-clashes/articleshow/78712547.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Dad rapes girl; life for mom for failing to stop it||COIMBATORE: A special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) cases on Friday sentenced a 46-year-old woman to life term for failing to protect her minor daughter from being sexually exploited by her husband. The court sentenced the 47-year-old father also to life imprisonment. The man, a native of Virudhunagar district, and his wife had moved to the area along with their 14-year-old daughter a few years ago. The family was working in a farm and staying in a house nearby. When the girl was alone in the house, her father sexually assaulted her repeatedly in 2018 and 2019. Unable to bear his torture, the girl told her mother about it. When the woman asked her husband to stop the assault, he refused and continued with the crime. However, the mother did not approach police. On June 6 last year, the man sexually assaulted the girl again. The distraught girl then told her school friends who in turn informed their teachers about it. They approached Child Line authorities, who rescued the girl and lodged a complaint with the police. Police arrested the girl’s father and mother on June 9 and remanded them to judicial custody. The girl was sent to a home for children. Later, the case was transferred to the Pollachi all-woman police unit which filed a chargesheet before the special court for Pocso cases. The trial started two months ago. After hearing arguments from both sides, judge J Radhika pronounced the verdict on Friday evening. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1,000 on the father and the mother. The judge directed the state government to provide a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dad-rapes-girl-14-life-for-mom-for-failing-to-stop-it/articleshow/78709088.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Aurangabad||SP finds PS in disarray, issues notice to SDPO||Aurangabad: Superintendent of police (Aurangabad rural) Mokshada Patil on Friday issued a notice to the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) after she found the Phulambri police station in a disarray during a surprise visit. “Nobody was found prepared to meet any untoward eventuality, while constables were found without masks,’’ Patil told TOI on Friday. The Mahilah Vishranti Kaksha (Women’s Cloak Room), which is mandatory at each police station, was in a very bad shape and did not have proper place for constables to sit. Since the unlock process has begun, the number of visitors to the police stations too has increased. “When I made a surprise visit, I found garbage and filth strewn around the premises. Other sections like the place where ammunition and muddemal (items used in crime and recovered from the suspects) are kept and their registers were not in order,” Patil said. She added that she had issued instructions to all the police stations to plan meetings in the wake of Navaratra festival and take necessary precautions to avoid any untoward eventuality. “Incidentally, the SDPO was also present in the police station. Hence, I issued a notice to the SDPO seeking explanation. Hope this action sends a message to other police stations across the district,” she told TOI. The personnel at the police station were not even prepared to swing into immediate action in case of an emergency. “They did not have their lathis nor their shields to swing into action. The police driver too was not ready. I have reprimanded him, she said. She said that since the number of visitors to the police stations has increased considerably, it is important to take utmost precautions to check the spread of the contagion among the force or to the others, said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sp-finds-ps-in-disarray-issues-notice-to-sdpo/articleshow/78709080.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 17, 2020||Agra||Farmers suffer from inadequate powersupply, four former MLAs stage protest||Agra: Four former MLAs of Agra district staged protest at the transmission office of state government-owned discom Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL) on Friday demanding at least 20 hours of power supply in the rural areas. Farmers in Agra district are suffering inadequate power supply - not allowing them proper irrigation of the fields. And, on an average, only 8 to 10 hours of power supply is being made of tube wells. Ahead of potato sowing, which is going to start next week, farmers are demanding at least 20 hours of power supply from the tubewell feeder. Former BSP MLAs Dharampal Singh, Surajpal Singh, Kalicharan Suman and Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha organised a meeting with over 200 farmers at the transmission office premises of the discom and held their protest. Later, the MLAs sent a five-farmer delegation to meet senior discom officials. They handed over a memorandum addressed to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, to the DVVNL managing director Saumya Agarwal. Former MLA Dharampal Singh said, “After poor monsoon here this year, farmers are largely dependent on tube wells for irrigation of their fields. We want the state government to ensure at least 20 hours of power supply for operating tube wells in rural areas. We will be forced to come on to the roads if the problem of inadequate power supply is not addressed in the next one week."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-suffer-from-inadequate-powersupply-four-former-mlas-stage-protest/articleshow/78706621.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||CM gives job letters to over 31k primary school teachers||LUCKNOW: After a delay of more than a year, caused by the process being challenged in court, UP government finally issued appointment letters to 31,227 primary school teachers. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday handed over the appointment letters to the candidates, who were selected by the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Board against 69,000 vacancies in 2019. Out of these, 6,675 are candidates who were appointed as shiksha mitras. The CM said: “I used to tell the shiksha mitras that if they worked hard, we would give them opportunities. Now more than 6,000 of them have been selected for permanent posts. It shows that they were capable but past governments did not use their capability and used short cuts which have been rejected even by the courts. When there was a talk of removing them from the system, we refused and said that we will give them weightage in appointments and a fair chance to get regular jobs.” The seats for teachers were to be filled on the basis on the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) exam carried out on January 6, 2019. A day later, the government fixed the minimum cut for general category at 65% and for backward and other reserved categories at 60%. The order was challenged by some students in court and even went up to the Supreme Court. In its final order, the high court said that only 31,661 posts out of 69,000 vacancies could be filled, leaving out those that were occupied by shiksha mitras. “When we came to power in UP, there were over 1 crore students in primary schools but there were many with no teachers, only shiksha mitras. In Shrawasti district, there were at least 120 schools which did not have teachers. We started the process of recruitment a year back but it got stuck in court. Despite that, we have a transparent system of recruitment based on qualification and no corruption,” the CM said. He said that because of the changes brought in by the government, there has been an increase of over 50 lakh students in schools since 2017. “The teachers are expected to utilize the full capacity of students and also help in establishing model schools. They will also be expected to play an important role in society and in the upgradation of education in schools”, the CM said. A government spokesperson said that 5,948 teachers were appointed in the 2017-18 academic session, while 46,319 teachers were appointed in the 2018-19 session. With the new recruitment, 83,544 teachers have been appointed by the government in the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-gives-job-letters-to-over-31k-primary-school-teachers/articleshow/78711678.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||330 measurement books missing from MC records, reveals RTI query||LUDHIANA: How seriously the municipal corporation officials maintain the necessary records in the civic body can be gauged from the fact that many measurement books are missing from the records. These measurement books are allotted to the officials of bridges and road branch and operation and maintenance cell of the civic body for maintaining the records of road construction work, water supply and sewerage related works. Ideally, these measurement books are to be filled on regular basis, but in a previous RTI reply the officials of B&R branch had admitted the fact that they do not even fill these measurement books daily. A city-based activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had demanded record of measurement books which were missing from the MC records and he had also asked about the officials who were responsible for maintaining those measurement books. Replying to the query, the officials submitted the list of officials who were allotted the measurement books but these had not been deposited back with the MC. There are 330 such measurement books, which are missing from the MC records. This is a serious issue because these are basically records of road work and payments made to the contractors for various development works on the basis of work done. Sources revealed that an inquiry should be conducted to check in whose names these measurement books were issued and whether they got retired and if they got retired without depositing the records, then who gave them the NOC. Similar is the case with officials who got transferred. The activist further said, “This is a serious offence on the part of MC engineers who are not serious about maintaining the records. These are old measurement books and must be used ones and if there was any problem in the works completed and payments were still paid, then who is going to take the onus.” He added that the civic body should get an FIR registered against the engineers who were responsible for this problem. One of the MC officials said that the officers who got promotions or were transferred, they directly handed over their measurement books to other officer instead of following the procedure of submitting these at records branch, so that these measurement books remain in their names only. He further claimed that the measurement books were very important documents for the MC officials because once statements were written in these, the same could not be challenged anywhere. He said in 2009, one fake bill scam had taken place in Ludhiana MC and even at that time fake signatures in these measurement books were found to be the main reason for the same. Meanwhile, the leader of opposition and senior Akali Dal councillor Harbhajan Dang said, “We had raised a question on the filure of road samples earlier in a meeting with the mayor but till date no action had been taken against the officials or contractors. Rather the mayor had asked the contractors that while keeping aside the past they should work properly in future.” However, mayor Balkar Sandhu said he would look into the matter and get it checked and suitable action would be taken against the officials concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/330-measurement-books-missing-from-mc-records-reveals-rti-query/articleshow/78705591.cms||---
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Nitish woos youth, women with Rs 10 lakh aid to start business||AURANGABAD/GAYA: After Mahagathbandhan's CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad promised 10 lakh jobs to youths at his first cabinet meeting if elected, CM Nitish Kumar on Friday vowed to provide financial support to the youth and women if he gets a fourth consecutive term. Addressing an election rally at Imamganj in Gaya district, from where ally and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi is the candidate, Nitish said, financial assistance of up to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to youths and the women willing to start their own business. Out of Rs 10 lakh, Rs5 lakh will be subsidy and remaining Rs5 lakh free from any tax. He added, "To make youths technically skilled arrangements have been made at polytechnics and the ITIs (industrial training institutes) and under the Kushal Yuva programme.” Like other election rallies, here, too, Nitish asked people to raise both their hands to assure they would vote for the victory of NDA candidate. When the people responded positively, he walked a few steps on the dais to reach up to the HAM (S) president and put a marigold garland around his neck. Then he turned back to the crowd and said, “Now it is your responsibility to ensure that Manjhi Ji wins from here”. Addressing another rally at Obra in Aurangabad district, Nitish said every girl who passes the intermediate exams will be given Rs25,000 and after graduation, she will be given Rs 50,000 for her education. As of now, Nitish-government provides Rs25,000 to girls passing graduation, Rs12,000 for intermediate and Rs 10,000 to those passing matriculation exam with first division. Nitish also said water will be provided to every farm if he is given another opportunity to serve as CM. “Under the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali scheme, 3.47 crore saplings were planted across the state against the target of 2.51 crore. Acknowledging this success, the United Nations Organization sent an invitation letter to me to talk about the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali scheme. I addressed the program of the UN through virtual mode,” Nitish said. He iterated that multi-storied buildings will be constructed in every district for homeless people. Launching a frontal attack on RJD, Nitish reminded people about the 15- year rule of pati-patni (read Lalu-Rabri). “During that period there was no rule of law. Crime happened frequently and people remained scared all the time,” he said. Highlighting the latest figure of the NCRB, he said now Bihar is at the 23rd position in the country in terms of crime incidents. At Belaganj, Nitish reiterated the steps taken to provide 50% reservation to women and reservation to schedule caste/scheduled tribe (SC/ST) in the Panchayat elections. Addressing the rally at Obra in support of JD (U)’s Obra candidate Sunil Yadav, Nitish said till now, the state government has spent Rs 10,000 crore in the fight against Coronavirus pandemic. “The number of corona tests per 10 lakh people in Bihar is 2500 more than the corresponding national average. Also, 21 lakh migrant workers were provided financial assistance of Rs 1,000 and 22 lakh people were brought back to Bihar by train. Millions of people stayed in the quarantine centres, on which an amount of 5300 per person was spent in 14 days. Due to this, the rate of corona deaths in Bihar is the lowest in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-woos-youth-women-with-rs10-lakh-aid-to-start-biz/articleshow/78709139.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hubballi||3 ex-servicemen in Belagavi train youths, village pitches in||BELAGAVI: With 18 years of service in the Army behind them, three villagers of Kulagod in Mudalagi taluk decided it was not time to retire to a civilian life, but to give back to the forces and the community. With the support of villagers, Maruti Mannikeri, Bhimashi Madivalar and Somshekar Taggi are now training 70 youths from poor families to join the Army – coaching them for physical and written exams and providing them the right nutrition for free. The trio, all aged 40, retired from service eight months ago. Mannikeri was a Naik with the Army medical corps in Lucknow, while Bhimashi was posted at the Artillery Centre in Nashik. Somashekar was with the Maratha Light Infantry Regiment. Among them, they say, they have experience of serving in Kashmir, Rajasthan, Kolkata and Chhattisgarh and on the border as well. The ongoing stand-off with China proved to be trigger, they say. “We thought we should continue to serve the nation as we have all these years. So we decided to help village youths pursue their dream of joining the Army,” Maruti tells TOI. “We are imparting training in physical exercises and the written exam since August 15.” Maruti says the sight of youths jogging, running and exercising in the morning to make themselves fit for the forces inspired them to take up coaching. “Given proper training, we were sure they will make our village proud by serving in the Army,” he said. The 70 youths turn up for training from 5am to 8am every day. They begin by running 5km and move on to high jump, long jump, push-ups and weightlifting. There is no gym equipment here, youths practise by lifting the spherical rocks strewn over the place. Impressed by the dedication of the ex-servicemen and commitment of the youths, villagers decided to pitch in. While the youngsters train in the school ground, a room has been set aside for coaching for the written exam. Teachers are called from elsewhere to take classes. “Every Saturday, we conduct a physical test and every Sunday, a written test so that they won’t fear an exam when they go for recruitment,” says Maruti. With the contribution from villagers, the youths are given a robust breakfast of eggs and bread, soaked grains and nuts, bananas and shira. So far, Rs 50,000 has been spent on food, books and other items, villagers said. “We are happy that we are being trained by such sincere teachers,” says Sanjeev Bandiwaddar, 22. “People like us from poor families cannot afford to spend on such training which would cost at least Rs 2,000 a month. Thanks to the training and support of villagers, we are working on our fitness and studying for the exams in a focused manner. And in turn, we will dedicate our health and abilities to serve the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/3-ex-servicemen-in-belagavi-train-youths-village-pitches-in/articleshow/78710628.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Civic body warns action against butchers mixing beef with mutton||MANGALURU: In the wake of several complaints from citizens, meat stalls that sell mutton in the city have been warned against alleged fraudulent practice of mixing beef with mutton. Mayor Diwakar warned stringent action against traders if they are found engaged in adulteration of mutton. As part of a drive, the mayor along with corporators and officials conducted an inspection at all mutton stalls in the city and warned them about the consequences. The mayor said inspection was conducted after several complaints from general public about illegal trade. Similarly, the action also aims at preventing the possibility of meat adulteration since many vehicles that transport cattle illegally to the city were seized by the police recently. Inspections were carried out at meat stalls in Urwa Store, Urwa Market and the abattoir in Kudroli. They have been warned that the trade license will be cancelled and criminal cases will be registered in case of violation. Officials have been directed to ensure the slaughterhouses follow rules. Further, the mayor said he also has directed all meat traders to keep register books and enter the purchase and sales quantities regularly. “Recently, the police seized beef, which was being transported to Mangaluru city from Hassan in a milk delivery van. There were several such instances of cattle being transported to the city illegally from various districts. Similarly, there are many illegal slaughterhouses functioning in the district. Hence, we decided to conduct inspections on all meat stall premises and warn them of stringent action,” the mayor told TOI. Senior corporator of the BJP, Sudheer Shetty said, “We have requested meat traders not to mix meat of cows and calves along with mutton. Let them sell beef to only those customers who come to buy it. Those who visit the market for mutton must only be given mutton.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/civic-body-warns-action-against-butchers-mixing-beef-with-mutton/articleshow/78707741.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to introduce night sweeping, cleanliness drive in 5 city markets||LUDHIANA: The MC is all set to introduce night sweeping and cleanliness drive in five markets as pilot project and after seeing the results it would be implemented in other markets as well. The officials have selected 17 markets, out of which five will be part of the pilot project. The officials are planning this on the lines of the Indore model. The officials will first convince the shopkeepers in the markets that they will give garbage at night time and in the morning no shopkeeper will sweep the shop and throw garbage on roadsides. The first meeting will take place with shopkeepers of Jawahar Nagar camp after which markets like Kitchlu Nagar, Udham Singh Nagar, DMC market and Sarabha Nagar-I block market will be taken up. On Friday, a meeting also took place where joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh directed the officials of various branches about their roles in this drive, which is likely to start from Sunday night. Earlier also, the civic body had taken up night sweeping in Ghumar Mandi market and shopkeepers had supported the drive but it was due to coronavirus that the drive was stopped. Initially, five markets will be taken up on priority and then the remaining ones will also be cleaned on a similar pattern. These markets included Gole market, Damoria bridge, fountain chowk, Chaupati, Mall road, Sarabha Nagar main market, Model Town Gole market, Model Town extension market, etc. Congress councillor Mamta Ashu, who attended the meeting with zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh, said, “At first, the pilot project is being taken up in five markets, where officials will get the roads clean in the market at night time and the next morning everything, including debris will be cleared.” She said the idea was to clean the markets ahead of Diwali and there would be proper discussion with shopkeepers before starting anything. Shopkeepers to face hefty penalty for littering The shopkeepers in various markets are habitual of sweeping their shops around 10-11am, due to which markets look untidy. But now when night sweeping will be introduced, a penalty of minimum Rs 5,000 will be imposed on shopkeepers who will disobey the orders. ‘Can achieve better ranking’ Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said they could also perform well in the Swachhta Survekshan like Indore, but the only condition is public support. He said people should help the civic body in maintaining hygiene and only then they would get a clean city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-introduce-night-sweeping-cleanliness-drive-in-5-city-markets/articleshow/78705573.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Cops to conduct drive to check for weapons in vehicles||aNashik: The city police will conduct a special drive of checking two-wheelers to ensure there is no transportation of weapons illegally through the vehicles, amid the festive season and the possibility of criminals indulging in illegal activities, which could hamper the peace.The drive will be conducted suddenly in any part of the city without giving any prior intimation to the citizens. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey said, “We appeal to the citizens to cooperate with the police in the larger interest of everyone. The police personnel in the drive will not take more than 30 to 40 seconds.”“The aim is to ensure there is no illegal transportation of weapons through vehicles. Recently, we also caught two chain snatchers who had a sword-like weapon in their vehicle. Hence, the drive of checking vehicles will serve a dual purpose of nabbing criminals and also the chain snatchers,” said Pandey. Meanwhile, he said there was no need of motorists to worry as the police would check only if there was any kind of weapon in the vehicle and they would not even ask for any document.However, if the police are suspicious about the motorist then they may ask for other documents to check the identity of the motorist.The drive by the police would deter the criminal from taking up any illegal activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-to-conduct-drive-to-check-for-weapons-in-vehicles/articleshow/78709094.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||Two booked for assaulting, abusing cops in Vadodara||VADODARA: Two youngsters were booked on Thursday evening for abusing the cops and obstructing them from performing their duty in the city. The duo was travelling in a car when the cops were conducting a drive to check if people are wearing face masks in public areas. According to the police, the duo identified as Henil Patel and Manav Patel didn’t stop their car near Nehru Bhavan. The cops chased their car for over 1km and stopped them near Kunj Plaza on the Rajmahal Road. The police said that the duo got into an altercation with the on duty officer and even hurled abuses at him. When one of them assaulted the cops, additional police were called for help. The duo was then taken to the police station and booked under various IPC sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-booked-for-assaulting-abusing-cops/articleshow/78708094.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Nitish woos youth, women with Rs 10 lakh aid to start business||AURANGABAD/GAYA: After Mahagathbandhan's CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad promised 10 lakh jobs to youths at his first cabinet meeting if elected, CM Nitish Kumar on Friday vowed to provide financial support to the youth and women if he gets a fourth consecutive term. Addressing an election rally at Imamganj in Gaya district, from where ally and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi is the candidate, Nitish said, financial assistance of up to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to youths and the women willing to start their own business. Out of Rs 10 lakh, Rs5 lakh will be subsidy and remaining Rs5 lakh free from any tax. He added, "To make youths technically skilled arrangements have been made at polytechnics and the ITIs (industrial training institutes) and under the Kushal Yuva programme.” Like other election rallies, here, too, Nitish asked people to raise both their hands to assure they would vote for the victory of NDA candidate. When the people responded positively, he walked a few steps on the dais to reach up to the HAM (S) president and put a marigold garland around his neck. Then he turned back to the crowd and said, “Now it is your responsibility to ensure that Manjhi Ji wins from here”. Addressing another rally at Obra in Aurangabad district, Nitish said every girl who passes the intermediate exams will be given Rs25,000 and after graduation, she will be given Rs 50,000 for her education. As of now, Nitish-government provides Rs25,000 to girls passing graduation, Rs12,000 for intermediate and Rs 10,000 to those passing matriculation exam with first division. Nitish also said water will be provided to every farm if he is given another opportunity to serve as CM. “Under the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali scheme, 3.47 crore saplings were planted across the state against the target of 2.51 crore. Acknowledging this success, the United Nations Organization sent an invitation letter to me to talk about the Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali scheme. I addressed the program of the UN through virtual mode,” Nitish said. He iterated that multi-storied buildings will be constructed in every district for homeless people. Launching a frontal attack on RJD, Nitish reminded people about the 15- year rule of pati-patni (read Lalu-Rabri). “During that period there was no rule of law. Crime happened frequently and people remained scared all the time,” he said. Highlighting the latest figure of the NCRB, he said now Bihar is at the 23rd position in the country in terms of crime incidents. At Belaganj, Nitish reiterated the steps taken to provide 50% reservation to women and reservation to schedule caste/scheduled tribe (SC/ST) in the Panchayat elections. Addressing the rally at Obra in support of JD (U)’s Obra candidate Sunil Yadav, Nitish said till now, the state government has spent Rs 10,000 crore in the fight against Coronavirus pandemic. “The number of corona tests per 10 lakh people in Bihar is 2500 more than the corresponding national average. Also, 21 lakh migrant workers were provided financial assistance of Rs 1,000 and 22 lakh people were brought back to Bihar by train. Millions of people stayed in the quarantine centres, on which an amount of 5300 per person was spent in 14 days. Due to this, the rate of corona deaths in Bihar is the lowest in the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-woos-youth-women-with-rs10-lakh-aid-to-start-biz/articleshow/78713185.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Jt collector dissatisfied with rythu bazaars||Visakhapatnam: Joint district collector M Venugopal Reddy expressed dissatisfaction over work done by marketing department officials and said that rythu bazaars in the city were not up to the mark. Conducting his review on supervision at rythu bazaars, Reddy said that negligent and irregular officials will be taken to task. Reddy asked officials to issue new cards based on certificates issued by agricultural assistants at village secretariats, vacate owners whose term was over and issue notice to those who had not paid rent. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jt-collector-dissatisfied-with-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/78709086.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bhopal||Karara three-way contest in Karera||BHOPAL: In Scheduled Caste reserved Karera assembly seat in Shivpuri district, there are more than 40,000 Jatav votes – the reason why Congress, ruling BJP and BSP have fielded candidates from this community. Congress party’s 2018 assembly election winner Jaswant Jatav is now BJP’s candidate after switching sides in March. Jaswant Jatav, known to be a supporter of Jyotiraditya Scindia, was fielded for the first time in the last assembly polls and won securing 64,201 votes. For upcoming bypoll, Congress has fielded Pragilal Jatav, who was the BSP’s candidate in the 2008, 2013 and 2018 assembly polls. With Pragilal in Congress, BSP has fielded a new candidate Rajendra Jatav. However, this candidature arrangement of the three parties ensures that the most predominant Jatav vote-bank will get divided. Since 1990, Karera has elected the Congress thrice, the BJP also three-times and the BSP once in 2008. It is said that Karera never repeats victory for a candidate. In 1990, it elected Bhagwat Singh Yadav of BJP; in 1993 Kiran Singh Rawat of Congress, 1998 winner was Ranveer Singh of BJP, in 2003 Lakhan Singh Baghel of BSP, 2008 victor was Ramesh Khatik of BJP, 2013 elected Shakuntala of Congress. In the November 2018 elections, BJP’s Rajkumar Khatik who secured 49,377 votes was defeated by Congress’ Jaswant Jatav by a margin of 14,824 votes. BSP’s Pragilal Jatav secured 40,026 votes. Pragilal Jatav, having contested thrice before from the seat, is now a veteran face. Karera has seen Pragilal campaign on foot for every successive election he contested, because he does not own a vehicle. Sources in the state Congress said that former chief minister Kamal Nath gave him the ticket seeing his simplicity. Situated half-way between Jhansi in UP and Shivpuri in MP, the major issue for Karera is a bird sanctuary. Thirty-two villages come into the Son Chiraiya Bird Sanctuary located 20 kms away from Shivpuri town. Locals claimed that falling into the reserved bird sanctuary area, there can be no sale or purchase of land in these 30 villages. Large-scale construction or even agricultural activity is also not permitted. Over the past three assembly elections, the demand has been to free these villages from the sanctuary boundaries. Speaking to TOI, state Congress spokesman in-charge of Karera seat Avnish Bundela said, “For two decades, no one has sighted a son-chiriya bird in the sanctuary. But 32 villages cannot till and sow their own land because of the restrictions of the bird sanctuary. The constituency suffers from a major drinking water crisis and it was only in the 15-months of Congress government that Karera got a Ring Road and a bus stand.” The other burning issues are illegal sand mining from the Sindh river that flows through the constituency and widespread unemployment. “There are no colleges and with no job opportunities, migration is a huge problem,” Avnish Bundela said. At every campaign gathering BJP candidate Jaswant Jatav claims, “When I was in the Congress party, we could not get even a single work done. Former chief minister Kamal Nath would not even listen to us. It is for the development of Karera that I left Congress and along with our leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan pledged to the development of this constituency. Since Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s return, crores of rupees worth of development has been approved for Karera assembly constituency.” Forty thousand upper caste votes of Brahmins, Thakurs and Banias play a decisive role in every successive election in this seat. There are also 25,000 khatiks, 20,000 Lodhi votes and 15,000 Pal, Baghel and Gadariya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/karara-three-way-contest-in-karera/articleshow/78710826.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 17, 2020||Kolhapur||SUK postpones exams as rain cuts links||Kolhapur: Shivaji University Kolhapur (SUK) has postponed the examinations for the final-year students of graduate and postgraduate courses due to disruptions caused by heavy rain. Over 50,000 students from Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts had registered for the exams earlier scheduled to start from Saturday. Of them, nearly 66% had opted for the online exam mode while the remaining were to appear in person. However, heavy rain caused transportation as well as connectivity problems. In many villages, the power was cut off for long durations. Gajanan Palase, the controller of exams, SUK, said: “Given the current circumstances, it is not fair to hold the exams. Already the Covid pandemic has taken a toll. Now the heavy rainfall has disrupted the transportation and communication links, without which the students cannot appear for the exams. We have decided to postpone exams scheduled for October 17, 19 and 20. If the situation improves, then the papers scheduled from October 21 onwards will be held as planned and if not, a decision on postponing them will be announced. The schedule for the postponed exams will be announced later.” As per the University Grants Commission rules, the university exams have to be concluded before October 31. However, in the current situation, the university is unlikely to meet the deadline. A request will be made to the UGC to consider the situation to relax the rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suk-postpones-exams-as-rain-cuts-links/articleshow/78709140.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||RSS pushes for cow-dung made idols||Lucknow: Pressing for ‘swadeshi’, the RSS has pitched for manufacture of earthen lamps and idols of Ganesh-Laxmi with the help of raw materials comprising ‘gobar’ and ‘gau-mutra’. Sangh said a special drive is being initiated in Awadh region ahead of Diwali for its promotion. The RSS said that trained groups of volunteers of its associated organisation Sahkar Bharti have launched the campaign for manufacture of earthen lamps, idols of Ganesh and Lakshmi, ‘bandhanwar’, ‘om’, ‘swastik’ with raw material comprising ‘gobar’ and ‘gau-mutra’, which are environment friendly. The sangh said that instead of buying Chinese lights and candles, people should start using products made out of cow products. Manager of Malihabad located Gopeshwar cattle shed Uma Kant said that around 150 women are in the process of manufacturing lamps and ‘hawan’ material which do not harm the environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rss-pushes-for-cow-dung-made-idols/articleshow/78711711.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Your shield against covid-19||Ahmedabad: The now ubiquitous masks have been part of daily life for Gujaratis for the past six months – while some experimented with designs by adding decorative elements, some took the precau-tions a step further by combining two masks or masks with face shield or face cover. What PM Nar-endra Modi advised on Thursday, while launch-ing an awareness cam-paign against Covid-19, is something the national and international experts have been stressing on for quite some time. Wear a mask.The latest issue of the Indian Journal of Medi-cal Research (IJMR) states that triple-layer masks are best for pro-tecting against Covid-19, citing a WHO guideline. ‘The non-medical or non-surgical masks spe-cifically designed for the gen-eral public or low-risk indi-viduals can be made up of a variety of arrange-ments of fabrics in differ-ent layering sequences,’ states the paper. The lay-ers should be superhydro-phobic, hydrophobic and hydrophilic — meaning, the outermost resistant to the droplets and the in-nermost absorbent for droplets.‘Normal speaking cre-ates splashing of respira-tory droplets with a broad size distribution (0.1 to 1000 nanometers),’ stated the paper, advising the wearers to use masks for both preventing spread of Covid-carrying droplets and saving oneself from the droplets generated by the another person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/your-shield-against-covid-19/articleshow/78711821.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bareilly||Visually impaired cricketer & judoka felicitated on White Cane Safety Day||Pilibhit: District magistrate Pulkit Khare on Thursday evening felicitated Kamal Sharma, the captain of UP’s cricket team for the visually impaired and a former international judo champion, on the occasion of the White Cane Safety Day. Calling him Pilibhit’s Virat Kohli, he said, “Physical impairment is no barrier in achieving the pinnacle of success. Many disabled persons have left behind the able-bodied world flabbergasted with their herculean efforts.”This was the first-ever instance that the Pilibhit district administration had organised an official event to spread awareness about white cane and safety of visually impaired people.Directing the assistant regional transport officer Amitabh Rai, the DM said it was his indispensible duty to manage proper training of transport personnel and traffic police to adopt essential safety measures for visually impaired people while crossing roads.He also directed district disabled welfare officer Krishna Pal Singh, to ensure free distribution of white canes to all visually impaired people in the district, under welfare schemes of the ministry of social justice and empowerment, in addition to imparting them with proper training of how to use the cane.Kamal Sharma himself shared his knowledge of using while cane at the workshop. He proposed that the district magistrate take steps to make all administrative premises easily accessible to visually and physically disabled people.Display of important information outside government offices on boards in Braille script was another suggestion Sharma made, that was accepted by the DM.At the end of the workshop, a resolution was unanimously passed by all government officials to organize White Cane Safety Day at a larger scale.Sharma, who is pursuing post-graduation in political science from Dr SM National Rehabilitation University, Lucknow, told TOI he had bagged a prestigious gold medal for India in international junior judo championship for the visually impaired, held in Budapest, Hungary in 2013.He had also performed commendably at the five countries’ cricket league championship for blind persons, held in New Delhi in April-May 2019 by Cricket Association for the Blind in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/visually-impaired-cricketer-judoka-felicitated-on-white-cane-safety-day/articleshow/78704399.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||STF lodges FIR against Dhananjay Singh in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The Special Task Force of UP Police lodged an FIR was against mafia don-turned- politician Dhananjay Singh under the Official Secret Act at the Vibhuti Khand police station late Friday night. Police said that the FIR was lodged as former MP Dhananjay Singh obtained a copy of the official confidential communication related to his security detail. The confidential communication dated November 14, 2018, addressed to DG (Intelligence) by IG STF came to the notice of the court while hearing a writ petition filed by Singh, challenging withdrawal of Y Plus security cover provided to him by the government. Taking a serious note of the leak of the communication, the Allahabad high court had directed the state government to form an SIT and investigate how Singh got the confidential letter. Singh, a former BSP MP from Jaunpur, in his petition had requested the court to quash an order of the Union ministry of home affairs dated May 24, 2018, by which his security was discontinued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-lodges-fir-against-dhananjay-singh-in-city/articleshow/78711748.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Chalo cards in Dakshin, Udupi city buses||MANGALURU: From November 1, a tie-up that the bus operators in DK and Udupi have entered with technology provider Chalo will see commuters save up to 75% of their monthly commuting cost by opting to buy the Chalo card that works on near field communication (NFC) technology, making transactions touch less and digital. The cards should be fully functional from November 15. With 405 city buses registered in DK and Udupi, the Chalo card will help the cities keep pace with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Digital India, Dilraj Alva, president, Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators Association, says. The situation is gradually returning to normal and around 90% of buses are now operational, he said. Use of Chalo cards will add to Covid-19 hygiene and make 95% of transactions cashless and buses safer, Alva said. Most of the bus operators have opted to use the same, Alva said . Deep discounts that operators have thrown in will make it attractive to commuters, he said. Citing an example, Santosh Deshpande, senior manager, Chalo said a daily commuter who normally pays a one-way ticket in the price range of up to Rs 10 needs to pay Rs 399 for 100 trips in 28 days or Rs 109 for 21 trips in 7 days. The Chalo card will permit the card holder to make a maximum of four trips per day. For the price that one pays for a 28-day card, the saving is 61% and the savings range up to 75% based on the price ticket range, he said. The card amount does not permit a holder to travel for a distance beyond the one-way ticket price range. However, if one purchases a card in the higher one-way price range, they can travel in the intermediate price range slabs subject to 100 trips and four trips per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/chalo-cards-in-dk-udupi-city-buses/articleshow/78707770.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 17, 2020||Madurai||HC judge sheds tears for students over delay in nod for 7.5% MBBS quota||Madurai: The state government on Friday informed Madras high court that it would not issue prospectus for medical admissions till a decision is taken by the constitutional authority on the bill to provide horizontal reservation of 7.5% to government school students who clear the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (Neet) for admission to undergraduate medical courses.Advocate General Vijay Narayan informed the court that the decision is yet to be taken on the bill by the Governor. Expressing anguish over the delay in admissions, Justice N Kirubakaran turned emotional as he broke into tears considering the plight of government school students. The division bench, also comprising Justice B Pugalendhi, orally observed that though government school students constitute 41% of those taking the test, their admission in medical courses has been in single digit in the state in the past three years. Due to this, the students have not been applying for Neet.Appreciating the political parties in the state for unanimously passing the bill in the assembly, the judges observed that the horizontal reservation of 7.5% is only a meagre one and an attempt to provide a level-playing field to government school students. Since MBBS admissions would commence after Neet results are published, the judges observed that it is saddening to know that a decision is yet to be taken on the bill.While observing that a decision should come at the earliest, the judges sought response as to when the government would publish the prospectus for medical admissions. Advocate-general Vijay Narayan informed the court that the government would not issue it till a decision is taken on the bill by the Governor. Recording the submission, the judges adjourned the case to October 29 for further hearing.The court was hearing a batch of two public interest litigations filed by S Ramakrishnan and V Muthukumar who sought a direction to implement the horizontal reservation based on the recommendation of the committee led by retired Justice P Kalaiyarasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-judge-sheds-tears-for-students-over-delay-in-nod-for-7-5-mbbs-quota/articleshow/78710854.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 17, 2020||Kochi||Citizens find patch works on roads an eye wash; demand long term solutions||Kochi: With local body elections around the corner, the Kochi corporation is busy undertaking patch works along many major roads in the city. City residents are disappointed over shoddy repair and relaying works, and have lashed out at the local body. They call the works an eye wash. “City roads are either completely relayed or repaired every year. Public funds are wasted by carrying out such shoddy work. Whether it is repair work or relaying work there should be a minimum guarantee of at least five years. Officials and contractors must be made accountable for quality of roads as well as the money that is spent on road works,” said Renjith G Thampy, social activist. Citizens say if the corporation and other road owners in the city cannot construct durable roads in the best interest of citizens, they must place this fact on record before the high court. C P Ajith of Suburban Travels said load-carrying capacity should be the basis for designing city roads. Currently planning and designing of roads are done at local level, where it lacks expertise. “There is a need to have a professional agency for designing city roads. Agencies like Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) or Border Roads Organisation (BRO) have the know-how, technical expertise and machinery to build roads in hostile terrains. The corporation and other road owners can seek their expertise in constructing durable roads in a region like Kochi, which receives heavy rainfall and is prone to flooding,” Ajith said. He also said the existing court orders regarding performance guarantee for a period of five years need to be strictly implemented. Moreover, before relaying roads the contractor should undertake proper milling works to maintain road level and avoid flooding. It is pointed out that people traveling through the city need well- laid roads that do not cause damage to their vehicles or affect their health. Noted orthopaedic surgeon R Venugopal said the innovations in the bike designs and seating contours of four wheelers and obviously the bad conditions of the roads have contributed to the surge in back-related issues in the young as well as elderly. “The common back problems like intervertebral disc prolapse in the young and spondylolisthesis and spondylosis in elderly aggravate due to badly-maintained roads and due to travel by vehicles designed for international roads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/citizens-find-patch-works-on-roads-an-eye-wash-demand-long-term-solutions/articleshow/78709177.cms||---
October 17, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: PM Modi to hold 12 poll rallies from Oct 23||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi will address 12 rallies in Bihar beginning on October 23 in support of the NDA candidates in state assembly election. Three of the rallies will be held in Sasaram (Rohtas), Gaya and Bhagalpur on the first day. CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar will also join the PM in the first and last leg of the election campaign in Bihar. There are 10 assembly constituencies in Gaya district and seven each in Rohtas and Bhagalpur districts, which will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. PM Modi will address election rallies in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna on October 28. There are 10 constituencies in Darbhanga, 11 in Muzaffarpur and 14 in Patna districts. The third round of rallies to be addressed by Modi are scheduled in Chhapra (Saran), East Champaran and Samastipur on November 1. While 10 assembly constituencies fall under Saran district, there are 12 in East Champaran and 10 in Samastipur districts. On November 3, the date of the second phase of elections, the PM will address rallies in West Champaran, Saharsa and Forbesganj (Araria district). There are nine constituencies in West Champaran, four in Saharsa and six in Araria districts. Former Maharashtra CM and BJP’s Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis said the PM’s address will be telecast simultaneously on over 100 LED screens in respective constituencies in the region to reach the large number of electorates. Byelection to the Valmikinagar parliamentary seat is also scheduled along with the third and last phase of assembly elections on November 7. JD(U) has fielded Sunil Kumar, the son of Baidyanath Mahto, who was the JD(U) MP and died recently. A senior official said there would be strict instruction to follow the Covid-19 guidelines at the PM’s scheduled rallies in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/modi-to-hold-12-poll-rallies-from-oct-23/articleshow/78709178.cms||Ramashankar
October 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: PM Modi to hold 12 poll rallies from Oct 23||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi will address 12 rallies in Bihar beginning on October 23 in support of the NDA candidates in state assembly election. Three of the rallies will be held in Sasaram (Rohtas), Gaya and Bhagalpur on the first day. CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar will also join the PM in the first and last leg of the election campaign in Bihar. There are 10 assembly constituencies in Gaya district and seven each in Rohtas and Bhagalpur districts, which will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. PM Modi will address election rallies in Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna on October 28. There are 10 constituencies in Darbhanga, 11 in Muzaffarpur and 14 in Patna districts. The third round of rallies to be addressed by Modi are scheduled in Chhapra (Saran), East Champaran and Samastipur on November 1. While 10 assembly constituencies fall under Saran district, there are 12 in East Champaran and 10 in Samastipur districts. On November 3, the date of the second phase of elections, the PM will address rallies in West Champaran, Saharsa and Forbesganj (Araria district). There are nine constituencies in West Champaran, four in Saharsa and six in Araria districts. Former Maharashtra CM and BJP’s Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis said the PM’s address will be telecast simultaneously on over 100 LED screens in respective constituencies in the region to reach the large number of electorates. Byelection to the Valmikinagar parliamentary seat is also scheduled along with the third and last phase of assembly elections on November 7. JD(U) has fielded Sunil Kumar, the son of Baidyanath Mahto, who was the JD(U) MP and died recently. A senior official said there would be strict instruction to follow the Covid-19 guidelines at the PM’s scheduled rallies in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-to-hold-12-poll-rallies-from-oct-23/articleshow/78715130.cms||Ramashankar
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Tackling waste in the times of Covid pandemic||The Covid 19 pandemic has brought in a new level of perspective and dimension in the area of solid waste management. The fragility of the problem of waste brings in the notion that disease and waste mismanagement goes hand in hand in India today. Solid waste management industry in India is in great flux with a huge baggage of failure with the future looking quite an antithesis of progress and profit-making entrepreneurship. What is the outlook which holds the progress of this sector and how to really take this sector to the next level of development to attract enterprises which matter? Looking at progressive countries like US, Sweden, UK, France, Italy and even Israel and China, solid waste management seems to be in cusp of growth and profit making by enterprises. The stories of success are plenty to be read. Without really making any conjecture on the Indian solid waste situation let’s get some facts. India has more than 4,000 towns and cities and total municipal waste collected per day is more than 1.4 lakh tons per day. Of this only 25,000 tons per day is processed and the rest goes to landfills. This is the way waste is dealt with in India. The problem lies in the accumulation of this waste occupying a major portion of our cities. Covid-19 has clearly brought in an impact unprecedented in the history of humanity and underplaying any factor for this huge pandemic would be a chimera. Waste management has been a question in India since 2000 i.e. 20 years. Increasing waste in cities has also led to an increase in the number of diseases. The ‘kabadi’ or scrap dealer community handles more than 80% of waste collection and transportation in India, making it one of the most vulnerable communities in relation to transmission of diseases within its own ecology and outside too. Three factors are in play here. First aspect is the door to door collections. Scrap dealers are traditional collectors of waste and have huge leverage in the waste value chain. Everyone in their family including children are part of this collection mechanism from various sectors like households, hotels, hospitals, malls and large organizations and bulk generators. Any spread of Covid will have a sporadic impact on the way community spread can take place. Secondly, once waste is touched by them it has to be looked at from the way of living within these communities. Most in the scrap dealer community live in closed ghettos, leading to high risk of contamination. Thirdly, the mixing of biomedical waste with solid waste in many wards and hospitals is lethal and becomes very dangerous. The government of India through the rules of 2016 has clearly stated that biomedical waste segregation will be done differently and stored in colour coded containers separately following the provisions of biomedical waste rule 1998 and then amended in 2011 and 2016. However, the pandemic has clearly washed off some of the demarcation. Last but not the least—the landfills and dumping sites that are accumulating in India have now become very big and it is estimated that they are one of the principal agencies of toxic gas release in the environment. Landfills also generate toxic soup known as leachate which is formed when waste is subjected to biological and physiochemical transformations and can lead to huge spread of diseases. Health problems related to emissions include PM10 exposure, breathing problems, mucus production, asthma and elevated cardiovascular risks. Covid-19 is a respiratory disease that primarily affects breathing and in its more severe form causes death. In the coming year, India has to particularly ensure that landfills are bioremediated and fully sanitized so that all disease forms arising from it do not harm the community that works there and ensures upkeep of the scrap dealer community. The author is a waste management expert and green activist. Views expressed are his own||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tackling-waste-in-the-times-of-covid-pandemic/articleshow/78711769.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||HC frowns at litigants’ backdoor approach on lapsed cause of action||Madurai: The modus operandi adopted by litigants by sending a representation through post or in person, and immediately file a writ petition with a prayer to consider the representation, must not be entertained and such lapsed cause of action petitions should be dismissed with costs, the Madras high court has observed.Citing that such practice should not be appreciated, justice S M Subramaniam observed that there is a possibility of litigants taking undue advantage or indulge in corrupt activities with the government departments.The judge noted that by filing a writ petition to consider the representation, the litigants are attempting to re-adjudicate the issues, which were settled long years back. Hence, the courts cannot encourage such backdoor approach of the litigants for the purpose of restoration of lapsed cause of action, observed the judge.Once an aggrieved person allowed the cause of action to get lapsed, then the courts would not entertain any writ petition thereafter under Article 226 of the Constitution. Mere submission of representation after a number of years would not provide any cause of action for the aggrieved persons for filing a writ of mandamus, said the judge.“By curtailing all these unnecessary litigations filed by creating cause of action in respect of lapsed claims, the court can utilize the judicial hours for the purpose of rendering complete justice to the poor needy and the litigants, who all are approaching the court of law with genuine grievances,” observed the judge.The judge made the observations while hearing a petition filed by A Kasthuribai, a hand weaving instructor in a school who sought to disburse her pension and monetary benefits. The petitioner who resigned her job in 1992 had submitted her first representation seeking disbursal of benefits in 2011 after a lapse of 19 years.Thereafter, the petitioner filed a petition before the HC in 2011 and obtained a direction to consider the said representation. Since the authorities rejected the claim, the petitioner had challenged the same.The judge said that since resignation entails forfeiture of pensionary benefits under the Tamil Nadu Pension Rules, the claim of the petitioner cannot be considered on merits and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-frowns-at-litigants-backdoor-approach-on-lapsed-cause-of-action/articleshow/78710861.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||IPL bookies brought to Jaipur from Cyberabad||JAIPUR: The state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) brought the seven bookies arrested in Cyberabad to Jaipur out of which four were sent to four days of police custody and the remaining to judicial custody. Cops claimed they got a long list of names who were also involved in illegal betting. The ATS team had arrested 14 persons after simultaneous raids in five locations in three states. The ATS had busted an interstate gang betting on Indian Premier League (IPL) and conducted a raid at their hideouts in Delhi, Cyberabad in Telangana, Jaipur and Nagaur. In Delhi and Nagaur, the accused managed to escape. Police also recovered multiple mobile phones and latops which were being used for illegal betting. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) said, “The investigation so far has revealed their network across different in the country.” The official refused to divulge any etails as it might hamper the investigations. The accused were involved in betting in a layered manner. They keep noting down all the calls for bets. Most of the bets are passed on to the person sitting at a higher level for which they get a commission. There are a few websites on which they keep monitoring the rates of bets. The settlement is done through hawala transaction. The investigation of the bookies’ diaries revealed accounts of approximately Rs 15 crore while further investigation is being carried out. During the raids, cops seized three cars, nearly 100 mobile phones, accounts diaries, LED monitor, range mobile location diverter and others. The accused would regularly change their locations to avoid getting caught. Cops are looking at this network having international links though it is yet to be confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ipl-bookies-brought-to-jaipur-from-cyberabad/articleshow/78710865.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Door-to-door anti-Covid campaign from today||UDUPI: The Udupi district administration will launch a door-to-door campaign called ‘My family, my responsibility’ from Saturday. With Unlock 5, people have forgotten about the pandemic, and hence anganwadi workers and BLOs will visit homes to spread awareness on the issue, said Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha. He told reporters on Friday that pamphlets will be distributed to every house, and health workers will speak about the preventive measures to be adopted to tackle Covid-19, read out a pledge on the measures to be followed, and take a signature from the family. A campaign by ASHA workers to check oxygen levels with pulse oximeter will be undertaken. In a first of its kind initiative in the state, teachers who are taking online classes will have to speak for five minutes on how Covid can be prevented. Zilla panchayat CEO Naveen Bhat said that the pamphlet will contain details on testing methods, contact details, hospital details and all aspects related to the novel coronavirus. The PDOs must ensure that the pamphlet reaches every house in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/door-to-door-anti-covid-campaign-from-today/articleshow/78707816.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Civil society expresses concern over rising crimes with Guv||Jaipur: A group of 37 intellectuals, including 16 vice-chancellors, has expressed its concern over the rising crimes in the state with Governor Kalraj Mishra. The group shot a letter to the Governor on Thursday drawing the latter’s attention towards the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report putting Rajasthan on the top of most crime sections/parameters. Former Rajasthan University VC J P Singhal, who drafted the letter on behalf of the group, said the NCRB report reflects the deteriorating state of law and order situation in the state. "Rajasthan has attained the first position in terms of number of rape cases, while it stood second in overall crimes against women," reads the letter, which has mentioned notable crimes against women that took place in the last few months. "The situation has made the state most unsafe for women, which is a matter of collective shame for all of us, including the society and the government. These crimes are happening in all parts of the state which shows that criminals or anti-social elements don’t have fear of law and order. Such a situation is unexpected from any state. The civil society cannot keep quiet on these issues and has decided to raise it to the highest authority in the state," said Singhal.The letter also reads that such reports have instilled a sense of fear among the people, especially women. The letter also seeks governor’s intervention to control crimes in the society. The signatory of the letters also includes former civil servants and retired Army officers. BOXStudy Maharashtra model for TSP areas: Mishra Governor Kalraj Mishra has directed the officials to study the Maharashtra model for Tribal Sub Plan area in the state during a review meeting of TSP area on Friday. "The officials should study the feasibility of the Maharashtra model if it will be to implemented in the state TSP areas," said Mishra. The demand for implementation of the model was being raised by a section of tribals for quite long. It gained political voice after Bharatiya Tribal Party raised the issue with the state government recently. During the meeting, the governor also directed the officials to hold a seminar of students who received coaching for various competitive exams. "The seminar should aim at encouraging other tribal youths who can benefit from the free coaching facilities," Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-society-expresses-concern-over-rising-crimes-with-guv/articleshow/78710860.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Joint venture for dairy sector in Bundelkhand||LUCKNOW: The Centre and the state government have joined hands to give an initial financial boost of nearly Rs 70 lakh to the dairy industry in Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh. The grant is being proposed to be infused into the dairy value chain development, which according to officials, would lend a fillip to employment opportunities in times of coronavirus pandemic. Value chain involves the host of activities carried out to deliver final product to consumers. According to officials at rural development department, dairy value chain development project is proposed to be carried out by women self-help groups (SHGs) under the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM). The department, in a letter to rural development commissioner K Ravindra Naik on September 18, said the Centre and the state governments would bear financial burden of the project in 60:40 ratio. The letter said that ensuring the validity of expenditure would be at the discretion of rural development commissioner and mission director, SRLM. The department said the funds would be utilised in phases. “Funds allocated for the project will not be spent without the approval of the designated authority,” the letter added. The state government has authorised the rural development commissioner and mission director (SRLM) to ensure proper utilization of funds. Officials of rural development department will also be required to furnish fund utilization certificates and ensure that funds utilised for the project are not allocated under any other head to do away with the possibility of duplicity. Researches show that Bundelkhand region records an average production of around 22 lakh kg milk per day which is only 5% of the total production in UP. Banda and Jalaun districts have the highest milk production in the region due to high bovine population. According to industry standards, unless two-third of the herd is in milking, returns will always be negative. Experts said that in Bundelkhand only one-third of the cattle and half the buffaloes are in reproductive stage. Earlier, women from Bundelkhand region had come together to form Balinee Milk Producer Company, a project funded by the National Rural Livelihood Mission and SRLM. The project mobilized over 9,000 women in about 230 villages and put in place an efficient system of milk procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/joint-venture-for-dairy-sector-in-bkhand/articleshow/78711777.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||‘Haribans Baba’ tree in the race for heritage book||Lucknow: It might sound outlandish but Haribans Baba is the name of a tree in Majhipura block of Maal area in Malihabad. Locals have named the age-old Banyan tree spread over a hectare on gram samaj land after an ascetic who, it is said, took samadhi at the spot where the tree stands today. Believed to be hundreds of years old, the single tree has generated around eight more trees at the place. “A new tree has grown wherever its shoots dropped,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator at the Institute of Wildlife Sciences in LU. She is verifying and shortlisting data for a coffee table book by UP State Biodiversity Board on heritage trees. Haribans Baba is one of the contender trees. Divisional forest officers from more than 25 districts have submitted data on trees that could earn the ‘heritage’ tag. The book will be completed by November end. The exercise has already brought some hitherto unknown trees to the fore. A Parijaat tree (Baobab) in Jhunsi on the banks of the Ganga in Prayagraj is one strong contender. “This monolithic tree is probably one of the largest and longest living trees in India. Reportedly over 2,000 years old, it was described by Chinese traveller Hieun Tsang during his visit (629-644 AD) about 1,400 years ago. He visited the place in 630 AD, during King Harsh Vardhan’s era to attend the Kumbh Mela at Sangam. He wrote that “a great wide spreading umbrageous tree” is standing on the bank of river Ganga...,” read the forest department’s proposal on the tree. Mughal king Akbar had also seen the large tree with branches spread wide in 1575. The District Gazetteer of Allahabad (1968) contains an account of this tree which says: “A gigantic tree.” A Banyan tree in Jankikund, Unnao said to have a Ramayan-era connect, mother Dussehri tree in Kakori, Parijaat tree in Barabanki said to be from the Mahabharat era may also find place in the book. An age-old Peepal tree near Sheetla Mata temple in Sonbhadra, Kusum tree in Pilibhit, Dhasur trees in Mirzapur and a banyan tree at Naimisharanya in Sitapur are also among the entries received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/haribans-baba-tree-in-the-race-for-heritage-book/articleshow/78711795.cms||Neha Shukla
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Woman transfused HIV+ blood faces social stigma, alleges torture by hubby||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the authorities to sensitize the neighbours of a woman from Sattur, who is being socially stigmatised by them, after she was transfused HIV positive blood. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which sought to monitor government and private blood banks in the state to ensure safe blood transfusions and to provide proper relief to the woman. When the case was posted for reporting compliance, the victim who appeared through video conferencing submitted that pursuant to an earlier order of the court on July 26, 2019, the government had paid Rs 10 lakh compensation to her and Rs 7.50 lakh each to both her children. She further informed that though a house has been constructed with two bedrooms and handed over to her, only one bedroom has an attached washroom facility and the other does not have the same. She said the house also lacked water connection. The woman, who became emotional with tears submitted that when she goes for fetching water from the nearby tap, she is socially stigmatised by the neighbours, since she is affected with HIV. She also said that her husband was torturing her. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi directed the authorities to construct a separate washroom in the other bedroom. The judges also directed the authorities to provide a separate water connection to her house. Taking into account the stigmatization faced by the woman, the judges observed that since the neighbours and villagers are under the impression that the HIV virus will spread to them if they speak to the victim or if they move with her, this court is of the view that the neighbours have to be sensitized about the issue. The judges directed the authorities to rope-in the service of medical experts to sensitize the villagers stating that the virus will not spread to others merely because they communicate with the woman. The judges also directed the authorities to provide proper psychiatric counselling to the woman’s husband. The judges directed the state government to complete the above exercise and submit a comprehensive compliance report before the court on November 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-transfused-hiv-blood-faces-social-stigma-alleges-torture-by-hubby/articleshow/78710859.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Navaratri festival to begin in major temples from today||Madurai: Temples in the region are gearing up to conduct Navarathiri festival, which will be the biggest to be celebrated post lockdown in the temples.Joint commissioner of the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, K Chelladurai, said the festival would be celebrated from October 17 to 25. The Utsavar idol of goddess Meenakshi would be adorned in different costumes on all days. Public would be allowed to worship the idol in the sanctum sanctorum between 4pm to 5.30pm and then between 6.45pm to 8pm on all days of the festival. Arrangements have been made for the people to witness the goddess in the Kolu mandam.Temple sources said that they are seeing about 4,000 devotees on an average per day and expect the numbers to go up by about another 1,000 during the festival. All the people coming to the temple have to enter through the east and south tower entrances. They would be scanned for body temperature and made to sanitize their hands before entering the temple. Employees of the temple will regulate the crowds. The temple usually has a kolu with dolls being decorated and lined up along the kolu mandapam. This year, it is only going to be the goddess in various decorations, beginning with the costume of Rajarajeswari on day one.Those who cannot witness the goddess’s decoration and costumes on the previous day can witness the same between 6am and 7am the next day, he said. In Tuticorin, the festival will begin on October 17 with the flag hoisting at the Muthramman temple in Kulasekharapattinam. The district administration has said that only 8,000 people will be allowed per day for the festival, which usually draws lakhs of people. Public an register either online and on arrival for entry. However, processions would not be held outside the temple to restrict the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/navaratri-festival-to-begin-in-major-temples-from-today/articleshow/78710936.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Centre to train 23k migrants under PM Kaushal scheme||Jaipur: Of the 58,000 migrant workers, who have shown interest in training after skill mapping done by the state government, the Centre has decided to provide skill training to 23,000 such people under the PM Kaushal Vikas Yojana. The Centre has tied up with 79 private partners in Rajasthan for the skill training. The training of the migrant workers will begin soon.“We have already sent the data to the Centre and they have already allocated target to the training partners in Rajasthan. Of the 58,000 data sent, the Centre will be training around 23,000 migrant workers at the initial stage. Later, they will conduct training for others as well. There are two types of training - long term and short term,” said an RSLDC official. “The state government will also provide training to some, but the proposal is under consideration at the finance department,” the official added.Around 79 private partners have tied up with the Centre for skill training of the migrant workers.Among the migrant workers who have returned to the state were engaged in agriculture, construction, domestic work, healthcare, food sector, security, furniture work, plumbing, tourism and hospitality, textile and handloom, retail, electronics and hardware, delivery work, logistics, beauty and wellness, aviation sector, machine operator job, painting and coating job, media, telecom, automobile, apparel, IT, management and other jobs.Details of around 12.80 lakh migrant workers have been uploaded on Raj Kaushal Portal - Rajasthan Labour Employment Exchange. So far, data of nearly 52.55 lakh workers and 11.18 lakh employers (industries) has been uploaded on the Raj Kaushal Portal.These workers include registered building and other construction workers and those who have been trained by RSLDC and Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs).There are 22.33 lakh building and other construction workers, 3.37 lakh were trained by RSLDC and 1.21 lakh were trained by ITIs. There are about 12.7 lakh registered unemployed persons in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/centre-to-train-23k-migrants-under-pm-kaushal-scheme/articleshow/78710901.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kochi||More people try a hand at selling fish for livelihood||Kochi: Before the outbreak of Covid-19, Prabash K N worked as a distributor for cosmetics products in Ernakulam and neighbouring districts. But once the country went into lockdown, Prabash turned to selling fish for a livelihood. “The demand for cosmetics went down, and shops were no longer interested in these products. I have loans to repay and want money for survival. As I did not have the kind of money to start other businesses, I turned to selling fish,” he said. Prabash, a resident of Eramalloor in Alappuzha district, is one among the many people who turned to fishing and allied activities for livelihood. “There are four of us in our group. We buy one basket (around 40 kg) of fish from Munamban or Chellanam harbours. While we directly sell about 10kg fish to regular customers, the remaining fish is sold through the sellers at stalls. WhatsApp messages are sent with pictures and prices of the fish to regular customers. On getting the orders, the fish is cleaned and delivered to the customer. Though we do not make huge profits, we are getting good response from buyers,” he said, adding that at the harbour they take part in the auction and make spot payments. Nizzam, a resident of Arookutty, sells fish from a stall at Janatha Road near Vyttila Junction. “I was a student attending PSC coaching classes. I was also doing part-time job. When the government started lifting lockdown, I turned to selling fish to earn livelihood,” he said. Madhu S Kureethara regularly makes bulk purchases from harbours points at makeshift fish stalls coming up along the sides of roads, highways and at crowded junctions. He says that most of these stalls are new ventures. “Many people who worked in private buses and boats as well as those who worked in hotels lost their jobs and income. A good number of them have entered the fish business. All they need is the money to buy fish and ice. They can save labour costs if they get help from family members for cleaning fish. A makeshift stall or a facility step up at home and a bike for delivering fish is required for the business,” he said. However, he said those who deal in large quantities have employees, vehicles and other facilities for cleaning and delivering fish. As the trolling ban is lifted and the weather conditions have improved, fishermen have started to venture into seas. Fish is available in large quantities at harbours. When markets get closed due to declaration of containment zones, those selling fish relocate to other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-people-try-a-hand-at-selling-fish-for-livelihood/articleshow/78709225.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Student wing of opposition Nepali Congress protests against ‘Chinese encroachment’ in Humla district of Nepal||Pithoragarh: The Nepal Vidyarthi Sangh, the student wing of the opposition Nepali Congress, has held protests in Darchula district of Nepal adjoining the border with Pithoragarh district against alleged Chinese encroachment of Nepalese land in Humla district of Karnali province. The protesting students said that China should evict their land and raised slogans of “Go back, China.” To recall, there were reports of Chinese encroachment on Nepalese land in the Lapcha-Limi area of Namkha rural municipality of Humla district in September after which a team constituted by the district administration had gone to the area and sent its report to the government in Kathmandu. The Chinese embassy in Nepal had denied that China had been involved in the construction of any buildings in the area. Subsequently, the Nepalese government, too, had denied that China had encroached any land in Nepal, with the foreign ministry issuing a clarification that the land on which the buildings were built adjoining Humla district belonged to the Chinese side of the border. Opposition parties however were not satisfied with the government’s clarification. Hari Joshi, secretary, Nepali Vidyarthi Sangh, alleged that China had “not only encroached on Nepal’s land in Humla but was also not allowing Nepalese citizens to enter their own area.” “Chinese security personnel stationed in the area had in fact lobbed tear gas on the Nepalese team, which went there recently,” Joshi alleged. He added that “Nepalese student will continue to protest against the Chinese encroachment until the government reclaims the territory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/student-wing-of-opposition-nepali-congress-protests-against-chinese-encroachment-in-humla-district-of-nepal/articleshow/78707834.cms||Prem Punetha
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Mobile ration shops a success in hilly areas||Madurai: Mobile ration shops are proving to be a boon for people living in the hilly terrains and interior villages in Dindigul district. As per the announcement made by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on March 20, as many as 3,501 mobile ration shops were opened in the state on September 21. The Rs 9.66-crore scheme was launched by the chief minister for the benefit of 5,37,315 card holders in 37 districts. These mobile ration shops go to the specified areas once a month and distribute rations. Dindigul district has 56 mobile ration shops. This will benefit 28,819 cardholders who are linked to 157 ration shops in the district. Dindigul has a total of 1,035 PDS shops, including 747 full time shops and 288 part-time shops. People living in hill hamlets and interior villages said that these shops are a boon. Lakshmi of Sirumalai said that she had to go to the neighbouring village for monthly rations. “It is difficult for me to carry the items to the hilly terrain. But now the shop have come near our house, and it has reduced all our problems,” she said. Mani, 63, a man with disabilities, from Gujiliamparai, said that age had made it difficult for him to go out for his monthly rations. “There are many people like me, and we had to depend on others to take us to the shop, but now the shop is coming to our village and has put an end to the problem,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mobile-ration-shops-a-success-in-hilly-areas/articleshow/78710898.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Need for contributory social security system to safeguard informal sector||CHANDIGARH: A study conducted by a Jaipur-based economist on the impact of Covid-19 on urban informal sector in Punjab has recommended the need for a contributory social security system with the state, employers and workers as contributors, to safeguard informal workers against contingent insecurity. Urban informal sector in Punjab mainly encompasses manufacturing, trading and other services, out of which the manufacturing segment remains an important constituent. Institute of development studies’ assistant professor Varinder Jain conducted the study as part of the policy series by Patiala-based Punjabi University’s centre for development economics and innovation studies. It also recommends stepping-up business resilience of informal enterprises. It says the state should not merely be a tax collecting agency, but should act as a facilitator to promote these firms who are striving in an era of competition. Besides firms, informal workers too suffer from prevailing conditions of livelihood insecurity which need to be contained. Therefore, provisions should be made for workers’ capability building and sector-specific skill training. It has been noticed that informal enterprises in urban Punjab operate either as own account enterprises (OAEs) or establishments. The own account enterprises operate with relatively limited scale of operation and suffer from low worker productivity but the establishments, despite having relatively better operation scale, remain exposed to competition besides suffering from low productivity of labour and capital. The informal firms in urban Punjab are found to be having relatively limited access to formal credit when compared with their counterparts in other major Indian states. “All this indicates nothing but the fragile state of informal enterprises in urban Punjab which worsened due to the onslaught of Covid-19 pandemic,” says the study. 14.64L enterprises in informal sector Formal sector, being a relatively small part of Punjab’s economy, remains limited to organised manufacturing, banking, health, insurance and other similar sectors. Informal sector, however, comprises 14.64 lakh enterprises that generate gross value added (GVA) worth Rs 30,962 crore besides engaging 24.79 lakh workers as per NSSO 2016. Informal sector activity is found in both rural and urban areas of Punjab but has relatively large dominance in urban areas, where 8.49 lakh enterprises generate GVA worth Rs 23,015 crore. These enterprises account for 57.98% of total informal enterprises in Punjab. Livelihood insecurityThe informal hired workers are the ones who suffer from pervasive livelihood insecurity in urban informal sector. Their livelihood insecurity spreads across five domains — job insecurity, economic insecurity, functional insecurity, agency insecurity and recognition insecurity. Owing to this, informal hired workers never enjoy their work which has a bearing on their earnings and productivity. So, it has been recommended to contain this livelihood insecurity by way of providing better work and job security. There is also a need to strengthen capacity building of the workforce. For this, specific institutions to impart training may be envisioned for short-term training along with some provision for protection of earnings during training period. Incentives may be given for recording better performance during the training period. Victim of state’s apathetic attitude“Urban informal sector in Punjab in general and the manufacturing sector in particular has remained a victim of the state’s apathetic attitude,” reads the study. It adds that the state has not drawn any specific schemes for the upgradation of informal enterprise in manufacturing as well as trading sectors. Therefore, it has been recommended that the Punjab government should evolve a serious strategy to rejuvenate informal manufacturing enterprises. At present, these enterprises are striving to sustain themselves in an era of competition. Sudden onslaught of Covid-19 pandemic has made them economically fragile. In fact, there are several segments such as sports goods, machine tools and textiles which were known once across the world for their growth performance. With little support, they may emerge again. Access to institutional financeThe access to formal credit by Punjab’s urban informal enterprises across manufacturing, trading and other services enterprises remains much lower than their counterparts in other Indian states. The study states that such backwardness in access to formal credit impedes growth and thereby calls for better access to finance as formal credit access is found to have a positive impact on the operational dynamism of informal enterprises. The study also says that there is a need to build business resilience of informal enterprises. Business resilience centres depend upon seven pillars — resource adequacy, technical edge, market knowledge, product uniqueness, commercial prudence, manpower planning and networking. It has been found that Jalandhar’s sports goods manufacturing enterprises are at a very low level of business resilience which requires urgent corrective steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/need-for-contributory-social-security-system-to-safeguard-informal-sector/articleshow/78710928.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 17, 2020||India||PM: MSP vital for food security system, govt committed to it||NEW DELHI: Amid farmers’ protests in Punjab and Haryana against the newly-enacted farm laws, PM Narendra Modi on Friday said procurement of food crops at minimum support price (MSP) was a key element of the country’s food security system and his government was committed to continue with it. “It’s important that the system continues with better facilities and in a scientific way,” the PM said in his address on the 75th anniversary of the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). His assurance assumes significance at a time when there has been apprehension among farmers over the fate of MSP under the new legislations. Modi, on the occasion, released 17 recently developed biofortified varieties of eight crops including paddy, wheat, maize and millets that will help in dealing with nutritional deficiency in the country. He also issued a commemorative coin of Rs 75 to mark the occasion. The PM said the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) system and MSP mechanism under the new farm laws regime would ultimately benefit small and marginal farmers through a network of farmer producer organisations (FPOs). “Efforts to create 10,000 FPOs in the country are going on. It will help small farmers bargain in the market for better prices for their produce. These FPOs will change the lives of small farmers in a similar way cooperatives have changed the lives of dairy and sugarcane farmers,” Modi said. He also listed the government’s initiatives to fight malnutrition such as National Nutrition Mission (Poshan Abhiyan), construction of toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission, Mission Rainbow, Jal Jeevan Mission and distribution of low cost sanitation pads. He said important work was done to tackle malnutrition like promoting coarse grains and crops rich in nutrition like protein, iron, zinc etc The PM expressed thanks to FAO for fully supporting India’s proposal to declare 2023 as the International Year of Millets and said this would encourage intake of nutritious food, increase their availability and benefit small farmers who grow coarse cereals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-msp-vital-for-food-security-system-govt-committed-to-it/articleshow/78712550.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||No segregation: Madurai city’s solid waste mgmt in tatters||Madurai: The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely affected Madurai city corporation in many ways. One of the worst affected has been the corporation’s solid waste management. While there was initially a dip in garbage collection during the lockdown, once the lockdown curbs were relaxed people started mixing both wet and dry waste and giving it to the garbage collectors. The civic body has now appointed 20 Self Help Groups for better solid waste management.All 100 wards of the civic body together generate about 600 tonnes of garbage per day. Houses, hotels, hospitals, industries, shops and markets generate about 64% of the garbage while the rest is generated by the floating population.Honorary president of the Surya Nagar Residents Welfare Association, Jothi Mahalingam, said that segregation of waste was being done to some extent in their area. ``The corporation has a collection point in our park, where the waste is segregated and then taken. But it would be better if they continue to make announcements like during the lockdown period, and ask people to segregate their waste and provide it,’’ he said. A glance at garbage bins at many important places in the city prove that garbage is not segregated as the bins are filled with plastics and wet waste from houses and hotels.Founder of Centre for Environmental Services, S V Pathy, said that waste segregation has gone for a toss in Madurai in the last eight months. `` There has been a 30% to 40% increase in plastic waste, this is proof that there is no waste segregation. Plastic bags are widely used in all the shops in the city now and this in turn is dumped into the bins,’’ he said. Madurai Corporation commissioner, S Visakan, said that there had been a lapse in some parts of the city in waste segregation and collection during the Covid-19 lockdown, as some of the workers had been deployed on the disease control duty. ``But, now I have sanctioned the jobs of 20 SHGs for waste segregation and management,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-segregation-madurai-citys-solid-waste-mgmt-in-tatters/articleshow/78710869.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Bundi collector, SP distribute masks||Kota: Bundi collector Aashish Gupta in coordination with various organisations and civil societies kicked off a mask distribution campaign on Friday from the collectorate meeting hall here. He allotted masks to officials and representatives of various organisations for distribution in municipal areas of Bundi city. Around 50,000 masks was distributed in various areas of Bundi city on the first day of the campaign. Gupta and SP Shivraj Meena walked in the markets to distribute masks among locals while asking them put it on whenever they stepped out of their homes.Traders and shopkeepers in the markets showered flower petals over the officials and volunteers while welcoming them for their initiative.ADM Amanullah Khan and chief executive officer of Bundi zila parishad Murlidhar Partihar distributed masks in wards 1 and 2 while trainee IPS Kundan Kawariya along with Bundi city police station circle inspector Lokendra Paliwal walked in Chittor road to distribute masks among locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bundi-collector-sp-distribute-masks/articleshow/78710876.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Idol sizes take a cut to keep pujas simple amid pandemic||KOLKATA: In 2015, Deshapriya Park brought Kolkata to a standstill during the Pujas as lakhs thronged to see the 88-feet Durga idol, said to be the tallest Durga in the world. This year, the organizers will be worshipping a 10-feet idol. The pandemic has prompted Durga Puja organizers go for smaller idols in their effort to scale down the celebrations. For 53-year-old Mintu Pal, the sculptor who had made the tallest idol for Deshapriya Park five years back, said he had made the shortest idol — 8-feet in height — of his career this year. Pal’s Kumatrtuli studios have received orders for only four big idols, the remaining are all for smaller idols. “Five years back, I had sculpted the world’s tallest idol. This year, I have sculpted the smallest idol in my career,” he said. One of Pal’s taller idols will be at the Santosh Mitra Square, which, for the first time in its 85-year history, will not allow visitors inside the pandal but will telecast it online. Sanatan Rudra Pal, another sculptor famous for making traditional Durga idols for some of Kolkata’s big-draw Pujas, appeared heartbroken. Rudra Pal is also making smaller idols. “Normally, 70% of my idols fall under the tall and big category. This year, the case has been just the reverse. This was unthinkable before the pandemic,” Rudra Pal said. His studios at Guru Das Dutta Garden Lane have made only a few big idols, including the ones for Ekdalia Evergreen and Park Circus. “This is a year of gloom for all of us,” he said. Both Mintu Pal and Sanatan Rudra Pal felt without the state’s support, Kumatuli artisans will face acute financial crisis in the festival season, which in Bengal stretches till November with Kali Puja and Jagaddhatri Puja. China Pal, who is among Kumartuli’s few woman sculptors, said the Shyambazar Subhas Sangha Durga Puja committee always gives her an order to make a 14.5-feet idol. This year, they have asked her to make a 4-feet idol. “This year, the idol’s size has been reduced by nearly all. I had to cancel orders for Annapurna Puja,” she said. Deshapriya Park Durga Puja committee president Sudipto Kumar said they had consciously taken a decision to reduce the height of the idol and cut down on the Puja expenses to discourage gathering at the pandal. “We will worship goddess Durga keeping in mind the tradition associated with our puja. But we will not encourage gathering at our pandal,” Kumar said. KMC’s board of administrator (BoA) member Debasish Kumar, a key organizer of Tridhara Sammilani, said: “We reduced the height of the idol and compromise on the budget of our Puja to prevent major gathering amid the pandemic.“||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/idol-sizes-take-a-cut-to-keep-pujas-simple-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78709188.cms||Saikat Ray
October 17, 2020||Ludhiana||6 armed robbers strike at gold finance firm in Ludhiana, 3 held||LUDHIANA: Six armed robbers struck at the Dugri Road branch of Muthoot Finance on Friday morning. Three of them were held with the looted gold, while three managed to flee with cash. Around 8.45am, security guard Gurmeet Singh and employee Rajan Kumar reached outside the finance company’s office located on the first floor of a building. Soon, five robbers struck there and their accomplice stood guard downstairs. Gurmeet said, “At gunpoint, they asked us to open the office. We told them that three keys were required to open it, so they would have to wait for another employee. Minutes later, staffer Umesh Kumar reached there and the robbers made us open the office.  Two more employees, Jyoti and Diksha, and janitor Shubham also arrived. The accused made them sit on the floor, tied their hands with ropes and taped their mouths.” “They asked us to stay quiet and said they would not harm us. Then, they asked Rajan to accompany them and collected cash and gold jewellery mortgaged by people for loan. They filled their bags with 30kg gold and Rs 2.75 lakh and went downstairs,” he added. Meanwhile, the company’s headquarters had smelled a rat. As the employees had not marked their attendance online, the company headquarters checked their CCTVs and found them hostage at gunpoint. They alerted their other branch employees and the Ludhiana police about the same. When the accused came downstairs, police and MS Alagh, an employee of the Gill Road branch of the company, were present. As Alagh intercepted them, the robbers opened fire. Alagh sustained a bullet injury on his arm, but did not let them go, said eyewitnesses. “The robbers fired at least 20 shots. Daljit Singh, who works at a nearby car market, also sustained an injury on his leg. While three robbers fled with the cash bag, police nabbed three others with the help of the public,” said an eyewitness. The police recovered 30kg gold from their possession. Robbers came from Bihar Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “All the robbers, who were wearing masks and gloves, hailed from Bihar and had come to the city to execute the robbery. Those arrested include Roshan Kumar, 23, Saurav Kumar, 19, and Kamlesh Kumar, 23. They had made the plan one-and-a-half month ago and were living in a rented accommodation in Chandigarh. They started visiting the city for a recce about 20 days ago. They kept an eye on staff and their timings and even did a rehearsal two days ago. After committing the robbery, they had planned to return to Chandigarh.” Agarwal added, “Saurav is a proclaimed offender in a case of robbery at Central Bank of India, Vaishali, Bihar, which was executed in March, and in another case of loot at a filling station, also in Bihar. Roshan is facing kidnapping and robbery cases and we are checking criminal records of the other accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/6-armed-robbers-strike-at-gold-finance-firm-in-ludhiana-3-held/articleshow/78710957.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman dragged out of auto by two snatchers, injured||NEW DELHI: A 59-year-old woman got severely injured after falling out of a moving autorickshaw on NH-9 near a shikanji shop beside Nizamuddin Bridge on Tuesday afternoon while resisting a snatching attempt. Police are trying to identify the suspects, who fled after failing to snatch the woman’s bag as the strap broke. The woman was going from Sunder Nagar East to Ghari village. Police were informed about the incident by the hospital where the woman, Varsha Sagar, was admitted with a head injury. Sagar is a child development officer with ministry of social welfare in Delhi government. The PCR also got a call around 4.30pm regarding the incident. RB Sagar, the victim’s husband who works with ministry of defence, said, “My wife’s office is in Sunder Nagar and she’s currently deputed in northeast Delhi. Two bikers, who were not wearing helmets, tried to snatch her purse. My wife was dragged out of the auto and they couldn’t snatch the bag as the strap broke. The accused then fled. The autorickshaw driver rushed her to AIIMS for treatment. She has developed a clot in her brain and injuries near her lungs. She is currently under observation.” DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said a case under IPC section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) has been registered at Sunlight Colony police station. “CCTV footage from the area is being scanned to identify the culprits and the motorcycle they were riding. The profiles of crooks involved in similar crimes are being scanned to zero in on the suspects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-dragged-out-of-auto-by-two-snatchers-injured/articleshow/78709241.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Big Balipu marathon goes virtual||MANGALURU: The Big Balipu-2020, a charity marathon organised by Mangalore Round Table and Mangalore Ladies Circle, has gone virtual this year owing to the pandemic. The participants can either run or walk distances of 2km, 5km, 10km or 21km between 5am on October 17 and 11am on October 18 at a location of their convenience. They need to track their activity using apps available for the same. Once the activity is done, the participant will have to submit the details along with the screenshot of the same on the form provided on www.bigbalipu.com. A release from the organisers stated that anybody can register for the virtual marathon on the website, and the proceeds from the event will go towards renovation of Karunya Special School in Malpe (Udupi). The special school, which is operating inside an old building, will be moving to a new location due to an increase in the students’ strength. The new location needs to be renovated so it caters to the needs of the special children. In the past, MRT115 and MLC82 have contributed towards the school fees for children, provided grocery kits to the needy during the recent lockdown, built classrooms and toilet blocks at government schools, donated furniture, and renovated classrooms in government schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/big-balipu-marathon-goes-virtual/articleshow/78707842.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||‘Good for future if Vijay Sethupathi considers people’s sentiments’||Tuticorin: It is good for actor Vijay Sethupathi’s future if he understands the sentiments of people and take a decision on acting in the biopic of Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan, Tamil Nadu information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju said on Friday. Several Dravidian outfits in the state have urged Vijay Sethupathi not to play the role of Muralitharan in the upcoming film “800” as the cricketer had supported the Sinhalese during the civil war and had not spoken up for Tamils.“I am the minister concerned for the industry, and my opinion can be only that of the government,” Raju said in response to a question by reporters in Kovilpatti. He was asked if the government would make a request to the actor not to act in the movie. “Vijay Sethupathi should think. He is in a position to consider the overall sentiments,” the minister said.Raju said the actor has the freedom to take a decision as an individual. “But I hope he will respect the sentiments. He should understand the sentiments (of people). If he understands, it is good for his future.”Pointing out at the hurry shown by some states in reopening schools despite the Covid-19 pandemic and closing them down when cases increase, he said that the state government does not take such a chance in reopening cinemas. He said that it required the cooperation of the public and owners to maintain social distancing and carryout disinfection measures.He reiterated that the CM will take a good decision on reopening cinemas in a week’s time after holding discussions with representatives of the theatre owners association in Chennai. To a question on requests by cinema hall owners to reduce entertainment tax, he said that the state government which fixed it at 30% had reduced it to 8%.He also said the government is seriously considering the necessity for operator licence as cinemas are now released through satellite, thereby ruling out the necessity for an operator. “A good decision will soon be taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/good-for-future-if-vijay-sethupathi-considers-peoples-sentiments/articleshow/78710948.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Tributes paid to Veerapandiya Kattabomman||Tuticorin: Freedom fighter Veerapandiya Kattabomman was remembered on the occasion of his 221st death anniversary at the Panchalankurichi Fort on Friday. His descendants appealed to the state government to take steps to establish new factories in and around Panchalankurichi in the district to facilitate better employment opportunities. They made this representation after paying floral tributes to the freedom fighter whom the British hanged on October 16, 1799. They said there were 202 families of descendants in and around Panchalankurichi who as well as others in the locality stood to benefit if new factories are established. They also sought a solution for the drinking water crisis in the area. Their other important demand was installation of a life size statue of the freedom fighter in Chennai. Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju and district collector Sandeep Nanduri as well as tourism officials also paid tributes at the memorial built at the place he was hanged. Public were not allowed to pay tribute to the freedom fighter due to Covid-19 unlock restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tributes-paid-to-veerapandiya-kattabomman/articleshow/78710939.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Steady drop in cases continue||Jaipur: Though there was slight dip in Covid-19 cases on Friday, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to report more than 300 cases. In the last 24 hours, 2,010 fresh cases were reported across the state which took the cumulative count to 1,69,289. In the same period, 15 deaths were reported which took the death toll to 1,723. On the brighter side, active cases have seen a dip with 21,381. Last week, the number of active cases was 21,398. “We are focusing on bringing down the facility and active cases. There has been drop in the number of active cases. In Jaipur, the total active cases last week were 9,231, which have now come down to 7988,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur reported 394 cases on Friday which took the total number of cases to 28,117. In Jaipur, places such as Mansarover, Sodala, Jagatpura, Ajmer Road and Pratap Nagar reported maximum number of cases. Other districts that followed Jaipur are Jodhpur with 302 cases and Bikaner (265) while in other districts less than 100 cases were reported. Authorities of the health department claimed that now more number of people are into home isolation and certain guidelines are being followed to provide them proper counselling and medication. “Initially there was panic among patients and their families which is now getting faded. Everyone wished to get admitted to hospital. Now patients having major complications are only approaching hospitals,” said a senior officer of health department. Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur that continued to report more than 300 cases. It was followed by Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Chittorgarh, Sriganganagar, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Kota, Nagaur and Udaipur where one death each was reported on Friday. The state’s mortality rate currently stands at 1.07 per cent while in Jaipur it is 1.23 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/steady-drop-in-cases-continue/articleshow/78710944.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||To deter pandal lines, 50 major Kolkata clubs go online this year||KOLKATA: This year, you can enjoy a virtual Durga Puja walk-through if you want to avoid crowds at pandals. Keen to reduce crowding, at least 50 major pujas in Kolkata are ready to take a digital leap to reach out to people. “Most of the popular Pujas that draw crowds will be available on at least three apps and social media platforms, like Facebook Live. I was initially weighing various digital options on how to take the Shib Mandir Puja to people’s homes. But with so many other committees who are part of the Forum for Durgotsav also expressing interest in a digital initiative to reduce crowds at the pandals and reach out to those who won’t step out, we have tied up with tech firms for live streaming and 360° virtual tours,” the forum’s founder member Partho Ghosh told TOI. Arpan Chatterjee, who had introduced www.thepuja.app in 2013 to take Kolkata’s famous Durga Puja to a global audience, is looking forward to a domestic audience as well this year. “We will cover at least 50 major pujas, including all the popular ones. A person can walk around the pandal, get an all-around view and zoom into a section to see the craftsmanship. If one has a VR box, one can feel as though he or she is inside the pandal. We have already commenced shooting and most of this year’s pandals will be online from Saturday evening,” said Chatterjee. While thepuja app is free, there are others that have introduced a subscription-based augmented reality experience in which the earning will be split with puja committees. The underlying message is to enjoy the Puja at one’s fingertips without bothering about mask, sanitizer, social distancing or security. Tala Prattay, a crowd-puller in north Kolkata, will introduce a free app called Lokohit that will not only allow people to get details about this year’s pujas along with photographs of the idols, but also enable Kolkatans to link up with a host of other service providers, including small grocery stores and food outlets. “We will host the details of all pujas on Lokohit. It will, as the name suggests, be an app for the benefit of people in our society. The idea was conceived during the lockdown when people were struggling to make ends meet and so many lost their livelihoods. This is an effort to bring everyone on a single platform,” said Tala Prattay Puja Committee member Avijit Basak. Suruchi Sangha, Naktala Udayan Sangha, Ballygunge Cultural, Jodhpur Park 95 Pally, Beliaghata 33 No Pallybasi Brindo and Kashi Bose Lane Durga Puja Samity are among those pujas that will live stream daily evening aartis, anjali and Sandhi Puja on Ashtami and sindoor khela, either on Facebook Live or YouTube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/to-deter-pandal-lines-50-major-city-clubs-go-online-this-year/articleshow/78709209.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Vijay Inder Singla inspects arrangements for reopening of schools||CHANDIGARH: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday visited schools to take stock of arrangements being made for implementation of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued for reopening of schools from October 19. He inspected the preparations in line with SOPs such as markings in classrooms to maintain social distancing among children and sanitisation equipment at Government Multipurpose Senior Secondary School, Passi road, and Government Model Senior Secondary School, Civil Lines. Singla also took stock of the basic amenities such as toilets, drinking water and disinfection process. He directed the officials to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19 and ensure the compliance of precautions such as wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and regularly washing or sanitising of hands for the safety of students. Singla said that every student, who wants to join classes physically, must have the written consent of his parents. He also stated that the school authorities had the right to call students in two shifts or alternate days in case the strength of students exceeds, so that the norm of social distancing was maintained. “We are conducting a massive sanitisation campaign on the school premises and hope that the campaign will be completed in two days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/singla-inspects-arrangements-for-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78710937.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||39 deaths, 1,953 new cases in Punjab, Haryana & Himachal||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Friday together threw up 1,953 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 39 patients succumbed to coronavirus, with maximum 26 deaths reported from Punjab and highest 1,227 cases surfacing in Haryana. With 507 fresh positive cases detected during the day, Punjab’s total count of cases so far went up to 126,737—out of which 6,592 are active cases—and the death toll from the virus now stands at 3,980. Of the latest fatalities, maximum six patients died in Amritsar and following closely was Ludhiana with five deaths. Three patients succumbed in Jalandhar, two each in Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ropar and Tarn Taran, and one death each was reported from Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali and Pathankot. The neighbouring state of Haryana on Friday recorded 1,227 fresh cases and 11 deaths as the state’s overall Covid count reached 147,933 with 1,634 deaths. As many as 1,139 new recoveries pushed the number of cured to 135,858 at the recovery rate of 91.84%. Now, there are total 10,441 active cases in the state, out of which 205 described as critical patients and are either on oxygen or ventilator support. The latest fatality rate was recorded at 1.10% and the doubling rate has further improved to 41 days. Gurgaon reported maximum 294 new cases and two deaths, followed by Faridabad with 189 new cases and two deaths. Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh recorded two Covid deaths and 219 fresh cases, while an equal number of patients were also reported to have recovered. The latest figures take the total of cases so far to 18,522, of which 2,642 are active, 257 patients have died and 15,537 patients have recovered. The districts reporting fresh cases on Friday were Mandi (43), Shimla (42), Kullu (26), Kinnaur (24), Bilaspur (24), Kangra (18), Chamba (14), Sirmaur (09), Hamirpur (08), Solan (07), Una (03) and Lahaul-Spiti (01). The latest recoveries were reported from Kangra (41), Shimla (40), Sirmaur (26), Hamirpur (25), Solan (23), Kullu (19) Bilaspur (16), Una (14), Chamba (11) and Lahaul-Spiti (04).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/39-deaths-1953-new-cases-in-punjab-haryana-hp/articleshow/78710940.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Shimla||39 deaths, 1,953 new cases in Punjab, Haryana & Himachal||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Friday together threw up 1,953 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 39 patients succumbed to coronavirus, with maximum 26 deaths reported from Punjab and highest 1,227 cases surfacing in Haryana. With 507 fresh positive cases detected during the day, Punjab’s total count of cases so far went up to 126,737—out of which 6,592 are active cases—and the death toll from the virus now stands at 3,980. Of the latest fatalities, maximum six patients died in Amritsar and following closely was Ludhiana with five deaths. Three patients succumbed in Jalandhar, two each in Ferozepur, Hoshiarpur, Ropar and Tarn Taran, and one death each was reported from Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mohali and Pathankot. The neighbouring state of Haryana on Friday recorded 1,227 fresh cases and 11 deaths as the state’s overall Covid count reached 147,933 with 1,634 deaths. As many as 1,139 new recoveries pushed the number of cured to 135,858 at the recovery rate of 91.84%. Now, there are total 10,441 active cases in the state, out of which 205 described as critical patients and are either on oxygen or ventilator support. The latest fatality rate was recorded at 1.10% and the doubling rate has further improved to 41 days. Gurgaon reported maximum 294 new cases and two deaths, followed by Faridabad with 189 new cases and two deaths. Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh recorded two Covid deaths and 219 fresh cases, while an equal number of patients were also reported to have recovered. The latest figures take the total of cases so far to 18,522, of which 2,642 are active, 257 patients have died and 15,537 patients have recovered. The districts reporting fresh cases on Friday were Mandi (43), Shimla (42), Kullu (26), Kinnaur (24), Bilaspur (24), Kangra (18), Chamba (14), Sirmaur (09), Hamirpur (08), Solan (07), Una (03) and Lahaul-Spiti (01). The latest recoveries were reported from Kangra (41), Shimla (40), Sirmaur (26), Hamirpur (25), Solan (23), Kullu (19) Bilaspur (16), Una (14), Chamba (11) and Lahaul-Spiti (04).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/39-deaths-1953-new-cases-in-punjab-haryana-hp/articleshow/78714304.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||‘Made in UP’ idols ready to edge out Chinese dragon this Diwali||LUCKNOW: To counter Chinese products this Diwali, the production of Lakshmi and Ganesh idols made by recognized artists as per defined specifications has begun in the state. This is for the first time that the idols of Lakshmi-Ganesh, designed by empanelled artists of UP Institute of Design and Maati Kala Board, will be sold in the market during the festival of lights. Maati Kala Board has got the moulds designed by recognized artists which are being distributed among artists who have been making idols in Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj and other districts. Training of artisans will also begin soon. According to sources in Maati Kala Board, the artisans will be shown the first lot of idols which would give them an idea as to how should the idols look. “Though we will not help artisans sell the idols, it will be for the customers to see which of the idols in the market are more appealing,” an official said. The idols will have ‘devatulya’ (divine) expressions, a pleasant smile and perfect anatomy. Both the hands of the dieties would be of same thickness and the feet of goddess Lakshmi would be half-hidden under the fall of the saree. Facial expressions of the deities would invariably evoke faith in onlookers. Artist Krishna Kant Srivastava, who has designed the moulds which were readied in Kolkata, said: “When it comes to the idols of gods and goddesses, it has to go by what is mentioned in religious texts. Their looks and the weapons they wield are already defined.” “Since idols are worshipped, it cannot be designed for decorative purposes. Ganesh and Lakshmi idols will be made of black clay, which when worshipped, generates positive vibes. This may not be the case with Chinese products made of Plaster of Paris, chemicals and metals,” he said. Amarpal, another artist empanelled with Maati Kala Board and UP Institute of Design, said: “Earlier too, we had been making master dye for artisans but this year we will also train them on how to use the moulds. Improper usage of moulds may affect the finishing of products. We will reach out to more artisans this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/made-in-up-idols-ready-to-edge-out-chinese-dragon-this-diwali/articleshow/78711810.cms||Neha Shukla
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Home-cooked food gets ‘Covid’ boost||Madurai: The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the eating habits of many as the lockdown has forced people to stop eating from restaurants and many have focused on having food containing immunity boosters. Even though the restaurants have reopened and even junk food are back on display, dieticians and public said that Covid-19 has highlighted the importance of diet and eating nutritious home food in staying healthy. A homemaker from Anna Nagar, N Sharmila said that at her household, food from outside has been cut down considerably. “My son and daughter loved to eat from outside. But, now, though restaurants are open again, we don’t know how food preparation and packaging is done so we don’t want to take any risk. Except for few packaged snacks, we are having only home cooked food. My children are looking up recipes and trying to prepare even burger or pizza with healthy ingredients at home,” she said. Like her, in many other families as well, fear of Covid-19 is keeping away junk food and food from hotels. “I suffered food poisoning after eating from outside when restaurants reopened. I had been eating healthy home cooked meals during lockdown. Covid-19 or not, it is scary to fall sick so now is a good time to cut down any outside food,” said K Swetha, a college student, who had ordered a parcel from a popular hotel in the city. At the same time, this has led to people ordering from some small businesses that are making home cooked food and delivering to the public. “It is good to see that the habit of eating only home-cooked food is continuing for good and people are caring more about healthy eating. Clean, boiled and well-cooked food prepared at home is always highly recommended. Food rich in protein and vitamins is a must for a healthy and strong immune system,” said Dr Jeyanthi All, chief dietician, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC). Healthy food habits are a must in case of Covid-19 patients and those who recovered from Covid-19, the dietician said. “It takes up to 15 days to recover from loss of taste for Covid-19 patients. We follow up with Covid-19 patients post recovery too to recommend healthy diet, especially if they also have conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Such patients must exercise caution on their diet. Fried foods and foods that are not easily digestible must be avoided,” said Dr Jeyanthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/home-cooked-food-gets-covid-boost/articleshow/78710969.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 17, 2020||Bengaluru||RT-PCR false negatives: Who will pick CT-thorax scan cost?||BENGALURU: While the government had admitted that RT-PCR tests, the gold standard to detect Covid-19, are only 60-70% accurate and advised CT-thorax tests to weed out false negatives, it’s unclear who will pick up the tab for these additional tests. Infection in the thorax region can be detected through a high-resolution computed tomography (HRTC) scan and the government circular issued on Thursday (Oct 15) states false negative cases have to be correlated with clinical features, CT-thorax findings and laboratory investigations. “If clinical assessment or CT-thorax findings correlate infection, then such cases will be considered as a proxy syndrome and be described as ‘Covid-19 like illness’ or ‘Covid-19 probable case’ henceforth,” Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said. But the government has not clarified who will bear the cost, especially if a needy patient has undergone RT-PCR testing in a government facility. Not all government hospitals are equipped to conduct CT-thorax scans. These include Jayanagar General and CV Raman General in Bengaluru. At KC General, the CT scanning centre functions on a public private partnership. “We will have to send such suspect patients to Victoria or Bowring hospital for further tests,” said a medical officer. “It’s okay if the person can walk and move around, but what if s/he is on ventilator? Will BBMP issue BU numbers for Covid-like-illness cases? There is no clarity on many issues.” Besides, there is no price cap on CT-thorax tests in private hospitals which charge anything between Rs 4,000 to Rs 8,000 for the scan. “Normally we charge Rs 3,500 for HRCT for non-Covid patients. In suspected Covid cases, we factor in the cost of PPE worn by the technician, cost of disinfectant to clean the machine and the room which is why we charge Rs 4,000,” said Dr Pavan Patil, member of Karnataka Medical Council and director of Gadag Scan Centre. Costs are just one of the many problem areas. Doctors have raised issues whether the government will issue district Covid ID numbers (BU number for Bengaluru patients) for Covid-like-illness and bring it under the government’s free treatment scheme in private hospitals. Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing, Covid-19 taskforce told TOI that such cases will be accounted in the Covid tally, although the percentage of such cases will be smaller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rt-pcr-false-negatives-who-will-pick-ct-thorax-scan-cost/articleshow/78707871.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath gets 3 more meditation caves — with mobile charging points, attached loos & room service||Dehradun: A year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi meditated in a cave in Kedarnath — fuelling a rush of pilgrims seeking a similar experience near the Himalayan shrine— three more similar caves are ready to be inaugurated before the Char Dham Yatra ends in November. Situated nearly 2 km ahead of the Kedarnath shrine, the caves have a small window which provides a view of the temple. Constructed on a total budget of Rs 28 lakh, the caves have attached toilets, mobile charging points along with a bed and storage space. ‘Room service’ is also available, officials said. “Construction of the exteriors of these caves was completed in early October. Electrical fittings are pending now following which we will hand them over to the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN),” said Rudraprayag district magistrate Vandana (who uses only her first name). Tourists though would have to wait for next year before they could enjoy the experience of staying in the caves. Ashish Chauhan, managing director of GMVN, said the caves would be inaugurated this year but they are unlikely to take any bookings. “Only a month is left for the yatra to end, so bookings are likely to start next year,” he said. The district authorities are also developing Garud Chatti — which was devastated in 2013 flash floods — as a tourist site. “Construction on a 5km stretch from Garud Chatti to Kedarnath is complete but as of now we are not encouraging people to visit the spot since it is at a high altitude with less oxygen. We will make proper arrangements for next year,” said the DM, adding that Garud Chatti is where PM Modi had meditated years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-gets-3-more-meditation-caves-with-mobile-charging-points-attached-loos-room-service/articleshow/78707878.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Home care for Covid-19 patients by private hospitals sees good response, but docs wary||Madurai: As home isolation has been allowed for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients, many private hospitals across the state, including those in Madurai, have started introducing home care packages. Though home isolation is useful to free up bed capacity in hospitals, a section of doctors are apprehensive of taking the option. For Covid-19 home care, the hospitals mostly provide the patients a basic kit containing a digital pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, BP machine, gloves, and sanitiser etc. The patient will be monitored daily via direct visits or telephonic/video consultations by nurses and doctors. “More than 200 patients have undergone treatment under our home care package so far and 97% did not require the need for a hospital visit during the course of treatment. It helps save bed capacity and was also cost-effective for patient,” said Dr Varun Ramamoorthy, ICU head, Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute (VMCHRI). At the same time, hospitals are also being extremely careful about who they provide home care services to. Covid-19 patients aged above 50 years or those with co-morbid conditions are not allowed for home isolation. All hospitals are required to cross-notify and officially report Covid-19 patients under home care they are attending to, to the Covid-19 control room in the district. “Since the patient must be able to come to the hospital quickly in case of complications, we extended our services only to Madurai city residents. Further, doctors also educate the family about Covid-19 safety and get a written declaration that they have facilities such as separate room, toilet etc. at their house,” said A K Sivakumar, senior general manager, Devadoss Hospital. He added that more than 100 Covid-19 patients have availed home care and none required hospitalization so far. At Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), more than 350 Covid-19 patients have availed the home care package since its launch three months ago. “With advanced technology, real-time remote monitoring of vitals is now very much possible. We are now planning to develop and introduce similar home care services for other speciality services as well, such as chronic diabetes, especially geriatric patients, since it can help prevent hospital visits,” said J Adel, general manager-operations, MMHRC. At the same time, not all hospitals are keen on encouraging home care for Covid-19, said an official with Apollo Hospitals adding that doctors are highly careful. “The problem arises when suddenly something happens to a patient during home care and leads to the patient’s death. The doctors may be blamed for it even if it is not their fault. Patients often not follow doctor’s advice at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/home-care-for-covid-19-patients-by-private-hospitals-sees-good-response-but-docs-wary/articleshow/78710973.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Maati Board plans facility for future of clay artisans||Lucknow: The state government is planning to set up a common facility centre (CFC) for artisans making clay products. The first such centre, set up by Maati Kala Board, is likely to come up at Gaura village in Mohanlalganj. "We have visited the proposed site and found it apt for the centre," an official at Maati Kala Board said. Even as no deadline has been fixed, the centre may come up by the year-end. Maati Kala Board was constituted by the Yogi Adityanath government to help artisans find a market for clay products like idols, decorative items, diyas, pots and toys. There are over 30 lakh artisans involved in the trade of clay products. The proposed CFC will serve as learning centre for clay artisans who will be guided by trained artists. The centre will provide support to artisans under one roof right from clay to designing, processing, painting and packaging tools. "It will be open for every artisan. We do not have any registered artisans but workers will be able to come to the centre and sharpen their skills," an official said. The centre would promote local artists and also give a boost to the central government’s Atmanirbhar Yojana. According to officials, as artisans do not find market for their product throughout the year and are mostly limited to festive season, the centre will help them diversity and innovate. They said the centre would try to provide artisans material other than clay and help them design better products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maati-board-plans-facility-for-future-of-clay-artisans/articleshow/78711837.cms||Neha Shukla
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Mobile ‘ghostbusters’ strike back, pluck out signal boosters in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: With what appeared to be outdated, oversized mobile handsets sporting antennae, the men walked along the lanes of Sant Nagar near Kailash Colony on Friday. The scene, almost straight out of the Ghostbusters franchise, elicited curiosity and a crowd gathered around them. “We are only trying to detect illegal signal boosters put up by the locals to improve phone signal strength,” explained Anshuman Tiwari, a junior wireless officer in the Union government’s department of telecommunications. As he spoke, Tiwari noticed a spike in the pulsating yellow beats on the spectrum analyser, for that was what the device was, and alerted his colleagues. Inspection officer BK Ram, looking dead serious in his grey safari suit, pointed his device at a building. The team from the telecom department’s wireless monitoring organisation (WMO) entered the building to discover a Chinese signal booster with a rooftop antenna. It was swiftly taken down, and a notice issued to the residents, who pleaded that they hadn’t known it was illegal to boost mobile signal strength. With poor network coverage and frequent call drops a part of life, phone users are increasingly resorting to signal amplifiers. But telecom operators and WMO officials pointed out that the proliferation of these illegal signal boosters created more noise in the system and the area surrounding such a device suffered poor signal connectivity. Saying it was akin to illegally sucking water from the supply line using pumps, a representative of a telecom company said, “Spectrum is a precious shared resource, people shouldn’t steal it. Use of signal boosters robs the signal strength from others, forcing them too to employ the devices, leading to overall deterioration in the entire area.” But what about the poor connectivity? The executive shrugged, “Illegal boosters do more harm.” WMO has ordered that no person should maintain, possess, establish or deal with an unauthorised wireless transceiving apparatus, such as a mobile signal booster, and violation is punishable under Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933, and Indian Telegraph Act, 1885. Despite the law, boosters are openly available for Rs10,000-12,000, the telecom executive pointed out. Their sale on e-marketing sites was stopped recently. Some violators caught during the drive in Sant Nagar claimed ignorance about the law. “We have to come out of our homes to receive calls. Yesterday, I suffered numerous call drops,” said a resident. “Everyone in the building pooled money to buy the signal booster. What should consumers do?” DoT teams said that the best way to tackle this problem was to file complaints with the service providers and legally get signal enhancers or mini-towers. G K Reddy, engineer-in-charge (international monitoring station), WMO, acknowledging the need for more awareness about the illicit nature of signal boosters, advised the residents to ask the telecom companies to install femto cells for improving network connectivity in the area. Reddy said the detection drive was started on Friday after complaints from a large number of localities like Greater Kailash and South Extension. WMO, with the support of relevant authorities, will continue the inspection forays in several neighbourhoods, residential and commercial, across Delhi. On Friday, the teams toured Sant Nagar, South Extension and East of Kailash and removed 20 signal repeaters and issued notices in 10 cases for the removal of the devices. A DoT official said basements were common spots that required people to put up the illegal boosters, in the process interfering with the mobile networks, adversely impacting signal quality and degrading network experience over a wider area. “Mobile operators invest buy costly spectrum and invest in network rollout to enhance customer experience. The illegal boosters cause a dent in this system,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mobile-ghostbusters-strike-back-pluck-out-signal-boosters-in-s-delhi/articleshow/78709452.cms||Paras Singh
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||NEET 2020: Better show by Gujarat students||AHMEDABAD: The National Testing Agency (NTA) published the results of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on Friday, in which 36,398 or 56.16% of candidates from the state qualified. In all 64,719 candidates from the state had taken the medical entrance exam. Candidates from Gujarat fared better than last year when 46.35% of 75,889 students who took the exam qualified. The exam was conducted on September 13 with strict precautions in view of Covid-19 in place. The NEET was earlier postponed twice due to the pandemic and the government decided to go ahead with it to mitigate any further academic trouble to students. A total of 7,71,500 candidates have qualified after 13.66 lakh candidates took the exam. The final answer key for NEET 2020 was released by the NTA on Friday. In the All India Rankings (AIR), two candidates from Gujarat are among the Top 50. Maanit Matravadia, a resident of Rajkot, ranked 10 in the AIR with a score of 710 out of 720 marks. Ahmedabad-based Ajinkya Naik ranked 42 with a score of 705. Gujarat-based Krishna Chauhan secured an AIR of 2 in the PwD (female) category. There are 15-20 candidates from Gujarat who scored 700 or more marks, sources said. This year is likely to see tough competition among students with cut-off marks likely to be much higher than last year. Candidates who scored 588 marks last year ranked about 10,500. In comparison, this year a candidate with similar marks has ranked around 25,700. Similarly, a candidate who ranked at 97,000 position last year with 433 marks would presently rank 1,49,000 rank with the same marks. The test was offered in 11 languages: English, Hindi, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Marathi and Tamil, among others. After English and Hindi, students taking the exams in Gujarati were the highest in number this year, compared to other languages. Based on initial reports, more than 77% of candidates took the test in English, around 13% in Hindi and about 4% in Gujarati. There are about 5,400 medical seats, 1,200 dental seats, 3,600 Ayurveda seats and 3,300 homeopathy seats in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/better-show-by-state-students/articleshow/78711017.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra stable, oxygen level normal||Kolkata: Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained stable on Friday with normal oxygen saturation level. He slept well and was less restless, according to Belle Vue Hospital where he has been admitted since October 6. His sodium-potassium levels, too, have been corrected. Chatterjee, 85, underwent ‘normal and regular tests’ as part of his screening process. The actor remains on oxygen support through bipap and nasal mask. There has also been a marginal improvement in his neurological condition, according to doctors. He tested Covid negative on October 14, but continues to suffer from intermittent fever and EColi infection. His cardiac function remains normal. No structural neurological abnormality was detected in an MRI. The actor has received plasma therapy and continues to suffer from moderate Covid-related encephalopathy and lung infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-stable-oxygen-level-normal/articleshow/78709238.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 cases cross 14K in Kanyakumari||Madurai: Kanyakumari continues to report around 80-100 new Covid-19 cases per day, often recording the highest single-day spike among southern districts in the state. Total cases in the district has reached 14,156 with 717 active cases as on Friday. Between July and September, it took around 10-15 days for every 2,000 cases. However, the number of days for the same number of cases, has been gradually declining. Though there has been no drastic spike in cases since September, the numbers have not come down in the district unlike in nearby districts like Tirunelveli and Tuticorin, both of which reported around 14,000 cases. “Previously, cases from the district were those with travel history or their contacts. But, now, there is local spread just like many other districts. Naturally, it will take time for the cases to come down. We continue to test up to 1,500 samples per day though only around 80-100 are testing positive,” said a senior health official. The death toll in the district till Friday was 237. Initially, the death rate was high at above 2%, now it is at 1.67%, which is close to the state average. Health officials said that early identification through fever camps and surveillance of high-risk groups has helped bring down the mortality rate. Health officials, while asserting that the situation is under control, urged for more co-operation from the public in following Covid-19 safety precautions. The average positivity rate in the district is between 5-7%. “Public must co-operate to bring down the cases further. Especially, with monsoon setting in and festival season expected to increase inter-district and inter-state movement, there is a need to keep vigil. Security is being tightened at check posts near Kerala border too,” added the senior health official. At Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital, the oxygen capacity is being doubled and the bed capacity is also currently more than enough for treatment of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-cases-cross-14k-in-kanyakumari/articleshow/78710985.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 17, 2020||Madurai||NEET results 2020: Technical issues leave students, parents anxious||Madurai: Despite the Union Minister for Education, Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announcing that the results of NEET exam 2020 will be declared on Friday, students and parents were left anxious as the official website of NTA for NEET crashed and was down for hours. “This year, it has been surprising. Usually, there are no such issues when NEET results are declared. If NTA was not ready or if there were technical issues, officials should clearly intimate students instead of causing unnecessary panic,” said N Rajesh, a trainer for NEET aspirants. He added that several panicked parents had reached out to him regarding the results. “My parents and I would have spent hours in front of our laptop today waiting for the result. We really thought at least by 6 pm, we would finally get it. For multiple times, we tried refreshing the site but it was of no avail. I tried to get help from my school teachers but they said all students were facing the same,” said Gautham Selvakumar, a NEET candidate. Though the NTA website server was down, students were confused if there were any issues with their computer, laptop or smart phone which was why they could not get the results., leading to panic. Some students were also reaching out to classmates for clarification as well as emotional support amidst the panic and confusion. “At one point, memes were being shared on WhatsApp by friends. No one wants delay or confusion on such an important day but there was not much else we could do but wait,” said A Sowmiya, another candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-results-2020-technical-issues-leave-students-parents-anxious/articleshow/78710996.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Four years in a row, trees cut to let hoarding be seen||NAGPUR: It’s been six years since the environmentally conscious citizens are fighting a lone battle to protect green cover in their area. However, for the fourth time in as many years, trees planted and nurtured by them at Laxmi Nagar square have been mercilessly cut, allegedly by advertising mafia to ensure better visibility of its hoardings. It first happened in July 2017, TOI first reported that a fully-grown almond tree that among those planted by local medical shop owners and fruit sellers was poisoned by pouring acid on its roots. First chopped-off from the crown, the tree was suspected to have been killed on the sly to ensure a clear view of a huge advertisement hoarding placed on a corner of the square. Since then, every time the citizens replant trees at the same spot, they get chopped off late in the night. Last year, two trees of Gulmohar and sheesham replanted by the citizens were found brutally chopped off one morning. After that, the group had again planted roadside trees but in vain. This week, they were shocked to find one of the sheesham trees had met the same fate as its precursors. “We have been planting trees in front of our shops with an intention of greening the barren roadside. We go out of the way to ensure their healthy growth and survival, we water them regularly and even installed tree guards. But for the fourth time, trees nurtured by us have been destroyed,” said medical shop owner Sandeep Rane. He informed the miscreants tried to cut other trees too. “They however failed as there was material of a nearby fruit seller kept near the trees,” he added. Environment activist Shrikant Deshpande has filed a complaint with the officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s garden department who have assured to take action. Last year too, the officials had conducted a spot panchanama but no action was taken. Citizens and activists have alleged an “advertising mafia” in the city was behind the repeated illegal tree felling. “There are at least 200 spots in the city where trees have been cut in recent times to ensure better visibility of hoardings. The fact that trees are being cut at the same spot again and again proves it is the job of advertising agency,” said Deshpande. The activist will now be filing a police complaint. “NMC officials should use the CCTV footage catch the offenders and punish them. Such agencies should be blacklisted and their licences cancelled,” Deshpande said adding that the high court should also take cognizance of the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-years-in-a-row-trees-cut-to-let-hoarding-be-seen/articleshow/78709281.cms||Manka Behl
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Online learning Apps come under IIM scanner||Lucknow: The Covid lockdown paved way for online learning in a big way. An assessment of overall performance of seven e-learning applications widely used across the country by the Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow shows that for 66.1% users the overall quality of App is of atmost importance followed by class experience which 15.3% users feel is valuable. IIM, Lucknow's Centre for Marketing in Emerging Economies (CMEE) in association with Enixta, a data analytic firm, extracted .45 million user-generated reviews of seven major e-learning platforms from the Google and Apple App store to look at relative importance of aspects influencing performance. The data revealed that 7.4% users feel subject material – related to design of the study material and depth and presentation of concepts – was the most important aspect. For another 3.9% users, the quality of teachers was vital. The apps received least reviews on aspects such as the medium of language (1.2%) and value for money (0.4%). The analysis also shows that 83% reviews received for quality of Apps, were positive. However, negative reviews – 55% and 51% were received on language and value for money respectively. Prof Satya Bhusan Dash, who undertook the study with support from Avinash Jain from IIMLand Archit Agarwal from Enixta, said there is certainly a shift in the education industry and “we are witnessing an unprecedented rate of adoption. But to sustain the growth as found in our analysis, tech companies are yet to innovate more towards making online learning more affordable.” Giri Devanathan from Enixta said that insights will help online learning service providers to add strategic and tactical value to their product and customer experience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-learning-apps-come-under-iim-scanner/articleshow/78711845.cms||Isha Jain
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Ambazari Lake project non-starter, mayor calls meet on October 23||NAGPUR: Mayor Sandip Joshi has on Friday blamed the state’s irrigation department for the delay in strengthening and beautification of Ambazari Lake. “The NMC’s lake and river department had written two letters to the department and even orally communicated about the danger looming over the lake. However, the department has shown least interest,” said the mayor. The department’s casual approach has delayed one of the ambitious projects of the city, said the mayor after visiting the lake on Friday morning. Three agencies — irrigation department, MahaMetro and Nagpur Municipal Corporation — are supposed to play vital role in the project. However, due to lack of coordination, the project has remained a non-starter. Joshi has now called officials of irrigation department, MahaMetro and NMC for a project review meeting on October 23. After inspecting the lake’s embankment side around the overflow point, mayor expressed anguish over MahaMetro dumping debris near Ambazari Lake. “Debris was lying near Hingna road side of the lake for the last many days and that is one of the reasons that are endangering the embankment. MahaMetro has been asked to take necessary action,” said Joshi. Recently, TOI had highlighted that the central design organization (CDO) has given its nod to the irrigation department’s design for strengthening of the lake’s embankment. The CDO has found that the platform at the spillover point of the lake and south-west portion is in a deplorable condition. Cracks can be spotted easily, it had noted. The project will be implemented in two phases. Phase-I will focus on strengthening the lake’s embankment and the work is expected to commence early next year, while phase-II will involve beautification of the lake, its surrounding area and is expected to start by May 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ambazari-lake-project-non-starter-mayor-calls-meet-on-oct-23/articleshow/78709303.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP chooses Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt, Congress opts for Hooda loyalist||CHANDIGARH: While BJP has named Olympic medallist wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt as its candidate for the bypoll to the Baroda assembly seat in Sonepat district of Haryana, Congress party has chosen to bank on Indu Raj Narwal, a fresh face and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda loyalist. Dutt’s name was announced by the party high command on Thursday late evening. The wrestler had contested the October 2019 state assembly polls on the saffron party’s ticket but had lost to the Congress candidate by around 5,000 votes. A total of 25 candidates had applied for the BJP ticket from Baroda. Dutt had been actively attending party meetings in the constituency for over a month and was a front-runner for the ticket. He had resigned as DSP from Haryana police before joining the BJP in October 2019. He is the joint candidate of BJP and its alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) led by Dushyant Chautala. BJP would be largely banking on non-Jat votes, but if former Kurukshetra MP, Raj Kumar Saini does not withdraw, he can play spoiler for the saffron party. Dutt’s appeal, being a sportsperson and bronze medallist in 2012 Olympics, transcends castes and communities. However, Narwal’s candidature has come as a surprise for everyone. Narwal, who has remained a Zila Parishad member in Sonepat district, is believed to be a staunch supporter of former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda. He enjoys an advantage by dint of being a local candidate, party worker and being from the Narwal gotra, which has a significant presence in the constituency. This Hooda loyalist, who has considerable clout in the constituency, can prove to be a dark horse if the Jat votes don’t get split. Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) has again fielded Joginder Malik, who had unsuccessfully contested the October 2019 assembly polls on INLD ticket but could garner only around 3,100 votes. Adding a twist to the poll battle is Kapoor Singh Narwal, a BJP ticket hopeful who filed his nomination as an independent on Friday as a ‘Panchayati’ candidate. He was considered a strong contender for the BJP ticket had the saffron party chosen a Jat candidate. He also tried for a Congress ticket, but proved unsuccessful and decided to fight as an independent. He has remained in all the parties— INLD, JJP, BJP and Congress. Independent MLA from Meham, Balraj Kundu also accompanied Kapoor Singh at the time of filing his nomination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-chooses-olympian-yogeshwar-dutt-cong-opts-for-hooda-loyalist/articleshow/78710995.cms||Ajay Sura
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Explain free treatment to Covid patients in private hospitals||NAGPUR: While granting time to the Maharashtra government to reply on bearing expenses of patients at private hospitals, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday asked advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhkoni to explain the issue in the next hearing. “If possible, we would like to hear from the advocate general on this aspect. Even if he’s not available, we can proceed with the matter on the basis of an affidavit to be filed by the government,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. While adjourning the hearing till October 23, the bench pointed out that Kerala, Gujarat and Delhi had already issued orders to reserve beds for Covid patients under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act (EDA), 1897, read with Section 65 of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005. “However in Maharashtra, prima facie, such provision is not invoked, but interference in management of Covid -19 patients in private hospitals is being done and expenses incurred by them are not defrayed by the government,” the judges said. The observations came while hearing a suo motu plea based on a TOI report. Shreerang Bhandarkar has been appointed amicus curiae. He will be assisted by Nidhi Dayani. The plea was clubbed with another petition filed by ‘Viveka Super Speciality Hospitals and Research Centre’ through counsel Kartik Shukul, who was assisted by Abhilash Shriwas challenging the government’s move to direct private hospitals to reserve 80% beds for Covid patients. The HC prima facie expressed that if power under DMA’s Section 65 is invoked by the government in respect of 80% of beds in private hospitals, then all resources, services, premises and vehicles, referred to in the provision, stand temporarily vested with the government or empowered officer (Nagpur Municipal Corporation commissioner). “Once this is done and the notification under EDA’s Section 2 is issued in respect of 80% of beds in these hospitals, then the obligation upon the government or empowered officer, is to effectively manage all this and incur the entire expenditure, including providing free treatment to patients. The government or the officer would also determine in what manner and by whom expenses incurred (including the compensation if any) shall be defrayed,” the judges said. Justices Deshpande and Ganediwala warned that interpretation will have wider repercussions and implications. “We, therefore, think it proper to accept the prayer of the government and the officers present in HC (Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and NMC chief Radhakrishnan B) to grant them time to file an appropriate affidavit,” they said. Sudhir Puranik and Jemini Kasat represented the NMC while additional government pleaders (AGPs) — Anand Fulzele and Deepak Thakre — held the brief for the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/explain-free-treatment-to-covid-patients-in-pvt-hosps-hc-to-ag/articleshow/78709309.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Court issues NBW against U’khand education minister, 3 sitting MLAs in 2012 case||Nainital/Rudrapur: The court of additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) of Kashipur has issued a non-bailable warrant against state education minister Arvind Pandey, three MLAs — Harbhajan Singh Cheema, Rajkumar Thukral, Adesh Chauhan — and 12 others in a case dating back to 2012. The ACJM also directed the police to ensure that all the accused are present in court on October 23. ASP Rajesh Bhatt, the officer who has been tasked with presenting the legislators and ministers before the court, told TOI, “We have constituted a team as per the court’s order and have already conveyed to the minister and others to present themselves to the police so that they all can be taken to the court on the designated date,” Bhatt said. To recall, police had booked Pandey and other BJP members in 2012 for blocking a national highway after a youth from a minority community had eloped with a girl from another community. The accused allegedly misbehaved with the police team which came to clear the stretch for traffic movements. Thereafter, the cops had to resort to baton charge. All the accused have been charged under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that range from rioting to causing hurt and assaulting public servants. Police have also booked them under sections 153A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc), and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings). Meanwhile, Pandey was granted bail by Rudrapur’s session court on Friday in a 2015 case. Serving as an MLA back then, Pandey had allegedly assaulted Sher Singh Gwal, nayab tehsildar of Gadarpur. He was booked under the relevant IPC sections and the SC/ST Act in the case. Pandey and his supporters then blocked a national highway (NH) alleging that the then Congress government in the state was exploiting the case for political vendetta. He was again booked under sections 147 (rioting), 186 (voluntarily obstructing any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 7 (criminal act) of the IPC. While Pandey had to serve a two-month jail term for the alleged assault, a bailable warrant was issued against him as he didn’t appear in the court on the dates when the case relating to blocking of the NH was listed. Pandey’s counsel, Charanjit Singh, told the court on Friday that his client could not appear in the court on earlier dates as he had to discharge his duties as a cabinet minister during the Covid-19 period. “He was granted bail and has been given a new date to appear before the court,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/court-issues-nbw-against-ukhand-education-minister-3-sitting-mlas-in-2012-case/articleshow/78707914.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to have own water authority||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana cabinet on Friday gave a go ahead for setting up a separate and independent state water authority, ninth in the country. Before this, a central water authority governed state-level water policy but now Haryana can take independent decisions. During the cabinet meeting, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar himself elaborated upon the importance of this decision. Since a model code of conduct is in force for the by-election, the cabinet deferred the discussion on issues related to university, college, and other things in the Baroda assembly constituency. Referring to issue of 75% reservation for Haryana residents, the CM said the government had approached the governor to withdraw proposal and bring a fresh bill to the assembly. The other passed items on the agenda included priority to single and widow teachers in the transfer policy. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, health minister Anil Vij, and education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar, and minister of state for women’s and child development Kamlesh Dhanda attended the hour-long cabinet meeting. Referring to the electricity distribution companies, Khattar claimed that the discoms had saved Rs 8,670 crore over five years and given 24-hour supply to 3,535 villages under the Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon scheme. The cabinet also approved the proposal for state government’s guarantee of Rs 700 crore loan to Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam for utilities. Approving the renaming of the housing department as housing for all department with immediate effect, the cabinet also gave its go ahead to Rs-55-crore mega food project in Rohtak district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-have-own-water-authority/articleshow/78711012.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Instagram reveals threats to murdered 21-year-old||VIJAYAWADA: A day after the murder of a 21-year-old engineering student, police have stumbled upon key evidence on her Instagram page indicating that she was being harassed by a ‘psychopath’ on Friday. Meanwhile the accused, Nagendra, who is receiving treatment at Guntur GGH, claimed that he did not slit Divya’s throat and that they had secretly gotten married a year ago. Family members also shared photos of Divya and Nagendra together claiming that they were married and that the parents were against their relationship. However on October 3, Divya shared a live video on Instagram stating that she was being harassed by a ‘psychopath’. “After spending two years knowing him, I understood that this is a person who has this much of villainism and he is a psychopath. Really, I didn’t expect that from him,” Divya stated. She did not name Nagendra specifically but based on text messages exchanged between her and Nagendra, police said there is a clear indication that she wasn’t interested in the relationship. The case was transferred to Disha police who would be examining all the evidence. DGP Gautam Sawang issued a statement condemning the incident and stated that the case is directly being monitored by the city police commissioner. Sawang promised to file the charge sheet within seven days in tune with the Disha Act which stipulates swift action in crimes against women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/insta-reveals-threats-to-murdered-21-year-old/articleshow/78709047.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||This Navratri, garba singers go online||Vadodara: The government may have banned Navratri events to avoid large gatherings amid the Covid-19 pandemic this year. But the revellers would be able play garba and match steps to their favourite tunes right in their homes from Saturday night. Several garba singers from the city have decided to broadcast their performances online for all the nine nights of Navratri. Though the Coronavirus has played a spoilsport this year, the artistes have decided to uphold the spirit of Navratri. “Since decades, we have been singing garba during every Navratri amid thousands of revellers. This year, the gatherings have been banned but I decided to perform garbas online. I will be singing garbas along with Ma Amba aarti live on all the nine nights and my performance will be relayed online on various social media platforms,” said Vatsala Patil, one of the prominent singers in the city. Vadodara is the only city in Gujarat where only traditional garbas are sung by the artists during Navratri and the singers have a cult following too. Lakhs of revellers gather at different venues and play garba on all nine nights in the city every year. “I didn’t want to break the tradition of singing garba during Navratri. So I decided to pre-record my garba performance that will be posted on social media during Navratri. The idea is not just to ensure that the revellers enjoy garbas for all nine nights but also to help the music artists in earning some income,” said Maharshi Pandya, another well-known garba singer. Garba artistes said that this will be for the first time that family members will watch live garba performances together from the comfort of their home. “For the next nine nights, garbas sung by different artistes will be posted on various social media platforms. The charm of playing garba at the venue is different but we have to adjust to the new normal,” said Sanat Pandya, a garba singer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-navratri-garba-singers-go-online/articleshow/78707414.cms||Tushar Tere
October 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Slain bar owner was a jailbird, faced 25 cases in 4 states||Bengaluru: In late 1980s, a school dropout in his early teens boarded a Mumbai-bound bus from Mangaluru and joined a hotel as supplier-cum-cleaner. After picking pockets on Mumbai local trains, the boy soon grew into a hardened criminal. In a couple of years, he was helming an interstate gang of armed robbers striking at jewellery stores, private shops and banks in Maharashtra and then undivided Andhra Pradesh. After decades of run-ins with law enforcement authorities of Karnataka, AP, Kerala and Maharashtra, Manish Shetty alias R Sarvotham Shetty, 45, was gunned down on Thursday night outside his bar off Brigade Road. He faced at least 25 cases in the four states and was in and out of jail several times. Shetty was a big name among underworld elements from coastal Karnataka and was linked to dons Ravi Pujari, Bannanje Raja and Muthappa Rai from the region at various points of time. Jailed in an attempt-to-murder case in late 1990s, Shetty befriended big-time criminals in Nashik prison and together they planned a massive heist after release. Accordingly, in April 2006, Shetty and the others allegedly broke into a jewellery shop located right in front of Abids police station in Hyderabad at midnight and fled with gold ornaments weighing around 8kg. With his share of booty, Shetty shifted to Belagavi and set up a hotel near Kade Bazaar police station. His luck ran out when a joint team of Hyderabad and Mumbai police arrested him for the heist. After walking out of Hyderabad prison on bail, Shetty moved to Bengaluru. In August 2007, Shetty led an eight-member armed gang that barged into a jewellery mart on Kammanahalli Main Road, Banaswadi and fled with more than 5kg of gold. Soon, Shetty and his accomplices were arrested and the gold recovered. While inside the prison, Shetty allegedly took a contract to kill a civil contractor in Kasargod, Kerala. On June 25, 2010, assailants hired by him attempted to kill contractor Mohammed Kunhi. During the course of investigation, Kasargod police discovered Shetty’s role and announced his arrest. He was taken to Kerala on a body warrant from Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara) for investigation. He got bail in the case. Meanwhile, the court which was hearing the Banaswadi heist case, sentenced Shetty to eight years of imprisonment. After finishing his prison term in 2015, he settled in RT Nagar. In initial days, he ran cafeterias at private firms on lease and then, began running bars on lease. According to police, Shetty took Duet Bar on lease sometime in 2018. “The bar would sell only beer. Many bigwigs of the Bengaluru underworld would visit his bar and chat with Shetty for long hours,” an investigating officer said. BOX: 9 spl teams formed to hunt down Shetty’s assailants Police said the single-barrel gun Manish Shetty’s killer left behind at the scene of crime was a country-made firearm and suspected it originated in coastal Karnataka or Kodagu. Police are surprised how a single-barrel gun was used in a gangland crime, which usually sees the use of country-made pistols or sophisticated revolvers. Nine special police teams, under the leadership of DCP (central) MN Anuchet, have been formed to nab Shetty’s assailants. A technical team has dedicated itself to scanning all CCTV footage from the area and checking his call records. One team has travelled to Dakshina Kannada. “On October 9, unidentified assailants had gunned down Sampath Kumar near Sullia. Kumar was a prime suspect in the murder case of a BJP leader and Shetty was a suspect in Kumar’s murder. We are probing this angle now,” said an investigator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/slain-bar-owner-was-a-jailbird-faced-25-cases-in-4-states/articleshow/78708252.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP to honour work done by women under MNREGS||The UP government is all set to embark on an ambitious campaign to honour the work done by women under Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Scheme (MNREGS) in the state. The campaign, which would be part of Mission Shakti Abhiyan to empower women by educating them on rights, would kick off from Sunday, reports Pankaj Shah. The rural development department’s proposal, which TOI has accessed, says assets created by women workers under MNREGS would be marketed by the government at the grassroots, essentially in block and gram panchayat level. The move gains significance, days after the state government went on an overdrive to provide jobs to migrants, including women, who returned to the state following the Corona-triggered lockdown. The proposal says special meetings of women workers would be organised at gram panchayats and majras (hamlets) to make them aware of rights enshrined under the scheme. This includes wages equal to men and less workhours. Official sources said, information will be provided on special provision of women mates at workplaces, which employ women only under MNREGS. The special meetings, sources said, would also inform them about steps taken by the state government for safety of women at workplace, including available helplines like 1090, 181, 102 and 112. The department has also been asked to organise meetings of matriarchal and single-women families to inform them about work permissible for them. Also, they would be told about livelihood sources proposed under MNREGS. A senior official said, women workers would be provided information pertaining to workplace facilities, including creches, drinking water and power supply. The proposal further states special efforts will be made during the campaign for formation of women labour groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-honour-work-done-by-women-under-mnregs/articleshow/78711865.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A’s PGP batch looks beyond engineers||Ahmedabad: Even as engineers consist of three fourths of the PGP-MBA course at IIM-Ahmedabad (IIM-A), this year’s batch includes students ranging from sportspersons to designers and chartered accountant to former news anchor.Analysis of the batch composition revealed that compared to past batches, the share of young students is very high — 93% of the 390 students are up to age of 25 years. Goldy Admane, PGP student and media secretary, said that the pedagogy at IIM-A — focussed on case study method — encourages diversity among the students for multiple perspectives on the issue. “It’s surely a boon to have a diverse class,” he said.A release by the institute on Friday mentioned that the MBA batch includes Ipshita Rhea Peters, who is a literature graduate and one of the winners of young authors’ hunt in 2013. While Shefali Chhaya was a television anchor, Palak Mishra had background of social work. Tanya Gupta, a NIFT Delhi grad, believes that a master’s degree in management would open opportunities for her to use practical and technical expertise. Sandeep Rajguru was a state-level baseball player whereas Tanishq Diddee was a medal winner in Under-16 and Under-19 categories at national swimming championships.Anushka Tamta is an economics grad, whereas Aayush Redij is an advertising grad. IIM-A officials said that every year, their goal is to ensure a good diversity among the students to stimulate ideas and peer-to-peer learning from various disciplines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-as-pgp-batch-looks-beyond-engineers/articleshow/78711108.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Surat||Fire in ONGC pipeline near Dahej||Surat: A big fire broke out in the ONGC’s gas pipeline passing from an agriculture farm land at Kadodara village of Vagra taluka of Bharuch district near the Dahej industrial area on Friday night. Official sources confirmed there was no casualty reported and the fire was brought under control withn 45 minutes. The fire broke out due to the leakage and blast in the underground gas pipeline at around 8:45pm. Sources said that four fire tenders from the ONGC Dahej rushed to the spot and it was control within 45 minutes. Residents in three villages in Vagra taluka including Paniyadra, Padariya and Narnavi villages heard the blasts. ND Vaghela, deputy director, Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), Bharuch said, “The fire was brought under control and there is no casualty. ONGC team is are on the spot and the gas supply has been stopped with immediate effect”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fire-in-ongc-pipeline-near-dahej/articleshow/78707820.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Flood-hit farmers stare at government for relief||KALABURAGI: Extreme monsoon rain has wreaked havoc in north Karnataka region for the second time in a row, leading to destruction and damage to standing crops, thus pushing farmers to hardship. In Kalaburagi district alone, 148 villages have been due to floods after 6,30,000 cusecs of water was released from Sonna Barrage. About 54 relief camps have been set up across Kalyana Karnataka region to shelter the victims. The region is battered by downpour in the last three months. According to a government estimate, agriculture crops grown on 1,04418.81 hecare and horticulture crops grown on 3,481.93 hectare have been completely destroyed in seven districts — Belagavi, Bidar, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Yadgir. Farmers whose houses have been inundated are now haplessly staring at the government seeking help. The standing cotton crop cultivated by Raghunath Reddy, 43, on 4acre land was washed away. Raghunath asks how he can repay the debts to banks and local moneylenders. Insurance money assured under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana for the lost crops lost in 2019 is yet to reach him. Half of the amount to be borne by the state government is also pending. “I have no option but to sell my land,” he rued. Chamarasa Mali Patil, a farmer leader, told TOI that chief minister B S Yediyurappa stated that deputy commissioners of flood-affected districts will have surplus money to be used as relief funds. “But in reality, the funds are depleting. In August, 25% of the total crop washed away in rain, for which farmers are yet to receive compensation. Now a total of 75% crop is lost. The government does a survey for eyewash, leaving farmers to fend for themselves. With amendments to Land Reforms Act, many farmers are being forced to sell land,” he said. Mallikarjun, another farmer leader from Yadgir, said the crisis may trigger suicides again, unless the government immediately acts. “Paddy, cotton and tur crops in the region have been destroyed completely. The region was recovering from successive droughts. But it is battered by floods now,” he said. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, agriculture minister B C Patil said that the department is conducting a survey of crop damage due to floods. “Previous year, Rs 36.47 crore had been released to provide compensation to farmers for damaged crops. Rs 800 crore is already in the DCs’ accounts, and the same will be used for providing compensation. The compensation amount will be released after verifying the documents, and this requires time. There is no delay in providing compensation,” he claimed. However, Patil evaded a reporters’ question on the extent of crop damage due to floods in north Karnataka. He quipped that he has no information regarding the crop damage due to floods in October. “I don’t remember the data on floods damage caused two months ago,”he said. With inputs by B K Lakshmikantha in Mysuru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/flood-hit-farmers-stare-at-govt-for-relief/articleshow/78711702.cms||Shreyas HS
October 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Autos in Vizag to get panic buttons, tracking to deal with emergencies||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a pilot project, auto-rickshaws in Vizag city will soon be fitted with electronic Internet of Things (IoT) devices. The aim of this move is to increase passenger safety going forward. The project will be implemented by the transport department and would be helped by the police who will take up antecedent verifications of auto drivers. According to Vizag deputy transport commissioner GC Raja Ratnam, as part of this project, autos will have a panic button for passengers which will be integrated with the main command control room. This would enable live-tracking of autos in cases of emergency. The Vizag city police has asked drivers to act as force multipliers in information and intelligence gathering for the police department to minimise crimes in the city as well as those committed by auto drivers. In a meeting held with representatives of various autorickshaw unions on Friday, deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Aishwarya Rastogi said that there were over 15,000 auto drivers in the city and if each oner started sharing crime-related information, several incidents could be prevented. “This can range from crimes against women, robberies to non-fatal accidents on account of drunk driving,” he said. Rastogi added that only autos which have police verification will be allowed to operate in the city at night. He also advised auto unions to have themselves registered with police stations so as to keep track of vehicles. The police also asked unions to practice self-regulation and discipline while parking, interacting with passengers and driving etiquette.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/autos-in-vizag-to-get-panic-buttons-tracking-to-deal-with-emergencies/articleshow/78708967.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Fake preacher and aides arrested in Kurnool||TIRUPATI: A fake preacher along with his two accomplices were arrested by Rajampet police for trying to dupe people by making claims of being able to identify and unearth hidden treasure. The fake preacher, Shaik Mahaboob Basha alias Usman Ali Khan from Gooty in Ananthapuram district, would go by the name of ‘Syed Baba’. After a series of trivial jobs, Basha joined hands with Murali from Enampally village to make quick money. Basha would claim that he possessed occult knowledge and made people believe that he could identify treasure hidden beneath the earth and went on to collect Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 from them. Murali, who used to identify targets, died nearly two months back of Covid-19. Following this, Basha tied up with Murali’s associate, Sunnapuralla Venkatesulu. The two brought in Sane Sathish, an ITI graduate, who provided Basha with SIM cards With an intention Rs 150 crore worth of unaccounted money presumed to be hidden below the house of a liquor businessman in Bellary, the three broke into the house but returned empty-handed. They made similar break-ins at Anantapuram, Tirupati, Molakamuru and Rajampet but were not successful. Acting on credible information, the three were picked from Bellary Chowrasta in Kurnool early on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fake-preacher-and-aides-arrested-in-kurnool/articleshow/78709019.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VPT dedicates team to re-float stranded vessel||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) has mobilised its own oil spill response equipment with a dedicated team to cater to any untoward oil pollution caused by the aground ship at Tenneti Park beach. The vessel contains 50MT of oil on board. The operation to re-float the ship will take place once the oil aboard it has been removed so as to avoid risk of causing an oil spill at the shore. The vessel from Bangladesh MV MAA had parted her anchor chain and drifted ashore due to strong winds and the impact of cyclonic conditions on the night of October 12. The vessel had anchored at Vizag port on September 19 in ballast condition to load 2,800MT of quartzite before heading to the Port of Mongla in Bangladesh. The vessel owner’s protection and indemnity (P&I) club appointed MS Gill Marine on October 13 to remove fuel oil from the vessel. The company has obtained the necessary permission from various government authorities to begin the rescue operations. Since there is no road access to the site of grounded vessel, a temporary road was laid on Thursday to mobilise men and material. VPT sources said that it may take two to three days to transfer the oil from ship to shore. MS Resolve has been appointed to undertake the salvage operations to re-float the vessel. No water ingress or oil pollution has been reported so far and the crew of 15 aboard the ship are on board and said to be safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vpt-dedicates-team-to-re-float-stranded-vessel/articleshow/78708915.cms||Siva G
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Shasthi to Ashtami may remain wet this year, says Met||KOLKATA: A delayed withdrawal of monsoon and a low-pressure system that is likely to form on October 19 are set to lead to a wet Puja. Kolkata could receive repeated spells of light rain between October 22 and 24 (Shasthi-Ashtami) that threaten to spoil the festivities. The skies could clear up by Nabami (October 25) though, predicted the Met office, However, there is no possibility of sustained, intense rain during the Pujas. Monsoon will remain active in the region till the end of the Pujas, the Met office added. A low-pressure set to form over central Bay of Bengal could move towards the Andhra-Odisha coast. A trough from the system could then extend across south Bengal to Bangladesh. “It could usher in south-easterly winds that will bring in moisture from the sea, helping precipitation. We are not expecting heavy showers, though. Frequent spells of light rain are likely from October 22,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. The probability of showers is high between October 22 and 24 and the city will remain cloudy. Temperature could drop to 30°C-32°C. “On October 25 and 26, we expect the weather to improve though a spell or two of rain is not ruled out,” added Das. Kolkata could receive slightly heavier rain on one of the three days. “Rather than intense rain, we expect short spells,” said Das. The lead-up to the festival, however, will remain dry. With no rain-bearing system in the region, temperature is expected to hover around 35°C. It will continue to remain warm and humid till October 20. Monsoon, though, is yet to bow out of south Bengal and may linger till the end of the month, said weathermen. The reason behind its ‘delayed withdrawal’ was the ‘continuing rainfall activity in south-eastern India’, said Das. “There are certain conditions that must be met to signal the withdrawal of monsoon — absence of rain for a certain number of days, presence of northwesterly wind and reduction in moisture-level,among others. This time, we have a deep depression in the South China Sea that has been generating systems over Bay of Bengal. They have been hitting the coast and keeping the region wet,” said Das. Even though it was unusual for the monsoon to linger till end-October, there have been occasions when it has continued till October 20, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shasthi-to-ashtami-may-remain-wet-this-yr-met/articleshow/78709294.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kakinada boat incident brought back memories of fishermen missing since 2014||VISAKHAPATNAM: The missing boat incident in Kakinada brought back memories of six years ago among fishermen at the Pudimadaka harbour when six of theirs who had gone out to fish, went missing. The six fishermen still remain untraced as on date. “It was on that fateful day, the six fishermen ventured out just before cyclone Hudhud was about to make a landfall. By the time the forecast was made and an SOS was sent, the weather had started to decline. The boat along with the fishermen never returned,” Pudimadaka fishing community leader, Vadamodula Jaggarao told TOI. On Wednesday evening, family members of a group of fishermen informed the fisheries department that a boat carrying six fishermen and the boat owner went missing and they were unable to contact them. Finally on Thursday afternoon, they were traced somewhere between Nizampatnam and Bapatla. Coast guards took the effort to bring them back to Kakinada. “Now, whenever we hear such news we feel afraid. It brings back memories of my son who was on the boat that did not return. Thank god, these fishermen from Kakinada are safe and able to reunite with their families,” said T Appanna, whose son was among those on the boat that went missing in 2014. Fishermen leaders in the state claim that incidents related to missing boats happen several times a year. In some cases, the fishermen return while in others, their bodies are recovered. “The 2014 incident is an exception. For the last six years, the boat and fishermen could not be traced. The government officially declared them dead, issued death certificates and granted Rs 50,000 to each of the crew members’ families under the Apad Bandhuvu scheme,” said district fishermen’s welfare association general secretary Arijili Dasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kakinada-boat-incident-brought-back-memories-of-fishermen-missing-since-14/articleshow/78709073.cms||Arpit Basu
October 17, 2020||Vijayawada||27-year-old pharmacist ends life in West Godavari||Eluru: A 27-year-old woman ended her life by hanging herself at Eluru in West Godavari district on Friday. The deceased, identified as Veduruparthi Sowjanya, used to work at a multinational pharmaceutical company in Hyderabad and was working from home since the lockdown. According to Two Town circle inspector Bonam Adi Prasad, the woman’s father has lodged a complaint alleging that she took her life owing to harassment by a man. However, the deceased recorded a video prior to committing suicide wherein she said that no one should be held responsible. Police said that the woman and a man named Simhadri Balu from Eluru were in love, which Balu’s family reportedly opposed. A case was booked under section 306 for abatement to suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/27-year-old-pharmacist-ends-life-in-west-godavari/articleshow/78709091.cms||---
October 17, 2020||India||Court blow to arms dealer, summons for Vadra likely||NEW DELHI: A special court in Delhi on Thursday took cognisance of a prosecution complaint (chargesheet) filed by the Enforcement Directorate recently against fugitive defence dealer Sanjay Bhandari, in a development which can help the authorities seek early extradition of the middleman known for his political links. The court, while calling for speeding up Bhandari’s extradition, also directed the ED to summon all the accused so that trial in the long-pending money laundering case could start soon. The court’s directive is significant as the ED has mentioned Robert Vadra, son-in-law of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, as one of the accused in the chargesheet filed against Bhandari in the defence payoffs and money laundering case. “The special judge also permitted ED to carry out further probe in this case while issuing summons,” an official said, hinting that Vadra could soon be called for questioning by the investigating officers in connection with several alleged defence payoffs and money trail established by the agency. Bhandari was arrested in London on the request of the Indian government but a UK court granted him bail as no court in India had till then taken cognisance of any chargesheet filed against him. The ED had filed the chargesheet in the special court in Delhi on June 1 when courts were functioning only partially due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The income tax department has already filed a chargesheet in the case under the Black Money Act and later attached all his assets in London and Dubai, restraining him from disposing of these assets. In ED’s investigation report, Bhandari is named as the “beneficial” owner of a number of companies incorporated in the UAE — Offset India Solution FZC, Santech International FZC, Serra Dues Technologies, Petro Global Technologies FZC — besides a flat in Dubai and two flats in Bryanston Square in London. The agency has alleged that all these properties are allegedly controlled by Vadra’s associates. “Investigation found that Sanjay Bhandari had acquired movable/immovable assets worth more than Rs 150 crore outside India in contravention of foreign exchange rules,” the ED said in one of its reports. Recently, the ED registered a case against him in the Pilatus aircraft deal where it said it had traced alleged kickbacks of Rs 310 crore transferred to Dubai accounts of Bhandari’s Offset India Solutions FZC. Vadra has earlier been questioned by the ED about the London flat which Bhandari had purchased at Bryanston Square as well as other properties in Dubai and the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-blow-to-arms-dealer-summons-for-vadra-likely/articleshow/78712553.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Health dept aims at providing post-covid care for patients||JAIPUR: In order to facilitate recovered Covid patients but have developed various complications, the medical and health department is planning to launch rehabilitation centres across the state. These centres will focus on detecting if recovered patients have developed any pulmonary complications or other ailments related to the heart before beginning treatment. TOI on Friday spoke to authorities of the medical and health department on their plan of post-Covid care centres to be set up at various dedicated hospitals across the state. “In these centres, we will check patients for pulmonary malfunctions hrough Hr CT scan among other tests. Presently, at a few places, we have started it but are planning to do it on a larger scale,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Medical College. Principal health secretary Akhil Arora said, “Many patients after recovering from Covid have developed diabetes, heart ailments and have traces of fibroris in their lungs. We are aiming at providing relief and medication to these patients.” “Our move to conduct chest scan even on non-Covid patients has been appreciated by the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR),” said Arora. He added that the government was aiming at facilitating patients in short-term and long-term basis. “We will trace if a patient needs short-term help or long-term. Accordingly, we will work on their rehabilitation and medication,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-dept-aims-at-providing-post-covid-care-for-patients/articleshow/78711053.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||30% of trees under Mission Plantation not geotagged||Lucknow: More than 27 lakh trees were planted in Lucknow during the "Mission Plantation 2020" initiative carried out by the state government on July 5. The plantation was done by 26 government departments including the forest department. To make monitoring easy, all trees that were planted had to be geotagged. However, in Lucknow, about 30 percent of the trees have not been geotagged till now. DFO, Awadh, Ravi Kumar, said, “We have sent reminders to all the departments to geotag all trees that were planted by them. By December, we would complete the process.” Geotagging records the latitudinal and longitudinal position of a tree. The Forest department as the nodal agency has to ensure that every tree planted is also geotagged. “There were various reasons why the trees could not be geotagged and lesser staff strength due to Covid-19 pandemic is one,” said the official. A district plantation committee was set up before plantation in every district to ensure that the required plantation target is met and trees are maintained and looked after post plantation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/30-of-trees-under-mission-plantation-not-geotagged/articleshow/78711869.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: 52 hospitals get notices for poor health cover implementation||PUNE: The district administration has issued notices to 52 empanelled private hospitals in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) for “not doing enough” to extend the benefit of free treatment to Covid-19 patients under the state’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. The administration has sought suggestions from these hospitals on measures to widen the scheme’s ambit. The scheme allows free treatment to the patients, irrespective of their financial status, at the designated hospitals. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has expressed displeasure over the low execution of the health scheme at the empanelled private hospitals. At a meeting held in Pune last week, he told officials to initiate strict action against the hospitals found at fault. “We have told the empanelled private hospitals to furnish patient-wise information about reasons for not extending the scheme’s benefits. We have also sought their suggestions about the new line of treatment that could be added under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. The aim is to ensure more patients can avail of scheme’s benefits,” said Ayush Prasad, vice-president of the District Grievance Redressal and Monitoring Committee. Prasad is also the une zilla parishad’s chief executive officer. One of the major hurdles in extending the scheme benefit is the price slabs laid down under the scheme. An empanelled hospital gets Rs65,000 for a patient on ventilator support and Rs25,000 for a patient on oxygen support. “The empanelled hospitals are paid as per these fixed slabs. These slabs do not take into account the number of days a patient is on ventilator or oxygen support. The payment structure needs to be revamped to enable hospitals to extend the benefit to most patients,” a senior doctor said requesting anonymity. Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital is one of the few health hubs that have extended the scheme’s benefit to over maximum patients under the scheme. The hospital has extended the scheme’s benefits to over 500 patients. “It is true that the structure of charges under the scheme needs to be changed, so that medium-size empanelled hospitals can easily extend the benefits to the patients. Ours is a big hospital and hence we are managing,” senior surgeon and Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital director Dhananjay Kelkar told TOI. Ruby Hall Clinic has extended the scheme’s benefit to 25 patients. “Most of the patients seeking care at our hospitals are insured. And the really poor and needy patients are allowed free treatment as ours is a charitable hospital,” said Sanjay Pathare, medical director, Ruby Hall Clinic. Experts and health activists have urged the state and civic health authorities to initiate efforts to popularize the scheme's free treatment benefits using mass media tools and empanelling more hospitals. Amol Maske, regional manager of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana in Pune, said, “The district collector has conducted the review of the scheme with the empanelled hospitals. The hospitals have been asked to extend the benefit to as many admitted patients with Covid-19 as possible.” The scheme provides medical insurance of Rs 1.5 lakh to every household without any rider. “Though the scheme is applicable for every citizen of the state irrespective of his/her financial status, mainly people from lower and middle-income category avail of the scheme’s benefit,” Maske said. “The scheme has not been used to its fullest potential. Anyone can avail of the benefit, irrespective of the income slab. Producing documents like ration card of any colour and Aadhaar card at the time of admission is not mandatory. The documents can be furnished after seeking hospitalisation,” said health activist and medical practitioner Abhijit More. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said, “The Pune Metropolitan Region has 120 hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. But the scheme can be availed of at 52 empanelled hospitals. More hospitals should be brought under the scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/52-hosps-get-notices-for-poor-health-cover-implementation/articleshow/78709375.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Caution the buzzword as Metro starts after 7 months||NAGPUR: Even though Nagpur Metro ran for the first time after seven months, the operations were smooth with no glitches reported on Friday. With schools and colleges closed and many people working from home, not many people used this mode of transport on the first day after the curbs were eased. Metro staffers followed the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by state urban development department (UDD) rigorously at the stations. On entering the stations, the staffers asked passengers to download Aarogya Setu mobile app. They helped people who had difficulties in downloading it. Temperature of the passengers was checked and sanitizer was also sprayed on their hands. People were asked to maintain distance at the station steps. Those without mask were asked to put them on. People who bought tickets with cash were asked to deposit it in a box instead of directly giving it to the ticket counter staff. The cash was later sanitized with ultraviolet rays before being deposited in bank. There was no frisking of passengers by the security personnel. Passengers were just asked to put their belongings — mobiles, wallets etc — in a tray so that they could be scanned. Metro staffers asked passengers not to place the ticket on automatic fare collection (AFC) gate sensor but place it at a distance from the sensor. There were no Metro personnel on the train as announced, apparently because there were very few passengers and there was no need to enforce Covid distancing. Even though a few passengers used the Metro, those who were using it before the lockdown are happy that the service has resumed. Ritwik Kale, a resident of Subhash Nagar, said he used to take the Metro for going to do shopping in Sitabuldi. “Parking space is a big problem in Sitabuldi and besides Metro is faster. I learnt about resumption of Metro service through newspapers. Today, I had to buy some things from Sitabuldi so I boarded the Metro. The to and fro fare cost just Rs10. Metro officials should keep the fares at this level. This will encourage people to use Metro,” he told TOI. Nitin Suryawanshi, who had boarded the Metro from Bansi Nagar station, said the Metro authorities had taken a very good decision by reducing the fares. “If fares remain at this level, I will regularly use the Metro. It is the cheapest mode of transport in the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/caution-the-buzzword-as-metro-starts-after-7-months/articleshow/78709388.cms||Ashish Roy
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Filmy chase, 84 bottles, main villain spirits himself away||Ahmedabad: In a scene reminiscent of a Bollywood sequence, a police vehicle chased down a car laden with liquor for 10km in Gandhinagar on Thursday. The main accused ‘managed to flee’. But in the end, the cops stopped the car with two persons carrying 84 liquor bottles meant to be sold at a CNG pump in the state capital. According to an FIR filed with Dabhoda police, cops got an input that a sedan ferrying liquor bottles was to pass between Mota Chiloda and Nana Chiloda circles on Thursday. Cops kept watch and when they spotted the car, they tried to stop it. But the car driver sped away. A team of Dabhoda police began chasing the car from Lavarpur Patiya between Nana Chiloda and Mota Chiloda and police personnel managed to stop the car near GIFT City. Police nabbed two men from the car: Alpesh Panchal, 24, a resident of Kanodar Charodi village of Sabarkantha; and Dinesh Ahari, 22, a resident of Bhandariya village of Dungarpur, Rajasthan. The two told the cops that they bought the car from Idar about 10 days ago to accomplish the mission given by the main accused, Ilyas Makrani. They said that Makrani was piloting the sedan. Makrani had rented a house in Dungarpur where he had loaded the liquor into the sedan. The consignment was supposed to be unloaded at a CNG pump in Nana Chiloda. Police have seized the consignment worth Rs 33,600.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/filmy-chase-84-bottles-main-villain-spirits-himself-away/articleshow/78711057.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||State given 3 weeks to respond on shifting of proposed ISBT||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Friday gave the state government three weeks’ time to respond to the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) against shifting of the proposed ISBT from Haldwani’s Gaula Par area. The petitioner had alleged that the state government had announced that an ISBT will be built in the area in 2008. The government even got the nod from the Centre and chopped down over 2,500 trees but later decided to shift the ISBT to some other area. The petitioner has further alleged that the state government has already spent over Rs 11 crore on the project but is still dilly-dallying the construction work because of political reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-given-3-weeks-to-respond-on-shifting-of-proposed-isbt/articleshow/78707963.cms||Prashant Jha
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Holiday special trains announced||AHMEDABAD: Indian Railways has announced holiday special trains from various parts of the country that will stop at Ahmedabad. According to railway officials, the Bandra Terminus-Jammu Tavi Express will have a stop at Ahmedabad. It will depart from Bandra at 12.15am on every Saturday and reach Jammu Tawi on Monday at 1.25am. It will leave from Jammu Tawi on Monday at 9.30am and will reach Bandra at 10.25pm the next day. Okha-Howrah Express will leave Okha on Sunday at 8.10am and reach Howrah on Tuesday at 3.35am. The train will leave for Okha at 10.50pm on Tuesday and will reach its destination at 6.30pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/holiday-special-trains-announced/articleshow/78711051.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Native appeal: Bypoll about Baroda honour, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||ROHTAK: As Congress candidate Induraj Narwal filed his nomination papers for Baroda on Friday, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda pitched the by-election as a fight for local prestige. State party president Kumari Selja, senior member Kiran Choudhry, and former and past legislators were present when Hooda told the media: “The Congress has given its election ticket to a grassroots worker from a common farming family on public demand. During the last election, while canvassing for late Srikrishan Hooda, who was like an elder brother, I had promised to give Baroda a local candidate next time. Unfortunately, we had to do this in a by-election forced by his death.” The state leader of opposition said this wasn’t a contest to elect an MLA but a fight for the honour of Baroda and the future of Haryana. He said: “The Congress stands with the common man, the farmer, and the workers in this fight against the BJP-JJP government, which is consumed by the arrogance of power. When Induraj Narwal, son of a peasant, will reach the assembly by defeating the BJP and its dummy candidates, it will send out a big message to the state.” First nominee and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Singh Hooda said that in a democracy, everyone had the right to ask for election ticket but only one person could get it, but “those who couldn’t will always be respected and valued in the Congress, so unite and work as if Deepender Hooda and not Induraj is the candidate for Baroda. Induraj’s family has always stood by us in the fight for farmers and workers.” He said: “This is now the election of the people of Baroda, a fight against not only the ruling coalition but also dummy candidates brought over to divide the opposition’s vote bank. Baroda will avenge its six-year neglect and elect a true son of the soil. The result of Baroda will resonate as far as Chandigarh and begin the countdown to the fall of the coalition government.” Claiming to see a rift in the ruling party legislators, he said that “a Congress victory will make the rebellion stronger and make the government collapse under its own burden”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/native-appeal-bypoll-about-baroda-honour-says-hooda/articleshow/78711061.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Will act against erring schools and education officials, says Bacchu Kadu||NAGPUR: Minister of state for school education Bacchu Kadu has warned of action against schools and erring education officials over the fee controversy. Kadu had called a meeting of some private school principals and education officials, in which some parents too joined in. Kadu said schools must not increase fee and if any of them is guilty in doing so, charges will be pressed as per legal provisions. The education department is already auditing certain schools’ finances. Some parents accused education officials of not taking cognisance of their complaints or of delaying action. Kadu said every complaint will be looked into for seeking a solution. Kadu said, “A committee will look into all the issues and once its report is finalized, action will be taken.” The minister said inspection will be done regarding the various heads under which fee is charged and that action will be taken against schools if found that they are overcharging parents during the time financial distress. A school official, who was present during the meet, said the minister had taken a balanced view. “School principals were asked to name members of their Parents-Teachers Association (PTA) and whether or not fee had been increased. Also, the minister said the demand of 50% fee reduction has to be studied by looking into ground realities. A random number can’t be floated just like that,” said the school representative. He added that every school has to send names of two parents, who will be asked to participate in a meeting next month. During the meeting, education officers Shivling Patve (secondary) and Chintaman Vanjari (primary) were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-act-against-erring-schools-and-edu-officials-minister/articleshow/78709414.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Tourism policy not yet public, benefits not clear’||MARGAO: The Small and Medium Hoteliers Association of Goa (SMHAG) rued the failure of the government in making known to the public the advantages of the tourism policy and the master plan released by the government earlier this week. “The government may have announced the master plan for tourism after so many years, but we are neither celebrating nor denouncing the move. As the government has not put the policy in public domain, there’s no way to know what benefits will be accrued to us by it,” president of SMHAG, Serafino Cota said on Friday. The SMHAG demanded that the government also make clear how it will build and promote hinterland tourism, which it intends to focus in the new policy. “The local community should benefit from hinterland tourism. There’s no clarity over how the government will go about attracting tourists to the state’s hinterland. Will it result in destruction of wildlife and displace forest dwellers to benefit a few corporates and uninvited guests in the name of hinterland tourism, or will the new policy incorporate and protect heritage and wildlife?” Cota said. The association said it will support the new policy provided it promotes “sustainable and responsible” tourism. The chief minister’s statement that the occupancy of the hotels in Goa was 80% was also contested by the association. “Even during normal times, the occupancy of hotels in Goa never crossed 37%. So the chief minister’s statement doesn’t convey the true picture. Currently, with the floodgates for tourists to enter the state is open, there are many cheap tourists staying illegally in gated communities and second homes. They bring no benefit to the local economy,” Cota said. He also demanded that stakeholders be included in the tourism board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-policy-not-yet-public-benefits-not-clear/articleshow/78711143.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s NEET topper wants to be a cardiologist||Jaipur: Chinmayi Kothari of Jayshree Periwal High School bagged the 31st position in NEET exam, the results of which were declared on Friday. Daughter of Jaipur’s income tax commissioner Dilip Kothari, Chinmayi felt to have crossed the first major hurdle in realising her childhood dream to become a doctor. Among women, she bagged the 10th position. An incident in her childhood inspired her to serve people by becoming a doctor. Her grandfather suffered a major heart attack when she was in class VIII. “I could see how doctors attended to him, took care of him, carried out a complex surgery and saved his life. That service to mankind drew my interest towards this profession,” said Chinmayi. Her destination is AIIMS and later wants to do research in cardiology from the US. “At this point of time, I aspire to be a cardiologist and with my research would like to bring a major difference in my desired field,” said Chinmayi, who is an avid reader and this hobby has kept her far away from stress during studies. Due to extended lockdowns, she got ample of time to revise her syllabus and clear her doubts with teachers. “I know Covid has knocked out the world upside down, but I used the time to prepare hard,” said Chinmayi. Sharing her success mantra, she advised aspiring students to focus on the NCERT textbooks and read them repetitively, rather than solving extra books. “I cleared competitive exams like NTSE and KVPY and feel such scholarship exams should be attempted as they boost our confidence considerably,” said Chinmayi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-neet-topper-wants-to-be-a-cardiologist/articleshow/78711079.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region registers twice as many recoveries as cases||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday recorded 2,038 recoveries, almost twice the number of new cases (1,072), bringing down the active case count to 22,796. The rural and Cantonment areas together recorded 885 recoveries in the last 24 hours, followed the PMC limits (681) and the PCMC areas (472). With this, the total recoveries increased above 2.82 lakh, while case tally climbed above 3.12 lakh. The region recorded 41 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, pushing the total toll to 7,376. The daily death count has remained below 50 for last five consecutive days in PMR. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that of total 7,376 deaths reported in the region so far, 4,089 were from the PMC limits and 1,823 from the rural and Cantonment areas. The PCMC limits have recorded 1,464 deaths so far. The report further stated that about 7,011 samples were tested in the region on Friday. These included 3,393 samples from the PMC limits, 2,203 samples tested in the PCMC limits and 1,415 from the rural areas. The region’s progressive sample testing reached 13.24 lakh on Friday. Meanwhile, as many as 12,551 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals PMR, while 10,245 were in home isolation till Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-registers-twice-as-many-recoveries-as-cases/articleshow/78709410.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 17, 2020||Pune||Bill audits help over 2,500 patients save Rs 4 crore in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: Over 2,500 Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region have saved around Rs 4.3 crore overcharged by different hospitals and detected by the civic and the district administration’s audit teams in two months. The hospitals had to reimburse the additional amount charged to patients, when merit was found in their complaints. Around 1,100 patients from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas and 700 patients each in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits and rural localities were benefited by the pre-audit of the hospital bills. Officials said bills worth Rs24.5 crore were scrutinized. Of the total amount scrutinized, Rs11.5 crore was in the PMC areas, Rs9 crore in Pimpri Chinchwad and Rs3.5 crore in rural localicites. Around Rs1.9 crore has been saved in the PMC areas, while Rs1.7 crore has been saved in Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. Bills worth Rs60 lakh have been reduced in the rural parts of the Pune district. In the first week of October, the PMC had cancelled permission to a hospital in Kondwa to treat Covid-19 patients on the ground of overcharging. “The action has sent a message to hospitals not following the norms. It also created awareness about overcharging of bills,” a senior PMC official said. Officials from the civic and the district administration have deputed teams to monitor bills issued by the private hospitals. Members of the are checking each hospital bill amounting above Rs1.5 lakh. The civic and the district administration had started the audit in August and reduced inflated medical bills of around Rs1.5 crore in the first month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bill-audits-help-over-2500-patients-save-rs-4-crore/articleshow/78709400.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal sale of 2.25 lakh abortion kits worth Rs 8.75crore detected||JAIPUR: Health department’s drug controller unit unearthed a scam of sale and purchase of 2.25 lakh abortion kits worth Rs 8.75crore. Drug controller teams inspected Khuteta Remedies in Jaipur and Goyal Medical Agency in Dausa and detected illegal sale and purchase of abortion kits continuing for two years. Drug controller Rajaram Sharma said Khuteta Remedies had sold 2,10,000 safe abortion kits manufactured by ACME formulation and marketed by PSI India to Dausa-based firm Goyal Medical Agency. When the drug controller team conducted inspection, Goyal Medical Agency producted bills of only 78,336 abortion kits, which also turned out to be fake. Out of 2.25 lakh abortion kits, Khuteta Remedies claimed that 14,400 kits were sold to Bajaj Pharma, Dausa but these bills were also turned out to be fake. Sharma said they will serve notice to Khuteta Remedies and initiate process of cancellation of drug licence and legal action will be taken against the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-sale-of-2-25-lakh-abortion-kits-worth-rs-8-75crore-detected/articleshow/78711073.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Stay alert, Maharashtra CM tells rain-hit||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who reviewed rehabilitation and rescue measures in districts affected by torrential rain, said the district administration should continue to remain alert for few days as a heavy rain alert continues. Ënsure there is minimal loss of human life, extend help to people who are rescued, while they are in relief camps and when they return home, said Thackeray. He said rescue operations should be carried out by taking people into confidence and Covid-19 protocol should be followed. He said preventive steps for other monsoon-related diseases should also be taken. Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Konkan division were affected due to receding monsoon. Standing crop, homes and cattle have been lost on a large scale. Thackeray directed officials to undertake crop loss estimates once rains receed and villages are accessible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stay-alert-maha-cm-tells-rain-hit/articleshow/78710084.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Meerut||Now, RLD to hold public rally in poll-bound Bulandshahr||MEERUT: Preparations are in full swing for Rashtriya Lok Dal's (RLD) public rally at Numaish ground in UP's Bulandshahr district on Saturday. In the past few days, RLD has gathered momentum after holding a massive mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar followed by a show of strength in Mathura and now a public rally in poll-bound Bulandshahr. The party seems to be capitalising on the support in the aftermath of the lathicharge incident on their party vice president Jayant Chaudhary and his supporters when they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras victim. In Bulandshahr, Sadar seat is up for bypolls and Samajwadi Party has left it for its alliance partner RLD where the party has fielded its candidate Praveen Kumar Singh. Senior party leaders who have been camping in the district to mobilise support for the rally claim a huge gathering is expected at the Bulandshahr rally. "Be it farmers or youth, there is excitement among people from all age groups who will be attending the rally," Raj Kumar Sangwan, organisational general secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-rld-to-hold-public-rally-in-poll-bound-bulandshahr/articleshow/78706852.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Kundu faces ire of Cong workers for supporting BJP rebel||ROHTAK: A few Congress workers obstructed the way of independent MLA Balraj Kundu, who came out to support rebel BJP leader Kapur Narwal for Baroda bypoll, and dubbed him as a BJP agent at Gohana. Kundu, MLA from Meham, on Friday showed his support for Narwal who filed the nomination as an independent candidate for Baroda Bypoll. The Congress workers questioned Kundu’S move that may result in splitting the Jat vote bank and eventually benefit the BJP nominee. Surrounded by Congress workers, Kundu had a tough time, but he some managed to get away with the help of his security men. Later, talking to the media, Kundu said the people who raised slogans against him and dubbed him a BJP agent were politically motivated. “They are Congress workers and do not want me to raise the common men’s issues,” he added. The angry Congress workers said Kundu had been faking his image of being pro-farmer and pro-Jat leader, but in reality he works at the behest of BJP leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kundu-faces-ire-of-cong-workers-for-supporting-bjp-rebel/articleshow/78711077.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||200 projects to be showcased at GIHED-CREDAI’s e-show||Ahmedabad: Over 200 real estate projects of Ahmedabad will be showcased at the online property show being organized by real estate body GIHED-CREDAI from October 17 to 25.Being held alongside the festival of Navratri, the nine-day virtual property show will be inaugurated tomorrow by the Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani.The first online exhibition by GIHED-CREDAI will have virtual stalls of about 40 leading real estate developers of Ahmedabad. “Right from affordable homes to high-end apartments, townships, showrooms, plotting schemes as well as commercial and office properties are being displayed to the consumers on one platform,” said Ajay Patel, president, GIHED-CREDAI.Gujarat Institute of Housing and Estate Developers (GIHED), which is the Ahmedabad city chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), has been organizing this annual property show since 2005. This year, however, it decided to go online considering the Covid-19 pandemic situation and the increased popularity of online marketing in the new normal phase.“We are expecting good response from the prospective buyers over the coming nine days. This can be seen from the fact that around 10,000 pre-event registrations have already been done in past one week,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/200-projects-to-be-showcased-at-gihed-credais-e-show/articleshow/78711102.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Dausa boy Vineet Sharma logs second-best mark in NEET||Jaipur: Dausa’s Vineet Sharma bagged AIR 4 in NEET by scoring 715 marks. This is the second-best mark in the medical examination. Barely living 250km from coaching hub Kota and 60 km from another emerging coaching destination Jaipur, Sharma preferred to study in his native city Dausa under the guidance of his school and tuition teachers. The National Testing Agency has declared him the top scorer from Rajasthan on the basis of his state domicile.Son of a government school teacher, Sharma has yet to believe his score. “In all my test series, I was able to score a maximum of 710. I couldn’t believe that my score would be second best in the country’s toughest examination,” said Sharma.Didn’t the coaching institutes in big cities like Kota and Jaipur attract you? He replied, “The technology has reduced the difference between the big and small cities. The examination is based on NCERT syllabus which is the same for all. Secondly, most of the test series and learning material is available online. All is required is good access of internet, self-determination and family support to achieve anything. So, I didn’t find it worth to go out of station for coaching,” said Sharma.He is eyeing a seat in AIIMS with a specialization in neuro science for a reason special to him. “This is the most complicated medical science and has immense scope in research. My interest lies in neuro research to find the remedies for the complex neurological aliments simple, easy and affordable,” said Sharma.He has a very unique way to de-stress himself. His role model and former president APJ Abdul Kalam’s motivational videos gives him great satisfaction and encourage him to go on to understand the complex subject until he succeeds.“Kalam sahab’s quote ‘You have to dream before your dreams come true’ always resonates in my mind and pushes me to the extreme to overcome hurdles,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-boy-vineet-sharma-logs-second-best-mark-in-neet/articleshow/78711095.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra minister alerts against overcharging of protective masks||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope has told the local administration to ensure that there was no overcharging in the hospital billing of the protective face masks in the time of Covid-19. Several citizens have in their complaints on social media platforms stated that they were being billed heavily on masks and PPW equipment. Tope told TOI that there were specific directions on the use of the protective gears and the hospitals saffers should follow the protocol. He said the local administration while auditing hospitals bills should also check for the amounts charged for such protective gear. Tope had earlier this month said N-95 masks would soon be made available in Maharashtra at a price ranging from Rs 19 to Rs 50 a piece, while the double and triple-layer masks would be available for just Rs 3 and Rs 4 a piece. The government is in the final stages of capping the prices of various types of masks as per the recommendations submitted by a committee set up to control prices of masks and sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-alerts-against-overcharging-of-protective-masks/articleshow/78709425.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 17, 2020||Salem||Photos: Tamil Nadu man kept in freezer box for 20 hours dies||SALEM: A 73-year-old man, who was getting treated at the Salem government medical college hospital after being rescued from a freezer box where he was kept for nearly 20 hours presumed dead by his own brother, died on Friday without responding to treatment. Joint director of health services Dr Malarvizhi Vallal, meanwhile, has initiated a probe against a private hospital in Salem for issuing a death certificate four days before his death. Balasubramaniya Kumar, 73, was staying with his brother Saravanan, 70, after his wife died two years ago. He doesn’t have children. On Monday, Saravanan took Balasubramaniya Kumar to SIMS hospital in Salem after his health deteriorated. According to sources, doctors at the hospital told Saravanan to take the patient back home. “A doctor issued a death certificate when we left the hospital as per doctor’s advice,” Saravanan said. But he refused to show the certificate. Talking to TOI, JD Malarvizhi Vallal confirmed that a duty doctor of the hospital had issued the death certificate. “The duty doctor should not have issued the death certificate when the patient was alive. An inquiry has been initiated. A report will be sent to the medical council. The council will take appropriate action,” she said. Saravanan of Kandhampatty ordered the freezer box from a renting company on Monday for keeping the body of his brother Balasubramaniya Kumar. Based on the request, the company brought the box to his house. When they came back on Tuesday around 5pm to collect the box, they saw a person kept inside the freezer box showing signs of life. When they confronted Saravanan, he said he was waiting for his brother’s soul to leave the body. Later, the staff informed former DMK councillor V Deivalingam about this and he rushed to the spot. He also alerted Suramangalam police who rescued Balasubramaniya Kumar and took him to Salem GH. Suramangalam police have registered a case against Saravanan under two sections of IPC including 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-man-kept-in-freezer-box-for-20-hours-dies/articleshow/78704631.cms||Senthil Kumaran
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Metro announces new offers for commuters||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) has announced a straight 40% discount for commuters on all routes from October 17 to 31, under the Metro Suvarna Offer scheme. Applicants of smart cards, paper and digital QR will be able to avail the discounts. Metro users will get free trips for a certain period. For smart cards, if passengers pay for 14 days, they will get 20 trips for a period of 30 days. Similarly, if they pay for 20 days, they can avail 30 trips for 45 days. The all-time plan offered is pay for 40 days and get 60 trips for a period of 60 days. “Commuters are advised to approach the nearest station to avail the offers. While the minimum benefit of the scheme is 40%, maximum is 50%,” said HMRL managing director NVS Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-offers-for-metro-users/articleshow/78709428.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Metro tunnel at heritage area completed||MUMBAI: Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) has achieved a breakthrough in the 653m tunnel between Churchgate-Hutatma Chowk, an area dotted with heritage buildings, including Bombay high court and Flora Fountain. An MMRC spokesperson said this was the 33rd breakthrough completed with Robbins-made dual mode hardrock tunnel-boring machine (TBM) Surya-2. Tunnelling on the down line stretch took 275 days. “The presence of iconic Flora Fountain and heritage buildings made out task a bit challenging. But this unique station, in the vicinity of Hutatma Chowk, is being built by using a combination of cut-and-cover and new Austrian tunnelling method (NATM). This station will provide accessibility to business centres of South Mumbai,” said MMRC managing director Ranjit Singh Deol Overall progress of Hutatma Chowk station is 53%. Package 1 (Cuffe Parade, Vidhan Bhavan, Churchgate and Hutatma Chowk stations) has achieved 80% tunnelling progress and 68% overall station work progress. MMRC has completed 88% tunnelling and 60% total civil work. Nearly 48km of tunnelling is completed on the 54km up and down length of the underground tunnel. So far, 33 of 41 breakthroughs have been achieved. Breakthroughs remaining are Siddhivinayak-Dadar, Sahar road-domestic airport, Hutatma Chowk-CSMT, Churchgate-CST, Science Museum to Mahalaxmi and Mahalaxmi-Mumbai Central (up and down lines). Last week, MMRC received a crucial flash-butt welding machine which will weld head-hardened rails for the 33.5km Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ Metro-3 corridor. It is already operating at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/metro-tunnel-at-heritage-area-completed/articleshow/78710102.cms||Manthank Mehta
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Festive season is back, take precautions to avoid second possible spike||NAGPUR: Auspicious as well as festive time of Navaratri is starting from Saturday and markets are already beaming with crowd. In next two weeks, we will be having Durga Puja, Vijaya Dashmi, Dhammachakra Pravartan Din and Eid-E-Milad back to back. While festive season is here, Covid-19 surge can also return. At least, our earlier experiences post-lockdown says the same. Covid-19 cases had gone up during Ganesh Chaturthi festive season, when the unlock process had just begun. The effect of the festive season lasted for up to four weeks and the Vidarbha region reported its Covid-19 peak like situation in September. After that, a one-month period of ‘Adhik Maas’ an additional month that comes in Marathi calendar after every 33 months proved to be a good breathing period as no festival or public congregation was celebrated during this time between September 18 and October 16. As public moment was restricted for about two weeks during September 18 and October 1, its effect was visible from October 1 itself. Number of Covid-19 cases went down significantly. Fatalities also reduced. Now, with crowd pulling festivities are starting from Saturday, it’s an additional responsibility on people to be careful, follow all Covid-19 precautions and avoid possible spike or second wave of Covid-19, said experts. “Festivity, shopping, public gatherings may definitely result in more people getting infected, but there is increased awareness in people these days. In case of more cases, our facilities are also improved during last one month,” said a senior member of Nagpur’s Covid-19 task force. It’s not yet official, but doctors are still expecting another wave of Covid-19 cases in winter and the festive season can play a major role in this. In such a situation, authorities are focusing on raising awareness among people. Durga Puja groups have decided to keep the festival low-key this year. “We are celebrating the festival following all rules and regulations. Small idol, restricted entry for visitors in pandal and no mass feast (Maha Prasad) will be the major changes this year,” said a member of Laxmi Nagar Durga Utsav Mandal. Many mandals are also considering measures to facilitate contact tracing of visitors in case anyone of them is identified with fever or any other symptom of Covid-19 during checking at entry points. “It’s all up to people now. Festival season is just starting. After this, we will be having Diwali in November. After six months of restricted activities, many may feel like celebrating these festivals with doubled enthusiasm. Instead of enthusiasm, we must focus on doubled precautions,” said epidemiologist Dr Shrikant Pardeshi. Psychologically, festivals will provide the much needed confidence to people. “Industry and economy is coming back on track. Markets providing many lucrative offers and Covid-19 cases going down daily is ideal situation to provide psychological relief to people. Many have already stopped using masks and washing hands. But, this is risky,” said psychologist Priya Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/festive-season-is-back-take-precautions-to-avoid-second-possible-spike/articleshow/78709459.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Over 100-foot tall tricolour hoisted inside state assembly||Dehradun: A 101-foot tall national flag was unfurled inside the Uttarakhand assembly premises in Dehradun on Friday. Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal hoisted the tricolour in the presence of state cabinet minister Subodh Uniyal and minister Rekha Arya. This comes after the Speaker’s announcement, on July 22 this year, that assembly premises will have a 101-foot tall national flag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-100-foot-tall-tricolour-hoisted-inside-state-assembly/articleshow/78707993.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 schools help parents pass on fee relief||Ahmedabad: To support parents who are finding it tough to pay school fees despite the 25% cut announced by the state government, Udgam School For Children and Zebar School For Children have launched a campaign. These schools have set up a social media platform where parents who can afford to can let go of the 25% relief in favour of those facing financial difficulties. In compliance with the government resolution dated October 7, Udgam School and Zebar School have both announced a relief of 25% in annual tuition fees for the academic year 2020-21.  “Though the state government has clarified on the ambiguity over the school fees for the current academic year, we received many requests from parents asking for further reduction in fees citing multiple reasons like job loss and increase in medical expenses,” said Manan Choksi, executive director, Udgam School and Zebar School.  “At the same time, many generous parents approached us to extend their help by passing on the fee relief to needy parents.” The schools were not in a position to reduce the fees beyond the 25% limit and hence they came up with the idea to launch a platform that acts as a bridge between the well-off and needy parents, said Choksi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-schools-help-parents-pass-on-fee-relief/articleshow/78711105.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Lucrative offers, limited inventory and lower rates likely to buoy realty mkt||Jaipur: Real estate may have suffered due to the pandemic but there is a hope that the market will bounce back riding on the festive demand and lower inventory. In addition, developers are showering offers to woo buyers and push up the sales. After witnessing a prolonged slump, the real estate industry, which is struggling to overcome the liquidity crunch and meet financial obligations, is making offers to sell houses at reduced prices to clear unsold inventory. Many are also attracting buyers with lucrative deals including cash discounts, flexible payment plans, free-parking space and other baits.Vikas Sharma, director of a leading real estate firm, said “There is opportunity for both buyers and sellers this festival season. In a difficult economic environment induced by Covid-19 crisis, many people have postponed their decisions to buy a house due to job insecurity and salary cuts. However, at present the developers are selling houses at extremely discounted rates reducing the problem of affordability. Developers are also flexible as they have to meet other financial commitments. For them, holding on to the properties to gain a better price makes no sense at this point of time.”In a bid to clear the inventory during festive season, builders are making offers for rental assurance, payment of half EMI, cars, etc to unload their unsold stock.Real estate analyst Abhishek Sharma said, “These freebies are actually beneficial for the users, and many queries from users are getting generated these days. I personally feel the market will revive as actual users are forthcoming to grab the opportunity. This is a good time for buyers to purchase as prices might go upwards once inventory is sold.”Since liquidity has vanished, many developers are not launching new projects. In the absence of fresh supply, demand will rise for the already available flats. While builders may find it a little difficult to sell houses right now, the situation will change soon as the existing inventory gets reduced. Property prices are also expected to rise further because of lower level of inventory. Many builders said those who buy now can get a better price but if they delay, they may not get the same lower price in coming months.After Covid- 19, the residents who were preferring a rented accommodation over buying have changed their mindset and need for people to own their own houses has become relevant. The lower interest rates are also influencing their decisions. “The recent reduction in interest rates has narrowed the gap of rent and home loan EMIs. This has encouraged actual buyers to make the purchase. Flats ranging between Rs 25 lakh to Rs 55 lakh are on high demand,” said a developer Rajesh DukiyaThough hope of revival is expected in the middle segment, big developers involved in commercial and big land deals cannot see the light at the end of the tunnel. Rajasthan CREDAI, chairman, Gopal Das Gupta said, “The demand for a villa or flat in a gated society has improved after Covid pandemic. Many people living in the Walled City or in joint families have decided to move out after the recent crises. However, big land deals of colonizers and commercial projects which are capital intensive are not happening at the moment,”Also, plot owners who invested in existing colonies claimed, prices of their land have come down and many are desperate to sell their products. The investors are also having money to buy but they are not taking the decision till they get confidence. “All these schemes are to attract new buyers. On resale, there are many plots available in various schemes. Due to the buyers are quoting less prices of the plots, people who invested in the real estate are not getting desired results,” said Rahul Sharma, a real estate agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lucrative-offers-limited-inventory-and-lower-rates-likely-to-buoy-realty-mkt/articleshow/78711104.cms||Ajay Singh
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Visa firm cheats naval officer’s wife of Rs 8.22 lakh||HISAR: The police here have registered a case against an Ambala-based consultancy company’s officer and a Hisar resident for allegedly duping the wife of a Navy officer of about Rs 8.22 lakh on the pretext of getting her passed in IELTS exam and completing her visa formalities. No one has been arrested in connection with the fraud so far. The police said a case has been registered at the Civil Lines police station here on the complaint of Tanvi Sagwan, a resident of Green Park in Hisar, against Smriti Atri, an officer at Ambala’s Success Graph Consultancy, and Sandeep Sheoran, a resident of Rakhi Garhi village in Hisar, under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC. Tanvi stated in the complaint that her husband works in the Navy and most of the time he stays away, while her brother and aunt live in Canada. So, she also wanted to relocate to Canada. She is still pursuing her graduation from the local Jat College. She said that Sandeep Sheoran met her brother-in-law and said Smriti Atri would get her through the IELTS examination and also arrange a visa. After this, Smriti and Sandeep Sheoran visited her place several times and took away a total of Rs 822,400 in instalments. Now, she neither returns the money nor gets her work done, she alleged. Investigating officer sub-inspector Ramesh Kumar is probing the case, but no arrests have been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/visa-firm-cheats-naval-officers-wife-of-rs-8-22l/articleshow/78711100.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Dispute over matchbox leads to murder||Hisar: A man allegedly bludgeoned a labourer to death with an iron rod during a quarrel over a matchbox at Shiv Colony in Hisar city. The deceased has been identified as 43-year-old Rohtash Sharma. Hisar police said a case has been registered at HTM police station on the complaint of Raj Kumar, a resident of Shiv Colony and councillor representative against Deepak, resident of the same area, under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. In his police complaint, he said while he was walking in the morning, a woman named Bimla Devi told him that the body of Rohtash, who was her tenant, was lying in the room. He visited the house to find Rohtash Sharma’s body in the room with injury marks on his head and neck and a lot of blood spilled around, he said. “Talking to Bimla Devi and other tenants living with him, he said it was found that at night, Rohtash asked Deepak’s wife Geeta for a matchbox. There was a dispute over this and Rohtash abused Geeta. Rohtash and Deepak had an altercation on the issue but later both fell asleep. At night, when Rohtash started abusing again, Deepak attacked him with an iron rod and killed him”, he said. Police said the case has been handed over to ASI Ved Prakash for further investigation but the accused has not been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dispute-over-matchbox-leads-to-murder/articleshow/78711118.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Arrested lawyer has courted controversy since student days||NEW DELHI: Advocate Vibhor Anand, arrested by Mumbai Police for his online posts regarding the Sushant Singh Rajput case, is no stranger to controversy. In 2013, while he was still a law student, he had pushed his father, criminal lawyer VK Anand, to appear for one of Nirbhaya’s rapists claiming they had a right to fair representation. Later, he approached the court seeking permission to attend the trial proceedings claiming he needed it for research. VK Anand briefly represented Mukesh and his brother Ram Singh. Earlier, Vibhor had made unfounded allegations against chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Baba Ramdev, none of which stood scrutiny in court. He had even filed a PIL seeking lifting of the ban on BBC’s controversial documentary featuring an interview of one of the four convicts in the Nirbhaya case. In his plea, he had sought a direction to declare as illegal the ban on the documentary by the Centre and Delhi Police. A few years later, after he became an advocate, he took to social media to air his “bold” views. In 2018, he founded India Against Biased Media, which claimed to have “filed over 100 criminal cases across India” against journalists, JNU students and actors. While his Twitter account now stands suspended, earlier content showed comments on how PILs were allegedly being used by “foreign-funded NGOs in nexus with some elite lawyers’ lobby in Supreme Court to destabilise the country, leading to rampant extortion rackets run through court proceedings”. As his claims and targets expanded on social media, so did his conspiracy theories. In 2019, the lawyer reportedly shot off a legal notice to Supreme Court on behalf of “thousands of Indian citizens” for hearing a petition on the plight of Rohingya refugees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arrested-lawyer-has-courted-controversy-since-student-days/articleshow/78709470.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 sets lakshman rekha as Ram and Sita take the stage||NEW DELHI: While Ram paints his face, Ravana enjoys a plate of snacks. Sita and Kaikeyi help each other with their makeup. Amid peacock feathers and an easily lifted bow and arrow, they run from one dressing room to another getting into their costumes. And all of them have to undergo the agnipariksha this time — the Covid-19 test. Preparations for the 64th edition of Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra’s annual dance-drama Shri Ram are in full swing for staging from October 17-27. At a time when most Ramlila organising committees, big or small, have stepped back due to lack of preparatory time and pandemic restrictions, SBKK’s play, to be performed in the open air on its lawns on Copernicus Marg, aims to enthral viewers as it has for six decades. Its modern avatar will also be available on YouTube from October 28 to November 14 for those who cannot be physically present for the event. “The actors have been practising at the venue since July. There was much confusion recently, but as soon as we got the permission to stage the play a few days ago, we stepped up our preparations,” said Shobha Deepak Singh, vice-chairperson, SBKK, and director of the dance-drama. “We have several new characters this time, some haven’t even performed on stage before.” The stage has multiple screens displaying images relevant to the scenes and another screen at the top to give the synopsis of the acts being performed. The special effects, commentary and music will connect the audience with the mythological characters without the need of heavy dialogues. Singh said that around 600 people attended the performances on each of the 10 days of its run last year. This time, arrangements have been made for 100 people a day, given the need for physical distancing. But Singh admitted that the response till now wasn’t great, perhaps due to the late permission. Raj Kumar Sharma, who plays Ram, told TOI that the actors did their own makeup for the rehearsals. “We also get a Covid test done every 15 days,” he said. “Most of us actors live in a hostel nearby to be able to practise year round, though this time we didn’t know if we would eventually perform.” Shashi Nair, who has choreographed sequences in the play, added, “We have a separate unit for dance-drama, so we work though the year. But 2-3 months ago, we started working on the new script we are going to stage.” A Kathak dancer by profession, Meera Rawat, who plays Sita, joined rehearsals three weeks ago. “Since we all know the basic Ramayana story, it wasn’t too difficult to learn everything in a short time. It’s basically a musical ballet,” she said. This is her first time performing in the annual play. For the elaborate role of Sita, she does her makeup herself with some seniors and fellow dancers lending a hand. Ravana in this play isn’t simply Ravana, but also Vashisht and Parshuram, laughed Swapan Majumdar, who plays all three characters. “This is my sixth year playing Ravana, but I’ve been acting for the last 27 years. I have also played the role of Lakshman a lot of times in my career,” he said. Arun Kichi, an actor of 14 years’ standing, assays the roles of both Ravana’s son Indrajit and Maharaja Janak. The two-hour long musical ballet employs space around the stage and near the audience to add emphasis to the scenes. The closing act reminds that Diwali is near and even if recent months have been hard, the stage can light up with hundreds of diyas and symbolise a hope of better times. Watch Ram and Sita take the stage, Covid-19 sets lakshman rekha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-sets-lakshman-rekha-as-ram-and-sita-take-the-stage/articleshow/78709449.cms||Suhina Bisaria
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: RPF nabs 6 agents in multi-city raids||NAGPUR: The railway protection force (RPF), south eastern central railway (SECR), has arrested six e-ticket agents through collaborative raids at Bhandara, Gondia and the city on Thursday. RPF squads, under the supervision of senior divisional security commissioner AK Swamy, have seized 68 e-tickets worth more than Rs one lakh. RPF, which also roped in the local police, arrested Mohd Naushad, Mohd Salim, Sandesh Jain, Rakshak Meshram, Roshan Hatwar and Sachin Deodhari during the operations. Deodhari was held in Gondia while the rest were nabbed from their outlets at different places in the city. The arrested accused were produced before the court. Apart from e-tickets, the RPF squads of senior inspectors GA Garkal of Motibagh post, Anil Patil from Bhandara, RK Singh of Itwari post and others have also seized other materials from the offices of the agents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpf-nabs-6-agents-in-multi-city-raids/articleshow/78709442.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Markets depend on festive demand to ride out crisis time||JAIPUR: Celebration of festivals is a way of life in the Pink City. The grandeur of heritage and cultural riches of the city attracts millions of tourists every year. When the tourist season gets into full swing in October and festivities kick off with Navratri, decked up bazaars of the city rarely fail to rouse the feeling of festivity. But this is year, the expectations are more. The business community wants people not to dwell too much on the negatives. Obviously, it’s been too long to hold back, they said. "Life has to come back to its natural mode. We should take all the precautions we can, but let’s not choke ourselves," said Saurav Gupta, former president of Apparel & Garments Exporters Association of Sitapura. Livelihoods of many families and future of many businesses depend on the demand for their services and products. Diwali is a time they all look up to either reach the targets they could not fulfill or strengthen their businesses. This year, it is both. "Every one, starting from a small shopkeeper to a factory owner, is hoping for a good festive season to cover up the lost ground. The general expectation is how closer one reaches the targets he or she achieved last year," said Hero Ravjani, an entrepreneur. But Ravjani said that even though the offline stores are still having a hard time, the online business is doing just fine. "The growth of online business, too, creates a lot of opportunities. Logistics, supply chain, packing industry and many other invisible value-chain players get active. That creates jobs and raises incomes which has a ripple effect on the economic activities," added Ravjani. There are others who are counting on a new beginning from the festival season. The drop in new Covid cases and the opening of cinema halls are all positives they are looking at. "If the downward trend in new cases continues as it has been for the past couple of weeks, the festival season will be very good. The Covid numbers have a direct correlation to the sales. If there are less number of cases, more number of people will come out which will lead to better demand," added Gupta. He said this will sustain the demand even after Diwali, which is what we are hoping for. "Because, after January or February, there will be a vaccine. Demand should come back to normal levels after that. The only crucial period is the festival season which we hope will be good keeping in view the lower number of Covid cases," Gupta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/markets-depend-on-festive-demand-to-ride-out-crisis-time/articleshow/78711115.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||CM sanctions Rs 7 crore for hospital in Tyuni||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday sanctioned Rs 7 crore for the under-construction 100-bed hospital in Tyuni in Dehradun district. The CM said that the residents of Tyuni will greatly benefit from the hospital, once its fully operational. CM Rawat also sanctioned Rs 4.65 crore for drinking water projects in Doiwala area, which is his assembly constituency. Besides, an amount of Rs 1.89 crore was also sanctioned for the construction of an approach road for Soban Singh Jeena State Medical College in Almora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-sanctions-rs-7-crore-for-hospital-in-tyuni/articleshow/78708032.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Edu dept to extend contract with DD for telecast of study programs||Dehradun: The state education department has decided to extend its contract with Doordarshan for another few weeks for the telecast of academic programs for school children. Though the government is all set to reopen its schools for Classes X and XII from November 2, the interactive programs will continue on the public broadcasting service until October 31. The officials have said that they are likely to extend the contract with the public broadcaster as the schools will reopen for other classes only after the decision to call Class X and Class XII students to schools works out. The move has come as a relief for the students who are hesitant to come to schools from November. They depend greatly on the free-to-air broadcasting service for their academic lessons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-extend-contract-with-dd-for-telecast-of-study-programs/articleshow/78708024.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 17, 2020||Pune||Strain map to identify quake zones||Pune: The Geological Survey of India (GSI) has deployed 30 permanent GPS stations across the country to monitor tectonic movement of the Indian plate and develop a strain map to identify zones of earthquake hazards. The first phase of the study would be completed soon, said GSI sources. GSI has also chalked out a plan to mitigate the impact of natural calamities during the pandemic. “We have carried out seismic microzonation and active fault studies to evaluate potential geological vulnerable seismic sites, apart from publishing the maps at 1:25,000 scale,” a source from GSI added. GSI has also completed about 85% of the total target (3.57 lakh sqkm) of the National Landslide Susceptibility Mapping Project. It is generating landslide susceptibility maps and a national landslide inventory for landslide-prone areas of India. Detailed landslide hazard zonation work is being prepared for facilitating implementation of structural/ non-structural landslide mitigation measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strain-map-to-identify-quake-zones/articleshow/78709465.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Tanot temple all decked up for Navratri||Jaisalmer: The 1200-year-old Tanot mata temple on Indo-Pak border in the district, along with eight other Shaktipeeth temples, is all decked up for the Navratri celebrations from Saturday. The BSF has made special arrangements for devotees at Tanot Mata temple looking at the corona pandemic. Devotees can have darshan maintaining social distance and cannot enter without wearing masks.According to information from BSF sources, the temple was opened a month ago and the officials are expecting huge crowds during Navratri. BSF has already issued an advisory to control the crowd at the temple. Sources said aarti will be done thrice at 6am, 11.30am and 6pm during the festival.On the first day, a yajna will be performed and arrangements for staying at the dharmashala for devotees have been made as per Covid guidelines. Bhandara will not be organised this year. Medical teams will also be present on the location.Eight other Shaktipeeth temples, including Degrai, Ghantiyali mata, Nabhdungar, Temderai, Bhadaria Rai and Aashapurna, have been decorated for the festival. On the other hand Jogmayagarh Temple Trust informed that special prayers, jagran and other activities will not take place due to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tanot-temple-all-decked-up-for-navratri/articleshow/78711121.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||NEET results show fewer aspirants from Maharashtra qualify||PUNE: Tejomoy Vaidya has topped the city and is second in Maharashtra with an All India Rank 43 in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test results which were announced late on Friday night. The state topper is Ashish Zantye with AIR 19. Students from Maharashtra have showcased one of the lowest qualifying ratios in NEET, similar to last year. A total of 2,27,659 students registered from Maharashtra of which 1,95,338 students appeared for the exam and 79,974 students qualified, taking the qualification percentage to 40.94%. However, this is the second worst in terms of the percentage of students qualifying from each state, with only Nagaland below Maharashtra with 40.50 as qualifying percentage. Tejomoy is the son of renowned orthopaedic and joint replacement surgeon Narendra Vaidya, MD of Lokmanya group of hospitals and dentist Meetali Vaidya. “We were expecting a good score as he has been nothing but sincere and dedicated to his studies since day 1. So much so that he told us not to take any vacations after he passed his standard X so that even during vacations, he could study for NEET. This is the result of his hard work and I cannot thank Jha Education Services enough for they have been a constant support to him, with Jha sir on many occasions waiting till midnight to solve Tejomoy’s doubts,” the mother said. Tejomoy, who is a singer with training in classical music, said it has been his lifelong dream to become a doctor. “I schooled in Abhinav Vidyalaya. My entire family has been in this profession right from my grandparents. Whenever I study, I do it with full concentration and I never think of the past or worry about the future. This helps me stay in the present and focus on my subjects. Most probably, I will choose to stay in Pune for my MBBS education,” Tejomoy, who will turn 19 in December, said. An expert in competitive examinations, Durgesh Mangeshkar said many students have scored well this year compared to the last year. “If a student got 621 marks this year, then his AIR is 11,000. But with the same score of 621 marks, the student would have got AIR 4,000, last year. Easy paper and longer period of preparation translated to higher scores overall as is evident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/neet-results-show-fewer-aspirants-from-state-qualify/articleshow/78709446.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Traffic restored on highways||Hyderabad: Vehicular traffic on the national highways except two has been restored. Temporary repair works have been completed on Hyderabad-Bengaluru, Hyderabad-Vijayawada, Hyderabad-Nizamabad and other highways, including Rajiv Rahadari. However, water from the nearby streams was still flowing on NH-167 on Alinagar-Miryalaguda Road and NH-565 on Nakrekal-Nalgonda Road. “Repair works will be taken up as soon as the water flow recedes,” said R&B engineer-in-chief I Ganapathi Reddy. Due to continuous heavy rains, portions of the roads caved in or some stretches were washed away owing to gushing waters from tanks and streams. Vehicular traffic came to a standstill on NH-44 Hyderabad-Bengaluru and NH-65 Hyderabad-Vijayawada after two days of heavy rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-restored-on-highways/articleshow/78709474.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||No drones in plane cabin baggage now||MUMBAI: Drones cannot be carried in cabin baggage on board flights in India, an order by Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) stated this week. Drones, remotely-piloted aircraft system, unmanned aircraft system and such flying machines fall under “restricted items’’ category, said the order. The order was issued following a clarification sought by CISF. “The issue has been examined in the light of extant rules and regulations and clarification provided by Directorate General of Civil Aviation,’’ said the order by BCAS joint director (policy) Mukund Mohan. Countries’ policies on drones carriage for air travel vary. While in US the decision is left to the airline, other countries decide if the drone can be carried in the cabin or not based on dimensions airlines have for carry-on. But most countries agree that batteries should not be checked in. Few airlines, like Dubai-based Emirates, ban drones in cabin baggage for safety reasons. “Drones can be accepted as checked-in baggage only. If you have a drone in your checked-in baggage you’ll be asked to secure the lithium batteries within the drone or remove the batteries and carry them in your cabin baggage. This applies even if you’re connecting to our flights from an airline that has accepted drones as cabin baggage,’’ the Emirates baggage policy states. With no standard norms across countries and airlines, carrying a drone on international flights demands advance planning to avoid seizure at security check-in counters, penalties and legal problems. In India, as drones are now “restricted items”, carrying them in cabin bags could lead to seizure at the security counter, as is the case with other items on the list. BCAS-restricted articles includes lighters, scissors, toys that are a realistic replica of weapons, sporting goods like baseball bat, cricket bats, golf clubs, guns and firearms, axes, crowbars, self-defence weaponry like billy clubs, black jacks, explosive material, flammable items and dangerous chemicals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drones-cant-be-carried-in-cabin-baggage-cisf-told/articleshow/78710107.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cops nab 10 fraudsters from Bharatpur in Rajasthan||HYDERABAD: Ten fraudsters from Bharatpur in Rajasthan, who duped several victims of lakhs of rupees posing as Army and para military personnel trying to sell vehicles through e-classifieds portals, have been arrested by Hyderabad police’s cyber crime sleuths. However, their arrest was dramatic. After the Hyderabad police team conducted a raid, villagers of Chulhera and Kalyanpur in Bharatpur district pelted stones at the personnel, damaging their vehicles. Earlier, police had arrested eight offenders of Padla village in Bharatpur for their involvement in another cyber crime on October 9. Police arrested Vajib Khan, Sahil, Sahid, Umer Khan, Satvir Singh, Ifran, Tarif, Mohan Singh, Azharuddin and Rahul of Chulhera and Kalyanpur villages. The gang members impersonate Army or CISF personnel on e-classifieds portals and post advertisements offering to sell cars and bikes at throwaway prices. “When our team went to Bharatpur, villagers of Chulhera and Kalyanpur pelted stones and threw chilli power to prevent the arrest. The local police had to use tear gas to disperse the mob and arrest the 10 accused. Three police vehicles were damaged in the operation,” ACP KVM Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-cops-nab-10-fraudsters-from-bharatpur/articleshow/78709480.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Navaratra celebration likely to be subdued, homely affair this year||PUNE: The usually colourful and lively festival of Navaratra is set to be an intimate family affair this year in the absence of temple visits or public cultural events. Most citizens shared that they plan to perform the rituals at home in a traditional manner, forgoing any pomp or pageantry. The idol of the Goddess will be installed at home on Saturday in customary fashion followed by low-key celebrations among family members. According to Purohit Amol Mulay, the auspicious time for the installation or Ghatasthapana is between 6.27am and 10.13am and later 11.44am to 12.29pm According to homemaker Shital Mehta, her family will begin the day with bringing home the Ghata or ‘Garbo’ — a decorated earthen pot that is worshipped during Navaratra. “The Garbo is installed at home during an auspicious time in the presence of the entire family. Everyone offers prayers and participates in the aarti once or twice a day throughout the festival. My family will follow all the customs and celebrate Navaratra at home this year. We will fast and maintain all other traditions like singing bhajans and garba,” she explained. Siddharth Date, a businessman from the city, said, “There’s usually Ghatasthapana at my place in the presence of my family, in-laws and close friends followed by an authentic Marathi lunch. Now that the lockdown is easing, the family reunion is still on the cards.” The evenings are expected to be quieter too as the Garba nights, organized in nooks and corners of the city, stand cancelled due to the pandemic. Colourful outfits donned by enthusiasts attending the garba nights are missing from shop shelves. Working professional Apurva Godse said, “We will celebrate the festival with just the puja at home this year. We will also not be playing Dandiya-Garba this year due to the pandemic. My society has not drawn any plans for public celebrations of the festival given the current conditions.” Durga Puja festivities in the city are also set to be subdued at several puja mandals, while some organizers have completely cancelled plans for this year. A resident of Pimple Saudagar Nilima Roy said, “There won’t be any major celebration in the city for Durga Puja this year. Many puja pandals have been unable to even get the idols this year as artisans could not travel from West Bengal. Many pandals are likely to conduct a token puja by installing a Ghata. There will be no stalls and probably no khichadi as well. This is the first time that we will be spending the full five days at home. It is going to be a completely different experience.” Although the Malayali community doesn’t celebrate the 9-day festival, Goddess Saraswati is worshipped on the last three days of the festival. “On the evening of the eighth day, we wrap all our books and deposit them at temples for worship for the next two-and-a-half days. The period is considered as auspicious to begin learning. The rituals are meant to evoke the goddess of knowledge. However, this year we will only conduct a small ritual at home since temples are closed,” explained Sarika H. While families are getting engaged in low-key celebrations, major temples in the city are doing all they can to ensure people can witness various rituals being conducted. Chatushrungi Devi Mandir, for example, is setting up a large screen outside the main entrance to live screen the rituals. Temple authorities are also making provisions to watch the recorded videos online. Representatives from the Mahalaxmi Mandir, Pune, said, “Live darshan is going to be available for devotees from 6am to 8pm daily. All cultural programmes, including bhajan kirtan, are going to be screened online. We have also made the facility to conduct rituals from home available. Devotees can book rituals online and we will share a Zoom link. Priests will conduct rituals at the temple while devotees can participate from their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/navaratra-celebration-likely-to-be-subdued-homely-affair-this-year/articleshow/78709478.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Art spaces go virtual to sculpt revival||AHMEDABAD: In the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, museums and art spaces worldwide have creatively reassessed and revised their goals and work strategies. Adapting to the changing times, museums and art spaces in and around the city have not only reopened recently to the masses with hygiene measures in place, but are also turning into futuristic techno-savvy versions. Jaishree Lalbhai, trustee of Kasturbhai Lalbhai Museum, said: “Previously we enhanced our virtual presence across social media to attract more visitors. However, today when we cannot admit more visitors, we are solidifying our virtual presence and have launched a virtual walk-through experience on an experimental basis.” Lalbhai went on to say: “It is currently offered to one or two institutions and is purely educational in nature. However, within a month or two, we will launch a virtual tour across the museum for all.” Lalbhai Dalpatbhai Museum’s director Sujata Parsai said: “To carry forward the mission of educating the masses in testing times, we revamped our virtual presence and have been loading online exhibitions.” Parsai added: “Currently the exhibition Mughal Art (though paintings and coins) is on view. We will bring a new exhibition, Shakti Rupa, to coincide with the Navratri Festival. This will also be seen on Instagram.” LD Museum conducts a virtual tour of the collection’s highlights. “From all interested colleges and institutions, we invite one faculty member to visit the museum with prior appointment, and jointly address their class on any virtual platform along with our curator,” Parsai said. “Cept University has availed of this facility.” LD Museum’s Art Talks for schoolchildren have been enjoyed by many students, including those of St Kabir and Rachana. “We have reached out online to more than a thousand students,” she said. LD Museum also offers puzzles, jigsaws, poetry and painting competitions on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Krupa Amin, patron, Art Studios and The Space at Alembic City, said: “After the lockdown we have ensured a smooth transition into the virtual space. Our art residency moved online and after things improved, with proper measures in place, we have started the physical residency.” However the thirst is to sharpen the virtual action. “During and after the lockdown, we have been organizing informative sessions with curators and art consultants on our Instagram handle about online resources that are available to artists,” Amin said. “We hope to continue such endeavours in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/art-spaces-go-virtual-to-sculpt-revival/articleshow/78711168.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 34,000 admissions; expect slight dip in 2nd list cutoffs||NEW DELHI: Till Friday evening, as many as 34,814 students took admission in different Delhi University colleges. With students having time till midnight, the number of admissions under the first cutoff list was expected to rise further. While about half of the seats have been filled already, all is not grim. Many courses and colleges have seats left for grab and the cutoff may see a drop by 0.5 to 1 percentage point in the second list, which will be released on Saturday. Kirori Mal College Principal Vibha Chauhan said that “most of our seats are already full so we will not reduce the cutoffs much. Our BA programme courses have a lot of demand among applicants.” However, she added that there was a chance of applicants shifting from one course to another. A senior official at St Stephen’s College, which has also released its admission list, said, “There will be musical chairs now as students will be changing their decisions. Earlier, by the time the cutoff list used to be released, our college would have released the list of selected students. Due to Covid-19 and online interviews, the process got delayed this year.” At Kamala Nehru College, all major courses have their unreserved category seats filled. “Only some seats are left in courses like Hindi, Sanskrit, journalism, maths and philosophy,” the principal, Kalpana Bhakuni, said. She added: “Seeing the huge response from students, we are planning to keep the cutoff same in the second list as well.” Bhakuni said that “the online admission experience was new for us. But we did not think the admissions would be this high.” “There will not be many transfers from our college as we have seen applicants with very high scores applying to our college,” she added. At Sri Venkateswara College, popular courses like Political Science, BCom (H) and BCom are likely to be shut for admissions in the second cutoff list. “But in our science courses, we still have some seats left and we will keep the cutoff dip minimum: perhaps 0.33%, so that we don’t get a rush of applicants in those courses,” said Principal Venkat Kumar. Even at Aryabhatta College in the south campus, almost all the courses are open for admissions. “We have decided that we will reduce the cutoff for the courses by 1 to 2 percentage points. Most of the courses are still open,” said RK Dwivedi, admission convener at the college. There are about 70,000 seats in UG courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/34k-admissions-expect-slight-dip-in-2nd-list-cutoffs/articleshow/78709512.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Pink Belt warrior joins Mission Shakti||LUCKNOW: In order to inspire and make women feel safe and self-reliant, UP government has roped in motivational speaker, life coach and founder of Pink Belt Mission, Aparna Rajawat, for its Mission Shakti campaign. The campaign is dedicated to the safety and dignity of women and girls. Also, the government will launch a massive awareness and sensitisation programme on October 17, the first day of Navaratra. It will continue for six months till Basant Navaratra. Hailing CM Yogi Adityanath’s Mission Shakti initiative, Rajawat said it will help girl students and women to learn about their rights, duties, and the law. The mission will also help to trickle down and reach the women/girl children at the grassroots level, the pink warrior added. Rajawat’s story is not merely of rags to riches, but instead it’s of woman who fought her way through various struggle from the scratch to the summit. She has fuelled positive changes for international audiences, from students to corporate employees and business leaders, by showing them the live example of positivity, consistency and persistence. The Agra native is also an internationally acclaimed martial arts champion. She had started her mission of self-defence techniques and mental toughness in 2018 from Agra. Later, she took it to Mathura, Firozabad, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Basti, Mau, Noida, Manipuri, Aligarh, Lucknow, Kushinagar, Meerut, Basti among other UP districts. She has also assisted Women Power Line 1090 and trained about 1 lakh girls and women in self-defence training. Rajawat has also brought laurels of the state in the international arena. She has been a tour director for different countries in Europe and the US. She has also worked and trained people in digital safety. She has counselled women and taught them safety techniques, legal rights besides creating awareness on preventing sexual and domestic abuse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pink-belt-warrior-joins-mission-shakti/articleshow/78711874.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR sanctions Rs 6 crore for nalas in Secunderabad Cantonment, works to begin soon||SECUNDERABAD: Works pertaining to nalas in Secunderabad Cantonment, and a facelift of Patny nala, are expected to begin soon after minister for municipal administration and urban development KT Rama Rao sanctioned Rs 6 crore for the purpose. The minister, who visited Patny nala in Begumpet on Friday, along with Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna, SCB officials and representatives from GHMC, convened a meeting to discuss the issue. A few locals residing in nearby areas met the minister and explained the issues they have been facing. SCB elected members donated their one month salary to the chief minister relief fund for flood victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-sanctions-rs-6cr-for-nalas-in-cantt-works-to-begin-soon/articleshow/78709506.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Two youths held for bid to enter Ahmednagar army facility||PUNE: Two youths, including an engineering graduate, from Dhule were arrested on the charges of cheating and impersonation after they tried to enter the basic training centre of the Armoured Corps Centre at Ahmednagar Cantonment, about 120km from the city, on Thursday afternoon. One of them had secured a coloured photocopy of a genuine army identity card belonging to his relative — a serving soldier posted in the northern sector — to hoodwink the security guards at the army establishment, police said. Inspector Pravin Patil of Ahmednagar Camp police told TOI, “The arrested duo — Sopan Mahru Patil (22) and Tushar Dnyaneshwar Patil (24) — told us during the questioning that they were at the Armoured Corps Centre to meet a serving soldier to know about the Army recruitment process. We are verifying their claims. Sopan is an engineer, while Tushar is a graduate. Both are jobless.” Patil said, “The two conceded to have misused the identity card at toll plazas on highways and at the army canteens. Nothing has come out so far to suggest that the duo were gathering intelligence or planning any sabotage.” The military intelligence personnel, too, questioned the duo but did not find any documents related to the Army from them. The Armoured Corps Centre is a premier training establishment of the Indian Army for recruitment as well as training of officers and personnel from the armoured corps. Around 2.30pm on Thursday, the two men, riding a motorcycle, reached the basic training centre gate. Tushar handed over the identity card to the security guard for entering the premises. The guard got suspicious about the card. He referred it to his senior at the gate and men from the military intelligence were summoned at the spot. A verification revealed that the photo and the name on the identity card given by the two men were not matching with the Aadhar card details and the photo of the actual soldier. The photocopy was of the identity card of Sopan's cousin, a serving soldier. The military intelligence men then apprehended Tushar and Sopan, and later handed them over to the Ahmednagar Camp police. Naib Rasaldar Satram Singh, a junior commissioned officer, lodged the case for offences under sections 420 (cheating) 170 (personating public servant) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-youths-held-for-bid-to-enter-ahmednagar-army-facility/articleshow/78709541.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||All downhill in Oct: New and active cases, deaths in Nagpur district||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak for 5-6 weeks in the district, if data released by the district civil surgeon and conclusions drawn from it by an expert are considered. The district has registered decline in all parameters — new cases, deaths, test positivity rate (TPR) and active cases — of Covid-19 in the first two weeks of October. The numbers are almost same to that registered in second and third week of August when cases and deaths had starting increasing. For 5-6 weeks, from end of August third week to September end, there were maximum cases and deaths. As per the district civil surgeon, the district registered 4,418 positive cases for a daily average of 631 in the second week (8-14) of October. There were 165 deaths for a daily average of 23 during the week. In second week (8-14) of August, cases were 4,998 for a daily average of 714 and fatalities 178 for a daily average of 25. Cases increased to 6,001 in the third week of August for a daily average of 857 and deaths to 206 for a daily average of 29. In October first week, there were 6,069 cases for a daily average of 867 and deaths 194 for a daily average of 27. From fourth week of August to last week of September, there were 10,000-12,000 cases per week and 320-400 deaths. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI that data for the district clearly shows that the pandemic was at its peak for 5-6 weeks, from third week of August till last week of September. “Some big cities in India witnessed peak of 6-10 weeks,” he said. “All Covid-19 parameters are likely to decline further in the coming days,” he said and added, “But there are chances of second wave in the district, as being predicted, from January. On predictions regarding the second wave, Dr Shinde said the district has very low humidity in winter, especially during last days of December. “Also, people prefer to stay indoors. Before the season starts, there are chances people will meet during festivals. If guidelines are not followed, the district might witness second wave from January. But it may not be as intense as that in August and September,” he said. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar had earlier told TOI that peak of Covid-19 in the district is over and the curve is bending. The TPR has dropped significantly in the second week (8-14) of October. It was 10.4% as there were 4,418 positive cases as against 42,573 tests. The administration had taken efforts to again increase number of tests. Due to less cases, the case fatality rate (CFR) slightly increased to 3.7% despite decline in number of deaths. There have been less than 700 cases for the last eight days and below 1,000 for the last 15 days. Active cases dropped below 7,000 on Friday. The recoveries were more than positive cases in 25 out of last 26 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-was-at-peak-in-dist-for-5-6-weeks-expert/articleshow/78709526.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 recovery rate reaches 88% in U’khand, 50k defeat virus||Dehradun: The total count of Covid-19 cases reached 57,042 in Uttarakhand with 549 fresh infections reported on Friday. However, the recovery rate of the state also shot up to 87.9% with over 50,000 people recovering from the infection. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid 19 control room, said that the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases is 92.1 days in the Himalyan state and the sample positivity rate was 6.7% as on Friday. “So far, 50,155 have defeated Covid-19 in the state. At present, 5,692 active cases are under treatment. Also, 366 Covid-19 patients have migrated from the state,” he added. Among the 549 fresh cases on the day, the maximum of 183 were recorded from Dehradun, followed by 86 from Nainital, 73 from Chamoli, 28 from Haridwar, 26 from Rudraprayag, 22 cases each from Almora and Champawat, 20 from Tehri, 14 cases each from Udham Singh Nagar and Uttarkashi, 11 from Pithoragarh, and nine from Bageshwar. On Friday, deaths of 15 Covid-19 patients were recorded in the state. Among these deaths, 13 were reported from Dehradun, and two from Rudrapur. “Till Friday, 829 people had died of the disease,” added Tripathi. Meanwhile, the health department on Friday launched a website from where people of the state will be able to check their Covid-19 report. Secretary (health) Amit Negi said that people can now check their reports on — http://covid19.uk.gov.in/ “The website was built with the help of people from the National Informatics Centre (NIC). People will get an OTP after which they will have to enter the required details. Subsequently, they can check their reports on the website,” he added. Also, people can file their complaints regarding Covid-19 reports at covid19statewarroomuk@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-recovery-rate-reaches-88-in-ukhand-50k-defeat-virus/articleshow/78708055.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||Jeweller among 5 booked for extortion, land grabbing||Rajkot: Five persons including a city-based jeweller, who was named in the Rs 4,000 kg gold smuggling racket busted in Ahmedabad last year, have been booked for extortion and allegedly grabbing prime land of a man living in Bedi village on the city’s outskirts. The city crime branch booked jeweller Raju Goswami, his brother Hitesh, Mukesh Zapda, Bhupesh Bharvad and Rakesh Popat following a complaint lodged by victim Ramesh Ajani. Ajani had mortgaged his land worth nearly Rs two crore to Hitesh and borrowed Rs one crore from Raju in 2012 at 18% interest. He claimed to have repaid Rs 1.05 crore at the end of three-and-a-half years, but after that he ran out of money to pay the interest. Ajani then contacted Zapda to buy this land and pay the remaining amount to the Goswami brothers. Zapda made Ajani sign a sale deed of the land, but did not pay him the money. Thereafter, Ajani was allegedly asked him to pay Rs 1.60 crore and threatened him to create a dispute on this survey number if he did not pay. Ajani borrowed his amount from the Goswami brothers again and got caught in a web of loans. Meanwhile, Hitesh sold this land to Bhupat who had threatened Ajani of dire consequences. Hitesh is into construction business. Official sources said that these accused persons, who have a criminal background, used to lend money to needy people at unreasonably high interest rates. In October 2019, the central excise and customs department had busted a racket of smuggling 4,000 kg gold to India worth Rs 1,300 crore over five years. Raju Goswami, who is engaged in silver ornaments and imitation jewellery making, was the alleged financier of this racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jeweller-among-5-booked-for-extortion-land-grabbing/articleshow/78708058.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||MSRTC hopes to run 4,300 buses this Diwali||PUNE: Officials of the Pune division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) said that they were planning to press 4,300 buses into service this Diwali, the same as last year. “We ran 4,300 buses last Diwali. The Swargate depot recorded the movement of 2,000 buses, Shivajinagar 1,600 buses, and Chinchwad 700 buses. At present, 400 buses are plying intra-state. We hope to run 4,000 more buses next month if things are fine and no restrictions are imposed,” an official said. “Since the bus services resumed two months ago, there has been a major increase in the number of passengers, daily trips and as well as the number of buses,” a senior official told TOI. The intra-state services were started in a phased manner from the second week of August. “When the services resumed, 1,800 passengers travelled on an average daily, now the figure has gone up to almost 4,000. The number of daily trips has increased from 450 to 1200,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-hopes-to-run-4300-buses-this-diwali/articleshow/78709503.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||In BMC, ‘invalid’ BJP vote helps Shiv Sena win another panel||MUMBAI: BJP lost another divisional committee (prabhag samiti) consisting T (Mulund) and S (Bhandup) wards on Friday, after its corporator’s vote turned out to invalid. It helped Shiv Sena’s candidate to win with Congress-NCP support. BJP alleged that officials manipulated the voting to favour the ruling Sena. BJP corporator’s signature on the election paper crossed a specified box, for which officials declared it invalid. Mayor Kishori Pednekar, a Sena corporator, was presiding officer. BJP MP Manoj Kotak, also a corporator and a voter, said, “They declared my party corporator’s valid vote invalid without explanation. It’s murder of democracy. We will challenge it in court.” The city’s 24 administrative wards are divided into 17 divisional committees (some consist of more than one ward) and local coporators of those divisions vote to select the committee chairperson, who plays an influential role in fund distribution for local development work. Mulund-Bhandup divisional committee consists of 20 corporators, whereas BJP leads with 10, followed by Sena (8), and one each from Congress and NCP. It was expected Congress-NCP will support Sena to match BJP’s numbers but the invalid vote helped Sena. It won 12 committees versus BJP’s five in the election on Wednesday-Thursday and Friday. Earlier, BJP had nine committees and Sena eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/invalid-bjp-vote-helps-sena-win-another-panel/articleshow/78710137.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing manhole covers potential death traps during downpour||Hyderabad: After the floods ravaged the city, missing manhole covers are the new danger in several areas as they are potential death traps. “There is no drain cap on a manhole in Sri Sai Nagar colony. Even though there isn’t any water on that part of the road, this is still a danger of someone hurting themselves,” said Bhupendra Sai of Ayyapapa 0Society in Madhapur. Manoj Kumar, a resident of Manikonda, said there were at least 50 uncovered manholes from even before the rains. “What is worse is that some were opened during the heavy rains to let the water drain out but authorities have forgotten to close them again,” he said. Kumar added that this is dangerous for pedestrians as well as for vehicles while manoeuvring during the heavy rains. Sources said that the GHMC data showed that different agencies had received 63 complaints regarding manholes either being damaged or missing from Tuesday to Thursday. When approached about the issue, GHMC sources said that complaints were being addressed as soon as possible but that there were over 3,600 complaints including 340 needing disaster response teams’ intervention. However, many say a number of complaints are going unregistered. “I tried reaching out to the GHMC helpline about a missing manhole but in spite of repeated complaints no one responded,” said Shanta Kumar, from Moosapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-manhole-covers-potential-death-traps-during-downpour/articleshow/78709487.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 295 cr set aside for road repair after heavy rains||Hyderabad: The city roads that were damaged due to torrential rains in the past few days will be restored at a cost of Rs 297 crore, which was sanctioned by MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao after a meeting with civic officials on Friday. Decision of repairing sewerage lines that got damaged at the cost of Rs 50 crore was also taken. “As the rains have subsided, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is now focusing on sanitation works. Medical facilities and emergency services are also being provided,” said Rao at the meeting. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-295-cr-set-aside-for-road-repair-after-heavy-rains/articleshow/78709534.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Robot made by CET students to serve in MCH OP block||Thiruvananthapuram: Here is a welcome news at a time when healthcare professionals in the state are at loggerheads with the government for being forced to do additional Covid duty. A group of students of College of Engineering Trivandrum (CET) here has developed a robot that can be used in the Covid wards. The robot, developed by students of MTech Robotics and Automation 2018-20 batch of CET, has been handed over to the Medical College Hospital authorities after a trial run. Named Covid Care Robot, the robot has an autonomous navigation system that would enable it to move around a ward once the map of the ward is entered. This is achieved through LIDAR, a laser-based 3D mapping technology. The robot can carry 40kg of food. It also has a non-contact hand sanitizer dispenser. It is also equipped with a tablet computer holder that can facilitate telemedicine system, ie the doctor can see and interact with the patient without physically going to the ward. According to professor Sreeja S of CET, the Covid Care Robot was actually a final year project of student Sanjuna Mariam Mathews. “In June, we came to know through the department alumni members that Medical College authorities were looking for technological innovations that could be used in the Covid care duties,” Sreeja said. Since they already had a prototype in the form of Sanjuna’s robot, they decided to develop it more to suit the needs of the hospital. Sanjuna’s classmates Ajmal M, Harikrishnan K, Rojin Philip Reji and Arun Sankar were roped in to form a team. Their alumni association, Light House, sponsored the funds for the project. Doctor Shiju Majeed of Medical College gave them ample assistance through video calls. “The first robot I developed was mainly for the purpose of food delivery in Covid wards,” Sanjuna said. Besides the autonomous navigation system, the robot is also equipped with ultrasonic system to avoid dynamic obstacles such as persons moving around. This technology comes handy when the robot is used in out-patient wing where the crowd will be bigger. “The movement of the robot can also be controlled remotely using a joystick,” said Sanjuna. The robot has been designed to serve a ward comprising 60 patients. But, as the team completed the works, the number of patients in the hospital increased exponentially. As a result, the hospital authorities have decided to utilize the service of the robot in the new OP block for the time being as the crowd there is very less at present owing to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/robot-made-by-cet-students-to-serve-in-mch-op-block/articleshow/78703535.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Child welfare cops get lessons in handling victims in Trichy||Trichy: Following complaints of child victims being mishandled by police during inquiry, a special programme was organised by the city and rural police on Friday to teach child welfare police officers (CWPO) the nuances of dealing with them as well as juveniles in conflict with law. Over 80 officers in the rank of constables, sub-inspectors and inspectors attended. Superintendent of police A Kayalvizhi from the crime against women and children wing, Chennai, asked CWPOs to be friendly and considerate towards the victims during inquiry, court proceedings and throughout the case. She said CWPOs should always wear badge while on duty and be attired in plain clothes while handling the children. The CWPOs have been issued a handbook mentioning the duties and responsibilities, badges and law books while inspectors and assistant commissioners have been given a handbook of guidelines for investigation of cyber tipline reports. Inspector general H M Jayaram said officers have been advised to visit the spot, conduct enquiries and find solutions on crimes against women and children. As many as 30 awareness camps have been held in the Trichy range districts so far under the recently launched scheme Shield. DIG Z Annie Vijaya and district SP T Jayachandran were also part of the programme.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/child-welfare-cops-get-lessons-in-handling-victims-in-trichy/articleshow/78711881.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||ED attaches Rs 122-crore DCHL assets in Rs 8,180 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The ED has attached immovable assets worth Rs 122 crore belonging to Deccan Chronicle Holdings Limited (DCHL) promoters under PMLA. The action has been taken in the Rs 8,180 crore loan fraud case. Immovable assets attached on Friday include 14 properties in New Delhi, Hyderabad, Gurugram, Chennai and Bengaluru. ED officials said the assets were not covered under the NCLT process. Assets belonged to DCHL, two former promoters — T Venkatram Reddy and T Vinayakravi Reddy — and an alleged benami company floated by the duo. Seizures also included high-end vehicles registered in the name of DCHL. An investigation revealed that despite the corporate insolvency resolution process starting, promoters and their family members continued to yield indirect control over the print media. “They are working in senior capacities and drawing large monthly salaries,” said ED. The promoters were also found to be re-purchasing the mortgaged assets at discounted rates through private treaties by using concealed proceeds of crime through a front company. After Friday’s action, values of the assets attached has gone up to Rs 386 crore. ED had recently written to BCCI asking it not to pay Rs 4,800 crore arbitration money granted to Deccan Chargers, a former franchise of DCHL, and to keep it informed. BCCI replied it was going in appeal in the case. ED said investigation had also revealed that promoters hatched a well-planned conspiracy and manipulated the balance sheets of company by inflating profits. They were also accused of understating the financial liabilities. “Balance sheets of the company were fudged and loans taken from one bank were hidden from other financial institutions. Over the years, DCHL had availed credit facilities to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore. An investigation into money trail has also revealed that most of loans were cyclically rotated into group companies and diverted to pay back older loans,” ED charged. Loans taken for working capital requirements and for business needs of DCHL were diverted to extravagant projects and diverted funds invested into new projects without consent of banks were ultimately shown as losses, it said. It alleged that substantial amounts were diverted into subsidiaries which did not do any legitimate business. “It is also revealed that the accused promoters received hefty kickbacks from the investment made by DCHL into Odyssey at highly inflated values. Promoters ran public listed company DCHL like their proprietary fiefdom throwing all norms of corporate governance to the wind. There were many suspicious donations to various trusts,” the ED added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-attaches-rs-122cr-dchl-assets-in-rs-8180-cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/78709557.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||A month on, South Goa hosp gets good reviews from patients||MARGAO: The South Goa district hospital has over the last one month treated and discharged 330 Covid patients since it was commissioned as a Covid hospital for mild to moderate patients. The health department has now plans to ramp up the infrastructure, manpower and other medical facilities in a staggered manner. The immediate plan is to set up a post-Covid treatment facility at the hospital for patients having recovered from the infection. This was decided at a review meeting chaired by health minister Vishwajit Rane with senior medical officers of the Goa Medical College (GMC) on Friday, sources said. The South Goa district hospital, as well as the ESI-Covid hospital, has begun to get a fairly good reviews from patients who have been discharged from these hospitals upon their recovery. Relating his experience as patient, Ameet Sukhtanker posted on Facebook describing the South Goa district hospital as “the best thing that could happen to any organisation that has the word ‘government’ in it” and the treatment he received as “far more humane and heartwarming.” “In those five days, not once did it function out of line from the clockwork precision it had set in motion for itself. The administrators had clearly done a great job. The wards were as clean as a whistle and the staff cheerful. They were clearly trained to make you feel cared for. Every two hours PPE-suited team of sanitary personnel would swarm in to ensure that the virus is contained. The housekeeping team would knock in time for the morning tea, breakfast, lunch, evening tea, soup, dinner and a warm glass of turmeric milk before sleep. Food was simple and nutritious. Two rounds of doctors and four rounds of nurses would monitor round the clock ensuring your levels are monitored and maintained,” the post read. Doctors at the hospital said that commissioning of the new South Goa district hospital has had twin advantages – it helped in providing “focused treatment” for patients at both the ESI-Covid hospital treating severe cases, and the South Goa district hospital admitting mild to moderate Covid patients. “Imagine if these 300-odd patients had to crowd the Covid facility at the ESI hospital or the GMC. Opening the new South Goa district hospital has eased the pressure off the ESI to a great extent,” a health department official said. Nevertheless, health department officials are of the view that the November and December would be the period to remain “watchful” of any second wave of the infection as is currently being seen in some European countries. They said that the focus has now shifted to tracking down patients in the early phase of the disease and treating them so that they don’t progress into the severe stage. “A patient responds well if he is able to get the treatment during the first fifth or sixth day of the onset of the symptoms. So the idea is to get the patient treated early on so that the progression of the infection into the next stage is arrested,” a doctor said. Towards that end, sources said, the health department has now strengthened the monitoring mechanism of home isolation patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-month-on-s-goa-hosp-gets-good-reviews-from-patients/articleshow/78711161.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
October 17, 2020||Pune||NFAI showcases a slice of Smita Patil’s career||PUNE: The National Film Archive of India’s Face of the Week campaign on social media reflects on some of the lesser-known films of late actress Smita Patil, ahead of her birth anniversary on October 17. Nearly all the films featured by the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) on its social media feeds are in languages other than Hindi, including Marathi and Bengali. All the critically acclaimed films with top directors, such as Mrinal Sen and Jabbar Patel, received top honours, including the National Film Award. The NFAI’s Face of the Week campaign features popular film figures ahead of their birth anniversaries. The latest one on Smita Patil, according to the NFAI, has sparked an unprecedented interest in her life and career, the zenith of which was in the late 1970s and early 1980s. It has also won accolades, including from Patil’s son Prateik Babbar. “We chose to feature some of the films featuring Smita Patil, which may not be as well-known to mainstream audience, but are very important films nonetheless. We posted some material, such as posters and stills, of films like ‘Akaler Shondhane’ by Mrinal Sen and ‘Jait Re Jait’ by Jabbar Patel, or Satyajit Ray’s ‘Sadgati’. It has been received very well by our followers online. Some of them reported of being bowled over by her performances in these films. Her son, Prateik Babbar, actually reached out to us to thank us for featuring her mother through this campaign,” said Prakash Magdum, the NFAI director. Regarded among the finest stage and film actresses to grace the silver screen, Patil appeared in many path-breaking films in various languages, including Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati, among others. She passed away in 1986.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfai-showcases-a-slice-of-smita-patils-career/articleshow/78709572.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Use student funds to pay salaries, DU colleges told||NEW DELHI: The directorate of higher education has asked Delhi University colleges that are fully funded by the state government to use Student Society Fund (SSF) within two weeks if they can’t pay salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff due to a special audit and non-release of grants-in-aid. However, teachers’ and principals’ associations have again called the suggestion “illegal”. In the order dated October 16, the colleges have been asked to use SSF till the audit is complete. This “has been done in the past”, it claims. The colleges had objected to a similar suggestion made by education minister Manish Sisodia last month. Six of the 12 colleges fully funded by Delhi government are facing the audit for “financial irregularities” and haven’t paid salaries for over six months. Hem Chand Jain, principal of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College that is undergoing the audit, said he would forward the order to DU to know if the order was binding. “If this order is implemented, students will be deprived of funds for various activities. I request Delhi government to not ask us to do this as it would amount to cheating students,” Jain said. “We have only Rs 9.28 crore in our SSF, which would be enough to pay only three months’ salary.” Jaswinder Singh, SGTB Khalsa College principal and president of DU Principals’ Association, said a principal was earlier removed for transferring funds. “CM Arvind Kejriwal should intervene and not force colleges to do something illegal.” DU Teachers’ Association said using SSF was unacceptable. “Delhi government is pushing the burden of salaries on parents and students. Even in the past, if colleges were forced to use SSF for such purposes, the money was always returned to it.” Balram Pani, dean of colleges at DU, said, “Colleges cannot use SSF. The order is not binding and the matter is already in court.” Delhi government claimed the DDU College lawyer had told court they had paid salaries from SSF in the past. “When the judge asked him if they are allowed to do so, they said they need an official permission from the directorate of higher education,” it said. However, Jain claimed “our lawyer said college can take loan for not more than a month from the fund”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/use-student-funds-to-pay-salaries-du-colleges-told/articleshow/78709600.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||GujCTOC invoked against gangster Jayesh Patel, 13 aides||Rajkot: Tightening the noose around dreaded extortionist and land mafia, Jayesh Ranpariya (Patel), Jamnagar police on Friday booked him and 13 of his close associates under the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC). While Patel is believed to be hiding in Dubai, cops arrested eight of the 13 persons that included Atul Bhanderi, a sitting BJP councillor of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation; Nilesh Toliya, a prominent builder; Vashram Miyatra, former head constable of local crime branch (LCB); Pravin Chovatiya, owner of a local newspaper. Others arrested and booked were Mukesh Abangi, builder Jigar alias Jimmy Aalatiya and their associates Anil Parmar and Praful Popat. Another prime accused, Jaspal Jadeja, who was arrested earlier, was also booked under GujCTOC. Four persons, whose names were not declared, are yet to be arrested. Bhanderi is also accused in an offence of firing on a professor of Mahila College in November 2019. Jamnagar SP Deepan Bhadran told TOI: “This is the first case in Gujarat which has been registered under section 4 of GujCTOC which pertains to possession of accountable property belonging to an organized crime syndicate. This is the first time that this particular section has been invoked.” Also, this is the fifth FIR in Patel gang case. Addressing reporters, Rajkot range inspector general of police (IGP), Sandeep Singh said that the gang had resorted to pre-planned conspiracies to usurp land and extort money from traders and other individuals. “Several complaints against their terrorizing tactics had also reached the chief minister’s office. Special teams led by SP Bhadran were formed to collect strong evidence against these accused in an extremely clandestine operation,” Singh said. Bhadran said properties of all accused persons will now be evaluated, traced and seized. Constable Vashram, who took voluntary retirement a year ago, is accused of providing the gang with classified information on police action. All have been booked under IPC sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 386 (extortion) and others. Explaining the gang’s modus operandi, officials said the accused first narrowed down on on parcels of land and made bogus sale deeds. They then staked claim to their possession by moving the court. After that, gang would contact actual owners and force them to strike a compromise by paying a huge sum as extortion. Whoever refused to bow down to their demands was threatened or fired upon. Besides land owners, they also extorted money from local traders using intimidation tactics. This is the fifth offence lodged under GujCTOC in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujctoc-invoked-against-gangster-jayesh-patel-13-aides/articleshow/78708083.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Seven dead in central TN, four in southern districts||Trichy: The central districts maintained low incidences of fresh Covid-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day even as the overall cases went past 61,000 to 61,102 on Friday. A total of 414 cases were reported in the region which had 3,584 active cases in government hospitals, private hospitals, covid care centres and in home isolation. The region registered seven deaths too. Meanwhile, a total of 428 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths were reported in the 10 southern districts on Friday. The deaths include two in Virudhunagar and one each in Tuticorin and Tenkasi. including three from Trichy while Thanjavur and Nagappattinam accounted for two deaths each, taking the regional toll so far to 809. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of deaths of 210 followed by Trichy with 162. None of the districts in the region recorded 100 plus cases. Thanjavur, which had been producing 200 plus cases in the past two weeks, registered 98 cases pushing its tally to 14,287. Trichy had 80 cases taking its tally to 11,723 while Tiruvarur recorded 76 cases. A total of 56,709 patients have been discharged so far after recovery. Madurai (84) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the south, followed by Kanyakumari (70), Tirunelveli (61), Tuticorin (56), Theni (39), Virudhunagar (38) and Dindigul (33). Tenkasi (13), Ramanathapuram (15) and Sivagangai (19) districts recorded less than 20 cases. Madurai with 804 active cases is the only district in the region above the 800 mark. Of the six districts with less than 500 active cases, three districts – Sivagangai (163), Ramanathapuram (181) and Tenkasi (183) – have less than 200 active cases. Total active cases in the region dropped to 4,195. A 61-year-old man from Virudhunagar who tested positive on October 10 and was admitted in a private hospital in Madurai on Wednesday died due to breathing difficulty on Thursday. The three others aged 60 and above had comorbid conditions. A 78-year-old man from Tenkasi who tested positive on Wednesday and was admitted in the district government headquarters hospital with complaints of fever and cough for four days died on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/seven-dead-in-central-tn-four-in-southern-districts/articleshow/78711878.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Cop sent on leave in Palghar lynching case gets new post||MUMBAI: Five months after he was sent on compulsory leave following the Palghar lynching, then Palghar district superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh has got a new posting. The state home department appointed him as SP of Maharashtra Police Academy, Nashik. Singh was told to proceed on leave on May 8, after state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) took over investigations from Kasa police. Two seers and their driver were killed by a mob during lockdown on the night of April 16. Kasa police, under whose jurisdiction the crime took place, were criticised for mishandling the lynching case. Videos of policemen handing over the seers to the mob to be lynched had gone viral. Singh had suspended two officers who were part of the investigations. But as pressure mounted on the state to take action against the cops, Singh was sent on leave. An online petition was undertaken to get back Singh, who was replaced by Dattatray Shinde. The state later dismissed a cop, slapped compulsory retirement on two policemen and 15 constables were penalized for dereliction of duty in the case. The state, in a reply to the Supreme Court to a petition seeking handing over of the case to a central agency, had last Wednesday mentioned that no dereliction of duty was found from Singh’s side. He had reached the spot after the crime and took action against the officers, the apex court was told. In an October 14 order the state rolled out orders of 23 IAS and IPS officers, including Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-sent-on-leave-in-palghar-lynching-case-gets-new-post/articleshow/78710158.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||Panaji civic body notifies draft rules for formation of ward committees||PANAJI: The state government has notified the draft rules prescribing norms for the recognition of the NGOs and requisite qualifications for nomination of members on the Corporation of the City of Panaji’s ward committees. Director for urban development Dr Tariq Thomas said that all objections or suggestions regarding the draft City of Panaji Corporation (Ward Committee) Rules, 2020, should be submitted to the directorate of urban development by October 30. The rules state that members of self-help groups, association of architects, engineers, town planners, developers and trade organisations can become members of the ward committees. The members should be staying in the jurisdiction of the ward committee and should be enrolled in the electoral roll of the ward. On August 26, the state government informed the high court of Bombay at Goa that rules for constituting the ward committees were being framed. The state had filed an affidavit to that effect after advocate Aires Rodrigues filed a writ petition alleging illegal constitution of the ward committees. CCP’s draft rules also state that members of NGOs engaged in poverty eradication, improvement of slums areas, assistance in self-employment, education, environment protection, conservation and maintenance of heritage, urban development and health can be part of CCP’s ward committees. The rules said that in case of a dispute regarding the selection of ward members, a vote should be taken and the decision will be based on who gets the majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-civic-body-notifies-draft-rules-for-formation-of-ward-committees/articleshow/78711184.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Monsoon withdrawal further delayed by week in Mumbai: IMD||MUMBAI: As another low pressure weather system is likely to build up in Bay of Bengal, withdrawal of the south-west monsoon over the city is expected to be further delayed. Indian Meteorological Department said withdrawal will not happen for at least another week. Generally, the monsoon’s exit from extreme north of Maharashtra starts before October 5. By October 10, monsoon withdrawal covers most parts of Maharashtra, east MP, north Chhattisgarh, east UP, most parts of Bihar and Jharkhand, and parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal, and by October 15, withdrawal covers most parts of the country, including Maharashtra. This time, monsoon withdrawal has not even started in Maharashtra, with withdrawal in parts of Maharashtra likely to be stalled till October 15. IMD director-general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said, “Another low pressure weather system is likely to be formed in Bay of Bengal around October 19. We can’t yet confirm if the weather system will bring rain to the city. It will extend monsoon withdrawal over Mumbai and Maharashtra by at least a week.” The monsoon onset was declared on June 14, while the normal date for withdrawal would have been October 8. On Friday, while a yellow alert (thunderstorm with lightning) was issued, Mumbai and areas nearby received brief showers in the afternoon. IMD’s Santacruz recorded traces of rain till 5.30pm, while Colaba received 0.8mm rain. A green alert (very light to light rain) has been set for until October 21. Meanwhile, rain over the past few days brought down pollution levels in the city. After hovering between 80-120 in the last week, the city’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 42 (under 50 is considered good and does not pose any harm to human life), according to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Many Mumbaikars took to social media to post pictures of bright, blue skies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/monsoon-withdrawal-further-delayed-by-week-imd/articleshow/78710177.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
October 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Symptomatic with negative RT-PCR test to be proxy cases’||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 40,000-mark on Friday with 321 fresh infections. Six deaths were registered. With recoveries exceeding new cases, the active case tally dropped to 3,949. As many as 449 people recovered, pushing overall recoveries to 35,610. Goa’s recovery rate is at 88%. With six Covid-19 linked deaths, the count rose to 532. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, after the meeting with the expert committee, said Goa will follow a syndromic approach wherein symptomatic cases with negative RT-PCR test will be regarded as proxy Covid-19 cases. This is being done in line with the latest WHO guidelines. “The decision to create a new category of proxy Covid-19 patients has been taken based on findings of the audit report,” Rane said. Also, a CT scan will be added as a protocol for suspected symptomatic patients whose RT-PCR test is negative. The expert committee, he said, felt that strict and efficient monitoring of home isolated patients can be a game changer to tackle Covid-19 and help bring down mortality count. He said they shall encourage more testing while maintaining a balance between RT-PCR and antigen testing. Goa’s Covid tests have dropped below 1,500 a day since the last month. On some days 1,200 to 1,300 tests are conducted. Five deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and one patient died at a private hospital in North Goa. Three men — a 71-year-old from Calangute, a 60-year-old from Borim and a 72-year-old Velguem, Bicholim — all having more than one comorbid conditions, succumbed to the virus. One patient was presented with respiratory failure, the other two were detected with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), shortly after admission to the hospital. Three women who succumbed to the virus were a 73-year-old from Davorlim, Salcete, a 65-year-old from Canacona and a 57-year-old from Peddem-Mapusa. They presented late for treatment. Two had developed ARDS on admission while went into respiratory failure. The 57-year-old woman did not have any comorbidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/symptomatic-with-ve-rt-pcr-test-to-be-proxy-cases/articleshow/78711171.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||2 in net for stealing steel-laden truck||Pune: Three days after a truck carrying a steel consignment worth nearly Rs10 lakh was stolen, the police arrested its driver and a friend. The duo were produced before a court on Thursday and remanded in police custody till Sunday. Senior inspector Uttam Tangade of the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said Vikas Rajurkar (42) and Shashikant Mane (35) had stolen the truck to pay off debt. Mane is a driver with MSRTC in Thane and has been unemployed for seven months due to the pandemic. On October 13, Samadhan Kharat, a Thane-based transport operator lodged an FIR with the Chikhali police, stating that his truck loaded with steel worth Rs9.8 lakh was stolen the previous day. As per the FIR, his driver (Rajurkar) transported the steel from Jalna and parked the vehicle at Hargude Vasti before going home. Two teams fanned out to trace the vehicle. “We travelled over 40km and combed through CCTV footages We also checked petrol pumps, scrap dealers,” Tangade said. Finally, constable Vijay More received information that the truck was parked near a restaurant on Kedgaon-Daund Road, Tangade said.  “During question, he admitted to plotting with Rajurkar and stealing the steel,” Tangade said. Rajurkar too was taken into custody and revealed that he met Mane in Jalna on October 12. “Mane wanted to repay his debt; they also needed money to support their families,” Tangade said. He said the duo sold off a portion of steel in Jalna and spent the money on liquor. “After Rajurkar parked the vehicle in Hargude Vasti, Mane drove it away. He stopped the truck near the restaurant as he had no money for fuel,” Tangade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-in-net-for-stealing-steel-laden-truck/articleshow/78709601.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||HMWS&SB supplies water in flood-hit areas||Hyderabad: Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board arranged tankers, water cans, and water sachets to the areas, where residents do not have access to drinking water due to inundation. Following a report that appeared in TOI, regarding water crisis in inundated areas, the water board swung into action and arranged 26,70,000 litres of potable water through tankers, and another 1,700 water cans, and 25,000 water sachets,to the residents. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hmwssb-supplies-water-in-flood-hit-areas/articleshow/78709604.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Agra||Mathura court admits appeal seeking removal of mosque from Krishna Janmabhoomi||Agra: The Mathura district court on Friday admitted an appeal filed against the dismissal of a civil suit seeking ownership of the 13.37-acre Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi land and removal of the 17th century Shahi Idgah mosque.The appeal which was filed on Monday by a Lucknow-based lawyer and five others, on behalf of the deity ‘Lord Sri Krishna Virajman’, claimed that the mosque is built exactly where Lord Krishna was born. One of the petitioners and lawyer Ranjana Agnihotri, who was present in the Mathura court on Friday, said, “The civil suit was dismissed on September 30 by the civil judge.” Additional district judge Chhaya Sharma, while rejecting the petition, had cited the Places of Worship Act, 1991 as the reason. According to the law, passed a year before demolition of the Babri mosque, the religious character of any place of worship built before August 15, 1947 cannot be changed. The law had also barred any legal proceedings to change the character of any religious place. But it had left out the Babri dispute case from its ambit.Agnihotri added that after the dismissal, they filed an appeal before the district judge. On Friday, district and sessions judge Sadhna Rani Thakur issued notices to UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, Committee of Management, Trust, Shahi Masjid Idgah, Shree Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust, Mathura, Shree Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sansthan and others. The next date of hearing is November 18, she said.The suit, filed by Lucknow resident Ranjana Agnihotri and five others, including a Delhi resident, claims that the mosque is exactly where Krishna was born and they have sought the ownership of the entire 13.37-acre land. It also sought cancellation of a compromise decree between the governing body of the temple complex and the management trust of the mosque in 1968.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-court-admits-appeal-seeking-removal-of-mosque-from-krishna-janmabhoomi/articleshow/78708076.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Agra||Jailor, deputy jailor, four prisoners of Agra Central Jail test Covid +ve||Agra: At least six new cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Agra Central Jail on Friday. The jailor, a deputy jailor and four prisoners of the central jail were found to be infected. The two officers were sent for home isolation and prisoners were isolated in hospital inside the prison. Moreover, at least 48 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Friday evening, taking the district tally to 6,627. These included five patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, four of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 59 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 6,627 cases reported in the district, 88.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 545 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,978 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jailor-deputy-jailor-four-prisoners-of-agra-central-jail-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78708097.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Cutoffs as high as 99% in first list released by Ambedkar University Delhi||NEW DELHI: Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) released its first cutoff list for admission in undergraduate courses on early Friday. The highest cut-off is at 99% in psychology for aspirants from outside Delhi. The university reserves 85% of its seats for city students. The cutoff for the psychology course is 97.5% for city students. For aspirants from outside Delhi, the cutoff for BA Honours with a major in social sciences & humanities is 98.25%, compared with 96.25% for city students. Similarly, the cutoff for the history course is 97% for students from Delhi and 96.5%; whereas for BA Honours with a major in sociology, the cutoff is 98.25% for non-city students and 96.5% for residents. AUD is a Delhi government-run university and releases two sets of cutoffs for NCT residents and non-NCT residents every year. For Delhi-based aspirants to get admission in Economics (Honours), they need 96.5% and 93% for Mathematics course. The admission process is online this year due to the pandemic. “The entire process of uploading/furnishing documents, verification of documents, payment of fees and admissions is online. No applicant or any of their guardians/relatives will be physically allowed on the university campus for the admission process or for submitting any document,” the university stated in its press release. The institute added that physical verification of all documents will be done later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cutoffs-as-high-as-99-in-first-list-released-by-ambedkar-univ/articleshow/78709617.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Lucknow||Virtual ICUs leverage technology to save critical Covid-19 patients||Lucknow: A union of technology and expertise became a life-saving intervention in Uttar Pradesh, enabling the state to save many lives threatened by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The path-breaking initiative called virtual intensive care unit (v-ICU) is a common concept in the developed world but is still to pick up in the country. The intervention was rolled out by Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in the first week of August. “v-ICUs are being credited with bringing down the Covid-19 death rate in the state from about 2% in July to 1.5% in the second week of August,” chief minister Yogi Adityanath told TOI in a recent interview. Data shows that UP’s Covid-19 death rate has remained lower than the national average since the beginning. As on date, 1.4% Covid-19 patients in UP have died while the death rate for India stands at 1.5%. From October, v-ICU facility has been rolled out by KGMU as well. The concept In a v-ICU, a battery of experts sits on one end to review case summary of a patient in need of treatment miles away. After the case is discussed, the advice is implemented by the team of doctors at the patient’s end. Take the example of SK Gupta, a 73-year-old businessman undergoing Covid treatment in the ICU of GSVM Medical College in Kanpur. The elderly man had developed renal complication and already had a history of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Unless attended to well, the patient could have slipped in a state of septic shock and death. The case was studied by Prof Alok Nath and Prof RK Singh at SGPGI in their v-ICU and the management was tweaked. Hard work of 10 days saved the man. In western countries, v-ICU kiosks are also used, eliminating the need for physical presence of doctors inside an ICU. SGPGI has also procured a couple of such devices for better training purposes. The rationale As per data, about 15% of Covid-19 patients needed secondary and tertiary care management in hospital. Of these, 85-90% can be managed with oxygen therapy but the remaining need ventilation support. “Ventilation is a technical procedure. If not for the pandemic, the use is restricted to super specialty centers. Providing the facility in remote districts overnight was not possible; therefore we decided to marry expertise with technology for public interest,” said Dr Rajneesh Dube, additional chief secretary medical education, UP. The outcomes: SGPGI director Prof RK Dhiman said that hand holding and mentorship through v-ICUs played a crucial role in bringing down death rates in Kanpur, Agra, Prayagraj, Bareilly and even Meerut. “I would not like to count the lives saved but every person is valuable for the state and more for their families and friends,” he stated. Numbers speak for the intervention. Since August, Covid-19 deaths in Kanpur had been increasing in leaps and bounds. Special administrative and medical delegations were sent to study the deaths and look for ways to check them. Come September and deaths started to decline. In fact, in the past fortnight, deaths in single digits have been reported in the second most burdened district of the state. Also, a couple of zero death days were also reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virtual-icus-leverage-technology-to-save-critical-covid-19-patients/articleshow/78711886.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Khammam girl who was set ablaze dies||HYDERABAD: After 28-day battle for life, a 13-year-old girl from Khammam, who was set ablaze allegedly by a married man for resisting his rape bid, succumbed at a hospital in the city on Thursday night. Police will alter the case and try him for murder now. Several organisations in Khammam demanded that the victim’s family be given compensation of Rs 25 lakh, three acre land, a double-bedroom house and a government job for her father. They also demanded that the case be tried in a fast-track court and punishment meted out to the guilty. They took objection to transport minister Puvvada Ajay handing over an ex gratia of only Rs 2 lakh to the girl’s family. The girl from Pallegudem was working as a domestic help at the house of a family in Khammam town when Maraiah, 28, one of the family members, made sexual advances towards her. She used to address him as ‘anna’ (elder brother), as she described him when a statement was recorded when she admitted in the hospital. Maraiah’s wife had gone to her parent’s house after delivery when he allegedly made sexual advances towards the minor. When she refused to give in, he set her ablaze at his house at Mustafanagar.Police arrested the youth and sent him in judicial remand after registering a case against him for rape, attempt to murder and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Khammam police commissioner Tafseer Iqubal told TOI that as the victim died, the accused would be tried for murder under Section 302 of the IPC. Though the incident took place on September 18, it came to light only on October 5. The family of the accused admitted her to a private hospital, where she was being treated. With information getting leaked about the secret treatment and attempts being made to hush up the crime, police shifted the girl to the government hospital at Khammam. Later, she was shifted to a corporate hospital for better treatment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khammam-girl-who-was-set-ablaze-dies/articleshow/78709626.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s drug gets nod for Phase 3 Covid trials||HYDERABAD: Pharma major Dr Reddy's, which has been studying the use of a potential cancer drug 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG) oral powder for Covid-19 treatment, has got approval to conduct Phase-III trials after a Phase II study showed the drug’s efficacy in Covid-19 patients. The subject expert committee said the sample size of Phase II study was too small for granting market authorisation and asked the company to submit a protocol for Phase III trials. “In phase II b dose study the results have shown efficacy with optimum dose of 90mg/kg. However, the sample size was small in the Phase II study for grant of market authorisation,” the SEC said at the meeting held on October 13, 2020. The Phase II Covid-19 study on 2-DG, which is yet to be approved for cancer treatment, was conducted on 40 patients aged between 18 to 65 years. The three-month trial was taken up to evaluate the safety and efficacy for acute treatment of moderate to severe Covid-19 patients. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended the firm should submit Phase III clinical trial protocol with adequate sample size and clearly defined inclusion exclusion criteria, primary and secondary end points,” said the panel that advises the drug regulator on approvals for new drugs. The drug cuts the supply of glucose molecules to cancer cells, that require higher glucose than normal cells to survive, thereby killing them. The company said it believes the disproportionately high accumulation of 2-DG in the inflamed lung tissue of Covid patients (as per PET scan study) due to the high metabolic activity induced by the coronavirus infection could lead to starvation in lung cells and result in inhibition of viral replication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-drug-gets-nod-for-phase-3-covid-trials/articleshow/78709619.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 60 relief camps housing 10,000 set up||Hyderabad: Many who were moved to rescue camps after heavy rains inundated their houses are yet to return home. A total of 61 relief camps have been set up accommodating 10,000 people. Nadeem Colony (Tolichowki), Sai Chitranagar (Ramanthapur), BS Maqta (Begumpet), Satyasai Golden Towers (Kondapur) and Patel Nagar (Malkajgiri) are some among several places at which the situation has not returned to normal. “The water level has come down a bit but there is no drinking water. Authorities have released water as part of daily activity which is of no use as our sumps are flooded with dirty water,” said G Upender, president of Sai Chitranagar, Ramanthapur. “People living on the first and second floor of the buildings are preparing food and sending it to those whose houses have been inundated on the ground floor,” said a resident of BS Maqta. According to GHMC officials, relief measures have been taken up. “Disaster response teams are working continuously clearing water stagnation and attending to citizen assistance calls in the city. On Thursday by afternoon, 320 complaints were addressed,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director of GHMC’s Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-60-relief-camps-housing-10000-set-up/articleshow/78709620.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Three villagers held for pharma city protest||Hyderabad: A case was registered against 11 villagers of Yacharam mandal for obstructing a gram sabha last month by Yacharam police, who arrested three of them on Friday. Police also made four more arrests in connection with Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy’s visit to Medipally village on Thursday during which some vehicles were damaged. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh M Bhagwat said the villagers obstructed the gram sabha held at Nandiwanaparthy village on September 30. The sabha was held to discuss land acquisition for the Hyderabad Pharma City project. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-villagers-held-for-pharma-city-protest/articleshow/78709614.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bareilly||5 UP cooperative sugar mills selected for godown project||Pilibhit: Godowns will be constructed for cooperative sugar mills in UP for enhancing their storage capacity. Under a pilot project, the godowns will be constructed at five cooperative sugar mills of the total 24 in the state, said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in government. These are Gajraula sugar mill in Amroha district, Belrayan in Lakhimpur Kheri, Tilhar in Shahjahanpur, Nanauta in Saharanpur and Kayamganj sugar mill in Farrukhabad.The proposed godown for Kayamganj sugar mill will have a capacity of 50,000 quintals while other four mills' godowns will have one lakh quintals each, he said.“Under present arrangements, the cooperative sugar mill development societies are paid for various services rendered to mills at the rate of Rs 5.50 per quintal of the procured sugarcane. Of this payment, 40% has been earmarked to meet the management expenditure of societies while the remaining 60% is utilized in various development works. The proposed godowns will be constructed out of these funds," Bhoosreddy said.These godowns will be rented by sugar mills from societies on the basis prevailing market rate, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-up-cooperative-sugar-mills-selected-for-godown-project/articleshow/78705930.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops capture key aides of gangster Jitender Gogi after shootout||NEW DELHI: A shootout broke out in outer Delhi’s Alipur area on Friday evening after cops from Delhi Police’s Special Cell tried to intercept two notorious henchmen of jailed gangster, Jitender Gogi. Several rounds were exchanged following which one of the criminals was shot in the leg and the other captured after a hot chase into the fields. Two policemen had a narrow escape. The encounter was led by DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav’s team. The injured criminal has been identified as Neeraj Kachhua while his associate as Sonu Kuki. Officers said that the team was camping in Alipur after receiving a tip-off that two members of the Gogi gang would pass through Kheta village bridge at Bawana Road and head towards Sonipat to look for a new hideout. On October 3, Gogi’s man Friday, Deepak Boxer, was travelling with Neeraj and Sonu and had opened fire on policemen when stopped by them. The criminals also managed to flee. A trap was then laid at multiple points around the area. Around 8.15pm, the cops spotted two suspects riding a motorbike and flagged them down. “They were asked to surrender but they opened 4-5 rounds of fire upon police party. Members of raiding party also fired in self- defence in which one of them was injured in his left leg,” said a senior officer. A loaded pistol was recovered from Neeraj and a loaded desi katta with one live round from Sonu. The bike they were riding turned out to be a stolen one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-capture-key-aides-of-gangster-gogi-after-shootout/articleshow/78709643.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Woman, bro kill husband to usurp land, insurance money||RAJKOT: A sensational double murder executed by a brother-sister duo came to light on Friday after the Junagadh police found both bodies, including that of the woman’s husband, from a car which had sunk 20 feet under water of a check dam near Gondal. Police arrested Naran Katariya alias Nasir Khan Pathan for the murder of Ramesh Baldha, husband of his sister Manju alias Mariam Khan Pathan, and Baldha’s friend Ashwin Parmar, owner of the car. Mariam is on the run after the crime was exposed. Investigation revealed that the duo had plotted Baldha’s murder to usurp his eight bigha land in native Jepur village near Virpur as well as Rs 25 lakh life insurance in which she was the sole nominee. After Nasir confessed to the crime, teams of Junagadh local crime branch (LCB) extricated the car at around 1am on Friday with the help of earth movers from the bridge over a check dam in Vekri village, some 12-14 km from Gondal town. Investigation revealed that Pathan and his entire family had converted to another religion in 2012. Mariam had divorced her first husband before the religious conversion due to some domestic squabbles. About a year-and-a-half-ago, she and Baldha had a registered marriage, but the latter’s family did not like her. She kept shifting between her hometown Junagadh and Jepur, but finally Baldha decided to stay with her in Junagadh a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-bro-kill-husband-to-usurp-land-insurance-money/articleshow/78708192.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Constable steals guns from stn, lands in jail||Trichy: A strong desire for guns landed a young police constable in jail in Thanjavur district on Friday. District crime branch (DCB) police arrested Deepak, a 26-year-old cop attached to Thiruppanandhal police station, and his friend Vasudevan, 23, for stealing guns from the station. It was in August that two of the eight guns and some bullets seized by the organized crime intelligence unit (OCIU) from three people in March were found missing from the vault at the police station. The incident came to light when the guns were taken out for court proceedings. A special team led by sub-inspector of police Kannan launched an investigation based on an order from superintendent of police Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay. Meanwhile, Deepak, who got infected by Covid-19, went on leave. On his return to duty, he came to know about the inquiry into the missing guns. Scared, the constable decided to bring them back and made his friend Vasudevan throw them behind the police station. The guns were recovered by the police, but investigations revealed that Deepak was the culprit. The special team saw Vasudevan’s movements through CCTV camera footage in the locality. When police confronted him, he spilled the beans leading to the arrest of Deepak. Both of them were produced in court which remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/constable-steals-guns-from-stn-lands-in-jail/articleshow/78711913.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 103 nominations filed for Dubbak assembly byelection||HYDERABAD: A total of 103 nominations have been received for Dubbak assembly byelection which will be held on November 3. On the last day of filing of nominations on Friday, as many as 46 persons filed their papers. Another three sets of nominations were filed on behalf of Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy and two more sets filed on behalf of TRS nominee Solipeta Sujatha. Election Commission of India (ECI) observer Raghava Sharma took stock of the arrangements for the poll. People can seek an appointment with Sharma on phone number 9816818005, said Siddipet district collector and district election officer P Venkatrama Reddy.  He said violation of code of conduct by political parties and contestants and other election-related complaints could be brought to Sharma’s notice. Sharma enquired from Reddy about the arrangements being made for webcasting at the polling stations. He also visited the strongroom at Lacchapeta in Dubbaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/103-nominations-filed-for-dubbak-assembly-byelection/articleshow/78709655.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Following all norms: Transco||Hyderabad: Responding to a TOI news report on laying 400kV transmission line towers near Serene County at Gachibowli, Transco said it was following prescribed safety clearance norms of Central Electricity Authority (CEA) while laying transmission lines in the state. Transco officials said the 400kV Raidurg sub-station was taken up to cater the needs of the IT corridor in and around Gachibowli, Madhapur, Hitech city and Jubilee Hills. The subject line with a total length of 43 kM is the incoming source for the upcoming 400/220/132/33 kV Gas Insulated Substation at Raidurg from 400/220 kV Kethireddypalli SS. The line will be set up on monopoles near Serene County. “Horizontal clearance of power line is 47m from the buildings and 14m from the compound wall of Serene County as against the minimum electrical safety clearance of 7.04 m prescribed for buildings by CEA,” TS Transco clarified. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/following-all-norms-transco/articleshow/78709647.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Degree student raped, 3 friends held||HYDERABAD: Nearly two weeks after a 19-year-old degree student of Yousufguda was raped in a Kukatpally hotel, three of her friends were arrested on Friday. Following a complaint from the family, Jubilee Hills police registered a zero FIR and transferred the case to Kukatpally police on Thursday. “We have arrested the three accused under section 376-D of the IPC. We have recorded the girl’s statement and sent her for a medical examination,” Kukatpally ACP B Surendar Rao said. The accused raped the girl on October 5, after making her consume a piece of cake laced with sedatives. They also threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed about the sexual assault to her family. The accused include 20-year-old plastic cup maker, 22-year-old school bus cleaner and a housekeeping worker (23) from Yousufguda. Police said the girl met the plastic cup maker three months ago in her locality. Through him, she met the other two and became friends with them. On October 5 morning, she went to her college in Secunderabad to pay fee. The cup maker called her saying it was his birthday and wanted to celebrate the occasion with her. He along with his two friends met her near the college. The trio purchased biryani at a Secunderabad hotel and partook it with the girl at Tank Bund. In the afternoon, they took her to the Kukatpally hotel. “They made me eat the first piece of cake saying I am their guest. I do not remember what happened after having the cake. I fell unconscious. Later, they raped me. They threatened to kill me if I inform any one about the incident. They sent me home in an auto,” she told the cops. A family friend told reporters that they came to know about the incident only after the girl fell unconscious in her house on October 11 Later, she told the family about the ordeal she went through. “We called the three offenders and confronted them. They feigned ignorance. It was then the family members lodged a police plaint ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-student-raped-3-friends-held/articleshow/78709645.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Sewerage system facelift likely to be key issue in SCB polls||Secunderabad: Facelifting the British-era sewerage system, which could have prevented inundation of residential colonies, will become a key issue in the ensuing Cantonment Board elections. Elected ward members on the board may face an acid test in elections as RWAs in Secunderabad Cantonment are sharpening their weapons to grill them. Their main grouse is that the area has experienced devastating floods in 1996 and 2000, and again, this year, but no change has been made to the sewerage system. “The board has been flooded with pleas to widen nalas, but nothing has been done to raze encroachments,” D T Suresh, a member residential welfare association at Bowenpally told TOI. “Whenever we raise the issue, ward members try to convince us that SCB’s financial position is too weak. Our question is, while we are paying property taxes to the SCB, why are officials doing so little?” Kranti Kumar, a resident of Picket, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sewerage-system-facelift-likely-to-be-key-issue-in-scb-polls/articleshow/78709632.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Incensed by sister’s love marriage, man kidnaps her||AHMEDABAD: Hemendra Patidar, 25, of Vastral lodged a complaint at the Ramol police station on Thursday, stating that his brother-in-law Mukesh Patidar has kidnapped his wife Nisha. Hemendra said that he and Nisha had fallen in love and had married, which incensed Mukesh. Hemendra said that Mukesh slapped him and Mukesh’s friend Rooplal Patel beat him with a baseball bat after Nisha was kidnapped. The inspector of the Ramol police station, K S Dave, said a complaint of kidnapping and assault has been lodged against the accused and a hunt for them is under way. According to the complaint lodged by Hemendra, originally from Dungarpur in Rajasthan, he married Nisha on August 4 in Dungarpur. The couple subsequently rented a house in Vastral in Ahmedabad. According to the FIR, on October 14, at about 9pm, three persons came in a car to meet Hemendra and told him that his scooter had been involved in an accident and that he must come with them. Hemendra’s friend had taken his scooter earlier. So he, Nisha, and his sister’s five-year-old son who was with them at the time sat in the car. The men in the car took the three to the expressway and stopped under a bridge where another car was waiting. “Mukesh and Patel came out of the second car and dragged Nisha into their vehicle. Mukesh and Patel then attacked Hemendra and threatened him with dire consequences if he tried to meet Nisha again,” said a police source. Inspector Dave said Hemendra and his sister’s son were dropped near Bakrol toll plaza. Hemendra has mentioned in the FIR that he tried to find his wife but the houses of both Mukesh and Patel are locked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/incensed-by-sisters-love-marriage-man-kidnaps-her/articleshow/78711195.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||7 parties lose poll symbol||Hyderabad: Ahead of GHMC elections, seven registered political parties, including M Kodandaram-led Telangana Jana Samithi, have lost the common election symbol allotted to them as they failed to contest in 10% of the total seats in the local body elections held earlier this year. The Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) has informed that Jana Shankhaaraavam Party (bat), Telangana Jana Samithi (match box), BC United Front (battery torch), Mana Telangana Rashtra Samaikhya Party (whistle), Praja Sena Party (cup and saucer), Samajwadi Forward Bloc Party (scissors) and Yuva Telangana Party (gas cylinder) have lost their common election symbol respectively. They are ineligible to apply afresh for a common symbol for five years ending January 7, 2025,” TSEC said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-parties-lose-poll-symbol/articleshow/78709682.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Covid-19 whirl trips garba plans||AHMEDABAD: It’s not untimely rainfall this year but the Covid-19 pandemic which has clouded Navratri celebrations across Gujarat. For the first time ever in the state’s history, there will be no garba be it the traditional forms of dodhiyu, teen taali, or heench; or innovations like salsa and waltz garba. After a series of deliberations, the state government announced earlier this month that no permission will be given for organizing garba at commercial or local levels because of coronavirus infections and the required social distancing precautions. “Permission will not be given to organize sheri garba or commercial-level events anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will allow only the installation of the idol and performing of pooja and aarti, that too in open grounds,” says a statement issued by the state government. Touching the idol will not be allowed and distribution of prasad can be done only in packaged form. “Permission from local authorities must be mandatorily sought before organizing aarti at commercial venues,” the statement reads. The government has also prohibited gatherings of more than 200 people and said that aarti and pooja proceedings during Navratri must be wrapped up in an hour, having followed due social distancing norms. The decision has dampened the spirits of revellers who tend to prepare for the festivities and fun and frolic months before Navratri — planning their attire and mastering their steps. “I haven’t missed a single Navratri through the years and this is the first time I will remain indoors during the nine nights,” said Biren Kumar, a garba enthusiast. The scrapping of garba has diluted the hope of revival of demand in textile, food and beverage, imitation jewellery and other sectors. “A number of seasonal businesses, typically involving small traders, will be adversely impacted with garba being prohibited,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). “At the same time, other businesses such as clothing and jewellery retail, in addition to food and beverage and catering businesses, will also take a hit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/virus-whirl-trips-garba-plans/articleshow/78709759.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Journo, wife commit suicide in Bellampalli||Hyderabad: A journalist along with his wife allegedly committed suicide due to health and financial problems in Bellampalli, Mancherial district late on Thursday night . Around 12.30am, Mallesham,38,a journalist with a vernacular channel, and Narmada,32, committed suicide by jumping into Pochammacheruvu, a water body, Bellampalli Town police said. Officials said Narmada, a teacher in a government school, and her husband left a suicide note before leaving their residence late in the night. “In the suicide note, they mentioned about their health problems and financial woes as the reason for taking the extreme step,’’ Bellampalli Town inspector B Raju told TOI. Before committing suicide, Mallesham sent a WhatsApp message to his friends in a group informing them about his decision to end his life. Since Mallesham later became inaccessible, his friends informed police, who used his mobile phone tower location, and found that he was somewhere near Pochammacheruvu. When police reached the spot, they found Narmada’s purse and other articles near the water body, but both were missing. After police pressed into service swimmers, they fished out Mallesham’s body at 6 am and his wife’s body at 5 pm on Friday. Police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/journo-wife-commit-suicide-in-bellampalli/articleshow/78709712.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Keralite arrested for cheating Trichy man on sale of used car||Trichy: A Kerala-based man was caught by a special team of the district police in connection with the cheating of a Trichy man of Rs 16.5 lakh on the promise of getting him an SUV. Kamal Natarajan was nabbed from Manapakkam in Chennai on Wednesday. A police statement said A Appuraja of Kailasapuram near BHEL had approached Kumaravel, a mechanic at Mannarpuram in Trichy, on July 2, 2018 for buying a used SUV. Subsequently, Kumaravel introduced Appuraja to Natarajan who struck a deal with him and sold him a used SUV for Rs 8.5 lakh. Soon, Appuraja found a defect in the vehicle’s engine and informed Natarajan who asked him to return the vehicle and promised to replace it with another vehicle. However, Natarajan charged an additional Rs 8 lakh besides the Rs 8.5 lakh already paid. Appuraja shelled out the additional amount too and awaited his SUV but Natarajan failed to keep his promise. In fact, Kamal neither gave him the SUV nor returned the money, and absconded. As Appuraja lodged a complaint, DCB filed a case against Natarajan on December 18, 2019. A police team was on the lookout for Natarajan in Kerala, Erode and Chennai based on inputs about him. Eventually, the team led by the inspector of police, Ravikumar netted him at Manapakkam. A car worth Rs 3.5 lakh was also seized from him and he was produced in court. Police said they were looking to recover the entire amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/keralite-arrested-for-cheating-trichy-man-on-sale-of-used-car/articleshow/78711925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cybercrook from Jamtara held in Silvassa||Ahmedabad: Cybercrime cell of the city police on Thursday nabbed Bholadas Hemaldas for cheating one Manoj Dalcharam of Rs 2.09 lakh in seven transactions. Bholadas, a resident of Nohthiya in Jamtara of Jharkhand was held from Silvassa, the capital of Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union territory. The complaint qas lodged with the cell on October 13. The accused had called up the victim, posing as an employee of Paytm and asked him to update his KYC by downloading an application from the Play Store. He then asked the victim to pass on the OTP he had received on his phone and siphoned off the money from his bank account. The money was then withdrawn from an ATM in Jamtara by one of the aides of Bholadas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cybercrook-from-jamtara-held-in-silvassa/articleshow/78711227.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Covid-19 whirl trips garba plans||AHMEDABAD: It’s not untimely rainfall this year but the Covid-19 pandemic which has clouded Navratri celebrations across Gujarat. For the first time ever in the state’s history, there will be no garba be it the traditional forms of dodhiyu, teen taali, or heench; or innovations like salsa and waltz garba. After a series of deliberations, the state government announced earlier this month that no permission will be given for organizing garba at commercial or local levels because of coronavirus infections and the required social distancing precautions. “Permission will not be given to organize sheri garba or commercial-level events anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will allow only the installation of the idol and performing of pooja and aarti, that too in open grounds,” says a statement issued by the state government. Touching the idol will not be allowed and distribution of prasad can be done only in packaged form. “Permission from local authorities must be mandatorily sought before organizing aarti at commercial venues,” the statement reads. The government has also prohibited gatherings of more than 200 people and said that aarti and pooja proceedings during Navratri must be wrapped up in an hour, having followed due social distancing norms. The decision has dampened the spirits of revellers who tend to prepare for the festivities and fun and frolic months before Navratri — planning their attire and mastering their steps. “I haven’t missed a single Navratri through the years and this is the first time I will remain indoors during the nine nights,” said Biren Kumar, a garba enthusiast. The scrapping of garba has diluted the hope of revival of demand in textile, food and beverage, imitation jewellery and other sectors. “A number of seasonal businesses, typically involving small traders, will be adversely impacted with garba being prohibited,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). “At the same time, other businesses such as clothing and jewellery retail, in addition to food and beverage and catering businesses, will also take a hit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virus-whirl-trips-garba-plans/articleshow/78715867.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Covid-19 whirl trips garba plans||AHMEDABAD: It’s not untimely rainfall this year but the Covid-19 pandemic which has clouded Navratri celebrations across Gujarat. For the first time ever in the state’s history, there will be no garba be it the traditional forms of dodhiyu, teen taali, or heench; or innovations like salsa and waltz garba. After a series of deliberations, the state government announced earlier this month that no permission will be given for organizing garba at commercial or local levels because of coronavirus infections and the required social distancing precautions. “Permission will not be given to organize sheri garba or commercial-level events anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will allow only the installation of the idol and performing of pooja and aarti, that too in open grounds,” says a statement issued by the state government. Touching the idol will not be allowed and distribution of prasad can be done only in packaged form. “Permission from local authorities must be mandatorily sought before organizing aarti at commercial venues,” the statement reads. The government has also prohibited gatherings of more than 200 people and said that aarti and pooja proceedings during Navratri must be wrapped up in an hour, having followed due social distancing norms. The decision has dampened the spirits of revellers who tend to prepare for the festivities and fun and frolic months before Navratri — planning their attire and mastering their steps. “I haven’t missed a single Navratri through the years and this is the first time I will remain indoors during the nine nights,” said Biren Kumar, a garba enthusiast. The scrapping of garba has diluted the hope of revival of demand in textile, food and beverage, imitation jewellery and other sectors. “A number of seasonal businesses, typically involving small traders, will be adversely impacted with garba being prohibited,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). “At the same time, other businesses such as clothing and jewellery retail, in addition to food and beverage and catering businesses, will also take a hit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/virus-whirl-trips-garba-plans/articleshow/78715864.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Covid-19 whirl trips garba plans||AHMEDABAD: It’s not untimely rainfall this year but the Covid-19 pandemic which has clouded Navratri celebrations across Gujarat. For the first time ever in the state’s history, there will be no garba be it the traditional forms of dodhiyu, teen taali, or heench; or innovations like salsa and waltz garba. After a series of deliberations, the state government announced earlier this month that no permission will be given for organizing garba at commercial or local levels because of coronavirus infections and the required social distancing precautions. “Permission will not be given to organize sheri garba or commercial-level events anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will allow only the installation of the idol and performing of pooja and aarti, that too in open grounds,” says a statement issued by the state government. Touching the idol will not be allowed and distribution of prasad can be done only in packaged form. “Permission from local authorities must be mandatorily sought before organizing aarti at commercial venues,” the statement reads. The government has also prohibited gatherings of more than 200 people and said that aarti and pooja proceedings during Navratri must be wrapped up in an hour, having followed due social distancing norms. The decision has dampened the spirits of revellers who tend to prepare for the festivities and fun and frolic months before Navratri — planning their attire and mastering their steps. “I haven’t missed a single Navratri through the years and this is the first time I will remain indoors during the nine nights,” said Biren Kumar, a garba enthusiast. The scrapping of garba has diluted the hope of revival of demand in textile, food and beverage, imitation jewellery and other sectors. “A number of seasonal businesses, typically involving small traders, will be adversely impacted with garba being prohibited,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF). “At the same time, other businesses such as clothing and jewellery retail, in addition to food and beverage and catering businesses, will also take a hit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/virus-whirl-trips-garba-plans/articleshow/78715866.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Sailing champs rescue flood-hit||Hyderabad: As the city witnessed an unprecedented amount of rainfall on October 13, national sailing champions from the Yacht Club of Hyderabad packed their boats, this time not to compete in any competition but to rescue people from the low-lying areas. National sailing champion Gowtham Kankatla and his fellow sailors Yuvorulu Prasad of Rasoolpura and Saibaba Musti, a bronze medalist in the optimist class in 2017, reached the low lying areas with a posse of volunteers from an NGO Social Data Initiatives Forum (SDIF). “We got a call at 7 am from SDIF seeking help to rescue about 500 people who were stranded and were unable to leave their home. Our coaches/sailors responded immediately to the SOS call as they all are trained swimmers and lifeguards and the least we could do was to help out when the city needed these skills,” said Suheim Sheikh, president, Yacht Club of Hyderabad. Gowtham and Saibaba headed to Tolichowki and Prasad to Saroornagar and worked in low lying colonies adjacent to lakes. Gowtham and Saibaba, trained the local volunteers led by Syed Amjad of SDIF who joined hands in the rescue operations. Prasad ferried 15 families to safety and headed out to Rasoolpura with his boat following an SOS call. The Yacht Club boats were used for two days by the volunteers. Close to 1,600 people were rescued using four small optimist class boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sailing-champs-rescue-flood-hit/articleshow/78709673.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Three held for charity cyber fraud||Hyderabad: Three fraudsters, including a Nigerian, were arrested for duping victims in the guise of sending funds for charity. On February 13 this year, 42-year-old Prashanthi of Yapral lodged a complaint alleging that an unknown offender chatted with her on Twitter and Hangouts about various spiritual matters for a few weeks and after gaining her trust informed about his wish to donate $6.52 lakh to her for charity work in India. Police seized five mobile phones and 18 debit cards from the trio. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-charity-cyber-fraud/articleshow/78709686.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Patna||Ward councillor found hanging in Lakhisarai||PATNA: A ward councillor, Balkrishna Verma (45), was found hanging in his residence at Dalpatti under the Kabaiyya police station area in Lakhisarai district on Friday. SHO of Kabaiyya police station Rajeev Kumar said Verma, councillor of Lakhisarai’s ward number 27, hanged himself from a ceiling fan with the help of cloth. “The councillor’s bedroom was locked from inside,” the SHO added. “A suicide note was recovered in which Verma has named four people with whom he had a land dispute,” he said. Sadar SDPO Ranjan Kumar said the body was sent for post-mortem. “Forensic experts have collected evidence from the spot for thorough investigation,” he said, adding police were investigating the matter from all angles. “Family members of the victim have so far not submitted any written complaint in connection with the incident,” the SDPO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ward-councillor-found-hanging-in-lakhisarai/articleshow/78709739.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||E-friendship sours, sex demand made||Ahmedabad: A woman lawyer from Sardarnagar filed a complaint on Thursday against Mohit Lohit of Surat for allegedly sending her lewd voice and text messages. The woman, 32, has also alleged that the accused demanded sexual favours from her. Airport police have lodged an offence under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 354D (stalking) and 507 (criminal intimidation) against the accused. According to the FIR, the lawyer has been practising at the Gujarat high court for the past four years. She said in her FIR that she had been in contact over WhatsApp with the accused who lives in Jolly Arcade of Surat. “The accused added her to his group named ‘Muskuraega India’ on September 9,” said a senior police official of the Airport police station. “The lawyer has said that she came to know the accused runs a game on the group with which he defrauds people. She said she posted a caution on the group.” Thereafter, the lawyer said, the accused sent her a voice message with abuses and threats. “According to the FIR, later the accused demanded sexual favours from her through voice and text messages,” the police official said. “On September 29, the accused called the lawyer’s mother and threatened to defame the lawyer.” Airport police officials said that they are verifying the details of the FIR and are gathering evidence to act against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-friendship-sours-sex-demand-made/articleshow/78711236.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand among safest states for senior citizens: NCRB data||DEHRADUN: The double murder of a retired BHEL officer and his wife in Haridwar earlier this week has raised concerns about the safety of senior citizens in Uttarakhand. Last month, a 80-year-old lady professor was also found murdered at her residence in Dehradun. In another such crime, a 75-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Kanwali area of Dehradun on September 18, this year. However, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Uttarakhand is still one of the safest states for senior citizens in the country. In 2019, only six incidents of crime against elderly people were registered in Uttarakhand, according to the latest NCRB report. Similar number of cases were reported in 2018 as well. And in 2017, Uttarakhand recorded only two crimes. Among the northern states in the country, Uttarakhand is only behind Jammu and Kashmir, where only one case of crime against senior citizens was reported in 2019. Among the neighboring states of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh recorded 475 such crimes, followed by Haryana (384), and Himachal Pradesh (166). According to Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, “We have a senior citizen helpline in place in each district in the state and we are working to make them more effective. Besides, police stations carry out special drives to reach out to senior citizens living in their respective jurisdictional areas. We also ensure that meetings with senior citizens take place on a regular basis.” Following the sensational double murder in Haridwar, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi had directed all heads of police stations to start connecting with senior citizens living in their respective areas. He also asked them to review the security of especially those affluent senior citizens who live alone and can be easy targets of criminals. Moreover, Dehradun police have started the process of providing mobile numbers of beat constables to each and every elderly person living in Dehradun. “The objective is to instill confidence and sense of security among the senior citizens. Necessary directions have been given to all police stations for the safety of elderly persons,” according to DIG Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-among-safest-states-for-senior-citizens-ncrb-data/articleshow/78708220.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Locals: Take measures to limit flood damage||Hyderabad: Several residents of Manikonda were busy pumping out water from their cellars on Saturday after torrential rains battered the city for two days. As the area stayed submerged, a resident of Bhagya Laxmi said that the government needs to take permanent measures because the issue is recurring. “We suffer like this after every downpour. Hours are wasted in pumping the water out,” said B Mayank, a resident. Sitaramdas, the president of Tanasha Nagar Colony said that the condition was slightly better on Saturday compared to previous two days. Parts of Manikonda were inundated as Panganwagu, a water channel running through Manikonda, was unable to carry the water out.  The water channel, which used to be around 50 feet wide, is now around 20 feet at some places and 30 feet at others due to encroachments. S Jayanth, the municipal commissioner of Manikonda, said that he is yet to recevie any complaints regarding the current issue.  Parts of Manikonda were inundated as Panganwagu, a water channel running through Manikonda, was unable to carry the water out||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-take-measures-to-limit-flood-damage/articleshow/78709704.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Re-exam for students hit by Vi network crash: NU||NAGPUR: Bringing some relief for the aggrieved final year students, the Nagpur University has decided to conduct re-exam of those who couldn’t appear on Thursday or faced troubles while submitting papers. The Vodafone-Idea (Vi) network crash on Thursday and its cascading effect on other networks led to majority of over 23,000 examinees facing one or other issues during all four phases of MCQ tests. NU was forced to reschedule the last phase of pharmacy exams due to congestion. The VI network normalized by Thursday night but had the problem persisted, the NU administration planned to postpone the exams by a couple of days on the lines of Pune University. The plan was dropped after the university successfully conducted a cancelled pharmacy paper on Friday without much issues. “We have asked college principals to contact their students to know whether they faced any troubles on Thursday. Those who want to reappear can submit an application to their principals. We will also verify from our server whether their claims are genuine. We will be issuing a circular for all colleges in this regard by Saturday,” Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. Though NU is yet to calculate exact numbers of students who suffered on Thursday due to a host of technical glitches, the director said that if their number was found to be over 50%-60%, the exams held on Thursday would be cancelled and NU would declare re-exam of all papers. “We received hundreds of complaints for Marathi and science papers. Since our server was busy throughout Friday, we couldn’t retrieve that data. Once it is done, we will conduct their re-exams on the days when there would be less papers like on Friday. We have also told all principals to collect examinees’ applications and submit them to NU,” he said. On Friday, NU conducted exams of over 20,000 students from arts, science and engineering faculties, apart from pharmacy, without any major hiccups. “We, of course, received minor complaints regarding slow connectivity from rural areas. In the morning, we received many requests for device change due to network issues of VI,” said Sable adding that over 98% students appeared for exams on Friday. On Saturday, NU would be undergoing a real test with over 30,000 students appearing in the online exams. It included those of BBA, BCA, BSc and pharmacy among others. The NU officials are praying for smooth conduct of Saturday’s paper, as a large number of students would be affected if technical problems hit again. # NU online exams held on Friday Shift -------------- Faculty------------ Enrolled -------------- Appeared ----------% 1st -------------- Pharmacy --------—- 824 ---------------------- 798 --------------- 96.8 2nd ------------- Arts ----------------- 306 --------------------—-296 ---------------- 96.7 3rd ------------- Science ------------- 7,817 --------------------- 7,695 ------------- 98.4 4th ------------- Engg & Tech ------- 11,349-------------------- 11,289 ------------ 99.5 Total ------------------------------------ 20,296------------------- 20,078 ------------- 99||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/re-exam-for-students-hit-by-vi-network-crash-nu/articleshow/78709740.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR to run 8 spl trains for Dasara||Hyderabad: In order to manage extra rush during Dasara, the SCR has decided to operate eight special trains from the twin cities to various destinations. Secunderabad-Visakhapatnam-Secunderabad, Lingampalli-Kakinada Town-Lingampalli, Tirupati-Visakhapatnam-Tirupati and Secunderabad-Shalimar-Secunderabad trains will facilitate the movement of passengers between the two Telugu states. The trains will start operating from October 13. The Secunderabad-Shalimar weekly special train will depart Secunderabad at 5.40 hrs on every Tuesday and arrive at Shalimar at 9.05 hrs the next day. In the return direction, it will depart Shalimar at 16.05 hrs on every Wednesday with effect from October 14 and arrive at Secunderabad at 18.30 hrs the next day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-to-run-8-spl-trains-for-dasara/articleshow/78709735.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Pune||Low testing in Maharashtra ahead of winter sparks worries||PUNE: A decline in the state’s number of Covid tests per million population has drawn the attention of experts at both the Centre and the state. All district collectors have now been directed to ensure testing capacities at the state’s 500 testing labs are ramped up ahead of the winter months. On Wednesday, the state’s test-per-million figure was at 57,042, compared to the national average of 63435. The Centre has already announced that the colder months could trigger a surge in Covid-19 cases. Experts said the drop in the state’s testing numbers is then particularly concerning. “I have directed all labs to increase capacity before winter’s onset,” said state health director Archana Patil. “Instructions have been issued to all district authorities to ramp up testing.” Patil said focus is also on improving both RT-PCR and antigen tests in the districts. Experts from the National Centre for Disease Control said the winter months are most crucial. Data from certain European countries currently show an increasing number of infection spikes. “For India too, respiratory diseases will be high during this season. And we cannot be lackadaisical in our approach. All states have been asked to test more so that we can detect Covid cases early,” a senior official from the NCDC said. The official added that states also have to be prepared for surges during the festive season. “Besides enforcing physical distancing and other control measures, authorities have to ensure all best practices are maintained.” Public health expert R Jotkar said the apparent decline in Maharashtra's caseload could be deceptive if officials don't keep up testing until positivity rate dips below 5%. Currently, it’s an estimated 20%. He said a disruption in the central supply chain has left states struggling to maintain testing costs. “This should not be the case. There should be enough supply from the Centre too to reduce the price of tests,” Jotkar said. State health minister Rajesh Tope had announced there are plans to bring down cost of RT-PCR tests rates to Rs 800. But experts said the cost should reduce further. Epidemiologist Giridhara Babu said Maharashtra's high number of cases and positivity rate calls for more testing. “The low number of tests done while prevalence continues to be high is cause for concern,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/low-testing-in-state-ahead-of-winter-sparks-worries/articleshow/78703716.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Festivities go virtual||Ahmedabad: They say nobody can really stop a Gujarati from performing garba; perhaps not even the pandemic! Even though local or commercial events are not taking place in line with government guidelines, Gujaratis have managed to take garba to the virtual space as well. A few choreographers held garba classes online and some organisers are taking the festivities to the virtual space. Himanshu Shah, of Soi live events, said, “We will be organising the event on a virtual platform where people can dress up and enjoy playing garba and win prizes. We will be providing the music and performance on the virtual platform.” Similarly, to engage speech and hearing-impaired students, the school for such kids run by Navjivan Trust, will also be hosting a digital event. Nilesh Panchal, who runs the school, said, “On the first day of Navratri itself, some 50 students from our school will be participating in Virtual Navratri programme. We will be playing music from the school and add more people using a virtual platform. Students will play garba with their families and we will be distributing prizes to five best performers as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/festivities-go-virtual/articleshow/78709792.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Strict corona vigil at rly station for 5 hrs, no screening after 3pm||Ahmedabad: Of the 800 passengers who have tested Covid-positive so far at Kalupur railway station, 85% were AC coach passengers and and only 15% were those who travelled in sleeper coaches. AMC officials also said that 500 of the 800 Covid-positive patients detected in the last 45 days had arrived by Radhani Express. A senior AMC officer said, “The drive to check train passengers was initially taken to check labourers coming into the city. We were surprised to find that sleeper class passengers weren’t the biggest threat. The majority of those testing positive for Covid are those travelling by second class and third class air-conditioned coaches.” The AMC has focused the testing drive on those arriving by four trains: The Rajdhani Express (from Delhi), Gorakhpur Express, Muzaffarpur Express and the weekly Howrah Express. The officer said people will wonder whether all passengers entering the city from the Kalupur station are checked, but the fact is that the AMC has only been carrying out tests between 10am and 3pm, and thus only those arriving on three trains are being checked regularly. Passengers from the Howrah Express are checked only on Tuesdays. And 9 trains arriving every day at the city, outside this 10am-3pm slot go unchecked. Passengers of two more trains which arrive within 30 minutes of the four trains checked regularly also mostly go unchecked due to crowding. A senior AMC officer said a lack of manpower is behind screening of passengers only between 10am and 3pm. He said for round the clock screening at Sabarmati, Maninagar and Kalupur stations, the AMC will need at least 24 teams. At Kalupur, at least 4,000 passengers arrive daily who are not checked even for fever. Those who get off at Sabarmati and Maninagar enter the city without any Covid checking at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strict-corona-vigil-at-rly-station-for-5-hrs-no-screening-after-3pm/articleshow/78711383.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 17, 2020||Trichy||DVAC raids Tiruvarur DPC, seizes cash, books 4||Trichy: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) conducted a surprise raid on a direct procurement centre (DPC) for paddy near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district, and seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs 87,000 late on Thursday. The DVAC also registered a case against four people at the DPC. A team led by deputy superintendent of police, DVAC in Mannargudi, Nandagopal stormed into the state-run DPC at Kannarapettai by 7.30 pm. The officials searched the entire premises, where only a few employees attached to the DPC were present. The raid continued till 11.30 pm. Police managed to seize Rs 87,790 in cash from the centre. The staffs present at the centre were unable to produce source of the cash. The team also verified the paddy bags piled up on the premises. A total of 150 bags of paddy were brought from another godown. The DVAC counted the bag and handed them over to them. Nandagopla said that they registered a case against a bill clerk, a quality control inspector (in-charge), a watchman and a man for possession of unaccounted cash. The raid came at a time when a petitioner moved the Madurai bench of Madras high court recently pleading to the court to instruct the state government to open more DPCs across the state to enable farmers to sell their paddy without incurring any loss. The petitioner also raked up the issue of commission demanded by the staff for taking their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dvac-raids-tiruvarur-dpc-seizes-cash-books-4/articleshow/78711933.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Chennai||Nine Tamil Nadu hospitals barred from treating corona patients||CHENNAI: The directorate of medical services has barred nine hospitals from treating Covid-19 patients over the past two months in TN for violations such as overcharging of patients. Eighteen other hospitals have also been directed to repay excess money collected from patients for treatment. Licence for Covid-19 treatment was temporarily cancelled for three city hospitals Bewell Hospital in Kilpauk, Appasamy Hospitals in Arumbakkam and Hindu Mission Hospital in Tambaram besides SRM Medical Hospital, Trichy, City Hospital, Virudhunagar, Priyam Hospital, Salem, Sri Lakshmi Medical Centre, Coimbatore, City Hospital, Thoothukudi and Scudder Memorial Hospital, Ranipet, till last Wednesday. “We conducted inquiries based on complaints from patients or their relatives. Most of them were related to charging more than what was prescribed by the government. The hospitals were issued showcause notices before action was initiated against them,” said director of medical services Dr S Gurunathan. In June, the state health department issued orders capping the price for tests and treatment of Covid-19. While beneficiaries under the chief minister’s health insurance scheme admitted to private hospitals can be charged between Rs 5,000 and Rs 15,000 a day depending on whether the patient was admitted to a general ward or was put on ventilator in ICU, non-beneficiaries could be charged Rs 7,500 a day in A1 and A2 grade hospitals and Rs 5,000 a day in A3 to A6 hospitals. Cost for critical care was fixed at Rs15,000 per day. Officials said hospitals were given the option to refund the excess fee collected from patients. Eighteen hospitals, 16 in Chennai and two in Coimbatore, have returned the money. The list of 18 hospitals that repaid patients excess amount are: SRM Medical College Hospital, Chettinad Hospital, Dr Kamatchi Memorial Hospital, Dr Mehta’s Hospital, Hycare Hospital, SIMS Hospital, MMRV Hospital, Prashanth Hospitals, Venkateswara Hospital, Apollo Hospitals on Greams Road and Vanagaram, Appaswamy Hospital, Chennai National Hospital, MGM Hospital, Vijaya Hospital and Srinivas Priya Hospital in Chennai, KCMCH and GKNM Hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/9-tn-hosps-barred-from-treating-corona-patients/articleshow/78702290.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||FIR against private news channel in Kutch||RAJKOT: The Gandhidham police in Kutch district on Friday lodged an FIR against a private news channel after a complaint was lodged by the man who had gone to Tanishq showroom demanding an apology for the interfaith TV commercial on October 12. Ramesh Maitra alias Ahir, the complainant, alleged that the channel had broadcast false news stating a mob had broken into the showroom and vandalized it. Ahir stated in his complaint filed at Gandhidham A-division police station late on October 15 night that he had neither pressurized or threatened any staff member of the showroom nor misbehaved with them. Ahir claimed that he had only ‘requested’ them to paste an apology in Gujarati language outside the showroom, officials of Kutch (east) police said. When contacted, Ahir, however, refused to comment. IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc.) and 505 (publishing or circulating statement, rumour or report with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons, were invoked. The FIR was lodged following the directions of state’s junior home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja who had described the news reports as "totally fake".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fir-against-pvt-news-channel-in-kutch/articleshow/78708229.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bareilly||FIR against constable who beat wife after being accused of infidelity||Bareilly: Budaun SSP has ordered to register an FIR against a police constable who thrashed his wife, also a constable in the middle of a busy road in Civil Lines area of Budaun city.The commuters on the road were in for a shock when a bike-borne man started beating a woman cop. When they reached to rescue her, they found that the man was her husband.Some people shot videos of the incident and shared it on social media. In the purported video clips, the woman could be heard saying that her husband is having an affair with another woman and he tortures her every day.Additional SP (city) Praveen Singh Chauhan said, “After coming to know about the video, we have ordered to register an FIR under relevant sections on the complaint of woman constable. Departmental action will also be taken against the accused policeman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fir-against-constable-who-beat-wife-after-being-accused-of-infidelity/articleshow/78706021.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Badagas find place in UN database of world’s indigenous people||Udhagamandalam: The Badagas, the largest indigenous community in the Nilgiris, has been included in the database of the United Nations International Mountain Partnership.In the database, Badagas are described as traditionally buffalo herders, who are nowadays turning to farming with special focus on organic farming. “Badaga language is part of the Dravidian language family and one of world’s primary language families spoken by more than 200 million people in south, central and north India,” it says.Venugopal Dharmalingam, director, Nilgiri Documentation Centre, said, “The Mountain Partnership is a United Nations alliance of partners dedicated to improving the lives of mountain people and protecting mountain environments around the world.”Founded in 2002, the Mountain Partnership has more than 400 members, including international organizations, major private sector organizations, NGOs and 60 governments, including India.According to Venugopal, the UN defines indigenous mountain people based on criteria such as how long they have been living in a specific territory, traditional food system, their cultural distinctiveness - including exclusive language, social organization, religion and spiritual values - history of struggle and exploitation, and their clear connection to a particular mountain or range, among others.“Based on these criteria, we had submitted the case of the Badagas for inclusion in the database of the world’s indigenous people with all necessary supporting evidence and documents. The UN Mountain Partnership has accepted the application and included the Badaga community in the data base,” Venugopal said.The United Nations Economic and Social Council (UNESCO) had earlier included the Badaga language as ‘definitely endangered’ on its atlas of the world’s languages in danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/badagas-find-place-in-un-database-of-worlds-indigenous-people/articleshow/78709796.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Farm fire share in Delhi pollution 18% now||NEW DELHI: The contribution of stubble burning to PM 2.5 in Delhi’s air shot up to 18% on Friday from 6% on Thursday and just 1% on Wednesday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), which functions under the ministry of earth sciences, said the speed and direction of wind had become favourable for the transport of pollutants towards Delhi.  Track the pollution level in your cityOn Wednesday, SAFAR had identified 740 fire counts across the northern plains while 583 counts were detected on Thursday. “Stubble burning fire counts were observed on Thursday around Haryana, Punjab and the neighbouring border regions with SAFAR’s synergised fire count estimated at 583. Transport wind direction is favourable and an increase in stubble contribution in PM2.5 is estimated,” said SAFAR on Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi said wind direction had shifted in the direction of north-west which was favouring transport of pollutants from Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi. “While wind speed locally is strong, the stubble burning component is also reaching Delhi,” he said. Chandra Bhushan, CEO at iForest, says that studying the cumulative impact of stubble burning in Delhi’s air, and not just the daily concentration, is equally important. “While the daily load of stubble burning pollutants arriving in the capital is important, one needs to assess how much of it is staying on and is part of the background emissions. It may be that the daily contribution is 20% but if the wind speed is strong, it dissipates quickly. Similarly, a daily contribution of 4% may stay around longer if wind speed is low,” Bhushan said. Meanwhile on Friday, The Energy Resources Institute (TERI) held a webinar on ‘Agricultural residue management and solutions to achieve better air quality’, with experts stating a combination of both in-situ and ex-situ techniques could bring a positive impact in the long run. Data shared by TERI showed farm fires were at their peak in 2016 in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh but the figure had almost halved in 2019 in all the three states. Sunil Dhingra, senior fellow and associate director, renewable energy technology, at TERI said some progress has been made but it’s slow. “We should not only provide incentives to farmers to switch to other crops but also provide the farmers who do grow paddy a solution to this problem. If they are able to manage the stubble and collect it themselves, they should be able to get some economic value from it,” said Dhingra. Watch Delhi pollution: Farm fire share stares at 18% now, raises concern||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fire-share-in-city-pollution-18-now/articleshow/78709818.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 17, 2020||Pune||PMC disease surveillance centre, proposed after swine flu, remains on paper||PUNE: The “disease surveillance centre” of the Pune Municipal Corporation, announced shortly after the 2009 swine flu outbreak in the city, has remained on paper. The facility was to improve medical informatics at the municipal-level, with both civic and private hospitals sharing crucial data on a single platform. During outbreaks, this network was supposed to hoover up scattered patient data and assist with response. “The surveillance centre was planned at Naidu hospital after the swine flu outbreak,” said Rajeev Joshi, a member of an advisory committee that was formed to develop the unit. “It was aimed to improve data collection for area-focused treatment. A few meetings were held, but it could not be set up.” Joshi, a medical practitioner, said doctors, including general physicians, could have been roped in to develop the system. “It would have given the civic administration access to accurate patient information,” he said. According to a PMC proposal, a budget of nearly Rs2 crore was to be sent aside for the project, which included IT, salaries and allied infrastructure. There are around 8,000 registered medical establishments within PMC limits. The list includes small clinics and large hospitals. The surveillance centre could have streamlined data sharing between these facilities. “The centre could not come up at Naidu hospital, because some other projects were executed there. The site is currently occupied by the Covid-19 treatment unit,” said Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official from the PMC’s health department. “But a similar centre has been developed by the Smart City project.” Wavare added that both active and passive surveillance are being carried out. The existing monitoring system, he said, is also collecting data from hospitals and teams that are going door-to-door are also collecting patient data. The civic official said, “The civic administration is performing all the tasks that were supposed to be carried out by this surveillance centre. There is also an app which has been developed for private hospitals. Barring general physicians, hospitals have the login rights for this app, which is currently being used to share data.” Public health surveillance has been largely split into two categories: active and passive surveillance. Active monitoring involves healthcare workers routinely contacting healthcare providers and facilities in a region for patient information and health conditions. Research has shown that active surveillance provides the most accurate and timely information - data is almost always live and relevant. However, it's also an expensive system to maintain. Passive surveillance involves healthcare authorities receiving reports from large hospitals, clinics and other sources in a region. This system is relatively cheaper to run and can cover larger areas. The disadvantage here is the machinery relies on people in different institutions to provide data. It's prone to errors. The third technique is integrated surveillance, which is a combination of active and passive systems using single platforms that gather information and data about multiple diseases or intervention programs. In such a scenario, one health facility–based system can be deployed to gather information on multiple infectious diseases. Managers of disease-specific programmes can be evaluated on the results of the integrated system and are in fact, stakeholders. So there's increased accountability. Researchers said even when an integrated system is functioning well, programme managers may continue to maintain categorical systems to collect additional disease-specific data and control the quality of information on which they are evaluated. However, this practice can lead to duplication and inefficiency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-disease-surveillance-centre-proposed-after-swine-flu-remains-on-paper/articleshow/78703734.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Two die after stepping on live wire||Hyderabad: A father and son, who went to their farm field, died on Thursday late in the evening after they got electrocuted in Kolapally village in Shankarampet, Siddipet district. Police said that 51-year-old Hirya and Raju,20, accidentally came in contact with a live wire when they were in the and suffered current shock. The live wire was kept to kill wild boars, to avoid damage to their crop. Police registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death ) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Officials said that due to heavy rains, Hirya’s field was inundated with rain water and it could be one of the reasons why the father and son missed to locate the live wire. It is learnt that they went to their field to monitor the situation. Both died on the spot. Later when the locals noticed the two lying dead, they realized that they suffered current shock and first disconnected the power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-die-after-stepping-on-live-wire/articleshow/78709794.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Placements for engineering students dwindle this year||Hyderabad: Placements from core companies and start-ups for students from civil, mechanical, electrical and electronics engineering branches have dwindled at various colleges in Telangana this year. Whereas, colleges have observed a surge in number of offers from IT firms for the academic year 2020-21. As per the All India Council for Technical Education figures, there are close to 1.1 lakh engineering graduates that are up for placements this academic year. “The number of offers from core companies into manufacturing and civil infrastructure have certainly dwindled this year,” said Vijaya Mair, head, placements and corporate relations at CVR College of Engineering. “The IT companies have saved a lot on infrastructure due to work from home option and have invested immensely on the talent pool. However, it’s not the same for core companies as their job cannot be done from home.” Mair said that many core companies are redesigning and re-strategising their products and job profiles after the pandemic. Placement officers admit that almost 50% job offers are from tech-based companies and that multi-national companies are hiring in bulk. However, there has been a sharp drop in number of offers from start-ups in the market. “Most IT services are meant for some or the other IT product. Due to the pandemic, there has been a rise in number of such companies that have offered jobs in development of their products. Whereas this year, placements from start-ups have not been too encouraging,” said K Kishore, director, training and placements, at Vasavi College of Engineering. Kishore said there has been an uptick in placements in finance firms as well. Many students from civil, mechanical, electronics and electrical engineering branches are now upskilling themselves into programming languages to have a shot at IT firms if they fail to secure jobs in core companies from their field. “I have enrolled myself into an online certificate course for Python to have a fair chance at securing a job. We have been informed that manufacturing companies may only visit our campus by January. However, looking at the market, I am not too confident of getting a job in my own branch,” said a civil engineering student. Many students from civil, mechanical, electronics and electrical engineering branches are now upskilling themselves into programming languages to have a shot at IT firms if they fail to secure jobs in core companies from their field||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/placements-for-engineering-students-dwindle-this-year/articleshow/78709768.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Invest in futuristic tech: DRDO chief||Hyderabad: The ninth convocation ceremony of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, was held virtually on Friday. The event saw 38 students earning 53 gold medals. This year, 78,395 undergraduate and postgraduate students were awarded degrees. In his convocation address as the chief guest, G Satheesh Reddy, chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation urged institutions to excel itself into basic research to applied research in every field. “Unless institutions invest in futuristic technologies, no research and development organisation will come forward to help in prototyping. The country can only be self-resilient in developing every component if academic institutions excel in applied research,” said Reddy. He said the DRDO has ties with 295 academic institutions in the country. Reddy explained that the DRDO is investing Rs 1,000 crore in various academic institutions, including Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad and University of Hyderabad, to come up with futuristic technologies. The graduates include 61,295 BTech students, 5,191 MTech students, 4,793 MBA students, 3,406 B Pharmacy students among others. university will be awarding 53 gold medals to students for their outstanding academics/research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/invest-in-futuristic-tech-drdo-chief/articleshow/78709774.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctors aghast as post-Covid deaths don’t show up in government data||BENGALURU: Covid-19 patients who die soon after testing negative — and there are many of them — are not included in the state’s tally of pandemic deaths and doctors are aghast at the practice. While these patients beat the virus, they continue to need treatment due to complications. “These complications are triggered by the SARS-CoV 2 infection and to not include them in Covid-19 deaths is wrong,” doctors say. “Sadly, such deaths are seen as due to other reasons like cardiac arrest and don’t make it to the state’s Covid fatality tally.” They suggest the number of people who have succumbed to Covid is much higher than the number the government is reporting. As per the state’s daily bulletin, Karnataka lost 10,283 people to Covid-19 till October 15 and 3,462 of them were from Bengaluru alone. Doctors who spoke on condition of anonymity say the data aberration helps BBMP, and even hospitals, show a low mortality rate and spares bereaved families the stigma as bodies can be taken home for last rites. For example, on October 14, an 80-year-old man suffered acute breathlessness and was brought dead to a hospital on Old Airport Road, Bengaluru. Posthumous rapid antigen test showed he was negative for Covid-19, but he was earlier treated for the infection in the same hospital. “His was nothing but a case of pulmonary embolism, an after-effect of Covid-19,” a doctor said. “But his death certificate said cardiac arrest. He is not among the state’s Covid-19 fatalities.” However, the hospital’s call also matters. The death of a senior citizen on the 24th day of his admission at Suguna Hospital was reported as a Covid-19 death, although he tested negative during the course of treatment. “A Covid patient can test negative after 14-15 days after treatment, but yet requires ICU care,” said a doctor. “We shift such patients to non-Covid ICUs, but if they die, they are not reported as Covid-deaths.” Doctors admit they are under pressure from bereaved families and BBMP to declare such deaths as non-Covid fatalities. “BBMP officials say wardwise deaths will increase which they want to avoid,” said an intensive care specialist. “And families also plead that it be declared a non-Covid death so they can perform last rites. Trust is the biggest casualty in all this.” Informal discussions among doctors from different hospitals usually centre around the day’s deaths in their facilities. “Every Covid-treating hospital sees a minimum of four deaths a day. But the state bulletin shows Bengaluru has less than 50 deaths on most days. How is that possible? Data should reflect reality and not be a tool for one-upmanship among states, districts and hospitals,” said a doctor. Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, state expert committee on Covid-19, admitted: “Ideally such deaths should be categorised as post-Covid deaths,” he said. But Dr S Sacchidanand, vice-chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, who also heads the Covid death audit committee, said post-Covid deaths are not the committee’s purview. “A Covid patient is defined as one who is infected till s/he tests negative,” he said. “Once negative, it’s no more a Covid case. We don't know till when we have to include those deaths as Covid deaths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctors-aghast-as-post-covid-deaths-dont-show-up-in-govt-data/articleshow/78707838.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Five held for illegal lion show in Kodinar||RAJKOT: Five persons were arrested on Friday in connection with the illegal lion show organised in a village of Kodinar taluka of Gir Somnath district. A series of videos of the lion show had become viral in social media. The accused were identified as Mukesh Singhad, Dilip Singhad, Dilip Lalakiya, Bhana Singhad, all residents of Ghatvad village and Satish Nagralia, a resident of Jamvala. The accused have been booked under section 9 of Wildlife Protection Act which has the provision of imprisonment up to seven years. The main accused in the case, Mayuddin Kadri was still absconding, said, forest officials, adding that more people may be involved whose names would be revealed after interrogating the arrested accused. According to forest officials, the accused involved in the illegal lion show were locals and no outsider or tourists were involved. On Thursday, a series of videos had gone viral showing a live cow being offered as bait to a lion. The videos were shot in Ghantvad village of Kodinar taluka which falls under the Jamwala forest range. The area where the video was shot is a reserved forest area near Singoda river. Deputy conservator of forest Gir (West) Division Dheeraj Mittal said, “There are couple of more persons who are yet to be arrested in the case. The accused knew that the lion was around so they put up a bait and made the videos.” In one of the videos, two bikes are seen parked at about 100 metres away from a cow which is tied with a rope. The accused are seen sitting with sticks usually carried by beat guards. In the video, lion is seen rushing towards the bait and pouncing on it. The male lion makes the kill while the accused are seen busy making videos on their mobile phones and taking photographs. Watch Viral video: Lion offered bait for an illegal show in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/5-held-for-illegal-lion-show-in-kodinar/articleshow/78708260.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||MPCB backs closing bamboo board units in Gorewada||NAGPUR: The Nagpur regional office of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has decided to submit a proposal to the state government to shut all the units in operation inside the Gorewada reserve forest off Katol Road as these were not only polluting but have no consent to operate and neither do they have the mandatory permissions. The Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) is operating three units — a vacuum pressure impregnation (VPI) unit followed by a fast pyrolysis plant, which converts bamboo waste into oil, charcoal, and gas, and a wood-fired charcoal kiln. On more VPI unit is in the process of being set up. More than Rs2 crore has been invested in these units. The entire operation of these plants is energy negative. Fossil fuel is used to run operations along with electricity. The charcoal kiln uses 500kg of wood in one stroke and two tonnes of bamboo is converted into charcoal. All these units don’t have the mandatory permissions from the directorate of industrial safety & health and MPCB. Moreover, as these activities are non-forestry, setting them up on forest land needs to have clearance under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Taking cognizance of TOI’s report dated October 14 regarding 4-5 workers having a miraculous escape after a blast in the VPI unit, the MPCB field officers visited the spot on October 15 and collected water and chemical samples. “We will recommend closure of these units as they were operating without our consent. A report will be submitted to the state government soon. The bamboo board has also violated both Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981,” said MPCB regional officer AM Kare. According to sources, the deputy director of industrial safety and health will also conduct a spot investigation. The directorate did not know about these units as permissions were not taken from them. All the senior officials of the forest department are aware of these units and all had visited the area on September 18, World Bamboo Day. After remaining silent, MBDB managing director TSK Reddy said, “I took stock of the situation. The treatment plant failed due to malfunction of the safety valve and human failure. We have initiated corrective measures. The treatment plant is used for research and development work and there is no commercial interest.” However, senior forest officials admit it is a non-forest activity and it amounts to violation of FCA. “No such proposal for forest clearance was submitted before the committee. When the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) did not allow international zoo plans on the lake (north) side, how were polluting units set up? I will write to the MoEFCC,” said Green Planet Society chief and Regional Empowered Committee (REC) member Suresh Chopne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpcb-backs-closing-bamboo-board-units-in-gorewada/articleshow/78709876.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Panic in Palladam after windmill catches fire||Coimbatore: A windmill caught fire at Palladam on Friday afternoon, causing panic among the residents. It took two hours for the Palladam fire and rescue services personnel to put out the fire, which was said to be caused by a damaged wire. There are several hundred windmills at Palladam, which is a popular location to erect them because of the high wind velocity the area enjoys. A fireman said they received a call from the windmill’s security and maintenance engineer around 3pm, saying a windmill at Elavanthi near Vadukkupalayam was in the flames. “We reached the spot in 10 minutes and by 5pm we managed to bring the fire under control. The top portion of the windmill was burning heavily when we reached. The top motor is heavily damaged,” he said. The reason for the fire is yet to be ascertained. Many residents in the area raised concerns over the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/panic-in-palladam-after-windmill-catches-fire/articleshow/78709825.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Hubballi||Many take to walking to stay fit, beat virus||HUBBALLI: To keep Covid-19 infection at bay by developing strong immunity, many residents of the twin cities are doing cardio-related workouts, including jogging and walking. Since Unlock-5, there has been a significant growth in the number of morning walkers, and spotting of fitness freaks at lung spaces stands testimonany to that. ‘Walk 5km a day’ is the new slogan that is keeping new entrants on their feet, literally. Channabasavaraj, a resident of Akshay Colony and a walker for the past three years, said there is a significant growth in the number of morning walkers. “Before the Covid stuck, their number was less. But after Unlock-4, people are hitting the streets in morning hours like never before,” he said. Santosh Idiga, a resident of Deshpande Nagar, said he has been a brisk walker for the last six years. “I was a regular at Golf Ground on Kusugal Road, where I used to get some space for walking. Now it’s difficult as the ground is always crowded,” he said. Anita (name changed), who recently recovered from Covid, said she started walking four weeks ago, and has been seeing many changes in her health ever since. Her husband and her son, who were also affected by the infection, join her during morning walks. Anita walked only short distances when she was on ventilator for 10 days during Covid treatment. “Now, I walk for about 2km without any difficulty in breathing,” she added. Citing American Health Society findings, cardio-diabetologist Dr G B Sattur said one should walk 10,000 steps a day, preferably non-stop. “One should do walking in a place which is not crowded as the pandemic threat lurks in such places. Walking with good shoes on is important, else one may suffer injuries,” Dr Sattur said, adding: “Diabetics should carry a water bottle and glucose powder, just in case they develop hypoglycaemia. Regular walking is the best way to remain fit as it has 23 health benefits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/many-take-to-walking-to-stay-fit-beat-virus/articleshow/78710992.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Parts of Gujarat to see 5 days of rain’||AHMEDABAD: With a low-pressure area moving from the Bay of Bengal towards Gujarat, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast five days of light thunderstorms in various parts of the state, primarily Saurashtra and South Gujarat. According to the IMD, light thunderstorms with lightning are expected in Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Tapi, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Bhavnagar and Kutch on Saturday. There will be thunderstorms in Patan, Mehsana and Sabarkantha along with the above-mentioned districts on Sunday, all districts on Monday, all districts of North Gujarat along with Bharuch, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Surat, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Porbandar, Rajkot and Kutch on Tuesday and Anand, Bharuch, Surat, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Porbandar, Rajkot and Kutch on Wednesday. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that in 2019 too the state had received rainfall in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parts-of-state-to-see-5-days-of-rain/articleshow/78709848.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Experts find youths grappling more with mental health than the elderly||PUNE: Experts have observed that most patients battling mental health issues are less than 60 years of age. “We have been seeing an overwhelming rise in cases of mental health issues. Since the beginning of the lockdown till date, there is an increase of 50%. Most are young adults and middle-aged persons. About half do not have any past history of mental illness,” psychiatrist Sayantani Mukherjee said. The burden of mental health issues in Pune was quite high even before the pandemic but doctors note a shift in its prevalence from the elderly to the youth. “Elderly patients were more in number earlier, mainly affected by loneliness as children live abroad. That has changed during the pandemic," Mukherjee said. Some parents have seen their children come back while those living with their children are happy that they are spending more time together due to the lockdown. "Their children, on the other hand, are adversely impacted by lockdown struggling with irregular work hours, the stress of job loss, lack of personal space due to working from home. Those working in the healthcare sector are anxious about carrying the virus to their children and parents at home," Mukherjee who is attached to Columbia Asia hospital in Kharadi, said. Psychiatrist Jyoti Shetty underlines that elderly people appear to have coped if they have had the support of family and the community during the lockdown and after for the supply of essential products and medication. "For young adults and the middle-aged, anxiety over getting infected, job loss and isolation have been the major factors that impacted their mental health," she said. She is the head of the department of psychiatry at Bharati Hospital, one of the biggest Covid hospital facilities in private healthcare. Insecurity and uncertainty mainly trigger mental stress. "Moreover, youths and middle-aged people with a genetic predisposition to psychological problems and those with an anxious and obsessive personality, having less coping skills are mainly the most affected," psychiatrist Swapnil Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-find-youths-grappling-more-with-mental-health-than-the-elderly/articleshow/78703748.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Long wait over, Telugus head back to Australia||Hyderabad: As Telugu natives start heading back to Australia, they describe the struggles of getting an exemption. Australia shut its borders to temporary workers and students outside the country since March. Many still are waiting to get back to their lives. K Nikhil, stuck in Hyderabad, finally got an exemption to travel to Australia after being rejected 12 times. “I had applied on compassionate grounds and they finally accepted it. I know many people who have applied for more than 30 times and have been rejected.” Nikhil was in Hyderabad for his brother’s wedding. “It’s a big relief to be heading back. I am more happier now than when I first got my visa. I work in Sydney in operations and will finally be able to resume my life.” Another temporary worker, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the struggle to get an exemption was tough. “Many of my friends have been working behind the scenes in Australia so that I can travel back. They are helping with papers that can make my case stronger such as statutory declarations and form 888. They even approached an MP there so that I could get back.” There are many others who aren’t so lucky, especially those on student and post study work visas (485 visa). Nikhil Babu Gottimukkula from Sydney completed his masters in 2018 and came back on March 5 for the first time to see his family after four years, but got stranded in Karimnagar. Working in a supermarket and gas station, he requested that his leave be extended, but the future remains uncertain. He still pays his bills without a salary. “I am losing about $500 per month and insurance $80 per month. I’m also not getting paid which is around $4,000 a month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/long-wait-over-telugus-head-back-to-australia/articleshow/78709799.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||BFA, BDesign examinations postponed||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Architecture and Fine Arts University has postponed the entrance examination for its four-year bachelors in fine arts (BFA) and BDesign courses offered in the constituent colleges for the academic year 2020-21. According to a press release issued by the university, the entrance examination scheduled to be held on October 18 and October 19, 2020 has now been postponed to November 1 and November 2, 2020. The decision was taken because of the unprecedented rains that lashed Telangana in the past few days. The rains had resulted in hardships to citizens, besides giving rise to logistical issues. The officials of the university said that there will be no change in the examination timings and the examination centres that were allocated to candidates earlier. Students have been requested to visit www.jnafauadmissions.com or contact on 040-23319462 for further information and details regarding the examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bfa-bdesign-examinations-postponed/articleshow/78709801.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||AAP activists protest move to collect maintenance cess for parks & crematoria||MYSURU: Activists of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) held a protest on Friday condemning Mysuru City Corporation’s (MCC) proposed move on collecting maintenance cess for parks and crematoriums from its property owners. They also submitted a memorandum to both deputy commissioner and MCC commissioner. They shouted slogans against the civic body for taking such a decision when people are hit by the pandemic. The protesters asked the MCC to drop the proposal and instead improve parks and develop all graveyards with its own funds instead of collecting cess. They expressed their apprehensions that the proposal aims at charging the taxpayers irrationally as per the area of their property. They also took strong objections to the MCC for not constituting ward/area committees which are required as per Chapter III A Section 13 of Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act and 74rd amendment to Constitution of India. The protesters also claimed that the MCC has failed to maintain its official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/aap-activists-protest-move-to-collect-maintenance-cess-for-parks-crematoria/articleshow/78707987.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||CAT postpones Sharat’s transfer hearing to October 23||MYSURU: The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has adjourned the hearing in an appeal filed by IAS officer B Sharat against his premature transfer from the post of Mysuru deputy commissioner, after the advocate general sought time for argument, stated a source. The case has been posted to October 23 for arguments. Following technical glitches on Wednesday, while hearing the case through videoconferencing, the case was posted to Friday. After the petitioner advocate made his argument, the defence counsel sought time, following which the court postponed the hearing. Sharat knocked on the doors of the CAT, challenging his premature transfer as Mysuru DC. Sharat was posted as Mysuru DC on August 29, but after the government posted Rohini Sindhuri as the Mysuru DC, within a month after his posting in late September, Sharat approached the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cat-postpones-sharats-transfer-hearing-to-october-23/articleshow/78707877.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||GFP slams TCP for ‘hiding’ zone change data||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai on Friday accused the town and country planning (TCP) department of trying to hide data on the applications for change of zone. Sardesai’s allegations came after the department notified 72 land parcels for change of zone under Section 16B without giving details about the land ownership. GFP has challenged TCP minister Chandrakant Kavlekar to make the names of all the 72 applicants public. “Same TCP department, same chief town planner, so why is there a change in style?” said Sardesai. Sardesai shared a copy of earlier notifications which included details regarding ownership of the land, area that is being converted and the department’s recommendations. This time around, in its notification, the TCP department has provided only the survey number and the taluka. “Typical of the government of Goa’s care a damn for the people attitude. Opacity is the new normal under cover of the pandemic. I demand that the TCP minister make public all names of applicants and areas of land parcels, so that people know what he is hiding,” said Sardesai. As per the TCP notification, objections to the change of zone can be made within two months of the notification, that is by December 15. Opacity is the new normal under cover of the pandemic. I demand that the TCP minister make public all names of applicants and areas of land parcels, so that people know what he is hiding||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-slams-tcp-for-hiding-zone-change-data/articleshow/78711291.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid cases on rise again, Ahmedabad's tally nears 40,000||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Friday, Gujarat added 1,191 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s total to 1.57 lakh. This was the fourth consecutive day that the state recorded an increase in new cases and the sixth consecutive day of fewer than 1,200 new cases. An analysis of the four major districts reveals that all of them recorded an increase compared to Thursday. The share of the four districts in the total number of cases rose from 56% on Thursday to 58% on Friday. The new cases included 268 from Surat, 189 from Ahmedabad, 125 from Vadodara, 111 from Rajkot, and 74 from Jamnagar. The total number of cases in Ahmedabad inched closer to 40,000 mark at 39,929 whereas Vadodara crossed the 14,000 mark. The state also recorded deaths of 11 Covid patients, taking the total deaths in the state to 3,620. This was the third consecutive day that the state recorded 11 deaths. The deaths included three each from Ahmedabad and Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Rajkot, Gandhinagar, Banaskantha and Panchmahal. The death tolls in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 1,866, 815, 202 and 153, respectively. A total of 1,279 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total discharges in the state to 1.39 lakh. This was the lowest number of discharges in the past eight days. The discharges included 303 from Ahmedabad, 177 from Ahmedabad, 112 from Rajkot, and 94 from Vadodara. The share of active cases reduced to 14,705, or 9.3% of total cases recorded so far. The shares of discharged and deceased patients were 88.4% and 2.3%, respectively. After eight days, the number of tests crosses 52,000 at 52,657, taking the total number of tests performed in the stae to 52.69 lakh. As on Friday evening, Gujarat had 5.51 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-cases-on-rise-again-ahmedabad-tally-near-40k/articleshow/78709868.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Clear dues or face legal action: TSWB to tenants||Hyderabad: Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) on Thursday asked tenants to clear dues immediately or face legal action. Mohammed Saleem, chairman TSWB, accompanied with other officials, inspected Bahadur-ud-Dawla Waqf Complex located in Nampally, which is in a dilapidated condition. The tenants were asked to clear their dues or face eviction with legal process. He said that the Bahadur-ud-Dawla Complex was an old structure and needs to be renovated immediately. “It was constructed more than 40 years ago. It needs immediate repair and renovation. So, we have planned to renovate it, we will consider reconstruction,” said the waqf board chairman. Saleem said legal action would be take in case of further delay in clearing rents to waqf board. “Waqf board will issue notices to all tenants those who failed to pay rent with arrears. Notices will be served to the tenants of Allauddin Complex at Pathergatti. The Board has started a drive to collect rents to increase board’s income,” said Saleem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clear-dues-or-face-legal-action-tswb-to-tenants/articleshow/78709852.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why early harvest may result in happier Diwali this November||NEW DELHI: Air pollution in the national capital region this month is higher due to adverse weather factors and stubble burning after early harvest in neighbouring states, but it may not be as bad during the second-third week of November, coinciding with Diwali, compared with the corresponding period last year.  Track the pollution level in your city“We are expecting that this time the peak contribution of stubble burning may not coincide with peak adverse meteorological conditions in Delhi,” said Prashant Gargava, member secretary, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Gargava said the peak period of stubble burning used to be during the second-third week of November, which also happens to be a period of quite adverse weather conditions. But this year it may not be so due to shifting of harvest operations. “We think the situation may not be as bad during that period (mid-November),” he said. He, however, kept his fingers crossed due to unpredictability of meteorological factors as colder conditions and negligible wind speed result in poor ventilation index that prevent dispersal of pollutants. Even CPCB chairman Shiv Das Meena hoped that the overall incidents of stubble burning in both Punjab and Haryana would eventually be less in 2020 than last year, as both states have less crop areas under non-Basmati paddy this year compared with 2019. Non-Basmati paddy straw is not used as fodder as it contains high silica that animals can’t digest. As a result, farmers prefer to burn the stubble to prepare their farms for the next crop, leading to increase in air pollution. Sown area data of states, released by CPCB, shows both Punjab and Haryana had over two lakh hectares each of less acreage of paddy this year compared with 2019 due to diversification towards non-paddy crops. It means both the states would generate less stubble this year compared with 2019. Meena referred to the Haryana government’s incentive scheme to divert farmers to non-paddy crops and said other states and the Centre were also working in this direction and hopefully the situation would be better in coming years. CPCB also shared details of what it has been doing to handle the situation and its future course of action, keeping all the neighbouring states on board. As additional measures, the Board this year has asked all industries and construction agencies to provide undertaking for adhering to prescribed environmental norms so that any lapse on their part would automatically attract penalty and other relevant actions including closure of units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-early-harvest-may-result-in-happier-diwali-this-november/articleshow/78709721.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||60% U’khand applicants qualify NEET||Dehradun: More than 60% of the applicants from Uttarakhand managed to qualify The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate), the results of which were declared on Friday. As per details provided by National Testing Agency, as many as 13,933 students from Uttarakhand registered for the NEET this year but only 12,047 appeared for the exam. Among these, 7,301 students managed to qualify the exam. The pass percentage this year was 60.27%, which was 0.47% less than the last year. Dehradun-boy Ujjawal Chaudhary, who secured 680 marks out of 720, bagged the All India Rank of 647. He told TOI that this was his second attempt. Son of a businessman, Ram Pal Chaudhary, Ujjawal decided to become a doctor by following the footprints of his elder sister who passed MBBS from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College. “I was fascinated with the kind of work my sister is doing. It motivated me to become a doctor,” said Ujjawal. In 2019, 13,587 students had registered for the exam and 12,531 had appeared for it. Among those, 7,602 students had qualified the exam. Vaibhav Garg with All India Rank of 74 was the U’khand’s NEET topper in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/60-ukhand-applicants-qualify-neet/articleshow/78708288.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 17, 2020||Pune||Construction of civic medical college set to start soon||Pune: The construction work of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s medical college on Raja Bahadur Mill Road is likely to begin soon.The civic body has a plan to commence construction work of classrooms. A proposal regarding the same has been tabled before the standing committee. The construction will begin on the premises of a municipal school near Naidu hospital. Two separate tenders worth Rs1.6 crore have been finalised for the same. The civic body had submitted a proposal for setting up of a college to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences in August 2020.The standing committee is expected to take call on it next week. The PMC has completed the process of trust formation for ‘Bharatratna Atal Bihari Medical College.’ An educational trust for it has been formed, which includes elected members of the corporation.“The space for college has been finalised. Patients from the Naidu hospital will be shifted once the construction starts,” said PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar.The civic body had formed a special committee in August 2019 to study the operation of municipal medical college. The PMC’s medical college is being developed on lines of the one run by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in Gujarat. A delegation had visited Ahmedabad and studied its functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-of-civic-medical-college-set-to-start-soon/articleshow/78703796.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Dyeing unit releasing effluents in open, polluting Noyyal, say environmentalists||Coimbatore: A group of environmentalists say a small-scale dyeing unit that is located hardly 30m from the Kuniamuthur check dam has been releasing untreated effluents in the open. “Whenever it rains, the effluents would flow into the dam, polluting the Noyyal river,” they said. Pointing out that the Noyyal water is already polluted by sewage, farmers say untreated effluents will affect their farmlands badly. R Manikandan, a member of Kovai Kuzhangal Pathukappu Amaippu, says, “The dyeing unit is located in Madhampatti panchayat and runs with three employees. They seem to be doing job work for some concern that is based in Tirupur. We have evidences to prove that the unit is releasing effluents in the open.” Manikandan and his team said when they had petitioned the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) about the dyeing units polluting the river three years ago, they were told that there weren’t any such units anywhere near the river and other waterbodies in the region. “TNPCB and the Public Works Department, which is incharge of maintaining many of the waterbodies in the district, should have taken notice of the unit and shut it down or taken other corrective measures.” PWD manages 15 waterbodies and check dams outside the city corporation limits. “With so many engineers and staff, how did the department miss this dyeing unit that is functioning at a stone’s throw away from the Kuniamuthur check dam?” Manikandan wondered. Farmers, meanwhile, said their cultivation would be affected if they use the water mixed with effluents for irrigation. P Kandasamy, state secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivaisaigal Sangam (non-political) said they had forced a bleaching unit at Perur Chettipalayam shutdown around eight years ago as that was releasing untreated effluents into the river. When cthe issue was brought to their attention, Pollution Control Board officials inspected the dyeing unit at Kuniamuthur. They said they have sent their report to the district coordination committee, which will initiate action. “We will ensure that no material is moved out of the unit until further notice,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dyeing-unit-releasing-effluents-in-open-polluting-noyyal-say-environmentalists/articleshow/78709865.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Nabbing fraudsters operating from other states uphill task||Hyderabad: A large number of frauds by offenders posing as Armymen have been reported on online marketplaces since last year. The detection rate has, however, been low as cops face a difficult time nabbing the accused from other states. According to the cyber crime police, teams often spend weeks in other states in order to investigate cases. The police said that most such offenders cheat people on the pretext of selling second-hand products online and are traced to Bharatpur district of Rajasthan. Recently, the Cyberabad cyber crime police nabbed gang members operating from Bharatpur in Rajasthan who were involved in over 40 fraud cases on OLX in all three commissionerates— 15 in Cyberabad, 18 in Hyderabad and six in Rachakonda, apart from one case registered in Nizamabad district. The police team had spent close to a month in Rajasthan gathering clues with the help of the local police and nabbed the accused. However, police said that it is a difficult task to nab these offenders. “Our teams spend at least two to three weeks there, investigating multiple cases at a time. In many instances in the past, our teams were attacked by villagers. Now, with the support of local police, we expect the detection rate to go up in such cases. We hope to nab more offenders,” said CP, Cyberabad, VC Sajjanar. Two more teams have been sent to Rajasthan and Jharkhand to investigate similar fraud cases. Even as the cases are high in number, the detection rate is hardly 10%, as amid the pandemic, the police teams could not travel to other states. “We have evidence for more than 60% of the cases, but during the lockdown, travel was restricted. Slowly, the teams started visiting neighbouring states, where they can travel by road. After the lockdown was lifted, the teams have again visited various states. This will improve the detection rate,” said a police officer. There are close to 300 cases of marketplace fraud reported this year alone. “The offenders, pretending to be Army officers, post ads for sale of vehicles or electronic items on online marketplaces for second-hand products to lure and cheat people,” said KVM Prasad, cyber crime ACP, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nabbing-fraudsters-operating-from-other-states-uphill-task/articleshow/78709810.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, cab service exclusively for pets and stray animals in city||Hyderabad: Whether it is a quick trip to the vet or a long-distance journey, finding a safe ride for a pet, especially in the absence of a four-wheeler or if one doesn’t know how to drive, has always remained a concern for pet parents. But if you are a pet parent in and around Hyderabad, you don’t have to worry any more. Animal rights activists Panneeru Teja and Panneeru Prithvi, who run Scoobies pet service, have come up with a unique initiative to provide cab services to pets as well as stray animals in the city. “This idea of starting a cab service for pets came to us after several people complained about how regular app-based cabs or auto rickshaws are reluctant to accept the ride when they are travelling with a pet. Even during rescuing a stray animal, we often come across situations when we have to convince auto drivers by giving them extra money to drop the rescuer and ailing or an injured stray at the veterinary clinic,” said Teja. While the fares to book the cab service for pets are on a slightly higher side — Rs 750 for 0-30 kms within the city and Rs 15 per kilometre for AC cab for out-station travel, and non-AC Rs 13 per km excluding toll fee, they said the charges would be nominal for stray animals and rescues. “I called Scoobies Pet Taxi services recently to take my pet dog to a vet. They don’t just offer you and your pet a ride from one place to another, but are also very proficient when it came to handling animals and making them comfortable throughout the ride. Also, after every ride, the seats are disinfected by the driver,” K Karthik, a resident of Moosapet said. While they are starting the service with a vehicle at present, Prithvi informs that the fleet of cars would be expanded as per demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-cab-service-exclusively-for-pets-and-stray-animals-in-city/articleshow/78709839.cms||Moulika.KV
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Farm fires: Former SC judge to monitor steps||NEW DELHI: In an effort to arrest declining air quality in Delhi-NCR, the Supreme Court on Friday tasked its former judge, Justice Madan Lokur, to monitor and energise ground-level preparations to stop stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh even though the Centre expressed concern that existing agencies might be undermined. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati registered strong protest and said appointment of a retired judge to monitor preparations for prevention of stubble burning would undermine statutory authorities like the Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) and other agencies. “We may have to file an application to seek modification of this order,” the SG said. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, who appointed Justice Lokur on the suggestion of senior advocate Vikas Singh, who also consulted and took the ex-judge’s consent for the assignment, was quick to clarify, “The appointment of this committee and the directions in this order are not intended to dilute the powers, functions and the authority of any agencies, such as EPCA, already created. “The object of appointing a committee is more to facilitate and coordinate the activities of different authorities so that the problem is resolved. The different authorities created by the states/Centre shall also be free to carry on their own activities, without feeling muted by the appointment of the committee.” The court also sought to give Justice Lokur foot soldiers for carrying out surveys and verification. “We find that it would be fitting, if services of National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme volunteers and Bharat Scouts and Guides, wherever available, are deployed for assisting in the monitoring of stubble burning in agricultural fields in these states. We trust that the authorities in charge of these forces shall enlist their services to the extent possible, to assist the Justice Lokur committee for this purpose,” it said. The order was passed on a petition filed by a student, Aditya Dubey, through counsel Nihil Jain and Meenesh Dubey, who had complained that despite assurances given by the chief secretaries of three states, Nasa photographs showed that stubble burning in 2020 was five times that of last year during this period. Senior advocate P S Narsimha for Punjab and additional advocate general of Haryana Anil Grover said several steps had been taken by states to stop stubble burning, including deployment of an Android mobile phone application for detection and notification of a particular field in which stubble was being burnt. However, the court said at this juncture, it was not inclined to assess the effectiveness of measures taken by states. “We are confident that each measure has been taken by the authorities with the intention of alleviating the problem of pollution. Nonetheless, it is necessary that there must be some monitoring of stubble burning ,” it said. Accepting Ssingh’s proposal for appointment of Justice Lokur as a one-man committee, the bench directed chief secretaries of the three states to assist the ex-judge in carrying out physical surveillance of fields where stubble was likely to be burnt and devise additional means and methods for preventing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fires-former-sc-judge-to-monitor-steps/articleshow/78709640.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Parents hail 3 schools for reducing fees, urge others to follow suit||Nagpur: After TOI reported about three private schools reducing fees in view of Covid-19 pandemic, many parents and a parents’ NGO have hailed the move and called on other schools to emulate this ‘humanitarian gesture’. Some also vented anger on social media against private schools, which, they claimed, were exploiting parents in such an unprecedented crisis. TOI had reported about Prahaar, Kurveys New Model, and Nahate schools that slashed fees substantially and helped out distressed parents despite facing losses. None of these schools have reduced salaries of their teaching and non-teaching staff, as against some of the city’s top schools that have sacked staff citing the pandemic. Terming the three schools as ‘Corona warriors’, Rashtriya Shikshak Palak Sangathan (RSPS), which is fighting against management of top schools on behalf of parents to reduce fee, said they had set a precedent for others. “It’s unbelievable in today’s commercial times that these three schools reduced fees on their own considering financial problems faced by scores of parents. It is really commendable they’re offering discounts ranging from 25% to 85%,” RSPS coordinator Yogesh Pathare said. Calling on the government to help parents, he requested stringent action against schools “looting parents by collecting sports, library and laboratory fees even though schools were closed”. A parent, Dippak Awachat, said these schools are really doing charitable work for which they were provided land by the government. “My son is studying in a private school and they were charging us under heads which aren’t possible due to closure. I have a seasonal business which has suffered due to lockdown. A majority of parents like me are facing the worst crisis of our lives. When we requested the school to reduce fees by 50%, they refused and threatened to block the online education link. We’re somehow managing our homes.” Many parents also reacted to the TOI news on social media platforms. “They take 12% commission on books, uniforms and even on transportation. They also recover minor charges like for photo identity cards from students. Parents paid fees all these years without questioning or opposing it. At least in this big crisis, the schools should grant relief to parents and support them,” said Amit Heda of Consumer Justice Platform. Endorsing him, another parent said even if a majority of schools slashed their charges by 50%, they wouldn’t face any losses. “For all these years, they have accumulated profits and used it to open new branches and create assets. Now, it’s time to pay back to parents, who’re really battling for survival due to job losses or dip in businesses after lockdown. All these years, they never protested and blindly paid fees without ever questioning schools,” he said. PARENTS SPEAK * Prahaar, Kurveys New Model, and Nahate schools are ‘Corona warriors’ for reducing fees * Other schools should replicate ‘humanitarian gesture’ shown by them * Schools should extend helping hand to parents in such crisis * Even govt should take call on reducing fees * All these years, schools accumulated profits * Many parents battling for survival due to job losses or dip in business||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-hail-3-schools-for-reducing-fees-urge-others-to-follow-suit/articleshow/78724263.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 17, 2020||Goa||Pension via Goa Posts goes online||PANAJI: There will be no need for senior citizens to travel to the pension department to show their life certificate. Under Jeevan Pramaan – the biometric enabled digital service for pensioners, Goa Posts is carrying out the issuance of digital life certificate with Aadhar authentication online. “There are a lot of pensioners across the state and most of them draw their pension from the bank itself. However, it is essential for them to avoid traveling in the Covid-19 situation. With the system going digital this year, it will be easier for them to show the certificate,” a department official said. Pensioners are annually allotted time between November to December to submit their Jeevan Pramaan patra or life certificate. Anticipating how risky it would be for senior citizens to queue up at post offices to submit the certificate, the department of posts started the e-pramaan patra for all pension schemes. “We have about 200 end users and 175 postmen that have been enabled to go to the homes of the users and do the e-pramaan patra for them at a nominal fee of Rs 70,” the official said. Alternately, pensioners can also phone call the post office in their jurisdiction and the post man attached to the jurisdiction will be directed to get the e-pramaan patra done for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pension-via-goa-posts-goes-online/articleshow/78836843.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists enraged over videos of cats being trapped for consumption||Hyderabad: Incidents of people trapping stary and domestic cats, allegedly for consumption, are increasingly coming to light with locals and animal activists sharing photo and video evidence. Recently, residents of Ramanthapur collected videos of a few unknown people trapping cats with nets, binding wires tied to sticks and other poaching equipment in their colony. At least four similar incidents have come out in the past months, where people who allegedly belong to a nomadic community in Ramanthapur, Alwal and Nallakunta areas were seen catching cats in videos. Animal welfare activists have also earlier posted videos online, which show them releasing cats from cement bags or untying wire ropes from a cat’s neck. While activists say incidents of people trapping stray and domestic cats are increasing, no action has been initiated by police yet to nab the miscreants. P Teja, an animal rights activist, recnetly intercepted a group of men hunting cats at Jawaharnagar. “This is not the first time I saw people trapping cats in the city. They usually come out during late nights or early mornings. They trap cats to kill and eat them. Killing and eating cats is also illegal under Food Safety and Standards Act,” he said. A complaint regarding one such incident was filed at Jawaharnagar police station where activists rescued two cats and handed over the culprits to the police. “There were instances when we were threatened by these people when we asked them to stop trapping the cats or release them back in the area,” said P Pridhvi, who came across a similar incident . When contacted, a senior police official said, “We filed a petty case against a few cat trappers last month. We will definitely take action in case there are more such incidents happening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-enraged-over-videos-of-cats-being-trapped-for-consumption/articleshow/78709859.cms||Moulika.KV
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Animal stay booked after dog dies of tick infestation||Hyderabad: When Shariq was leaving for Dubai in February, his parental instincts towards his furry pals Thor and Nova led to the Siberian Huskies boarding in a pet facility in Shamshabad. But to his utter shock, Shariq found out that Thor passed away within a few months of his stay at the centre. Nova was recovered in a critical state. The dogs were earlier lodged in a boarding centre in Jubilee Hills for a few months before being shifted to Shamshabad. “I shifted my dogs to the Shamshabad boarding centre after the owner of facility assured me of better care at a much affordable price. The owner also told me that they had tie-ups with multiple veterinary clinics in the city. And yet, Thor died of tick infestations,” said Shariq. After Thor’s death, the boarding centre, called The Pet Care, has been accused of negligence and cruelty. “A thorough medical examination of Thor determined that my dog died of total negligence on the part of the boarding facility. My dog had thousands of ticks on his body due to them not giving proper care to him for multiple weeks. This led to him losing a huge amount of flood, causing death,” Shariq added. Shariq’s other dog Nova, who narrowly survived, also suffers from severe tick attack and is currently under the care of animal activists. When contacted, the owner of the boarding centre, Biswaprakash, said: “Due to rains, there was tick infestation in the boarding centre. The medicine we gave to the dog needed dry and humid condition to work but that was not possible because it was raining continuously during that month. The dogs weight increased after it came to our facility. We have dogs that are staying with us for over three years and they are doing fine. We tried every treatment possible to save the dog.” “The previous boarding center was charging Rs 14,000 per month per dog and we charged only Rs 12,000. We have also shut down our facility after the dog’s death,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/animal-stay-booked-after-dog-dies-of-tick-infestation/articleshow/78709874.cms||Moulika.KV
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||City Red Cross gets Rs 50L award||The Ahmedabad branch of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) has been adjudged the best Red Cross blood bank in India in the IRCS AGM in Delhi on Thursday. A special award of Rs 50 lakh — constituted to mark 100 years of Red Cross in India — will be conferred on the IRCS Ahmedabad. Kiran Chudgar, president of IRCS Ahmedabad, said the recognition is result of dedicated service of the staff, organizers of blood donation camps and blood donors. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-red-cross-gets-rs-50l-award/articleshow/78709887.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||Bambolim land use plan adopted, 22 cases deferred||PANAJI: The Town and Country Planning (TCP) Board on Friday adopted the Bambolim land use plan and deferred 22 of 25 zone change cases under Section 16B of the TCP Act. Apart from these, three cases were considered for provisional approval. After the board meeting, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavleker told reporters that the board has granted final approval to four cases. Kavlekar also said that unless the high court decides on the Bambolim land use plan, the government cannot give its final approval under Section 16B. “The court said that the board can give final approval but the government cannot,” he added. The deputy chief minister said that there are six objections and suggestions for the Bambolim land use plan. A sub committee was constituted, and hearing was given to those who have put in their objections and suggestions before clearing the plan, he added. Kavlekar further said that the 22 cases had land less than 100sqm. He also said that most fresh petitions have come for rectification as in the earlier plan it has shown as a settlement zone but in 2021 it is shown as orchard. The deputy chief minister said that there are six objections and suggestions for the Bambolim land use plan. A sub committee was constituted, and hearing was given to those who have put in their objections and suggestions before clearing the plan, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bambolim-land-use-plan-adopted-22-cases-deferred/articleshow/78711320.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Kids recovered from Covid prone to PMIS, say docs||Coimbatore: Covid-19 tally crossed the 39,000-mark in the district on Friday, when it recorded 387 fresh cases, even as a record high of 913 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The Covid-19 count now stands at 39,102, of which 3,902 are active cases. At least 34,688 patients have recovered from the infection in the district, where the recovery rate has touched an all-time high of 88.7%. The toll, meanwhile, went up by one to 512. The deceased was a 67-year-old diabetic man, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Monday. He died of severe pneumonia that was caused by the infection and acute respiratory distress syndrome on Wednesday afternoon. As per the data available with the health department, 1,240 children aged below 12 have contracted the virus in the district until Thursday. At least 477 of them were aged below five. All of them have recovered from the infection. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “Covid-19 has been relatively mild in children, who mostly get away with just mild cold or fever for a day. In some cases, they are asymptomatic.” The health department said the virus hadn’t affected the children severely across the world so far. However, what most parents do not know is that in rare cases, children, who recover from Covid-19, develop a pediatric multisystem inflammation syndrome (PMIS). It occurs within two to three weeks of recovery. It is a condition, where some organs and tissues such as the heart, lungs, blood vessels, digestive system, brain or skin get severely inflamed. Dr D Ashwath, paediatrician, Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital, said, “When it affects their heart, they come with cardiogenic shock. They will also have symptoms of pseudo Kawasaki disease, red eyes, severe vomiting or diarrhoea depending on the organ involved.” He said they had seen seven children with this condition. Two hospitals in the district alone have seen 37 children with PMIS. Dr A Jayavardhana, paediatrician, PSG Hospitals, said, “We handed 30 children and they came with fever, seizures if the brain was involved, or vomiting with severe abdomen pain, if their gut was involved. In fact, only a blood test could reveal the antibodies for Covid-19. They were completely asymptomatic and parents didn’t know they were infected. If we find antibodies, we have a standard treatment based on the organ/multiple organs involved.” Doctors say parents of Covid-19 infected children should not ignore a lasting fever, severe abdomen pain, vomiting or diarrhoea that occurs two to three weeks after recovery, even if they were asymptomatic. “We haven’t lost any children to the syndrome, but we recommend bringing in children as early as possible because it takes time to diagnose. We don’t know what level of viral load triggers this, or what age group is most affected, or if they have a marker making them prone to it. There is no data as of now on how many children have this syndrome,” Dr Ashwath said. The peak incidence of PMIS in the community is about a month after the peak in adult cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kids-recovered-from-covid-prone-to-pmis-say-docs/articleshow/78709880.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Cong to go it alone in Aurangabad poll||Aurangabad: The city unit of the Congress has started preparation for going it alone in the next civic body elections in Aurangabad. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh has asked the party workers to start the preparations. The elections that were scheduled to be held in April this year had to be put off in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress, the NCP and the Shiv Sena are partners in the state government, while the Congress had remained in the opposition in the Aurangabad civic body, where the BJP and the Shiv Sena have ruled the roost. However, the changed political equations at the state have created some confusion among the Congress workers over fighting the next civic body polls. City unit party president Hisham Osmani said on Friday that their primary aim was to strengthen the party in all the 115 wards. In the last civic body, the Congress had just 11 members. “If the party leadership reaches an understanding for the civic polls, we would follow it. For now, the leadership has asked us to strengthen the party it in all the wards,” said Osmani, who took over as the city unit president three months back. He said many MIM and BJP functionaries were keen on joining the party and so far, 250 prominent activists and personalities, including retired government officials, have officially joined the Congress in the last three months. They city unit, like its counterparts in the state, has already launched a signature drive against the Centre’s recent farm and labour laws. They intend to collect two lakh signatures in Aurangabad city to be submitted to the President of India with a memorandum. Deshmukh on Thursday inaugurated the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cong-to-go-it-alone-in-aurangabad-poll/articleshow/78707170.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana girl gets all-India 3rd rank in NEET||Hyderabad: Tummala Snikitha from Telangana secured the all-India third rank in the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET), results of which were released on Friday. She scored 715 out of 720. In all, 15 students from Telangana (7) and Andhra Pradesh (8) made it to the top 50 list — a marked improvement over 2019 when only four students from the two states made it to the coveted list. While Guthi Chaitanya Sindhu from AP with 715 marks secured all-India sixth rank, Anantha Parakrama B Nookala (710) secured all-India 11th rank. He also topped the boys category from Telangana. Kota Venkat (710), who secured all-India 13th rank, was the topper among boys from AP. “I was expecting to make it to the top 10, but never imagined that I will be topper from the state,” Snikitha told TOI. A student of Sri Chaitanya Educational Institution, Snikitha said that she always wanted to be a doctor like her parents. “My father is a cardiologist and my mother is a gynaecologist. So, seeing them I always wanted to be a doctor. I have not decide on any speciality yet,” she added. According to the data released by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducted the examination, eight students from AP secured a spot in the top 50, which is highest by any state, followed by seven from Telangana and four each from Delhi, Kerala and Maharashtra. A total of 54, 872 candidates had registered for the examination from Telangana of which 50,392 appeared for it. Among them about 50% have qualified in the examination. In AP, 58.63% of the candidates out of 57,721 cracked NEET. “I am extremely happy to see our students do so well in NEET despite all the challenges this year. We have been able to quickly transform and move to the digital platform and offer all the support to our students. The recent IIT Advanced results and now the NEET results are an indication that we were able to give our students the best quality education possible along with proper mindset and determination,” said Sushma Boppana, academic director, Sri Chaitanya, whose students from Telangana and AP secured all India 3, 6, 11, among other ranks. The director general of health sciences, government of India, will conduct counselling for 15% all India quota seats. For the state quota, a merit list as per state rules and based on all India ranks will be prepared by the authorities of Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-girl-gets-all-india-3rd-rank-in-neet/articleshow/78711325.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||NOCs of 3 schools cancelled for defying govt instructions||Ludhiana: Coming down heavily on the private schools for violating government instructions during the Covid-19 pandemic, the school education minister of Punjab, Vijay Inder Singla has cancelled no objection certificates (NOCs) given to three schools of district Ludhiana. In a press release issued on Friday, Singla said he has been personally monitoring complaints against such schools and after reviewing the cases of these three schools, he has decided to cancel their NOCs for defying government directions. The minister has floated his personal email id, vijayindersingla@gmail.com, to receive such complaints against wrongdoings of private school managements. Singla said most of the complaints were by the employees for not paying them salaries or being paid less by their respective institutions during Covid-19 pandemic. He added that after receiving the complaints against these schools, the education department has served notices to their managements and after finding their replies unsatisfactory, their NOCs have been cancelled. He said Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh led government will not allow any school management to exploit employees or flout any other instruction. The cabinet minister identified the schools: Guru Nanak Public School in Sarabha Nagar, DAV Public School in BRS Nagar and Amrit Indo-Canadian Academy in Ladian Khurd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nocs-of-3-schools-cancelled-for-defying-govt-instructions/articleshow/78704956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Dehradun||The Doon School celebrates its 85th Founders’ Day||Dehradun: The two-day long event held on the occasion of 85th Founders’ Day of The Doon School kicked off on Friday. The chief guest of this virtual event was Amitabh Kant, CEO of the NITI Aayog. The event was live-streamed across the school’s social media platforms from where the majority of its audience and speakers witnessed the event. The celebrations commenced with Chand Bagh Debates, where the Silver Jubilee Batch competed with the School’s Debating Team. The debate was followed by an event inaugurated by school’s headmaster Dr Jagpreet Singh in which the various exhibitions made by the students from their homes were displayed. This year, the events were held in an online mode in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/the-doon-school-celebrates-its-85th-founders-day/articleshow/78708301.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Micro-insurance panel wants wider entry||Ahmedabad: In the wake of the ongoing pandemic, experts have underlined the urgent need to expand micro-insurance sector coverage, to better cater to low-income groups. To encourage more low-income individuals to become entrepreneurs by availing micro-insurance, the committee on standalone micro-insurance companies formed by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDAI) has recommended reduction of entry-level capital requirement. The committee recommended entry-level capital requirement be reduced from the existing Rs 100 crore to Rs 20 crore for allowing entry to entities focused on providing insurance coverage to low-income individuals and families. The committee has suggested a slew of other amendments in the regulatory framework to facilitate establishment of a standalone micro-insurance company including cooperatives and companies as composite micro-insurers. IRDAI released the report of the committee last week. The 10-member committee was set up in February this year. “In our recommendations, we have suggested the government and the IRDAI to license such businesses which can cater to the low-income segment. The foremost recommendation is to bring down entry-level capital requirement for standalone micro-insurance entities,” said Mirai Chatterjee, chairperson of the IRDAI-appointed committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/micro-insurance-panel-wants-wider-entry/articleshow/78709903.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||BU develops way to isolate chemical compound from plant, wins patent||Coimbatore: The Bharathiar University has bagged patent for a method of isolating a phytocompound - isokaempferide – from acalypha alnifolia, a leafy vegetable which is commonly found in the Western Ghats. The phytocompound has a lot of anti-diabetic properties. As plant-based phytocompounds have profound anti-diabetic property, T Parimelazhagan, professor, department of Botany, started exploring the scientific, biological properties of isokaempferide and devising an easiest method to isolate it from the plants with high yield. The scientific analysis was done by research scholar P Revathi, who is currently working as an assistant professor with the department of botany at the Kongunadu Arts and Science College. The patent application was filed in 2015. “Following a scrutiny by the patent committee, the patent was granted on Wednesday (October 14),” Parimelazhagan said. “During the study, we had done soxhlet extraction with the plant extract for about 36 to 48 hours. Post that, acetone was made to evaporate completely from the extract. Then, it was subjected to thin layer chromatography to obtain single fraction, which was subjected to silica gel column chromatography after mixing chloroform and ethyl acetate fraction. The crystal structure that was obtained was then subjected to NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) studies and the isolated compound was confirmed to be isokaempferide,” he explained. The professor said they had standardized the method of isolation of the phytocompound from the plant in order to produce high-yield phytocompound. “It can be used by pharmaceutical companies to develop medicines for treating diabetes. As it is obtained from an edible plant with high nutritional value, it would not have any adverse side-effects compared to the synthetic chemicals. As the plant is commonly available, it might lead to the development of cost-effective treatment.” he said. He said farmers would also benefit from cultivating the plant in large scale. Since 2016, the Bharathiar University had filed 17 patent applications. Of the three patents it won, two belongs to the botany department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-develops-way-to-isolate-chemical-compound-from-plant-wins-patent/articleshow/78709902.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rise in wind speed helps improve AQI||NEW DELHI: A day after Delhi recorded “very poor” air — the worst of this season so far — the Air Quality Index improved on Friday morning, before slipping back to the “poor” by the evening.  Track the pollution level in your cityThe capital’s AQI was 239 on Friday, which improved due to the increase in wind speed. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), marginal improvement in surface wind speed led to an improved ventilation and AQI. A scientist at IMD said there was mist on Friday morning, but clear sky later caused the temperature to rise by one notch. Kuldeep Srivastava, head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The average wind speed on Friday was 8-10 kmph, which led to dispersion of pollutants and improvement in air quality. On Thursday, the average wind speed had picked up to 8-10 kmph from 2.30pm to 8pm. Pollutants are unable to disperse when the wind speed is below 5 kmph.” Programme associate at Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), Tanushree Ganguly, said, “On October 15, as the wind speeds increased during the day, we observed a dramatic decline in PM2.5 concentrations from 250ug/m3 to 50ug/m3. We saw a similar trend in PM2.5 concentration versus wind speed on Friday suggesting an inverse relationship between the two.” AQI is likely to stay in higher-end of “poor” to the lower-end of “very poor” on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rise-in-wind-speed-helps-improve-aqi/articleshow/78709787.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 17, 2020||Delhi||Nine-year-old spends night outside Rashtrapati Bhavan for better air||NEW DELHI: Licypriya Kangujam, a nine-year-old climate change activist, staged a protest outside Rashtrapati Bhavan from Thursday night till 2am on Friday seeking immediate action against air pollution and a change in policies from both the central and state governments. The campaigner, who was seen holding a placard stating that six million children were dying due to air pollution each year, had also drafted a 13-point agenda to clean Delhi’s air. She and a group of children also tried to hand over a list of demands to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal at 2pm on Friday at his residence, which included a permanent ban on firecrackers, cycling lanes on every street, compulsory planting of 10 saplings by each student and stopping the setting up of new industries and brick kilns in Delhi-NCR. “Cleaner transport means a safer future for children. Transform transport. Mark lanes in residential colonies and all roads in Delhi to encourage safe travel by bicycles,” said the agenda, while listing “more green spaces” as the second demand. Kangujam also said that deforestation needed to be stopped, efforts were required to revive the Aravali range, while a law was needed to control carbon emissions. Kangujam said, “It’s about time we wake up and take action against the high levels of pollution. Millions of children are at risk and the next generation will be even more vulnerable.” As she was unable to meet Kejriwal, she now plans to hand over the 13-point “solution to air pollution” to him in person on Sunday. She had addressed the United Nations Climate Conference 2019 in Spain. Watch 9-year-old Licypriya Kanguja spends night outside Rashtrapati Bhavan for cleaner air||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/9-year-old-spends-night-outside-prez-house-for-better-air/articleshow/78709920.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Odisha boy, coached in Kota,scores 720/720, tops NEET||Jaipur: Soyeb Aftab, a native of Rourkela in Odisha, stood first in the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) and created a new record by scoring 100% (720 out of 720) marks. The results of the medical entrance exam were announced on Friday. Aftab has been living in Kota and studying at a coaching centre for the last two-and-a-half years. He had never left Kota after he came here in August 2018 with the dream of becoming a doctor. He had hoped to get into a government medical college as private ones were beyond the financial reach of his family. The top rank will now give him the privilege of choosing the college he likes. “I will certainly opt for All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which is the Mecca of medical education in the country,” Aftab said. But the success had come after facing several challenges and sacrifices made by his family. Initially, he was nervous about moving 1,500km away from his home in Rourkela, the steel city, to the education hub of Kota. His mother Sultana Rajia came with him to Kota along with his younger sister Alisa Sultana. He prepared for the entrance exam at Kota's Allen Career Institute. For the topper, Kota became a second home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/odisha-boy-coached-in-kotascores-720/720-tops-neet/articleshow/78711330.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 17, 2020||Pune||Coding lessons at school-level help equip students with essential skills for the future||PUNE: The central government’s New Education Policy (NEP) talks about allowing students to choose coding lessons in schools, starting from Standard VI. While experts believe it to be a positive move, state minister for school education has stated on social media that there are no plans to making coding a compulsory subject in schools. Gaikwad had earlier posted that coding would be made a compulsory subject for primary classes. A number of private schools have already introduced coding as a subject for primary classes and there are a number of free online tutorials available on the subject. The NEP states that coding can be introduced in schools from Std VI onwards to foster cognitive development and encourage young students to learn coding. Zishaan Hayath, CEO of an ed-tech company, said, “With the advancement in technology, the ability to code is becoming increasingly important. Today, children are growing up in a digital era and coding is a skill that can be used every day. Kids are turning coders at the age of 6-8. They’re creating apps, games, and websites. People think coding is tough but with platforms like ours, it’s fun because of the game-based approach. Students will get to learn coding from top IITians and MITians.” Victorious Kidss Educares (VKE) IB school has taken a systematic approach to include coding not just as a one-off activity but to take it from the design of the curricula, which enables students to get continuous exposure to skills such as problem-solving, perseverance, creative and critical thinking. These skills are an integral part of IB programmes and they further enable students to effectively utilize them and grow stronger as individuals. A student of the school Samaira Pashankar said that she enjoyed the coding classes at school. “I aim to go to Silicon Valley one day. I am very enthusiastic about learning coding and I always complete all my coding tasks on time. Currently, I am working on a health care app with my teacher and I plan to complete it soon.” VKE president Robbin Ghosh said, “We introduced the coding class because it improves collaboration and communication. Through the progression of learning coding skills, our students have created mobile applications, websites, self-designed games, web applications, software modules, chat bots, artificial intelligence robots, stock market predictors and smart appliances as assessments as well as personal projects.” Principal of HDFC School Amruta Prabhu added, “Sensing the rising importance of instilling coding skills among young students, we have introduced it across all grades.” Chandrika Banerjee, principal of Vidya Pratishthan’s Magarpatta City Public School, stated, “As per the ICSE board syllabus, we have ensured our students also learn the skills so that they are ready for the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coding-lessons-at-school-level-help-equip-students-with-essential-skills-for-the-future/articleshow/78703814.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||College students’ must apply for national scholarship by Oct 31||Ludhiana: Online application for “Central Sector Scheme for Scholarship for College and University Students” for 2020, first Renewal for 2019, second renewal 2018, third Renewal for 2017 and fourth Renewal for 2016 is available on national scholarship portal (http://scholarships.gov.in). The last date for submission of online application form for renewal and for fresh scholarship 2020 is October 31. All the candidates are advised to apply online within the stipulated time and get their online applications verified by the institutions (if required show the original documents to institute) else the application would be treated as invalid. All the nodal officers of institute are requested for timely verification (verify/defect/reject) of the online applications at their institute login.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/college-students-must-apply-for-national-scholarship-by-oct-31/articleshow/78704963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Goa||Goans to stage silent walk in London on Mollem issue||Panaji: Goans in London are going to stage a symbolic gesture of solidarity with the protest against the upcoming projects at the Mollem sanctuary and national park on Sunday. A silent walk will be held at 1.30pm wherein people will meet at Alexander Palace in North London and extend their solidarity. The initiative is being organised by UK-based social activist Carmen Miranda. “It’s frustrating that there are so many things happening in Goa, we cannot walk till Mollem, but we can walk in solidarity with the people of Goa from here,” she told TOI. Though Miranda grew up in Panaji, her family is originally from Loutolim and has familial connections with renowned illustrator and cartoonist, Mario Miranda. Miranda was also very active during the Save Goa campaign to shut down reckless mining in Goa. When she heard about the issue surrounding Mollem, she realised that something had to be done to save Goa, even if it was from miles away. “This is going to be an unmitigated disaster if nothing is done about it. Goa is being used as a bypass for the big industrialists dealing with coal to save them money so that they don’t have to spend too much on transport. The governments of Goa and Karnataka are using Goa as a doormat. The only thing Goa will get out of this is pollution, noise and other horrific mess,” she said. Owing to strict Covid-19 restrictions which have been recently imposed in London, large groups of people are not allowed to intermingle. However, Miranda is hopeful that Goans in London will come on Sunday and join the silent walk while maintaining social distancing norms. “People are allowed to meet in groups of six, so we are hoping to move around in groups of six. It is going to be difficult under the present circumstances and I don’t know how many people will be there. But I will be there and will walk alone if I have to. We need to make people aware about what is happening in Goa and express our concerns and give our moral support,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-to-stage-silent-walk-in-london-on-mollem-issue/articleshow/78711360.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Tumakuru man makes most of job loss, builds thriving areca plate biz||BENGALURU: When Ravi R lost his job like lakhs of others during the lockdown, he refused to despair and instead was determined to find an opportunity in the crisis. The 50-year-old, a resident of Chikkanayakanahalli in Tumakuru district, decided to follow his instincts and, within months, built a thriving business selling areca plates and coconut shells. Ravi was employed with a small-time contractor, but that ended when the lockdown was enforced. “I decided to do something on my own and began looking for opportunities,” Ravi said. “My focus was on locally available material.” When Unlock 1.0 began, he noticed a huge demand for areca plates with hotels preferring them to re-usable plates owing to viral fears. Also, plastic plates, largely from China, faced massive supply disruptions. The demand for areca plates was in fact a global phenomenon. “A friend helped me buy the machinery,” Ravi said. “I have since manufactured about 7 lakh plates after Unlock1.0 and also exported them to countries like Nepal, Israel and the UK,” he told TOI. “I don’t own any agricultural land. I buy areca palm leaves from farmers and manufacture plates. We can make 4,000 plates a day. We sell them at Rs 5 apiece and, so far, have done business of Rs 35 lakh.” He went on to say, “Covid-19 has really taught me there is plenty of opportunity for business. Many things have changed and there is now space for local products,” he added. As with areca plates, coconut shells are in great demand. The shells are used as containers to store small items, besides being used as plant holders, bird feeders and ornamental purposes. Ravi supplies polished coconut shells and has produced about 5,000 of them. “People are wary of using plastic items. Tumakuru is famous for coconut plantations and polished shells are in great demand,” Ravi said. “We polish the shells and supply to dealers. We sell it for Rs 9 apiece and it is exported to countries like Israel, US and Nepal among others,” he said. Items made of shells cost at least Rs 300 apiece on e-commerce portals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tumakuru-man-makes-most-of-job-loss-builds-thriving-areca-plate-biz/articleshow/78707758.cms||Kiran Parashar
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||3,524 more candidates get admission||Ahmedabad: After the completion of the recent reshuffling round, an additional 3,524 students have been given admission for diploma engineering courses in the state. A total of 33,833 students were enrolled in the first round of admissions to diploma engineering out of which only 24,000 students had been confirmed. On the basis of this the reshuffling round was started by the Admission Committee for Professional Courses. A total of 6,638 students participated in the reshuffling round. Students who have been admitted in the reshuffling round will have to pay online fee from 14th to 19th of this month. Candidates who want to cancel the admission can do it online by October 19.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3524-more-candidates-get-admission/articleshow/78709957.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Message us if any govt official asks you for bribe: Rajasthan ACB DG tells businessmen||Jaipur: B L Soni, who recently took over as the director general of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB), has set a new bar in the fight against corruption. Addressing the business community on Friday, Soni said the members of industry can reach out to him if any government servant asks for a bribe or gratification. “If any public servant of the Govt of Rajasthan or Govt of India is asking for illegal gratification from you for your official work, plz contact us, we will ensure that your genuine work is done properly,” said the message from DG to industry bodies and individual entrepreneurs. Four cops on patrolling duty sent to police lines In this matter, four policemen on patrolling duty were sent to police lines after it was found that, just 20 minutes before the incident, they had crossed the spot where the crowd had gathered but did not stop to enquire about the issue. Complainants will not be harassed: Soni“Fight against corruption is an important service to the nation, plz come forward. U may send your complaint in brief by text msg or audio clip or small video clip confidentially on WhatsApp number 9413502834 which will be kept secret for sure. Plz give information against corruption (sic),” said the message from DG. Speaking at an event organised by CII-Rajasthan to create awareness about the initiative which was rolled out on Friday evening, Soni said he has held consultations with other government departments to ensure that the complainant does not become a victim of any government department if he/she informs the ACB about the demand for gratification. Businessmen avoid reporting cases of bribe fearing that they would be harassed and denied any further contracts by departments. “Businesses have to work with government departments. There are always some permissions or approvals to be obtained. Many companies also work on government contracts. If a businessman reports such cases, they are easily targeted and his business goes for a toss. The new initiative will be a milestone in rooting out corruption from government departments,” said Sunil Mehta, a businessman. Soni assured the industry that the confidentiality of the complainant would be a priority and his department would ensure that the person would not be harassed by government servants. The industry has always singled out departments like the pollution control board, revenue and fire where files are kept pending for a long time for unjustified reasons. Mehta said that unless bureaucratic red-tapism and corruption are curbed, businesses would be reluctant to come to the state. “Nowadays, states are wooing industry to create jobs and improve economy. If we don’t give them comfort, they will go to other states. It’s the need of the state and not the industry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/message-us-if-any-govt-official-asks-you-for-bribe-acb-dg-tells-bizmen/articleshow/78711339.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 17, 2020||Pune||People working from home struggle with screen fatigue||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Professionals spending long hours in front of multiple screens while working from home are experiencing digital fatigue, with many complaining of exhaustion and loss of sleep. Recognising the problem, many companies are trying to ensure screen-life balance for employees. “Our manager encourages us to stick to the breaks we used to take when we were in office. We can log out for an hour or take two breaks of half an hour or three breaks of 15, 15 and 30 minutes. We also stick to our shift timings. If we are expected to log in at a scheduled time, we are also not expected to stay beyond our normal work hours. In case we are required to work beyond regular hours, we are paid overtime,” said Suresh Chandan, a BPO employee. Sonal Jadhav, an IT professional, said, “Initially, when we started working from home there were times when I had to log into three meetings at once for training of various teams, which can be daunting and tiresome. Scheduling of online meetings for training or for other work has improved over the months.” “We are cutting down on online meetings altogether. When people are in office, time is of the essence, but online meetings tend to stretch unnecessarily with an overload of information. Though face to face communication is vital, we sent a circular to encourage managers to host it only when it is necessary, otherwise to resort to emails,” said Joshua O’Brian, a talent acquisition manager at an MNC. Mangesh Abdule, an HR executive with a multinational company, said, “We are running a campaign within the organisation to encourage employees to spend some time away from their laptops and exercise every day for an hour.” “Working from home has caused excessive use of screens, leading to digital fatigue for many. The symptoms include soreness, irritation, dryness of eyes, sensitivity to light, headaches, and blurred vision. Every 20 minutes, try and look away at least 20 feet from your screen for 20 seconds. If your symptoms turn worse, you must consult an ophthalmologist to rule out any underlying condition,” said ophthalmologist Anand Chaudhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/people-working-from-home-struggle-with-screen-fatigue/articleshow/78703824.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||5 arrested for trying to extort Rs 3L from power loom owner||Coimbatore: A five-member gang has been arrested in Tirupur for attempting to extort Rs 3 lakh from a power loom owner by blackmailing him with obscene photos of him and his relative with a woman. The gang had also threatened to circulate the photos on Facebook and WhatsApp, if he failed to pay the cash. The Perumanallur police in Tirupur said the five were arrested based on a complaint lodged by C Natarajan, 56, of DR Nagar at Vellakovil, on Thursday.In his compliant, Natarajan said his relative Kumar had received a phone call from a woman, who introduced herself as Vennila, saying her relatives were engaged in garment business and they were planning to place order with his power loom for bedsheets. “She invited Kumar and Natarajan to her house to seal the deal,” a police officer said.They met her at her house at Andipalayam near Perumanallur around 7pm on Tuesday. “While the three were talking, a four-member gang barged into the house and locked the door from inside. They snatched a gold chain weighing 16 sovereigns, a mobile phone and Rs 3,000 from Natarajan and made him and his relative pose for photos with the woman in their briefs,” the officer said.The gang threatened the duo to pay them Rs 3 lakh in cash within two days at Palani in Dindigul district and released them with a warning to circulate the obscene photos on social media if they failed to meet their demand. Based on Natarajan’s complaint, the Perumanallur police registered a case and arrested I Isakkipandi, 30, of Srivaikuntam in Thoothukudi district, his relatives M Isakkimuthu, 27 and M Jabaraj, 24, of Rajavallipuram in Tirunelveli district, P Chinnadurai, 29, of Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district and S Kavitha alias Vennila, of Shimoha district in Karnataka state on Thursday night.They were booked under Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) and 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.On Friday, they were produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-arrested-for-trying-to-extort-rs-3l-from-power-loom-owner/articleshow/78709917.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Steel bridge across Cauvery found unsafe, to be dismantled||Trichy: The state highways will dismantle the British-era steel bridge across the river Cauvery in Trichy, which is used as a walking track by residents, after a recent study by a team of technical experts found the bridge unsafe and suggested that it should be dismantled. The 500m long bridge connects Srirangam island with Trichy mainland. In 1996, Exnora Trichy, a non-governmental environmental service organization, renovated the old bridge as a walking track for the residents of Rockfort and Srirangam. However, the bridge remained unattended for years. “The steel bridge can be renovated again and be used as a walking track,” V Badrinath, founding secretary and advisor, Exnora Trichy said. Following representations from the residents to renovate the bridge, the corporation in its 2019-20 budget had planned to beautify it at a cost of Rs 10 lakh. However, the highways department has decided against it. “Even the foundation has become weak. The bridge has to be dismantled completely to prevent mishaps since people occasionally access it despite our warnings,” P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways told TOI. The department is likely to float a tender soon for dismantling of the bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/steel-bridge-across-cauvery-found-unsafe-to-be-dismantled/articleshow/78711949.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli worst hit as rain causes extensive crop damage||Kolhapur: The recent bouts of heavy rainfall though has wreaked havoc in all the four districts of South Maharashtra, Sangli district has been the most affected as crops on over 8,000 hectare area have been damaged. Solapur comes in next with crop damages being reported on over 4,600 hectare followed by Kolhapur (2,300 hectare) and Satara (800 hectare). Guardian ministers of all these districts have asked the authorities concerned to estimate and finalise the damage in actual cost term. The compensation is based on the different categories — crop type, irrigated or non-irrigated, kharif or cash crops. The ministers have also asked the authorities to fix the damages caused to the public infrasructure and private buildings. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Solapur and Sangli districts received highest rainfall on Thursday. The average rainfall for both the districts was around 120 mm. Akkalkot, Barshi and Pandharpur in Solapur reported over 150 mm rainfall, while Sangli tehsil received 146mm rainfall followed by Vita (113 mm). The drought prone areas of the district — Jat, Atpadi and Kavathe Mahankal — recieved 95 mm rainfall each. Vishwajeet Kadam, state cabinet minister, visited several places in Sangli district to assess the damage duw to the rain. “I met the farmers and discussed about the losses they have incurred. I assured them that we will do whatever possible to compensate the losses caused due to the unprecedented rainfall. I have asked the authorities to finish the field visit and send us the proposal to compensate the losses,” he said. Meanwhile, the IMD had forecast no rainfall for the region for the next few days. The discharge from dams has been reduced and the water level in downstream rivers have also come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-worst-hit-as-rain-causes-extensive-crop-damage/articleshow/78707226.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||Congress on backfoot in RR Nagar, says ST Somashekar||MYSURU: Brushing aside the allegations that BJP government is targeting Congress candidate Kusuma, who is contesting from R R Nagar assembly segment, Mysuru district minister ST Somashekar on Friday said KPCC chief DK Shivakumar is accusing BJP as he is wary of losing the bypoll. He said BJP candidate Muniratna was also booked during 2018 assembly polls for poll code violation. He faced the prospects of going to prison. Law is equal for all, he stated denying any political motive behind the case registered against the Congress candidate. It is the Election Commission which files the cases and not political parties, he stated. According to the minister, the KPCC chief is blaming BJP as he is sure that Congress is on backfoot at R R Nagar segment. It is lame on his part to blame the BJP for violation of the model code of conduct, he stated adding Muniratna, who won the last election with over 30,000 margin, will repeat the feat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cong-on-backfoot-in-rr-nagar-says-st-somashekar/articleshow/78709473.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||Three injured as tusker attacks car in Chikkamagaluru||CHIKKAMAGALURU/MANDYA: Three people were injured when a tusker attacked a car at Belechanahalli in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru on Thursday night. Bharath, Sharath and Mohan, from Hosapete village in Kaduru, were travelling to Belechanahalli on Thursday night. They stopped their car at Kadur forest range. A tusker came and rammed the car from behind. Two of the injured have been admitted to Hassan District Hospital. The elephants have been wandering in Kadur forest since the past four days. Meanwhile, a herd of seven elephants including a calf from Shimsha forest have strayed into villages at Shivanasamudra in Malavalli taluk of Mandya, triggering panic among residents. The elephants were spotted near Shimshapura village on Thursday night. They have been trampling paddy and sugarcane fields. The forest and police personnel are trying to drive them back to the forest. A forest officer said the presence of a calf in the herd of elephants has made the operation to drive them back into the woods even more tricky and risky. “Elephants which are generally very sensitive tend to be more aggressive if their calves are accompanying them and will be ready to do anything to protect them,” the officer said. Elephant dead An elephant at Mathigodu Camp in Kodagu died on Thursday. It is suspected that Rajendra, the 65-year-old elephant, was let out for grazing on Tuesday morning. However, when the elephant did not return to the camp on time, the mahout and caretaker went looking for it in the forest. They found Rajendra seriously injured and lying in the forest area near the camp. It is suspected that the elephant got into a fight with another elephant. It was brought back to the camp and was being treated. It died on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-injured-as-tusker-attacks-car-in-chikkamagaluru/articleshow/78709059.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Goa||Soon, segregate waste into 16 categories in Panaji||PANAJI: In a bid to gain greater control over the solid waste generated in the state capital, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has decided to introduce greater segregation and has called for 16-way segregation. The new norms are applicable for residential complexes, hotels, restaurants, government departments and government residential complexes. Even hospitals will be required to segregate waste into various categories such as sharp items, e-waste, ceramic items, cloth and other fractions. Currently, solid waste is segregated into five fractions — glass, metal, paper, plastic and food waste — in the main part of the city, while on the city’s fringe home just divide wet and dry waste. “CCP’s new Solid Waste (Management and Handling) Bylaws mandate that every waste generator shall store, segregate, process and treat waste in accordance with the said bylaws,” CCP commissioner Sanjit Rodrigues said in a public notice. CCP has decided to take a step further as it looks to improve garbage collection systems and reduce the waste handled. All waste generators will have to segregate and hand over the waste to CCP as per the new fractions. CCP has given all stakeholders a month to comply with the new norms. Residential complexes, hospitals, hotels and other bulk waste generators will have to create designated locations within their premises for the segregated waste within 30 days. Failure to do so, said Rodrigues, would invite penalties. CCP has made several strides to improve garbage collection in the city and has introduced a plan to install bio-methanation plants across the city to cut down on the food waste handled. It also plans to outsource the garbage collection process in the coming months and has already floated a tender to pick a bidder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-segregate-waste-into-16-categories-in-state-capital/articleshow/78711336.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK man, three others arrested for kidnapping moneylender||Coimbatore: A former DMK councillor and three others have been arrested for kidnapping a moneylender on Kottur Road in Pollachi on Tuesday and thrashing him at a godown. According to police, a six-member gang had waylaid K Shanthakumar, 40, of Pollachi, who used to finance two-wheeler purchase, on Kottur Road on Tuesday afternoon and kidnapped him in a car. “They took him to a godown near Thamaraikulam, where they assaulted him. Later, they abandoned him at Sentrampalayam in the evening,” the officer said. Shanthakumar was subsequently admitted to a hospital. He lodged a complaint with the Pollachi police, who registered a case. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Shanthakumar had borrowed money from many people and had not repaid them. “The gang apparently kidnapped him after he failed to repay the borrowed money. After beating him up, the gang members asked him to repay the cash,” the officer said. On Thursday, police arrested M Kannan, 51, a former DMK councillor of Pollachi municipality, R Naveenkumar, 29, of Kamatchi Nagar, John, 26, of Suleswaranpatti, and Stalin, 30, of Kannappan Nagar near Pollachi, in the case and seized two motorcycles and a car from them. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said, “Our team had collected CCTV footage from the area from where Shanthakumar was kidnapped. While we collected the registration number of the car, which was used for kidnapping, from the footage, the same was found to be fake. There was a motorcycle following the car. We arrested the four by tracing the motorcycle’s registration number.” He said the gang had not demanded any money from Shanthakumar. All the four have been remanded in judicial custody. Police are now on the lookout for the remaining two members of the gang - S Sathishkumar, 27, of Suleswaranpatti, and Anaimalai, of Kannappan Nagar near Pollachi. Police said all the six were booked under Sections 294 (b), 323, 341, 342, 363 and 506(ii) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-man-three-others-arrested-for-kidnapping-moneylender/articleshow/78709976.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Without donors, plasma machine sitting idle at hosp||Nashik: The rising number of Covid-19 cases in September had prompted many to raise the demand for an apheresis machine, used to separate plasma from the blood, at the Nashik civil hospital. However, now that the machine is installed and ready for use at the hospital, there are no eligible plasma donors.Senior officials of the blood bank said they had made calls to at least 30 people who had successfully recovered from Covid-19 and could be eligible for plasma donation. However, most of them are not willing to donate the plasma. Two cured patients, who did volunteer for plasma donation, were found ineligible.Officials said there were many conditions that need to be checked before selecting an eligible donor. The donor should be in the 18-50 year age group, should have recovered from a strong Covid-19 infection (so that antibodies are developed in the body) and should be free of all heart and kidney ailments.A series of tests are conducted before the plasma component is removed from the donor’s blood.Senior officials at the civil hospital said that the plasma of a recovered patient can be given for treatment only on the prescription of a physician who is treating a Covid-19 patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/without-donors-plasma-machine-sitting-idle-at-hosp/articleshow/78707253.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan comes ‘first’ with over 900 gang rapes in 2019||JAIPUR: The 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report has revealed alarming figures for Rajasthan, with the state reporting 902 gang rape cases, the highest in the country. The state is followed by Uttar Pradesh, which saw 301 such crimes for the year or just one-third of the desert state. After Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, the state is in the third spot in rapes committed by separated husbands. While Maharashtra reported seven cases, MP had six and Rajasthan five. Ravi Prakash Meharda, ADG (civil rights and anti-human trafficking), who has done an analysis on the NCRB data, said, “The spurt in cases being registered came after the infamous Thanagazi gang rape. Following this, the state government had issued an order that all FIRs can be registered at SP offices too. Previously, in the majority of such incidents, people refrained from lodging FIRs.” After a Dalit woman was gang-raped in Thanagazi in April 2019 in front of her husband, the local police station had failed to register a case for three days after the assault, leading to massive public outrage. The state government then made it easier to lodge FIRs. The official said that it has been found that in 88% of the cases till September 2019, the accused were known to the complainants and in 43% of cases, FIRs were filed. State tops in cases of assault on womenAlso in many instances, when a woman lodges a domestic violence case under IPC Section 498 A, she can additionally add rape and gang rape in the FIR, claimed the official. The NCRB data has also found the state on top when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempt to rape. While 6,977 cases were registered for assault on women, the highest in the country, the state had 18,432 cases of domestic violence. Earlier, NCRB data had shown that Rajasthan is also leading in the number of rape cases with 5,997 incidents, and also on top with 1,019 cases in the attempt to rape category. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-comes-first-with-over-900-gang-rapes-in-2019/articleshow/78711389.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Omnibuses resume ops, but patronage yet to pick up||Trichy: After a seven-month hiatus, omnibus operators in Tamil Nadu resumed intra-state bus services from Friday. Though the demand is not high, about 500 buses are being operated, and operators are mulling to gradually increase services between Chennai and other parts of the state in view of Navaratri and Diwali festivals. They also decided against operating inter-state buses. While the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) resumed services on September 6, omnibus operators waited until the government granted tax exemption for the lockdown period on October 12. Operators said that the actual number of services might come down if the demand is poor. “Ticket demand is low now. Once the patronage picks up, we will resume more services. We will abide by the SOPs given by the government,” A Anbazhagan, general secretary, all omnibus owners association said. The permitted occupancy for omnibuses is capped at 60%. The buses will be disinfected by the respective owners. The crew will allow passengers to board the buses only if they are wearing facemasks and sanitize their hands. Air-conditioned buses will be operated by keeping the cabin temperature above 25 degree Celsius. “Screens and bed covers were removed from the buses and we will not provide blankets. Passengers have to bring their own. If we gradually resume services, we can operate normal services during Diwali,” R Balakrishnan, president, Trichy district omnibus operators association said. The paperwork with regional transport offices (RTO) to complete the road tax exemption formalities is under way. The operators await a similar exemption from the Puducherry government, until then, buses registered there will not be operated. There are around 1,800 buses registered in Puducherry of which more than 1,000 ply in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/omnibuses-resume-ops-but-patronage-yet-to-pick-up/articleshow/78711953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Goa||CBI quizzes Rajasthan jeweller for 9 hours in Felix Dahl case||PANAJI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned a man from Rajasthan in the Swedish national Felix Dahl death case for nine hours in the state. Sources said that the person, who is a jeweller and involved in marketing precious and semi-precious stones, was known to Dahl. During the investigation, CBI found that Dahl and one Canadian national had arrived in Goa on the same day in October 2014 and travelled to Canacona in the same taxi. CBI said that the man from Rajasthan had come to Goa the same month and had met Dahl and the Canadian national and invited them to visit Rajasthan. Both Dahl and the Canadian national travelled to Rajasthan in November, CBI said. The bureau added that, on a later date, the Canadian national visited Rajasthan again and met the person being interrogated and had returned with three others on January 10, 2015. On their return from Jaipur, all four stayed at Anjuna and then travelled to Canacona. CBI said that Dahl was found dead on January 28, 2015, and that on January 29, 2015, all the four left Goa. CBI took the person being interrogated to Anjuna to verify where he stayed and with whom he was in business with. On June 24, 2019, the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) had reconstructed the crime scene at the spot in Canacona where Dahl, 22, was found dead. The Swedish national had come to Goa on a holiday and was last seen at a restaurant in Patnem. His body was found on a quiet gravel road, 200m from the restaurant, by a local at 5.30am. In July 2018, the high court of Bombay at Goa had transferred the case to the CBI in the “interest of justice”, while castigating Goa police for its failure to examine the case in a fair and impartial manner. Earlier, Dahl’s mother had filed a petition seeking that the case be transferred to the CBI, after doubting the probe conducted by Canacona police. In August 2018, on the direction of the high court, CBI registered an FIR against an unknown person. Goa police had filed a closure report in the case due to lack of evidence to prove murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cbi-quizzes-rajasthan-jeweller-for-9-hrs-in-felix-dahl-case/articleshow/78711386.cms||Murari Shetye
October 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing body found 20km away; Telangana's toll 53||HYDERABAD: The body of a missing person, who was washed away from Mailardevpally following Tuesday’s torrential rains, was retrieved from Nagole on Saturday, at least 20 km away. The deceased, 55-year-old Abdul Qureshi, was among the eight people who went missing that night. Police are yet to trace three of them. Apart from Qureshi, two more deaths were reported — one each from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport police station limits and Malakpet — on Friday, taking the total toll across Telangana to 53. Earlier, on Thursday, the government had announced that at least 50 people had died in the floods. Police officials monitoring the rescue and search operations said that Qureshi’s body was found near the Hyderabad water board’s pump house in Nagole late on Thursday night. The family later confirmed his identity. Police suspect that he was carried all the way from Mailardevpally to Nagole through the nala at Falaknuma, Chaderghat, which was overflowing after the rains. Calamity struck when nine members of the family rushed out of their house that had been inundated, on Tuesday night, and were standing on the footpath, waiting to shift to another house. Suddenly the footpath caved in and they fell into a drain. While one of them managed to escape by holding onto a tree, the eight others were washed away. The police retrieved four bodies on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Cyberabad police managed to save the life of a baby girl and three others in Rajendranagar after the entire colony was flooded. The used ropes to carry out the rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-body-found-20km-away-t-toll-53/articleshow/78711395.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid & non-Covid balance may lead to Puja bed challenge at private hospitals||KOLKATA: Extension of Covid units could squeeze room for non-Covid patients in case there is a spurt in their number during the Puja, fear some private hospitals. Even though planned admissions come down to a trickle during the festival, this time it could be different due to a rise in the number of Covid patients seeking re-admission with co-morbidities. A few hospitals have kept some beds ‘flexible’ to be used for either Covid or non-Covid patients, depending on requirement. Most private hospitals augmented their Covid units following a prod from the state government earlier this week. Peerless Hospital, for instance, has raised the number of Covid beds to 150 with 180 reserved for the rest. This may not be enough to accommodate patients not afflicted with the virus, felt Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. “Over the last 2-3 weeks, we have seen a sharp spurt in the number of Covid-recovered patients returning with severe co-morbidities. They are mostly suffering from interstitial lung disease, cardiac ailments or sodium-potassium imbalance which are leading to prolonged hospitalization. That apart, there are emergency patients who must be accommodated. With nearly half of the beds now reserved for Covid patients, it could be difficult,” said Mitra. He added that the hospital has kept 20 beds in reserve to be used for Covid or non-Covid patients, depending on the situation. Charnock Hospital has augmented its non-Covid unit along with increasing the number of Covid beds. It plans to have 103 beds each for the two units by October 31. At present, the hospital has around 70 non-Covid beds but will add 30 more, including 15 ICU beds. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) is in the process of extending its Covid unit ‘anticipating a drop in the number of non-Covid patients’. “We will have 130 Covid beds for the next few weeks whereas we now have a total occupancy of around 380 beds,” said zonal director (East), R Venkatesh. AMRI Hospitlas has carved out 70 beds from its non-Covid unit to raise the number of Covid beds to 265 across its three units at Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. The hospital, however, doesn’t foresee a jump in the number of non-Covid patients during the festival. “We have been forced to squeeze our non-Covid section to make room for more Covid patients. We still have around 400 beds for non-Covid patients, almost 30% of which remains unoccupied. In any case, the number of patients drops in October so non-Covid admissions shouldn’t be an issue,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He, though, said AMRI may not be in a position to further extend its Covid sections. “Accommodating more Covid beds calls for a whole range of infrastructural arrangements which are not easy to make. There is a limit to which we can stretch ourselves,” said Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-non-cov-balance-may-lead-to-puja-bed-challenge-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78710028.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 17, 2020||Goa||From seafarers to engineers, Goa sees animal farming rise amid pandemic||PANAJI: A new breed of animal farmers is slowly emerging in the state. Officers at the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services (AHVS) spent weeks visiting panchayats to popularise their schemes for piggery, poultry, goat and cattle rearing among those looking for an alternative means of income during the lockdown. Among those availing of the scheme are seafarers who have returned to Goa owing to the pandemic. “There are also graduates and engineers who have lost their jobs during the pandemic who have taken this up. We are currently training 30 such people in dairy and piggery farming,” director of AHVS, Dr Santosh Desai said. Desai said that roughly calculated figures indicate that the demand for poultry and goat farming has doubled compared to the previous financial year. So far, 174 poultry units have been sanctioned since the lockdown and another 100 are to be disbursed next month. For goat rearing, AHVS has received 40 applications so far, which shall be granted after the officers approve them. “We have received good feedback. Hundreds have expressed interest in cattle farming and poultry. We are compiling the total figures so that we can grant them the schemes by end of March 2021,” Desai said. Dhave-based Anirudh Joshi has applied for the Kamdhenu scheme for the first time this year and is being granted approximately 90% subsidy. Once he has all the cows through this scheme, he intends to sell the milk obtained from them to Goa Dairy and also use their cow dung as organic manure. “After training unemployed youth, the veterinary officers from the department gave us guidance on how to go about the scheme. The government must further popularise such schemes to empower villagers,” he said. Santosh Borkar, who rears buffaloes in Merces with the help of the scheme, said that the process of availing the scheme is easy. “There is no problem with approaching the department and getting the subsidy, however, the scheme must also include free access to a veterinary doctor to make things easier for us,” he said. For Batim-based farmer Hemant Edathadan, availing of the scheme has helped ease his financial burden of purchasing animals instead of spending from his own pocket. The AHVS officers have been carrying out training for piggery for small batches of 20 people each to ensure social distancing. After the last batch, training of cattle farmers will be taken up. So far, 900 people have shown interest in cattle management. The training will be carried out from October. “People who have their own land can also carry out integrated agriculture and animal farming.” Desai said. However, these schemes have their negatives too, for some of them have not proved to be much of a blessing for the farmers who have been availing of these schemes for the past few years. Animal farmer Sameer Hoble said that he has discontinued the Kamdhenu scheme after a few years of availing it. “The price of buying bovines is far more expensive in Goa despite the scheme. It costs about Rs 70-80,000 per bovine to purchase them locally. The same quality of bovine can be purchased from Karnataka or Maharashtra for Rs 50-60,000. I therefore prefer purchasing my own cattle from neighbouring states,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-seafarers-to-engineers-state-sees-animal-farming-rise-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78711398.cms||Nida Sayed
October 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Man dupes bizman, held||Coimbatore: The Peelamedu police on Thursday arrested a 38-year-old man, who posed as a government official to dupe a businessman of Rs 30,000. Police identified him as P Velmani of Uppilipalayam near Singanallur. R Madhan Kannan of Shanmuga Nagar at Chokkampudur had lodged a complaint against him. “Madhan and his business partner Srikanth were planning to open a beauty parlour at Ram Lakshmanan Nagar near Anna Nagar in Peelamedu. They bought equipment for the parlour and conducted interviews for beauticians on September 22. Around 1.30pm, Velmani arrived there and introduced himself as an officer of the ‘beautician department’. He checked documents and demanded Rs 30,000. When Madhan refused to give him the money, Velmani threatened him and forced him to pay up,” a police officer said. Velmani called Madhan once again and demanded Rs 30,000. “When he refused to oblige, Velmani visited the parlour on Thursday and threatened him with dire consequences,” the officer added. Police registered a case against Velmani on Thursday under sections 384 (punishment for extortion) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Thursday night. He was produced before a local court, which remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-dupes-bizman-held/articleshow/78710000.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Active cases in city drop below 3k-mark||Ahmedabad: The number of active cases in the city on Friday morning once again dropped below 3k. The city had 2,974 active cases with cases in the Central Zone going below 300. The Walled City area has 284 active cases, the lowest among the seven zones in the city. The western part of the city has 1,543 active cases which is 52% of the total cases in the city. The areas of Naranpura, Navragpura, Paldi, Vasna and Ranip have 549 cases, the maximum, followed by 529 in North West Zone comprising Bodakdev, Thaltej, Ghatlodia, Gota and Chandlodia. AMC officials said the South West Zone, with 465 cases, had the third-highest cases in the western part of the city. It comprises Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal_Ghuma, Sarkhej and Makarba areas. AMC officials said the drop in active cases was taking place because the recovery rate in the city was improving. Against 168 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours ending at 5pm on Thursday a total of 162 patients were also discharged from the hospital. The number of societies under micro-containment has also been dropping with the drop in active cases and for the last four days the number of micro-contained zones has dropped to single digit, said AMC officials. Of the 2,974 active cases Central Zone had 284 case, South Zone, 490, North Zone 339, and East Zone 319.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-in-city-drop-below-3k-mark/articleshow/78711393.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Jhunjhunu youth killed in fight over Rs 2,000 debt||JAIPUR: A youth was beaten to death in Jhunjhunu’s Udaipurwati on Friday evening following a scuffle over a measly Rs 2,000 debt. The deceased has been identified as Kishanlal Saini who died while trying to save his father from the assault by the accused. He was just over 18-year-old. The accused owed the money to the victim’s father. Jhunjhunu SP Jagdish Chandra told TOI, "The victim’s father ran a grocery store and the accused owed him Rs 2,000. He had repeatedly asked for it and, on Friday evening , he asked for it again. The accused then started thrashing him. When his son intervened, he hit him as well. The youth fell down and fainted.” He was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead. The family has registered a case of murder against the accused. The video of the scuffle was recorded by a bystander which was uploaded on social media. Cops have detained at least four people, who were named in the FIR, in the matter. On Monday night, an elderly man was beaten to death in Sikar after an altercation between two groups over using a particular path. According to the police, the victim’s son had a scuffle with the accused and when the father heard about it, he reached the spot and got injured. The accused had resorted to stone-pelting, resulting in the man's death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhunjhunu-youth-killedin-fight-over-rs-2k-debt/articleshow/78711404.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Off-duty cop travelling with wife nabs 2 chain snatchers||NASHIK: A policeman on leave, who was returning from Pune along with his wife, identified two suspected chain-snatchers riding a bike and nabbed them in the Nandur Shingote area along the Nashik-Pune highway. Acknowledging the policeman’s good work, police commissioner Deepak Pandey has awarded him a cash prize of Rs 20,000. The police said with the arrest of the two criminals, they have solved four cases of chain robberies. The incident took place on Monday. Police naik Gulab Prabhakar Sonar of crime branch 2, who had been on applied leave since October 6, was returning from Pune by car. Accompanying him was his wife and one other relative. Around 11 am, when Sonar was crossing the Chandanpuri ghat area on the Pune highway, he spotted two suspected chain-snatchers, whose video footage had earlier been circulated among policemen. The clip was also on Sonar’s cellphone. Sonar contacted the senior officers of crime branch 2 and told them about the suspects. Subsequently, the seniors advised Sonar to just follow the suspects till the time they (the police officers) could reach them. However, Sonar realised that the suspects were speeding away. After informing his senior, the police naik decided to overtake the suspects and stall them by picking up an argument. Sonar and his relative Rupesh Maid did just that on the Nandur Shingote service road along the highway. During a scuffle, Sonar and Maid even managed to overpower the suspects. Other citizens too had gathered at the spot by then. When the suspects’ bike was checked, Sonar found a sharp sword-like weapon. Fifteen minutes later, the crime branch officials reached the incident spot and arrested the suspects. They have been identified as Rajaram, alias Raju Khemu Rathod, a 36-year-old from Latur, and Nagesh Bandgar, a 34-year-old resident of Beldgaon. The criminals had got acquainted with one another at the Yerewada jail in Pune. Both were released from the prison on February 29. The police said at least multiple chain robbery incidents could be detected with their arrest. The police also found two broken gold chains, sharp weapons etc in their bike. The police are investigating the case. Commissioner Pandey said that Sonar showed rare courage as the criminals were also carrying weapons with them. In view of the courage shown by him, an award of Rs 20,000 was given to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/off-duty-cop-travelling-with-his-wife-nabs-2-armed-chain-snatchers/articleshow/78711405.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 17, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur district crosses 90,000 positive cases, 80,000 recoveries||NAGPUR: The district on Saturday crossed 90,000 Covid-19 positive cases and also 80,000 recoveries. The number of positive cases is 3,080 less compared to the actual figure which is available on the portal of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). If it is taken into consideration, the district will surpass China (91,436 positive cases) from where the pandemic reportedly originated. As per daily data of the District Civil Surgeon (CS), there were 540 positive cases in the district on Saturday. The total number of cases increased to 90,301. The district is the fourth among 35 in the state after Mumbai, Pune and Thane to cross 90,000 positive cases. As far as the population is concerned, the district stands fifth. It took 14 days for the district to go from 80,000 cases to 90,000. The span is the second-lowest in this pandemic. It is due to the decline in the number of cases since the beginning of October. The first 10,000 positive cases were registered in 154 days, between March 11 and August 11. It happened due to slow spread of the disease following full lockdown from the third week of March to July end. The cases started to surge from the second week of August so the span between 10,000 and 20,000 cases was 12 days. September registered the highest number of cases and witnessed a Covid peak in the district. The number of days for each 10,000 positive cases started to decline in September. The span was 9 days which further declined to 6 days and 5 days for 30,000 to 50,000 cases respectively. Then, the span increased to 6 days each for the next 20,000 cases. It took nine days for the positive cases to go from 70,000 to 80,000. On October 12, TOI had reported that the number of positive cases are 2,014 more than the CS data and the ICMR portal. Now, the difference has increased to 3,080. The error came to the fore in the press release of the state’s public health department which takes data from the ICMR portal. The number of positive cases of the district is uploaded on the ICMR portal by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Zilla Parishad (ZP), government and private laboratories. But still, CS is showing less number of cases in the district. CS VD Paturkar did not respond to TOI’s call and messages. The difference is likely to increase further. The ICMR is uploading around 20,000 positive and negative cases tested by Dhruv Laboratory in August and September. Despite it being mandatory to upload cases on the same day, the laboratory failed to do so following which NMC levied a fine of Rs5 lakh. “ICMR started uploading cases on a daily basis in a phased manner. We are not mentioning these cases in the daily press release. We will wait for the completion of updation by ICMR and only then we will do a reconciliation,” said NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma. The district also crossed 80,000 recoveries on Saturday. As per the CS data, 790 positive patients recovered on Saturday taking the total to 80,643. It took 165 days for the district to cross the first 10,000 recoveries whereas 70,000 came in 56 days. The recovery rate of the district is 89.30% which can be best compared with the average recovery rate of the state (85%) and India (87.78%). The number of active cases was 6,733 (7.45%) and fatalities were 2,925 (3.24%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-90000-ve-cases-80000-recoveries/articleshow/78725463.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 17, 2020||Pune||Youth slips from police station after constable falls asleep in Pune||PUNE: Cashing in on a chance opportunity, a youth escaped from the Alankar police station early on Thursday morning after the constable assigned the duty of keeping an eye on him fell asleep. Acting on a tip-off, police later traced the 19-year-old youth, a resident of Warje. He was re-arrested on Thursday night. The youth, Ajay Ganesh Chavan, was arrested around midnight on Wednesday after a 17-year-old girl accused him of kidnapping and sexually assaulting her. He was handcuffed and made to sit in one of the rooms at the police station. Constable Sachin Budhawale was assigned the duty of keeping an eye on him. Budhawale had just returned from night duty amid heavy rain. Too tired, he fell asleep sometime. Around 6.30am on Thursday, Chavan woke up and found Budhawale sleeping in his chair. He seized the chance to steal the handcuff keys and set himself free. He then coolly walked out of the police station. The police said two detection branch staffers and three other constables were present in the police station, but none noticed Chavan leaving the premises. Later in the day, a police team visited Chavan’s house. But his family members claimed that they had no idea about his whereabouts. In the evening, the police received a tip-off and re-arrested Chavan from his maternal uncle’s place. The police have filed a fresh case against Chavan under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rape-suspects-slips-out-of-police-station-as-cop-falls-asleep/articleshow/78711406.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two labourers fail to pay mask fine, booked||Ahmedabad: Mandal police of Ahmedabad district on Thursday booked two casual labourers for alleged negligence which could have spread coronavirus infection, as they were not wearing masks and couldn’t pay the total Rs 2,000 fine even by pooling their resources. The FIR filed by assistant sub-inspector Nitesh Kanuji, states he along with other cops were on duty to check vehicles in the periphery of Mandal taluka on Thursday morning. At that time, he spotted two persons roaming about without masks. Police stopped the duo, Vipul Gohil, 22, and Chirag Chavda, 21, residents of Panchasar village in Shankheswar taluka of Patan district. They could not give valid reasons for not wearing masks and said that they did not have the money to pay fines. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-labourers-fail-to-pay-mask-fine-booked/articleshow/78711399.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Pune’s oldest cadaveric donor helps patient with end-stage liver disease||PUNE: An 87-year-old brain-dead man became the oldest cadaveric donor in the city on Thursday. The organ donation benefited a patient with end-stage liver diseaseA resident of Satara, the man had fallen at home and sustained grievous brain injury. He was shifted to Jupiter hospital in Pune on October 11. He was declared brain-dead on October 15. The organ donation and transplantation took place the same day. His donated liver benefited a 55-year-old Chinchwad resident with end-stage liver disease at Sahyadri hospital, Deccan. The man’s corneas were also donated. “In 2012, the relatives of an 88-year-old brain-dead man from Delhi had donated his liver and kidneys at Gangaram hospital that had benefited three patients of end-stage liver and kidney diseases. The 87-year-old Satara man has become the oldest cadaver organ donor in Pune,” said transplant coordinator Aarti Gokhale of Zonal transplant coordination committee (ZTCC), Pune. On Thursday, relatives of another brain-dead patient also donated his vital organs, including heart, liver, pancreas and kidneys. The organ donation benefited four patients in need, including one combined pancreas-kidney transplant in a patient with long-standing Type 1 diabetes, at Ruby Hall Clinic and Sahyadri hospital. The donor was a 20-year-old student, who lived in Wakad. He met with a road accident and had sustained grievous head injuries. He was declared brain-dead at Ruby Hall Clinic on Thursday. “Two brain-dead patients donated their vital organs in Pune on Thursday. With this, the number of brain-dead donors, who donated their vital organs during the Covid-19 pandemic ensued lockdown in Pune, has gone up to 14. Since January, a 28 brain-dead donors have donated their vital organs that benefited 57 needy patients with transplantation of vital organs in Pune,” Gokhale said. The usual acceptable age for a cadaver organ transplant is 65 years in India. People beyond that age are considered as marginal donors. They become eligible only after the evaluation of organ health, owing to possible pre-existing, co-morbid conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-oldest-cadaveric-donor-helps-patient-with-end-stage-liver-disease/articleshow/78711419.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||At 93%, Panchkula’s Covid recovery rate best in Tricity||CHANDIGARH: Panchkula has taken an unbeatable lead with 93.36% recovery rate of Covid-19 patients followed by the city at 91.27% and Mohali at 90.87%. The Haryana town also has the lowest number of active patients of 344 in the Tricity. In Panchkula, 6,323 patients have defeated novel coronavirus out of 6,772 infected. As many as 60 new cases were reported on Friday. Five cases were from Amaravati Enclave, Bhainsa Tibba, sectors 6 and 16, four cases each from Surajpur, Pinjore and Sector 15, three cases each from Kalka, sectors 11, 12-A and 17 and one to two cases from Bakshiwala, Barwala, Indira Colony, Mahadev Colony, MDC-5 and sectors 2, 4, 10, 21 and 27. On Friday, eight patients succumbed to the virus—five in Chandigarh and three in Mohali — in the Tricity. The death toll in the city is 206, 214 in Mohali and 105 at Panchkula. The five patients were a 49-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran having kidney disease and diabetes and hypertension, a 49-year-old woman from Sector 35 having hypertension, a 57-year- old man from Sector 41 having hypertension, a 61-year-old woman from Sector 56 having a kidney disease and a 75-year-old man from Ram Darbar UT: 120 discharged, 55 test positive Chandigarh reported 55 new cases on Friday. As many as eight cases were from Manimajra, five each from sectors 27 and 44, four from Sector 22 and one to three cases scattered across other sectors. As many as 120 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 12,352. 52 new cases in Mohali With 57 more patients being discharged in Mohali and just 52 fresh cases surfacing, the active cases count dropped to 852 on Friday. Mohali urban reported 50 cases and Gharuan two. 30 fresh cases, 33 discharged in Ambala Ambala reported 30 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, increasing the tally to 8,653 with 259 active cases. As many as 11 cases each were from Ambala Cantt and Chourmastpur, six from Ambala city and one each from Barara and Mullana, said Dr Singh. As many as 33 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 8,287.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-93-pkls-covid-recovery-rate-best-in-tricity/articleshow/78708368.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Was Vidyagama stopped to ensure teachers campaigned for polls?||BELAGAVI: The government halted its Vidyagama programme not because it feared spread of Covid-19 among teachers and students, but due to upcoming MLC polls for teachers and graduates constituencies, teachers and educationists say. The government had declared a three-week Dasara break for the programme starting October 12. Elections for north east teachers constituency, west graduates constituency, south east graduates and Bengaluru teachers constituency is scheduled for October 28, three days before Dasara vacation ends. “It’s apparent the vacation was announced to allow teachers to campaign for candidates and to vote,” a teacher from Kalaburagi said. Many dedicated teachers are unhappy with the decision since poor children in rural areas are being denied schooling. Razak Ustaad, an education activist from North Karnataka, said the decision is solely a political one. Niranjan Aradhya, education expert, said declaring holidays is a violation of election code of conduct, while Venkatesh Patil Vatgal, a political analyst, said the ruling party is looking to take advantage by declaring holidays. However, HK Manjunath, state president, High School Assistant Masters’ Association, defended the move saying holidays were declared as teachers were working for many months. “The allegations that the decision was political is untrue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/was-vidyagama-stopped-to-ensure-teachers-campaigned-for-polls/articleshow/78707803.cms||Shreyas HS
October 17, 2020||Goa||With 199 inches, Pernem beats Valpoi as Goa’s wettest place||PANAJI: The northern taluka of Pernem took top honours at this year’s monsoon with a bumper tally of 198.8 inches, beating the hinterland towns of Valpoi, Sanguem and Quepem, which are closer to the western ghats. In a season that saw the state record its highest rainfall in a century, Valpoi, usually state rainfall topper, finished the season with 178 inches. The capital of Sattari, in the foothills of the Sahyadris, has usually been the state’s wettest place over the past few years. However, this isn’t the first time Pernem has found itself on top of the list. In 2016, too, it was the wettest place in Goa, with 136 inches. While Sanguem and Quepem have also been “champions in the past”, the intensity of rainfall in these areas has declined over the past few years. Quepem recorded 181.2 inches, ahead of Valpoi and Sanguem, with 175.4 inches. Ponda took third place with 175.8 inches during an extremely wet season that saw a 41% surplus. While regions closer to the Sahyadris attract more rainfall, Pernem is known to often record extremely heavy rainfall. “As per available records, this centre recorded 980.2mm (38.5 inches) in a single day on July 20, 1937,” said Rahul M, scientist, India meteorological department (IMD). This season, this area, around 11.2km from the coast, saw lots of rainfall due to systems in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. “The hilly terrain could be the reason for heavy rainfall activity in Pernem region, and the wind pattern must have aided it throughout the four months,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-199-inches-pernem-beats-valpoi-as-goas-wettest-place/articleshow/78711407.cms||Paul Fernandes
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Water level in Maharashtra dams at record 95%||MUMBAI: Water stock in the 3,267 dams across Maharashtra is now highest in recent memory following heavy rain, but the monsoon, on its way out, has caused serious damage to standing crop across the state. According to water resources department data, stock in 40-odd dams is 100%, while total stock in the state’s major dams is at 94.8% as against 87.4% last year and 35.2% in 2015. “We had a good monsoon, and the intensity of the withdrawing monsoon has been high. Rainfall was between 90% and 110% in most districts while it was between 124% and 157% in over a dozen districts,” a senior bureaucrat said. Water stock in the mid-sized dams is 84.4% and in minor dams, it is 44.8%; last year, it was 57.6% and 33.9% respectively. On September 15, the stock stood at 91.9% in big dams, 72% in mid-sized dams and 32.7% in small ones. The bureaucrat said that for the first time, Maharashtra had received equal rainfall across the state. In the past, there was grossly often inadequate rainfall in Marathawada and Amravati regions, resulting in most of the districts in these regions facing massive droughts. “For several years, we had to deploy water tanks in most of the districts in Vidarbha and Marathwada to tackle the need for drinking water. A few years ago, in Latur, the hometown of former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, prohibitory orders had to be clamped to tackle the law and order situation. “Following heavy rain and an extended monsoon, no tankers are now deployed in the state. In most of the dams, water stock is ample,” he said. The bureaucrat said that in the recent past, most of the ongoing works of irrigation projects have been completed, following which the department has been able to enhance storage capacity. “For completing all the pending projects, we will require at least Rs 80,000 crore. The erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government had drafted a plan for completion of pending projects, and the new government had to rethink about mobilizing sources for irrigation projects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-level-in-maha-dams-at-record-95/articleshow/78711403.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Riding on festive rush, malls hope for recovery||KOLKATA: As the final leg of pre-Puja shopping commenced on Friday evening, managers at city shopping malls let out a whoop of delight as customers entered in hordes and shopped till they dropped. Enthused by what they witnessed on fantastic Friday, the mall executives expect to end the Durga Puja season with a smart recovery, touching nearly 75%-80% of last year’s revenues in the run-up to the state’s biggest festival. Most are also expecting footfall during the final weekened prior to the festival to increase by 20%-25% over the previous weekend during which all shopping malls had clocked the highest revenue since they opened post-lockdown on June 8. At South City, the city’s largest and most popular mall, vice-president Manmohan Bagri said the facility was set to register a record weekend as footfall peaked on Friday. “The last weekend before Puja is usually the best weekend. Given how people have set aside their fears and stepped out of their homes to shop, we are confident of touching nearly 80% of the revenue which we did last year,” said Bagri. It’s not just the number of walk-ins that is high. Actually, conversion or the ratio of shoppers among the people who walk in is much higher than last year. While one out of 20 people who walked into South City mall last Puja had actually shopped, now it is eight out of 20. In June and July when footfalls were low, the conversion rate was even higher with 16 out of 20 buying goods. “Till July end, it was primarily essential-based shopping. The trend began to gradually shift from August when people’s confidence in malls’ hygiene and safety grew. Right now, they are doing mood shopping and soaking in the spirit of a festival at the doorstep,” said Acropolis mall operational head K Vijayan, who expects the footfall to increase by a whopping 50% this weekend. Not just shopping, food courts are back as hangout zones and even restaurants are doing brisk business as they cater to the hunger panks of shoppers. “Families are walking in, shopping and then hanging out at the food court or having lunch or dinner at a restaurant. It is heartening to seek people leading near-normal lives,” Vijayan said. Ramesh Paney, wholetime director at Ambuja Neotia that operates City Centre I in Salt Lake and City Centre II in New Town, too, exuded confidence in recovering nearly 70% of last year’s business by end of Sunday and 80% by Diwali. “Malls in Kolkata opened early and functioned with a lot of rigour. They are doing far better than malls in other cities, both in terms of footfall and revenue. This weekend will be another significant step towards a recovery,” he remarked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/riding-on-festive-rush-malls-hope-for-recovery/articleshow/78710064.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Website crashes, testing times for students, parents||CHANDIGARH: Students and parents were waiting with bated breath for the result of National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) that was expected to be declared by 4pm on Friday. But the website crashed, adding to their wait and anxiety. The website crashed in the evening and showed a message, “Under Maintenance — NEET (UG)-2020 result will be available soon”. Students started checking at 8pm and the website mentioned: “Result facility for NEET-2020 has been closed”. Students said their day was wasted and the wait added to their stress. The exam had kept students on tenterhooks this year. It was delayed by months due to the pandemic and was finally held on September 13. A coaching institute, which was expecting good results, had gathered students on its premises, but had to send them back at 7.30pm. The students waited for more than eight hours and left disappointed. City-based NEET expert Arvind Goyal said, “At a time when the government is talking of Digital India and our transition into a technology-driven country, it is disheartening and disappointing to see such a sorry state of affairs. Nowadays, when all the exams are expected to go digital, we are still struggling with a mere declaration of an online result. Lakhs of students and their anxious parents were glued to computer screens all day long and to add to their woes, there was no concrete information from the authorities.” Kanwalpreet Singh, a NEET aspirant, said, “I have been waiting since Monday. We were told that the result may be declared on Monday, but then the date changed to October 16. And then the website crashed.” The topper Later in the day, it was learnt that Gurkirat Singh, a student of St Peter's School, Chandigarh, topped Neet-2020 in Tricity by scoring All-India Rank of 15. He scored 710 out of 720 marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/website-crashes-testing-times-for-students-parents/articleshow/78708381.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Farmers’ stir in Punjab affecting PDS in Nashik||Nashik: Farmer’s agitation against the Centre’s passing of the Agriculture Bill has led to problems in the supply of foodgrain as part of the public distribution system (PDS) in Nashik. District supply officer (DSO) Arvind Narsikar on Friday said the system was unable to get foodgrain under the PDS from the Food Corporation of India (FCI), which usually gets the supplies from Punjab. “We are facing some problems in procuring rice and wheat from Punjab, where the farmers are agitating. Moreover, the Indian Railways is unable to load the foodgrain from the state. The foodgrain rake was expected on Saturday, but it will not come as it has not been loaded. We now expect the grains to reach us by Tuesday,” the officer said. The demand for the foodgrain to be provided to people below the poverty line in Nashik district through the PDS is for about 40,000 tonne. The DSO does not have the stock at this point, the officer said, He added that measures were afoot to get the foodgrain at the earliest. On alternate plans, the officer said the supply department was also planning to procure rice from Andhra Pradesh and wheat from Madhya Pradesh so that the grains would be made available to the people through the PDS. “It is for sure that we will make some arrangement before the 23rd of this month as the goods have to reach the ration shops at the earliest so that people are able to lift their stock from the shops concerned,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-stir-in-punjab-affecting-pds-in-nashik/articleshow/78711422.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 17, 2020||Rajkot||Okhai launches helpline launched for rural artisans||Rajkot: With Covid-19 pandemic taking a heavy toll handicrafts industry, Okhai, established by Tata Chemicals Society for Rural Development (TCSRD), has launched a helpline connect with rural artisans across the remotest parts of the country. The helpline is aimed at augmenting its support to these skilled people to craft apparels, home décor products, accessories so that they can access new markets. The initiative is in line with this year’s theme - ‘Building rural women’s resilience in the wake of COVID-19’ Village artisans earned a daily income from supplying to retail stores before the crisis. The helpline number 6359 021 888 will enable these artisans to catalogue details of their products, their geographical location and the number of artisans in their group to access newer markets. “Handicrafts is the second largest income generating industry in the country today after agriculture but it has not been immune to the effects of this global pandemic. The helpline is a attempted solution to this challenge and safeguard the artisans in all forms,” said Kirti Poonia, head, Okhai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/okhai-launches-helpline-launched-for-rural-artisans/articleshow/78708387.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Librarian delivers books at the doorstep in Pune||PUNE: A librarian at the Nhavare village government high school in Shirur tehsil has been delivering books to students and alumni at their doorsteps with an objective of promoting and inculcating a reading habit. Pratap Bhoite (50) shared, “As a librarian, I thought I can contribute this much in the prevailing situation.” He has delivered over 1,000 books to residents of four villages so far. As a book lover, Bhoite thought of the age-old system of delivering books at the doorstep as an option to achieve the objective of promoting a reading habit. “Children are confined to their homes and they are spending time either on the mobile phone or watching TV. Then, I thought they could utilize this free time for reading. I discussed the idea with the principal, who agreed with the concept,” he said. Initially, Bhoite focused on delivering academic books to students of his school. “Later, I thought I could ask them to read other books as well. I started with short stories to develop their interest. Gradually, they started reading children’s fiction, short stories, novels, and so on. About 700 students are taking books from me currently,” he said. In the process, Bhoite said, he met former students of the school and they too showed an interest in his project. “Within a fortnight, I could deliver 500 books to them. Now, I have to visit at least four hamlets daily to exchange books. Most of them finish reading books within the deadline,” said Bhoite, who has been working as a librarian at the school since 1996. Dnyaneshwari Kandge, an undergraduate student, said that home delivery of books helps her use the free time productively. “There is nothing much to do apart from chores at home nowadays. The books are turning out to be a big solace, helping beat boredom too. I’ve finished reading five books so far,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/librarian-delivers-books-at-the-doorstep/articleshow/78711424.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 17, 2020||Goa||Younger people getting arthritis due to their lifestyle: GMC dean||PANAJI: Goa medical college (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that arthritis among the young is on the rise in Goa, with people in the 30-40 age group seen with the condition due to their lifestyles. Bandekar, who is also GMC’s head of orthopaedics, said that around 30-40% of all cases seen at the department’s OPDs are arthritis. “The incidence of arthritis is very high,” he said. “People come with complaints of different kinds of arthritis.” He said that in the past, most cases of arthritis were women in the early stages of menopause. But now, many find they’re afflicted with the disease much earlier, owing to their lifestyle. “Mental stress, work style, continuously working on computers, wrong posture while working at the computer,” he said, are some contributory factors why people are getting arthritis earlier than usual. He also said people have forgotten how to squat and sit on the floor. “Now we learn asanas, but our ancestors routinely sat on the floor to have their meals. It is one of the asanas,” he said. Bandekar also said that the joint is like any other organ, and that people should be mindful of their lifestyle, and check their sitting posture while working. “Some conditions can be very debilitating and can affect the quality of life if timely medical help is not sought,” he said. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, the OPD sees 150-200 persons a day as the hospital is only seeing emergency and semi-emergency cases. “Rheumatoid arthritis is very painful,” he said. “How long will patients wait? It has been over six months that we are dealing with Covid.” Bandekar said that rheumatoid arthritis is more common among women than men. Also, osteoarthritis is more prevalent in women. “Arthritis is very painful,” he added. “Some people suffer such excruciating pain that they may find it difficult to walk and be unable to lead a normal life. The quality of life suffers miserably. And for some, arthritis can be the cause of an early death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/younger-people-getting-arthritis-due-to-their-lifestyle-bandekar/articleshow/78711425.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 17, 2020||Nashik||Godavari beautification project starts, to be done by Sept 2021||Nashik: The Godavari riverbank beautification works in Nashik city has picked up pace and is expected to be completed by September 2021. The project, with a cost of around Rs 120 crore, had stalled for over two months due to the nationwide lockdown. The works further slowed down due to shortage of workers. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) officials said the work has been redesigned and the contractors have been instructed to speed up the construction activities. Under the project, beautification of the Godavari banks, construction of a retaining wall, a walkway, an accupressure pathway, a cycle track, a heritage walk, development of gardens, desilting and deconcretising of the river would be done. There will also be a mechanical gate below Holkar bridge. “We have already started work on the Godavari river beautification project as part of the smart city mission. It is in various stages of development. We have completed around 20% of the total work so far,” said Prakash Thavil, CEO, NMSCDCL. “We have done 600m excavation for the Godavari walkway project, while construction of the retaining wall has also started. Civil work of the amphitheatre has been completed,” said the smart city officials. Moreover, the work for deconcretising the riverbed has also started. This is a part of the Godavari beautification project that is under the smart city. The concrete that is blocking smooth flow of the river is to be removed, the officials said. GRAPHICS Key features Godavari garden at Ramwadi area; Construction of retaining wall Godavari walkway/accupressure pathway and cycle track, design and installation of bollardas & dividers Construction of Sundar Narayan temple ghat and jetty Beautification of Godavari ghats, design and installation of stone “deepstambh’’ Deconcretising of riverbed at Ramkund Development of Modakeshwar mandir garden space as Ramayan circuit garden; Heritage walk Installation of signages, e-toilets, landscaping with tree plantation Design and installation of gabion benches, bordeaux mirror effect||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/godavari-beautification-project-starts-to-be-done-by-sept-2021/articleshow/78711427.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 17, 2020||Pune||GigIndia sees demand returning & reshaping||Pune: GigIndia, the Pune-based managed marketplace for gig workers, has said 85% of pre-Covid demand for its workers has returned. Gig work is a term for employees getting paid for a particular work without being on any company’s payrolls. “Even as pandemic-induced lockdowns are disrupting employment opportunities across the nation, GigIndia has been driving higher employment numbers. While over 650 jobs were generated in May, the total touched over 2,000 by July, 1,500 in August & September. With this, the total number of employment opportunities generated from April to September stand at 3,500...We had generated nearly 1,500 jobs in February,” Sahil Sharma, CEO & Co-founder, GigIndia said. The 3,500 jobs have been able to accomplish 8.7 million gigs during the six months of the pandemic period. The three-year-old startup believes that it could have its best quarter in the October to December period with demand rebounding and reshaping. In the new era, firms are looking for gig workers who can deliver from home on time, instead of insisting on field deployment. “Prior to lockdown, 65% of the gig workers were on the field. So, when lockdown happened, we lost that business. However, not only has business recovered but companies are also wanting more work done remotely,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gigindia-sees-demand-returning-reshaping/articleshow/78710072.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mangrove policy may focus on eco-tourism||PANAJI: The comprehensive draft mangrove management plan focusses on tapping eco-tourism and has recommended re-assessment of the mangrove cover of the Goa coast to ascertain changes in composition, structure and spice diversity that has occurred over the years since the last assessment. The draft also proposes conservation of crocodiles and the Kandelia candel mangrove species. “Many mangrove areas are potentially suitable for eco-tourism. The indigenous biodiversity offers great attraction to tourists and are valuable assets in ecotourism economy. Well planned eco-tourism could provide economic and political incentives for proper management and conservation,” states the draft plan. The draft plan has recommended conservation of crocodiles (Crocodilus palustris species). It mentions that in Goa, this species is found in the mangroves of the Cumbharjua canal. Along the west coast, the species has been reported in rivers, irrigation canal, ponds, lakes, reservoirs, etc, in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. The draft also recommendes conservation of the Kandelia candel mangrove species. It has been reported that this species has discontinuous distribution along the Indian coast, particularly along the west coast of India. “Only in Goa, this is a unique ecological adaptation of this species, and hence efforts may be made to conserve and protect the mangrove area inhabiting this species,” states the draft plan. In Goa, it is found along the Zuari, Mandovi and Cumharjua canal, while small patches of this species are reported from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra, Honnavar in Karnataka and Kannur in Kerala coast. Along the east coast, it has been reported from Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. “As it is growing luxuriantly in Mandovi–Zuari, a substantial portion of mangrove area should be reserved and protected,” the draft plan states. Last month, the state government had constituted a committee headed by Dr Simon D'Souza, former chairperson of Goa State Pollution Control Board, to prepare the mangrove management plan. The objectives of the plan is to manage and protect mangrove areas for biodiversity conservation, coastal stabilisation, erosion control, etc, and to strengthen capacities of the institutions responsible for mangrove management. Other objectives of the plan are to promote community participation in mangrove resource management for improved livelihoods, ensure measures to address threats from climate change and human activities, promote sustainable tourism and recreation in mangrove areas, and to further research and education. The mangrove management plan provides an overview of the potential direct and indirect impacts that may likely to occur to mangrove and its biodiversity. It includes a broad range of management measures and techniques that should be promoted to maximize the benefits and help secure the long-term sustainable use of mangroves for the people who rely on them. The plan will help to maintain the abundance, diversity, geographic distribution and productivity of mangroves in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-mangrove-mgmt-plan-eyes-eco-tourism-potential/articleshow/78711432.cms||Murari Shetye
October 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Bishnoi gang member held||CHANDIGARH: The UT police arrested a member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang with a country-made pistol and five live cartridges from Sector 45 on Friday night. He has been identified as Parveen Kumar, alias Bhima, 31, a resident of Rohtak. After receiving a tip-off that Parveen was going to meet Monty Shah, also a member of Bishnoi gang, in Sector 45, police laid a naka near the turn of Sector 45 C and D and nabbed him. Parveen was riding a stolen bike with a fake registration number plate. Police recovered a pistol and live cartridges from him. “Parveen was involved in nine heinous crimes. He was booked in seven cases in Haryana and two cases are registered against him in Punjab. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in a Derabassi murder case. He is out on bail and actively involved in mobilization of Bishnoi gang,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bishnoi-gang-member-held/articleshow/78708397.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Nashik||District sessions court registrar fined for Rs 25,000||Nashik: The public information officer-cum-registrar of the district sessions court, Nashik, has been penalised Rs 25,000, to be paid from his pocket, for his alleged failure to provide the information sought by an applicant under the Right To Information (RTI) Act. The penalty was ordered by Vikas Kulkarni, the appellate authority under the RTI Act and district judge-1-Nashik, after he found there was no substantial or valid reason for the information officer to not provide the information to the applicant. The judgement was delivered on October 12. Digambar Nikam, the assistant superintendent of district and sessions court, Nashik, had applied to get information from PIO Mahendra Mandale in November 2019, but the information has not been delivered to him till date, despite the earlier orders of the court on February 29, 2020, asking the information officer to furnish the details. Since the applicant did not receive any information, he knocked on the doors of the appellate authority again and the hearing for the same was conducted by the district judge 1. What came to fore during the hearing was that the PIO claimed that he had no information related to the application and hence had written to personal assistant (PA) of the principal district judge, Nashik. The PIO had also claimed that the PDJ, Nashik, had said that the information could not be revealed because it was confidential. The court, however, went through the documents presented before it as evidence and found that the information officer neither had presented anything to support his claims that PDJ had refused to divulge the information nor did the PIO or the registrar mention the name of the PA with whom he had been in touch with for the information. Citing the facts presented before the court, the judge ordered that the PIO or the registrar shall pay a penalty of Rs 25,000 from his pocket within three days for committing persistent failure to furnish information since February 29, 2020, under section 20 of the RTI Act, 2005. The amount of Rs 20,000 from this penalty shall be paid to the petitioner towards compensation the court said. The court has also recommended initiation of disciplinary action against the registrar by the PDJ who is the disciplinary authority of the district and sessions court, Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-sessions-court-registrar-fined-for-rs-25000/articleshow/78711426.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 17, 2020||Kolkata||WBCERC to hospital: Refund part of Covid treatment charge||KOLKATA: A private hospital in the city has been asked to refund a portion Covid treatment charges to two patients, who had knocked on the doors of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) with complaints of alleged overbilling. In one case, the hospital has been directed to refund Rs 1.7 lakh and in the other Rs 14,000, which the panel felt was overcharged on account of non-medical expenses. Howrah resident Anup Nangalia was admitted to BP Poddar Hospital on July 11 for Covid treatment. Nangalia was treated in the general Covid bed as he did not require any intensive care intervention. He was discharged on July 19. The patient was charged Rs 3.5 lakh for the eight-day hospitalisation. “We have been hearing this case for about a month during which we asked the hospital to submit details of the billing which they could not. The patient was admitted in general bed and even if we estimate daily charges to be around Rs 20,000, the hospital had charged way above. That is why we have told the hospital to refund Rs 1.7 lakh to the patient,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman WBCERC. In the second case, a patient from Behala has lodged a complaint that he was charged Rs 28,901 for non-medical expenses for his treatment in the same hospital. Susruta Roy Majumdar was admitted to the hospital on June 13 and was discharged on June 16. While his treatment expenses were paid by the insurance company he had to pay the non-medical expenses in cash. The hospital told the commission that the Belaha resident’s treatment was done before the state government capped the PPE charges and hence the bill for non-medical expenses was high. But the commission felt that the charges were high for a four-day treatment and asked the hospital to refund Rs 14,000. Sources in the hospital said it would comply with the commission’s directives once they receive a written copy of the judgment. The commission on Friday took up eight more cases, mostly unrelated to Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wbcerc-to-hosp-refund-part-of-cov-treatment-charge/articleshow/78710103.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Weathermen spot September-like monsoon features in October too||PUNE: Weather scientists trying to decode Maharashtra’s very rainy October in the last few years say the wind circulation and pressure patterns in this normally dry month now seem to resemble the monsoon-like features of September. Top weather scientists from India Meteorological Department (IMD) and other weather institutes told TOI on Friday that they have been observing this change for the last few years. The month is a transition period between the monsoon and the onset of winter, characterised by dry weather and a rise in temperature known as October heat. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecast division at IMD, Pune, said, “We have begun to see typical monsoon features of August and September in October of late.” The monsoon’s withdrawal date too has shifted from September 1 to September 17 for the extreme northwest India which made the IMD effect the change in its announcement. Kashyapi said ,“Overall, we have seen a delay in the development of the reversal of the wind pattern in October when the monsoon withdraws in Maharashtra. This is the reversal from southwesterly winds to northeasterly winds. It marks the end of the monsoon in Maharashtra and south peninsular India.” Some or other weather system invariably develops over either the Arabian Sea or Bay of Bengal in October which gives rain to parts of Maharashtra and southern peninsula, he added. JR Kulkarni, former chairman of the Indian Meteorological Society, told TOI that the recent deluge that Pune and parts of Maharashtra witnessed could perhaps be understood using this explanation. “Normally, in October, there is a breakdown of the intertropical convergence zone, the region where monsoon convection develops. But in the past couple of years, this zone seems to be developing not just in the June-to-September monsoon period, but also in October,” Kulkarni said. Scientists said earlier, the low pressure areas or cyclonic storms forming over the Bay of Bengal in October would dissipate fast and not move inland so often. The opposite has been happening in the last couple years in October, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weathermen-spot-sept-like-monsoon-features-in-oct-too/articleshow/78711437.cms||Neha Madaan
October 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Stir against farm, labour laws||Aurangabad: Scores of farmers, workers and hamals (porters) under the the aegis of Marathwada Labour Union staged demonstrations in front of the agriculture produce market committee in the city alleging that the Centre’s farmer and labour related laws have sparked confusion. Speaking to newsmen, Subhash Lomte from the Marathwada Labour Union said that the laws were meant to enslave 95% of the farmers and workers. “While framing laws for farmers and workers, the Central government hasn’t spoken to the stakeholders and come out with the laws without consultations or discussions. We have submitted a representation to the authorities drawing their attention toward the problems of the farming community,” said Lomte||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stir-against-farm-labour-laws/articleshow/78711440.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mysuru||Closure of popular destinations hits tourism in Mysuru||MYSURU: The decision of various district administrations to close down major tourist attractions of South Karnataka, including the KRS dam, Mysuru Zoo and Mysuru Palace at the time of Dasara, has come as a big shocker for the tourism and hospitality industry, which is still not able to reconcile itself to the impact of Covid-19 in this summer and monsoon season. They fear the decision of not allowing tourists at the time of Dasara may cause a huge damage to the industry, and permanently affect the prospects of the entire region. According to the tour operators, even though Covid-19 is a reality, the central government has allowed all tourism activities to resume under Unlock 5.0. In this scenario, targeting the tourism sector alone will affect all business activities, especially in Mysuru, as the district’s economy is dependent upon the tourism industry. B S Prashanth, honorary president of Mysuru Travels’ Association said that the decision to ban the entry of tourists to major tourist spots will definitely have an adverse impact on the industry. “All the activities are now open. We never asked for any big celebrations at the time of Dasara. We agreed to a simple Dasara being held. However, now the district administrations are taking unnecessary, unscientific decisions to close down tourist spots. Tourist spots in neighboring Kerala and Tamil Nadu are open. People who were planning to visit Mysuru, visit other states now. This ban will not serve any purpose,” he said. “Expecting a revival of tourism activities, we took up many measures like recruiting people. Hotel owners flew in their staff, but now all our spending has gone to waste,” he said. C Narayana Gowda, president, Mysuru Hotel Owners Association, alleged that this decision has been taken unilaterally. “Tourism activities were slowly recovering. Hotel business reached 25% of the pre-Covid-19 period, and we were expecting more tourists. Now this decision will affect us adverseley,” he said. Motilal K L, deputy director, tourism department, said that this year the tourism department has not taken up any promotional activities for Dasara due to the Covid-19 crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/closure-of-popular-destinations-hits-tourism-in-mysuru/articleshow/78709563.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Bhopal||Jaura, a traditional Cong, BSP stronghold||Bhopal: Joura assembly constituency in Morena district is the only seat where the `Tikau versus Bikau' (durable versus salable) issue does not exist as the by-poll is necessitated after the demise of sitting Congress MLA Banwarilal Sharma. Here the BJP, Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) are locked in a triangular contest that is largely based on caste equation. In Chambal region, Joura had been a dacoit-infested area since early 70s till 2007, when the police gunned down dreaded bandit Jagjeevan Parihar, who carried a bounty of Rs 9 lakh on his head, in a close encounter. The rebellious mood of the public is also in contrast to the historical incident in 1972, when more than 100 dacoits, including the dreaded Mohar Singh and Malkhan Singh, had surrendered before Gandhian reformer Acharya Vinoba Bhave and SN Subba Rao in Joura, bring an end to the blood shed era. Since then, the fight for power and justice in Joura has turned political with caste factor playing a crucial role in deciding the mandate. In Joura, Brahmins, Dhakad, Kshatriya, Gurjar and Kushwaha play major role in deciding the mandate. Muslim voters, who are also in sizeable numbers, also play effective role in deciding the winner. In BJP, there was an intense tussle among various factions for nominating the candidate. Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia was rooting for his loyalist however, the party chose Subedar Singh Rajodha, considered to be close to Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The BJP will have to do all within its might to win the seat which is considered as the traditional bastion of Congress and the BSP. Since 1957, the Congress won this seat five times while BSP thrice. The BJP won only once in the last five elections and it could not even finish second in four. The Congress has fielded Pankaj Upadhyay while, Soneram Kushwaha is the BSP nominee. Even the Uma Bharti wave in 2003 assembly elections also could not affect the poll results when the BJP had won 172 seats of the total 230 in the state. BJP candidate Mahesh Mishra was placed at sixth in the list of poll results with Congress' Ummed Singh Bana winning by securing 23,164 votes against the runner up Maniram Dhakad an Independent candidate, who polled 20,411 votes. BSP won this seat in the 2008 elections with a margin of 8,595 votes (7.39%), registering 31.39% of the total votes polled while BJP's Subedar Singh won the seat in 2013 by a margin of 2,498 votes (1.7%). Subedar Singh secured 28.94% of the total votes polled. In 2018, Congress candidate Banwarilal Sharma won the seat by a margin of 15,173 votes. He received 56,187 (34.54%) votes against Bahujan Samaj Party's Maniram Dhakad, who got 41,014 (25.21%) votes while, the BJP's Subedar Singh Rajodha was relegated to the third position with 37,988 (23.35%) votes. The biggest challenge before the BJP candidate is to contain and manage the internal opposition. To support BJP candidate 'Shiv-Jyoti' Express will have to work intensely among the Barhmin and Gurjar voters. Earlier, is was surmised that BJP would depend on a Brahmin face to manage other seats in the Morena district. However, it banked upon a Thakur face. The Congress though, fielded four Brahmins on 16 seats in the Chambal region to balance the caste equation. Among Brahmin leaders, cabinet minister Narottam Mishra is a tall figure who holds sway among the voters in the region. BJP state president VD Sharma also hails from the same place while another tall leader and former Rajya Sabha member Prabhat Jha had been active in the region for some time. BJP's former minister Anoop Mishra was also a strong personality. Hence, a brahmin face would surely have changed the equation in the by-polls. GFX : WITH DESIGNERS Year Winner Runner-up Margin 2018 BL Sharma, Cong Maniram Dhakad, BSP 15,173 2013 Subedar Singh, BJP BL Sharma, Cong 2,498 2008 Maniram Dhakad, BSP BSP Brindavan, Cong 8,595 2003 Ummed Singh Bana, Cong Maniram Dhakad, Ind 2,753 1998 Soneram Kushwah, BSP Mahesh Mishra, Cong 10,177 1993 Soneram Kushwah, BSP Jahar Singh, BJP 6,397 1990 Subedar Singh, JD Soneram Kushwah, BSP 6,387 1985 MD Mishra, Cong Kali Charan, BJP 5,728 1980 RL Mishra, Cong Kali Charan, BJP 922 1977 Subedar Singh, JNP Ram Charan, Cong 2,414||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jaura-a-traditional-cong-bsp-stronghold/articleshow/78710116.cms||Rajendra Sharma
October 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Massia protests dumping of garbage in industrial area||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (Massia) has asked the civic body and other authorities to take stern action against the individuals who dump garbage in the Chikalthana industrial estate where most of the factories are either closed or operate only during the day. Some individuals dump garbage in the area taking advantage of poor or no streetlights, said Sachin Gayake, one of the senior office-bearers of the industry body. “The authorities have taken action against a man found dumping restaurant waste in a secluded area. The civic body had taken a fine of Rs 10,000 from him. But they need to make concerted efforts to ensure that no one else can take advantage of the seclusion in the Chikalthana-Naregaon belt,” he said on Friday. He pointed out that on October 3, following the information, the civic body’s waste management officials kept an eye on the area and caught a tractor owner between 8 pm and 9 pm when he was disposing of waste in the N-Ciodco area. They slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on him, which he paid. But the industries required such action to be a deterrent for other violators. We have also requested industries in the Chikalthana area to alert the civic body and other authorities immediately if they found anyone dumping garbage in open spaces in the Chikalthana-Naregaon industrial belt. Gayake and other office-bearers also pointed out that the Massia had launched a clean-and-green Chikalthana industrial estate drive for over two years. “We collected over 700 truckload of garbage and had disposed it with the help of the civic body. However, our attempts to maintain cleanliness in the area were defeated when individuals or hotels and restaurants try to dump their waste here. Due to which we have urged the civic body and other authorities concerned to get tough with people who dump waste in the area in an unauthorised manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/massia-protests-dumping-of-garbage-in-industrial-area/articleshow/78711435.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Mumbai||Delhi lawyer held for posting ‘fake news’ on Sushant Singh Rajput’s manager||MUMBAI: Mumbai cyber police have arrested a Delhi-based lawyer for posting videos in which he propounded the theory that celebrity manager Disha Salian (28) was murdered by a few celebrities and a politician from Maharashtra. Salian was celebrity manager to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The arrest is the latest instance of a pushback against the rising tide of fake news and toxic messaging on social media platforms. A police probe showed Salian died by suicide on June 9 in a Malad highrise where her fiancé resided. Suspect Vibhor Anand, 31, who continued to post defamatory content despite warnings from a city court, was picked up from his Delhi home and brought to Mumbai late Thursday night. Times ViewContent on social media , in the absence of checks and balances, can be extremely toxic. The divisive effect of fake news purveyed on various platforms is being increasingly felt as internet and mobile footprints grow. Used to fan rumours and spread communal hatred, such activity has even led to lynchings and riots. There is a need to monitor social media and ensure awareness of laws concerning defamation and free speech.Held for defamatory posts, lawyer says he was expressing his viewsThe Esplanade Court, where Vibhor was produced on Friday, sent him to police custody till October 19 after he was booked under Indian Penal Code sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 504 (insult), 505 (2) (mischief), 509 (insult the modesty of a woman) and under the IT Act section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material). Vibhor’s Twitter account @vibhor_anand was blocked and suspended in September, said DCP (crime) Akbar Pathan. He shifted to another handle. Hours before his arrest, Vibhor tweeted from @OfficeofVA, “Mumbai Police Cyber Crime team is in Delhi to meet me. Today is 15th October. So, Mumbai Police is finally here to Arrest me… See you soon @CPMumbaiPolice”. His lawyer Hitesh Patel said, “The FIR is politically motivated, my client has just expressed his views.” At least 14 others who posted similar content, including photos and videos through Twitter, have been shown as wanted in the case. The complaint which led to the arrest was filed by a 27-year-old Mumbai-based lawyer on August 12. She came across the content with links to videos that were tweeted, attacking wellknown figures, police and Maharashtra government. Vibhor allegedly continued circulating such content despite Bombay Civil Court in September directing him and the others to immediately take down the defamatory posts. The order came on a suit by an actor-producer (whose name was dragged into the Salian case). Despite the order, Vibhor kept naming the actor. Cyber police had similarly arrested on September 28 a physical trainer from Faridabad, Pradeep Choudhary alias Saahil (33), for posting conspiracy theories based on a probe he claims to have carried out on the deaths of late actor Sushant Singh and his ex-celebrity manager Salian. Choudhary was tracked down through the internet protocol address used to upload the offensive content on YouTube. The case was registered on August 22. In recent months, cyber police has mounted a pushback against the torrent of hate speech, fake news and denigrating messages about public figures on social media. Traction for toxic messaging and conspiracy theories in the wake of Sushant Singh’s suicide has led to more monitoring of social media. Some YouTube channels on the incident have drawn millions of views. As reported by TOI on September 28, cyber police in Maharashtra blocked at least 4,617 posts on platforms including WhatsApp and Facebook since fake news began flooding the net in the wake of the lockdown announced in Marchend. In all, 644 cases have been filed across 44 stations. Cyber lawyer, Dr Prashant Mali said the IT Act 2000 should be amended with immediate effect and should include a section that will explicitly deal with fake news. “At present, there is no specific section that sternly deals with the rising cases of fake news combined with offensive videos and content uploaded to create communal tension or spread hate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/delhi-lawyer-held-for-posting-fake-news-on-sushants-manager/articleshow/78711439.cms||V Narayan
October 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Floods, rains wreak havoc in western Maharashtra, 27 dead, 1 missing||PUNE: The heavy rain on October 14 that caused flooding across Western Maharashtra left 27 people dead across Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, and Kolhapur districts. Solapur district was the worst affected with 14 deaths. As many as 1,716 houses were destroyed and over 34,000 hectare agriculture land was laid to waste. Soybean, sugar cane, cotton, and vegetables suffered heavy damage. As many as 478 animals were reportedly killed due to the flood and rain in the district. Other districts too bore the brunt. Nine people died in Sangli, and one in Satara district, while Pune district reported three deaths and one person missing after they were swept away by nullah waters at Rajegaon in Daund. Pune divisional commissioner’s office reported that over 21,000 people have been evacuated so far in the division, 17,000 from Solapur alone. The floods have also caused destruction of over 57,000 hectare farmland, of which 34,000 hectare is from Solapur district. According to an assessment report, Mohol, Madha, Karmala, Malshiras were the worst affected talukas in Solapur district. They received over 100mm of rain on October 14. Congress MLA Praniti Shinde from Solapur told TOI that farmers are in a bad shape due to the deluge and the administration is assessing the current situation. “We will demand highest compensation for the affected,” she said. Meanwhile, in a review meeting in Pune, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has instructed the authorities to remain alert for the next two days as heavy rain has been forecast by the met department. National Disaster Response Force teams have been appointed in Solapur, Pandharpur, and Baramati. Pawar also instructed the authorities to start the panchnama of the destroyed properties and provide basic facilities to those evacuated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/floods-rains-wreak-havoc-in-western-maharashtra-27-dead-1-missing/articleshow/78712806.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 17, 2020||Trichy||Transport workers call for wage revision talks||Trichy: Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) workers affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) have demanded that the state government launch a discussion on wage revision for transport corporation workers. An administrative committee meeting of the outfit at Trichy on Friday also demanded compensation for TNSTC workers infected by Covid-19. AITUC members said that TNSTC workers were paid lower than electricity board workers and sought appropriate revision with effect from September 2019. As many as 11 resolutions were passed at the meeting including one seeking medical insurance for retired TNSTC workers. They said complete retirement benefits were not disbursed to workers who retired voluntarily or after completing service between April 2019 and May 2020. The meeting asked the government to support the corporation financially for the loss incurred in operating buses during lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transport-workers-call-for-wage-revision-talks/articleshow/78711966.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spine deformation set right with surgery at Civil||Ahmedabad: Vasant Solanki, a resident of Behrampura, had undergone a spine surgery one and a half years ago due to an infection. A year after the surgery, the upper spine started deforming as two of the vertebrae had got affected - some parts of his spine got deformed up to 110 degrees, said Civil Hospital surgeons. “We then carried out neuro monitoring and performed pedicle subtraction osteotomy,” said Dr JP Modi, HOD of orthopedic department and medical superintendent of Civil Hospital. Dr Modi said that annually October 16 is celebrated as World Spine Day. “During the Covid-19 period, Civil Hospital performed 146 difficult spinal surgeries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spine-deformation-set-right-with-surgery-at-civil/articleshow/78710136.cms||---
October 17, 2020||Pune||Floods, rains wreak havoc in western Maharashtra, 27 dead, 1 missing||PUNE: The heavy rain on October 14 that caused flooding across Western Maharashtra left 27 people dead across Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur, and Kolhapur districts. Solapur district was the worst affected with 14 deaths. As many as 1,716 houses were destroyed and over 34,000 hectare agriculture land was laid to waste. Soybean, sugar cane, cotton, and vegetables suffered heavy damage. As many as 478 animals were reportedly killed due to the flood and rain in the district. Other districts too bore the brunt. Nine people died in Sangli, and one in Satara district, while Pune district reported three deaths and one person missing after they were swept away by nullah waters at Rajegaon in Daund. Pune divisional commissioner’s office reported that over 21,000 people have been evacuated so far in the division, 17,000 from Solapur alone. The floods have also caused destruction of over 57,000 hectare farmland, of which 34,000 hectare is from Solapur district. According to an assessment report, Mohol, Madha, Karmala, Malshiras were the worst affected talukas in Solapur district. They received over 100mm of rain on October 14. Congress MLA Praniti Shinde from Solapur told TOI that farmers are in a bad shape due to the deluge and the administration is assessing the current situation. “We will demand highest compensation for the affected,” she said. Meanwhile, in a review meeting in Pune, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has instructed the authorities to remain alert for the next two days as heavy rain has been forecast by the met department. National Disaster Response Force teams have been appointed in Solapur, Pandharpur, and Baramati. Pawar also instructed the authorities to start the panchnama of the destroyed properties and provide basic facilities to those evacuated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/floods-rains-wreak-havoc-in-western-maharashtra-27-dead-1-missing/articleshow/78711441.cms||Piyush Bhusari
