October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara celebrations start in Mysuru on a low-key note amid the pandemic||Naada Habba Mysuru Dasara kicked off on a low-key note amid the pandemic, atop Chamundi Hills on Saturday morning. This year’s festival was inaugurated by cardiologist Dr CN Manjunath, who lighted the lamp and offered floral tributes to goddess Chamundeshwari, which was placed inside a silver chariot. The festival will culminate on October 26 with the popular Jamboo Savari. Speaking on the occasion, Manjunath said, “For the first time, someone from the medical field has been given the opportunity to inaugurate the Dasara festival, which this year, is being held in honour of the Corona warriors.” Minister ST Somashekhar Yediyurappa, who was also present during the inaugural event, said that Mysuru’s popular tourist destinations Chamundi Hills, Mysore Palace, Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens and Nanjangud Temple will be opened for visitors during this time. Earlier this week, the district administration had decided to keep the tourist destinations closed until November 1 in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 positive cases. The cultural events will take place for two hours from this evening in front of the illuminated palace. Meanwhile, the streets, circles and the palace will also be lit up for a couple of hours. The illumination works that stretches for a distance of 50 km will serve as a medium to spread awareness about maintaining social distance and wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-celebrations-start-in-mysuru-on-a-low-key-note-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/78718583.cms||Vinay Lokesh
October 18, 2020||Raipur||Onir: My first trip to Chhattisgarh was a great culinary and travel experience||As part of his research for an upcoming project, filmmaker Onir recently visited Raipur and Sirpur in Chhattisgarh. Mesmerised by the ancient architecture and sumptuous food, Onir’s first trip to the tribal belt of India turned out to be an eventful affair. “This is my first trip to Raipur, Chhattisgarh and I had a great culinary and travel experience here. I had food at the iconic Noorjehan restaurant and also tried the Chhattisgarhi staple, chillla and muthia, on the streets of Raipur which was so nice and different,” says Onir. After spending a day in the capital city, somebody recommended the filmmaker to visit Sirpur, an ancient city in Chhattisgarh. “I was so enchanted with the beauty of Sirpur, which is next to the expansive Mahanadi River. I saw the Lakshman Temple, Shiv Temple, the Buddhist site and Jain temples. Unfortunately, I could not visit all the sites because of time constraints, but after this trip, I feel like I want to come back here again and again,” shares an elated Onir.  When in Raipur , Chattisghar...You eat ... pic.twitter.com/wgr1pEdoPA— Onir (@IamOnir) October 13, 2020  Concluding his experience in the state, he adds, “Chhattisgarh should be proud to have such ancient and modern cities packed with rich Indian heritage that celebrates inclusion and diversity. One could see so much of Hindu, Buddhist and Jain architecture side-by-side, flourishing together. Some of the sculptures were remarkable and so exquisite. Especially Lord Shiva and Parvati’s statutes. I really felt that they were special because it also showed how empowered the women were. Chhattisgarh represents the true spirit of India, unity in diversity.”           View this post on Instagram           #AnandaPrabhuVihara in #sirpur #chattisgarh This is a temple and 14 room monastery built by Bhikshu Anand Prabhu and sponsored by Raja Sivagupta Balarjuna and dates back to 8 th century CE . #buddhistarchitecture @gochhattisgarh @incredibleindia A post shared by  Onir (@iamonir) on Oct 17, 2020 at 4:25am PDT  Watch Onir talks about his first visit to Chhattisgarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/onir-my-first-trip-to-chhattisgarh-was-a-great-culinary-and-travel-experience/articleshow/78725641.cms||Rishabh Deb
October 18, 2020||India||India drops to No.2 in daily Covid cases as US surges again||NEW DELHI: After recording the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases in the world for more than two months, India may finally be passing on the baton back to the US. For two days running, Thursday and Friday, the US reported more daily cases than India, which had been logging the highest single-day counts in the world since August 6. The US recorded 66,131 and 71,687 fresh infections on these two days, as per worldometers.info, while the daily count in India on these days was 64,237 and 62,587. The numbers vary slightly in EU’s ECDC database, but it too shows more fresh cases in the US since Thursday. It was after 71 days that the US again posted the highest daily tally in the world on Thursday. During these 71 days, India held the top position. In cumulative caseload, the US continues to lead the world with more than 8.3 million cases so far. India holds the second spot with nearly 7.5 million cases. Coronavirus in India: Complete coverageIt seems likely that the US will continue to log the highest number of daily cases over the next few days, with a few exceptions now and then. That’s because cases in the US have been on the rise again over the past month while the count has been steadily decreasing in India. Daily cases have been falling in India after peaking on September 17, when over 98,000 cases were recorded. The US appears to be in the midst of a third wave of the pandemic. Interestingly, cases began rising again in the US around mid-September — the same time when the pandemic had started showing signs of receding in India. Prior to that, the US had been seeing a steady fall in numbers since July 25. The US has seen around 223,000 deaths from the virus, nearly double the toll in India, where 113,784 fatalities have been recorded so far. Read AlsoRussia receives renewed approval for Covid-19 vaccine trials in IndiaMOSCOW: The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd have received renewed approval to conduct late-stage clinical trials in India of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, the sovereign wealth fund said on Saturday. Large-scale trials of the Sputnik V vaccine in India were firstMeanwhile, India reported 62,050 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the total caseload to more than 74.9 lakh, as per data collated from state governments. The daily toll continued to be over 800, at 812, for the third day running. Maharashtra reported a dip in cases and deaths on Saturday. A total of 10,259 new cases and 250 fatalities were reported on Saturday, taking the total caseload to 15,86,321 and fatalities to 41,965. For the fourth consecutive day, the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai showed a dip with 1,791 fresh patients added to the tally. Tamil Nadu added 4,295 new cases and 57 deaths to its Covid-19 registry that pushed the case tally to 6,83,486 and toll to 10,586. The number of active cases, however, is nearing the 40k mark with 5,005 discharges in the last 24 hours taking the number to 40,192. Officials say by early next week, if fresh cases continue to decrease, active cases in the state will go below 40,000. Watch Covid-19: Daily cases surge in US again, India drops to No.2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-drops-to-no-2-in-daily-covid-cases-as-us-surges-again/articleshow/78726402.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Let’s go Ganjing||The ultimate in swag… the absolute touch of class … a style statement of sorts … all this put together with dollops of fun, frolic and recreation of all kinds, made up the aura of Hazratganj in the mid-nineties. Sheer nostalgia hits you in waves when you go back in time and recall climbing up the stairs of the Mayfair movie hall to see the latest flicks from Hollywood, walking into Kwality, Ranjana’s or Jone Hing for the bite of choice, stepping into the British Council Library, Universal Booksellers or Ram Advani’s for a book experience or just amble along in a leisurely jaunt window shopping, savouring the joys of being among the ‘with-it’ crowd . “Oh I bought this one from Ganj,” said it all. With no better swank address in town as malls and multiplexes were still not in sight, the ooh la la … la di da, feeling that enveloped with these three magic words, “Let’s go Ganjing,” simply had no substitute ! (BCCL)The stretch from GPO to Halwasiya Court and little beyond having been modeled after London's Queen Street, gave the place a flaunt status. Steeped in the footprints of the British Raj, its lingering flavour gave a romantic charm to Hazratganj and it reigned supreme, unbeatable among both shopping and chill zones in the pre-mall days of the late nineties and early 2000. 2000-When posing in Ganj was not as much of a problem, Mahesh Bhatt posed for the LT lensman right in the middle of the road (BCCL)No small wonder then that Mukuljit Singh, National Level Shooter and Coach, recalls Hazratganj being on his everyday must-visit list, particularly Lovers’ Lane ….ahem…. with the Jabbar juice shop as a major attraction where a mixed crowd descended for a chit chat and relaxing moments. “Sunday morning movies in Mayfair came with the added spice of meeting so many people,” he says, rattling off Modern Novelties for chocolates and snacks, Devi Radiogram for music and Cheap House too as some of his fav browsing joints. The 100 metre stroll also took him to a shop selling old stamps which he picked up as part of his collection, being a philatelist. “That was another life,” says Mukuljit, his voice dripping with nostalgia. “Hazratganj was the only place where my husband used to take me to. We would go there on a bike and we would walk into Lovers’ Lane for a stroll,” recalls Simran Sahni, Founder, Health Zone with a smile. Sunday ghoomna for her meant going to Hazratganj. Lunches at Royal Café, ghazal evenings at Capoor Hotel, the food trip made the memories more delicious. And when she says with that ring in her voice, “My ma-in-law bought me gajras from there,” the scent of Belas seem to still waft in the air. Year 1998, when the new Ganj was starting to emerge (BCCL)While some Ganj lovers just cannot forget Hobby Corner where the owner too got involved in guiding a book choice with as much passion, whether to buy one new, second hand or even rent one, Amit Trivedi, Proprietor, Sanskriti, wants to list the luxury of having cold coffee and patties at Lover’s Lane as having been a refreshingly perfect treat after a spell of shopping. The contagious upbeat mood, sparked a kind of naughty diversion too and Amit chuckles, “Can’t forget how instead of our studies for medical we were more interested in Ganjing.” He rounds off his memories with the Alka restaurant chef tossing rumali rotis and the yumilicious chicken patties served by Kwality. The satin-smooth finish of icing on a day well spent, came with families trooping in, in their night clothes in the after-dinner hours, for paan and ice cream, a culture that belonged to Hazratganj alone. The year 2015 saw Ganj tranform into a tech savvy place with people being provided free WiFi by the administration (BCCL)Shopping, kulfi, Royal Café, Modern Silk House, and the paan waala loom large in Anshoo Varma’s memories of the Ganj in the mid-nineties, the pre-mall days. Soft Skills and Customer Relationship Management Trainer with UPMRC, Anshoo can’t stop laughing, while narrating how people in the times of bell bottoms, reacted on seeing her nieces walking down wearing shorts!! She remembers Mayfair as a cherished destination in Hazratganj, a place that sure wins hands down among one and all, for its English movies, ambience and the select crowd that frequented it. However, it was Colonel Fasih Ahmed who paid the best compliment to Hazratganj. “I was posted in Calcutta, but for me my Esplanade and Park Street lay not in Calcutta but in Hazratganj in Lucknow,” he says his voice acquiring the tenor of one stamping each word with finality. In senior school, Christ Church College, he remembers bunking to watch movies at Capitol, Basant, Filmistan or ‘the grand old Mayfair.’ We got the elusive Himasnhu Sharma posing for us in 2011 when Hazratganj was being revamped (BCCL) “My wife's binge shopping could only happen while ‘Ganjing’. My children would crave to walk along the goody laden footpaths whenever we were in Lucknow on leave,” says Fasih, now clearly missing the simple joys that the place threw up. And then what he says brings out the very essence that sets Hazratganj apart, “The best art of Ganjing was that everyone on the street either knew or seemed to know everyone. So a smile here and an ice cream there was part of the social deal, in the midst of some spicy gossip and a little politics a la Indian Coffee House, Capoors or perhaps Royal Cafe.” His voice trails off wistfully with the words, “Jaane kahaan gaye woh din...!” One thing that visibly attracted people to Ganj was the food trip it offered to suit all pockets. So when Dr Archana Singh, pathologist and micro biologist is asked to peep into her bag of memories, she recalls her budding romance and dating days with her hubby Dr Anil Singh. Ah well, well…. She could be unaware that she represents a large circle of Ganj admirers who cite the milk shake, lassi and lip-smacking ham burgers of Lovers’ Lane, Chinese dishes at Hong Kong restaurant, Ranjana’s butter chicken nan or Royal café’s fine dining, rounded off with a romantic evening with a movie at the Mayfair’s, as the ultimate high when on a bonding trip those days. Cut to 2020, the crowd may not have thinned but is visibly different, with many, choosing to replace ‘Ganjing’ with flashy malls, for bigger, far more popular and modern brands. As multiplex movie watching caught on, the traditional movie halls faced closure. Even Mayfair with all its grandeur and old world charm was swept off the radar of avid film buffs and was relegated to a place in history. In present times, the eatery and café chains that have sprouted all over, beckon harder, even though old ones with improved get-up and several new ones too in Ganj are vying for attention. Today Hazratganj has undergone a makeover, the hoardings and encroachments removed, the buildings painted in creme and pink, with same colour and size signages, juxtaposed against Victorian style balustrades. But oh for that 90’s feel of the exclusive and exotic that only Ganj offered in pre-mall and pre-multi-option TV days! It remains strongly etched and refuses to budge from the memory of those who lived every moment and kicked it up big time in the Ganjing era. -Sharmishtha Sharma||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lets-go-ganjing/articleshow/78721419.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s timeless romance with reading||Like everything Lakhnavi, the mere activity of reading had been elevated to an art form here… At least that is how aficionados – both sellers and their dedicated patrons – remember the past. Libraries flourished and book storewallahs took the time to advise on selections, introduce you to new authors and even hold discussions on the written word with the regulars. “Literary discussions, ek itminaan waala conversation on books, authors, readers thrived on these… Earlier, people would browse around for some time before making a selection.” offers Manav Prakash of Universal Booksellers, going back a couple of decades in his memory, and adding, “Places like Coffee House nurtured a curious mind. People gathered there for a dose of good coffee and great conversation on Books, Politics. From there, regulars walked in to our shop to look around, extend the conversation with my uncle Chander Prakash, or move to Ram Advaniji’s shop for a tete-a-tete.” He insists that a passion for reading, like everything else, is subject to availability of time, “Nowadays, people seem to have made up their mind before entering a bookshop, a very small number of people are inquisitive.” Book lovers in the city still throng book readings and lit fests. Here’s a coverage of a book launch of Ruchita Misra’s book in 2014 (BCCL)The comparatively younger lot in those times had their own haunts. “Lucknow’s deep love for Literature, Knowledge and the Arts will always remain,” confidently observes Roshan Abbas, orator, storyteller and always a Lakhnavi at heart. Recalling some old haunts for young book lovers, Roshan says, “Places like Hobby Corner and those bookshops in Aminabad were like Kindles of our times, even those small shops in Aminabad where by paying `30 a month you could rent magazines, etc. It almost became a joy in the evening. It was a great way to be introduced to so many great books for any kid who had little pocket money. We really need to appreciate these places for what they gave us then.” In fact, Roshan has been unstinting in his support for his favourite shops. Through online channels, Roshan shared an appeal when he came to know that owners of the Hobby Corner had hit upon hard times. He urged people to come out and support Mr Baig, the shop owner who had lost his shop and was now forced to sell from a street corner in Hazratganj. (BCCL)The millennial’s favourite author Durjoy Dutta signs a book during a visit to Universal Book Sellers with Chander Prakash in 2015 (BCCL)Indeed, paeans have been written to the passing of institutions like The British Council Library, and relatively recently the legendary Ram Advani Booksellers, which was much more than a mere bookshop for the 71 years it thrived in Lucknow. Owner and bibliophile Ram Advani is remembered with reverence. “A stop at Ram Advani was a part of Ganjing,” recalls eminent journalist and author Pradeep Kapoor, adding a beautiful anecdote from late nineties or maybe early 2000s: “Gulzar Sa’ab was in Lucknow and when his work got over he told me, “To truly begin to understand a city one should always go to its best bookstore. He had heard a lot about Ram Advani Booksellers so I took him there and true to legend, Gulzar Saáb picked up a rare book of Salim Ali’s on birds as well as another one on eminent film personalities that featured Gulzar Saáb himself! He was so happy.” Former Army chief VK Singh autographs a book at Universal in 2012 (BCCL)While Kapoor does mourn the loss of interest in Lucknow’s revered libraries including the Vidhan Sabha library, the Amir-Ud-Daula library, he’s happy that the passion for the written word continues. “The baithaks we organized centering around books and authors have given way to book clubs now. The members are younger and bring in a vibrancy,” he observes. A sentiment echoed by Manav when he says, “By no means is reading as an activity on the decline in Lucknow. Progressive people will always read, patterns for both reading and bookselling have changed, but the interest remains.” Indeed, that interest now finds an active expression in Literature Festivals and book readings in small groups. “For many years, our only brush with giants of the literary world visiting Lucknow was when we read about them the next morning in the newspaper,” recalls Kanak Rekha Chauhan, founder-director of Lucknow Literature Festival. In her opinion, a closer encounter with authors or at least a deeper understanding of their thought will naturally lead to a more active interest in reading. And it is this space which Literature Festivals and book clubs fill up. It’s is important that the common man, the youngsters, come closer to the author. Over the last few years of organizing the festival, I see that interest growing rapidly. Now we have children coming in with their own writings, even housewives with their little poems about their lives, haikus on their own experiences. everything that adds to the literary tapestry.” Where local bookshops face a severe competition with the Amazons of this world, book sellers find that the readers are happy to see their stalls at the Literature fests. “We have been associated with literature fests for some time now,” agrees Abhinav Chhabra and adds, “The response to the books we put up for sale is quite good. It began as an association with Repertwahr, where the organizer Bhupesh felt that books were an intrinsic part of the Art, Culture and theater ensemble. He also felt this way the Lucknow’s youth will be keener to pick up books. It’s proven to be true! -Anjali Chandra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknows-timeless-romance-with-reading/articleshow/78721074.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||‘Shopping meant Hazratganj back in the 90s’||Walking through Ganj in 1995, one would see tiny, stand-alone stores and little boutiques interspersed with the likes of a Calcutta’s In Style and Modern Silk House. Cut to 2020 and now it’s about the Meena Bazaars and the Ws establishing their presence firmly in a city that has opened their hearts (and pockets) to them. A shopping experience in Lucknow now does not seem any less than a metro now, say Lucknowites. Leena Seth, an entrepreneur and avid shopper, reminisces about how Lucknow was in the 90s. “I moved to Lucknow in 1992 after my wedding. That time, shopping in Lucknow meant just going to Hazratganj and getting a suit or sari from Khyamalsons and Calcutta in Style. There were not any other options. For any major shopping, it meant going to Delhi. Now, most needs are covered with the presence of national brands and the advent of mall culture,” says Leena. (BCCL)Bidita Bag at a chikan garment store in 2019 (BCCL)BOUTIQUES TO MULTI-LABEL STORESGetting your shaadi ka lehenga in the nineties and early 2000s meant visiting the neighbourhood boutique-waali aunty with cuttings from Femina to get your perfect lehenga. Now, a 2020 wedding in Lucknow has that exact same lehenga from Femina, only from a lavish designer store. Says Naina Pachauli, an even planner, “When I got married in 2000, I remember getting my lehenga made from a small boutique in Mahanagar. That time, we didn’t even have any other option. Last year, my sister got married and we bought her trousseau from multiple stores across the city and so many local homegrown designers. The boutique scene has transformed in Lucknow. I don’t think we even call them boutiques anymore!” The Love Lane in Hazrtagnaj is still the favourite shopping place for youngters in the city with latest designs available (BCCL)In the jewellery segment also, erstwhile ‘sonars’ have now transformed into multi-storeyed studios. Neetu Agarwal, whose daughter got married recently, shopped for all jewellery from the city itself. “I remember, for a wedding in the family 10 years ago, I went to Surat to buy jewellery because the collection here was so limited. This time, when I went to actively look for jewellery, I was happily amazed with all the designs and quality that is here now. Not only big labels, but even local jewellers have really upped their game to compete actively in the market. I did not need to travel after that,” says Neetu. DESIGNERS AND LABELS FLOCK TO THE CITYThe changing pattern of Lucknowites has led to multiple designer stores and exhibitions coming up in the city. Harleen Chopra, owner of the a multi-designer store, Hunar, shares her experience. “I was personally very fond of designer wear and years back, there was nothing in Lucknow. I personally would travel to Delhi and Mumbai to shop for labels which I would see in fashion weeks and magazines. I knew almost 200 families who did the same thing. Over the years, I realised this gap in the market and decided to fill it and came up with the idea of a multi-designer store. Lucknow is the new “Delhi” for them,” says Harleen. Rajniesh Duggall went for shopping at Nazirabad. The actor bought several pairs of nagras for himself in 2019 (BCCL)MISSING THE AMINABAD EXPERIENCEHowever, some Lucknowites say they miss the feel and vibe associated with Ganjing and Gadbad Jhala shopping that was the order of the day in the nineties, with the advent of a brand culture. Akanksha Kapoor, a homemaker, says, “There was a different feel associated with going to Aminabad and picking up laces, or buying trinkets from Gadbad Jhala and Aminabad. Now, everything is available online,” says Akanksha. LOCAL DESIGNERS DREAM GLOBAL“Lucknow is the hub of chikankari and has so much to offer in terms of shopping, but the potential was never realised until recently,” says Savnit Arora Gurnani, a fashion stylist from the city. Elaborating on how small designers and labels from the city are now dreaming global, she says, “Local designers have also evolved with the people, and that has led to changing tastes. Designers now want to brand themselves as national labels and are actively working towards that. Because there is so much focus on branding now, Lucknowites realise that there is no dearth of “brands” per se in the city. There was no lack of talent and quality any way , now the branding aspect only contributes to the changing shopping pattern.” - Saloni Tandon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shopping-meant-hazratganj-back-in-the-90s/articleshow/78719248.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||That is what was cool in the year Lucknow Times started||Asked to write the TOI retrospective on food was frankly less a privilege than a double slap on the face. I could not decide if I had been asked to write due to my increasing age or increasing girth. It is safe to say, I do know the Lucknow food scene quite intimately as quite a bit of it sticks to my gut and abdomen. Will try and ramble through some known, some unknown, some closed, some still going strong and finally some road side and some fine dines that have found flavor with me and hopefully other Lucknowites, through the ages. CHATORI CHAAT: Lucknow’s basket chaat is still a major attraction for people (BCCL)While Tundey reigns in Kebabs, the journey from Chowk which did not serve onions till some point ago to Aminabad which has a full-fledged three page menu is etched on the walls in Bollywood Superstars worth at every outlet now. In 1995, Sakhawat used to be the Shah of Shami Kebab. Also missing there are the Khatti Machli and marble sized Koftas made on demand during those days. Lesser known Alamgir, the King of Curries, still reigns supreme in simmering stews and silky quormas not to mention a mean Bheja Fry. (BCCL)If Tunday is Kebab then Wahid is Biryani, having as many outlets as the former now. Biryani also shined at Zeeshan, the one outlet outside Tulsi Theatre which made the whole lane the Khau Galli is it today. A must mention is Meal Weal in Habibullah Estate for pioneering self help much before its time. After Spicy Bite; Cool Cat and Bakers Hut took over and upped the bakery scene with its bright lights and colorful murals. Not to be outdone on the food scene, these two youngster friendly hangouts boasted the first soft serve machine and the slush in two flavors we all lined up for. It was a favorite haunt for a late night drive with the family, especially if you wanted to avoid the cacophony of the road at Zabbar and Chedi Lal's. Chedi Lal still runs strong and its mound of fresh fruit colorfully displayed can give a run for the money to the new shake and ice cream parlors mushrooming over the city. (BCCL)An also must-mention would be Chaudhurys who bottled his own excellent soft drinks named 6 Up. The brand but could not survive the Cola Wars of the eighties though the shop stays put. Ranjana beside Sahu also closed after serving the best dosas and hosting too many boys family meet girls family meetings. Also nowhere to be seen are Kamling, in Bhopal House and Simpson which closed early in the eighties before the desi-chinese boom could take flight. Late night movies at Mayfair before which it was almost de-regueur to have dinner at Kwality’s that closed down deserve a special mention. The Shashlik, Tomato Fish and Special Pudding from there, still live on in the menu of Kool Break where Narayan the chef later transferred to, even though he sadly passed away a few years ago. That brings us to Kool Break. It started as a hole in the wall outlet selling pre cooked burgers, sandwiches and “thick shakes” out of a machine to which were added color and flavorings. I could well have been the first customer there, since it was and still is walking distance away from my house. Carnivore’s delight: Idrees Ki Biryani still has foodies queuing up (BCCL)Rovers used to be a central meeting point for students any time of the day. Early mornings saw students without conveyance thumbing a lift from the affluent who had bikes or with families going in cars. Evenings saw youngsters back from games practice or ruffians taking a forced treat from some junior. Exer Club’s popularity lay in its proximity to two girls educational establishments. It became a place to lock eyes and steal glances during the trudge back home from school. Their mushroom sandwich and cheese burger have lived through major menu overhauls due to their cult following. If you met girls at Exer you met rivals for those girl's love at Apollo Bakery. Fights between students of different schools being two timed by one girl happened usually over spicy patties. Compro(mise) apparently happened under the watchful eye of a heavy-weight outside student over cream rolls and soft drinks. The Indian Coffee House is still a place for serious discussions on all topics from politics to books (BCCL)When Jain in Lalbagh shifted from the crossing to further down the road, his loyal clientele followed. When the Shukla brothers split, the loyal fan base shifted with him, first to outside Gangotri and then to a thela outside Cathedral. King of Chat has stayed put as the unofficial king at his shop near the stadium with his paalak pattas and definitely lighter chat. (BCCL)Dessert wise Choudhurys is still in Hazratganj and entering his shop feels like stepping into a time machine. Moti Mahal is still going strong though Chappan Bhog reigns in innovation. Parampara and Ram Asrey, both from Chowk have made successful forays into the congested city and while the former has no match to its Mewa Bites and Chocolate Bites. One underrated gem is Chanakya, satisfied in the three things he does best, with its soft churned kulfi leagues beyond the box frozen stuff you normally get.No Lucknow evening can end without Paan. Badri near Mayfair and Satish and Chaurasia, both near SBI are must haves in the city. -Nitin Prakash||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/that-is-what-was-cool-in-the-year-lucknow-times-started/articleshow/78719438.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||#CinemaReopening: Few visitors on day one at NCR theatres||After months, cinemas reopened across NCR on Friday, October 16. While theatres resumed operations by screening older movies, which were released again – 'Tanhaji: The Unsung Warrior,' 'Queen', 'Malang', 'Kedarnath' to name a few – the occupancy, not unexpectedly, remained low on day 1. DT visited a couple of halls to take a stock of the situation on the first day, and we mostly found near-empty halls with very few people. For instance, at one of the halls, there were around 20 people inside the theatre, which can accommodate nearly 200 people. And this was the scene for most theatres. When it came to hygiene measures, they were being strictly followed on the first day. Audience members now have to share their contact details with the cinema staff, who are maintaining a record of all the moviegoers for contact tracing in future, if needed. Safety protocols were being discussed more than movies on the first dayA few moviegoers who came for the first day, first show, seemed more curious about the safety measures being followed than the movie itself. In fact, safety protocols were being talked about more than films. Staff members were approached with queries like, ‘Is it mandatory to wear a mask inside the auditorium?’, ‘Can we pull down the mask in the hall like we do in a restaurant?’ and so on. To ensure that moviegoers know about safety protocols, cinemas have put up banner displays requesting their patrons to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. Visitors go for digital scanning of their tickets at the entranceCinemas are conducting employee health checks, and are also checking moviegoers’ temperatures. As emphasised in the protocols, cinemas say that their major focus is on cleaning and sanitising halls between the shows and providing hand sanitisers at different points. Badal, a moviegoer at a Gurgaon theatre, who had come to watch 'Shubh Mangal Zyada Saavdhan', told us, “I have tested twice for COVID-19 and it came negative both times. I have been going to malls, so safety protocols are almost the same. I came for the first show because I wanted to watch a movie on the big screen after this long.” He adds, “It feels like another place with so much alertness, it’s not the cinema we used to visit before. But nevertheless, it’s good to be back at movies.” Moviegoers who visited on the first day mostly said that they assumed that there won’t be many visitors and hence it would be safe to visit. Cinemas had decorated to welcome moviegoers. However, the usual chatter and cheerful crowd of pre-COVID days were missing. Chatty moviegoers find one-seat distance quite problematicGoing by the silence in the halls, most of the moviegoers could be mistaken for attending a seminar. However, chatty moviegoers seemed to have a hard time communicating with their companions who were sitting, not next to them, but after a gap of one seat. Some gave up on sharing tidbits after a few attempts. As one of the viewers pointed out, “ Regardless of the ending of the movie, and whether the film was good or bad, you’ll miss the movie discussions, mostly in the interval or at the end of the film, of pre-COVID days as silence has replaced cheerful and boisterous talks in cinema halls.” Talking to movie partners has become tough, thanks to social distancingDuring the interval, a few moviegoers had stepped out to collect their food, which they had ordered through phones. While the majority of people were wearing masks, as time ticked on, some people seemed uncomfortable in keeping the masks on. While some tried taking advantage of the dim lights to remove the masks mid show, post interval, many removed them to have food and some did not wear them back again. As an usher said, “People will have to be little bit more cautious in days to come.” Watch #Cinemareopening: Few visitors on day 1 at NCR theatres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cinemareopening-few-visitors-on-day-one-at-ncr-theatres/articleshow/78719098.cms||Niharika Lal
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow’s culture is new, yet it is very old: Manjari Chaturvedi||As I delightfully reminiscence about 25 years for Lucknow Times, it also tells me that somehow the trajectory of the timing is very similar. Just as LT would celebrate its 25 years in Lucknow, I also celebrate 25 years (1994 – 2019) of a performance career in Sufi Kathak, which started at Lucknow. In fact, Times Of India carried a feature which labelled me a revolutionary in my own field as early as in 1999. Through a strange episode I would share how magically Lucknow got me back on its soil to perform in my 25th year ! My initial debut concert at Lucknow was in 1994 at an event held for the Yash Bharti Samman which was being conferred to Muzaffar Ali at Baradari Qaiserbagh where I performed, to an august audience on October 21. National award winner Chhaya Ganguli of the Aapki Yaad Aati Rahi fame sang a ghazal that I performed to. It was also the 50th birthday of Muzaffar Ali. Last year in 2019, I had a request from INTACH Lucknow Chapter to perform at Lucknow ironically on the same date, October 21 for an award ceremony, exactly after 25 years. And, wait it doesn’t stop there, that is not all, one of the awardees was Muzaffar Ali and he was to be present for this event too! Destiny had brought both of us on stage again after 25 years on exactly the same day as he celebrated his 75th birthday. I was again on stage with this legend and this time he was felicitating me. We were both teary-eyed with emotion, I had learnt so much working with him on many projects over the years. A story carried in Times of India on Manjari in 2000 (BCCL)So much has changed and yet at times, everything feels the same. Lucknow has this unique quality about it. It is a city that grows on you and you cannot be left untouched by the emotions of attachment and a sense of belonging. Now when I come to Lucknow, it is very different. A lot of you may wonder why it is so different. It just feels so different at times, but if you go to the older part of the city it still seems as if nothing changes here at all. It is new and yet it is very old. I remember that a couple of years back. There was a photographer who had come from Sweden, and he was working on a project called the ‘Idea of India’ and he wanted to feature me and my work as part of this project. We had long discussions in Delhi and then he asked me what had impacted my thought process and led me to create Sufi Kathak. And then I tell him it was the city that I grew up in, the city that shaped my thought process. And he said, ‘I would like to go to your city and shoot that city. So would you describe your city for me?’ and I sat there in my studio in Delhi with glazed eyes, and I described to him the Lucknow I saw in the ’90s and the place where I learnt dance the Sangeet Natak Academy, which was at that point in time in Qaiserbagh, right next to the Baradari. Every day living within the embrace of history, practicing within those high ceilings, tall doors, mirrored walls, and marble floors. The old feel to the place the arches, the domes. And it had its own charm. I danced from morning till evening spending most of the time there, just rushing in between to the University nearby to attend a few practical classes for my B.Sc, so that I can give the exams. The dance itself was a maniac junoon, I would have blisters on my feet and yet continue dancing till they burst on their own and the skin again became even, with my brilliant Guru ji Pandit Arjun Mishra keeping the count of the rhythm. My conversations with even the simple rikshawalahs that were a soft polite daily occurrence. And I shared with him how it shaped up my own being, the grace it brought, the open-eyed dreams all of which still reflects in my personality even after decades. Ah, not to mention so many times when I am also made into the laughing target for saying ‘hum’ instead of ‘main’ and being asked so many times if I ‘normally’ spoke Hindi like this, meaning artificially. I still can’t figure out what they find abnormal in my Hindi, this is how we all speak in Lucknow, soft and clear no slangs. Mika Singh performing at Lucknow Mahotsav (BCCL)Mika Singh performing at Lucknow Mahotsav (BCCL)As for art and concerts in the 1990s, we had generally full houses, we are talking of a time which was not the digital TV era and so entertainment was not on phones and computers, there were actual TV channels and the cinema halls. People actually made effort to come and enjoy classical dance and music concerts and sat through for hours. I remember the prestigious Lucknow Mahotsav which was held in the 90’s at the Begum Hazrat Mahal Park, yes it was right there, though it may seem unbelievable to you now, where I launched Sufi Kathak in 1998 to a packed audience. We didn’t even have social media to inform people, the program was simply published in newspapers and people read the papers and came. For a press release, we actually gave hand written handouts photocopied! For the Mahotsav, most artistes simply walked from Bhatkhande and Sangeet Natak Akademi, any visiting artist needed an accompanist and there were students willing to perform. Gradually the Mahotsav moved to the banks of river Gomti for a few years, where again I remember having performed right across my own house, and then the Mahotsav moved further away from the city near the airport. The further it went, the more it moved away from the culture of the city of Lucknow, the thumri, the kavi sammelan, the ghazal, the mushaira, the qawwali, the bhajan, the kathak were all forgotten and Bollywood took over. In recent years the Mahotsav has been dominated by ‘filmi’ music and dance. So while creative people from the city celebrate the culture of Awadh in mini Lucknows that they make where ever they live and creating a time warp. I also remember that there was an ease, to doing things at that point of time, in the ’90s. People were generous and trusting and they didn't question your vision or your intent for everything that you want to do creatively. There was a freedom to create. In my house my qawwals would come, about ten people and we would sit there listening to qawwali, composing, working on compositions, practicing. It was beautiful. It was very beautiful. Now, this kind of a timelessness seems impossible. And I remember the singers dropping by and singing if they happen to be passing by and walk off again. Things were much simpler, and I guess, we were able to absorb more and create more. I would tie my ghungroos and dance during the day and at times practice even during late evenings. The neighbours would simply say, it is so good that Manjari practices her dance. In the metros, if I dance and the sound of ghungroos leaks out of the studio the RWA sends a complaint about noise disturbance. Everyone who came out of Lucknow was defined by the city in whatever they did. For me they say Manjari Chaturvedi from Lucknow or from Awadh. And yes it feels like home. Yes. I belong to the city And the city belongs to me. Forever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknows-culture-is-new-yet-it-is-very-old-manjari-chaturvedi/articleshow/78721687.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Indore||Indore: Hundreds record video as man drowns, cops’ valiant rescue goes in vain||INDORE: In a disturbing episode on the first day of Navratri, hundreds of devotees watched and took videos of a man drowning in a temple lake in Khandwa, but none stepped forward to save him. A police inspector jumped into the lake and pulled him ashore, but it was too late by then. Thanks to the gawkers, the officer’s brave but futile rescue act was caught on video. The victim, 38-year-old Kamal, was from Ajanti, about 12km from Khandwa town and 120km from Indore. He and his brother had gone to Sant Singhaji temple for Navratri prayers. The duo headed for the ghat to have a ritual bath but Kamal slipped into deeper water and started drowning. Mundi police station officer Antim Panwar, who was stationed in the area, heard of this and sprinted to the lake. Thousands of people were present on the spot, but no one went to rescue him, said the inspector. Panwar took off his uniform and dived into the lake. He pulled Kamal ashore and police drove him to hospital but he died on the way. Video footage of the officer leaping into the water and swimming back with an unconscious Kamal has gone viral. The police officer was anguished when he heard Kamal couldn’t be saved. Thousands visit Sant Singhaji temple on Amavasya every year but, locals said, there was no security or lifeguard near the lake to prevent accidents. Since there was no one to stop the youths from going into deep water, the man died, said Pratik Mujalda, an eyewitness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/hundreds-record-video-as-man-drowns-cops-valiant-rescue-goes-in-vain/articleshow/78726497.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Pan-India genome studies suggest no major mutation: Govt||As the work continues to develop an effective vaccine for Covid-19, the government on Saturday said two pan-India studies on the genome of the virus in India suggest it is genetically stable and has shown no major mutation. There had been concerns in some quarters that any major mutation could hinder the development of an effective vaccine. However, some recent global studies have said the vaccines currently being developed should not be affected by recent mutations. Mutation typically refers to the property of a virus to undergo changes when it multiplies and the virus may develop some new strains after it replicates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pan-india-genome-studies-suggest-no-major-mutation-govt/articleshow/78726598.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Covid sways GATE aspirants’ zone pick||MUMBAI: Even as the IIT-Bombay zone has the highest numbers of aspirants for the Graduate Aptitude Test for Engineering (GATE) at close to 1.8 lakh like every year, the Covid-19 pandemic has displaced the order in which candidates from other regions in the country have applied. IISc-Bangalore and IIT-Delhi zones, which were usually the second and third preferred choice of aspirants till last year, have been pushed to the fourth and fifth place, respectively. These zones have seen a 10-16% drop in applicants. IIT-Kharagpur and IIT-Madras have now moved to the second and third position. GATE is a qualifying exam for those seeking admissions to masters and PhD programmes in science & technology and placements in public sector undertakings. Around 8.8 lakh students have applied for GATE 2021. IIT-Guwahati zone, though not among the top preferences, has seen a 26% rise in applicants, followed by IIT-Kanpur with 14% rise in applicants while IIT-Kharagpur has seen a 10% increase. Among other regions, IIT-Bombay zone has seen a marginal drop, whereas the Madras zone has seen a marginal increase. Professor Deepankar Choudhury from IIT-Bombay, the organising chairman for GATE 2021, said this seemed to be a more realistic demography of GATE aspirants. “Many candidates tend to change cities for better education, coaching and job opportunities. Some who are already employed outside their hometown usually apply from there,” he said. He said places such as Delhi and Hyderabad are a few known coaching hubs for GATE aspirants. “During the pandemic, students who returned to their hometowns from these cities may have led to the impact on applications from IIT-Delhi and IISc-Bangalore zones,” he added. GATE committee will permit candidates to modify their choice of exam cities between October 28 to November 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-sways-gate-aspirants-zone-pick/articleshow/78726549.cms||Yogita Rao
October 18, 2020||India||Maharashtra governor could have been restrained in choice of words to Uddhav Thackeray: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on a Saturday frowned upon Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s ‘secular’ jibe against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, saying he should have been restrained in choice of the words he used in the letter. “I have gone through the letter. He has made a passing reference. However, I also feel that he should have been more restrained in the choice of his words,’ Shah said in a TV interview. Read AlsoWhen did you turn secular, governor mocks CM as shrines stay shutIn a sharp escalation of tensions, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday wrote a sarcasm-laden letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray saying “it was ironical” that shrines were still shut while bars and restaurants were allowed to reopen in the state and asked if Uddhav, “a strong votary ofShah had been asked about the letter Koshyari wrote to Thackeray objecting to the continuing closure of places of worship in Maharashtra when the state government had allowed commercial establishments to open. In the interview with CNN News 18, Shah said the Maharashtra government’s handling of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death created room for misgivings and suspicion. Responding to a question, he said the state government could have nipped the controversy by handing over the matter to CBI right at the outset. “After all, doubts were being raised from the very first day,” he said. Read AlsoTake action against Maharashtra governor, say community groupsActivists, Urdu columnists and community leaders have demanded legal action against governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for “mocking” secularism in his letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray.Asked about the controversy leading to a Bihar versus Maharashtra fight, he said it was the SC which assigned the case to CBI, adding that he did not know how the sudden death of the promising talent from Bihar was going to play out in elections.  He further said there should be a fair and neutral probe in any such case. “It is not just true of the Sushant Singh case, all instances of unnatural death should be probed carefully and with sensitivity,” he added. Read AlsoShiv Sena asks PM Modi, Amit Shah to recall Maharashtra governorMaharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and CM Uddhav Thackeray are locked in a bitter war of words after the former pushed for reopening of places of worship in the state closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and asked the latter whether he has suddenly turned secular.Asked about drug use, Shah said it’s a menace that should be eliminated as fast as possible. “In the last 18-24 months, several decisions have been taken to curb the problem. I assure you that under Modiji’s leadership it’s going to be very difficult for people who want to spread drugs. We are making some infrastructural changes and you’ll see changes in coming days. As far as Bollywood is concerned, it’s not wise to connect it to one sector,” he said. Watch Secular jibe: Maharashtra governor should have been restrained in choice of the words, says Amit Shah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maha-guv-could-have-been-restrained-in-choice-of-words-to-uddhav-amit-shah/articleshow/78726655.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Covid-19: Active cases fall below 8L for first time in 45 days||NEW DELHI: India’s active Covid-19 caseload continues to show a downward trend as it fell below 8 lakh for the first time in one-and-a-half months on Friday, helped by declining number of new cases and improved rate of recovery though the surge in numbers in states like Kerala, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh are a cause for concern. On Friday, 62,212 fresh infections were detected, while 70,816 recoveries were recorded taking the rate of recovery to 87.8%. Active cases, the actual caseload of Covid-19, was 795,087, a mere 10.7% of the total confirmed cases recorded across the country so far. The active case load has been above 8 lakh since September 1. While the average active caseload has been declining consistently since September 18, a drop below 8 lakh is seen as a major milestone even as experts worry about the festive season and the declining public observance of measures like use of masks, social distancing and hand hygiene. “Enhanced countrywide medical infrastructure, implementation of the Centre's standard treatment protocol by states and Union territories, and total dedication and commitment of doctors, paramedics and front-line workers have led to a persistent increase in the number of total recoveries with commensurate dip in the fatality rate,” a health ministry official said. However, increasing infections in some states are a rising concern among health officials, particularly as winters will follow the festive season. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala continue to register the highest number of cases. While Maharashtra recorded over 11,000 new cases on Friday, Karnataka and Kerala detected over 7000 cases. The high positivity rates in some of these states presents a serious problem as it indicates that testing is not sufficient and is not capturing infections besides revealing lacunae in contact-tracing and isolation. Ten states and UTs — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha — accounted for 79% of the 62,212 new cases of Covid-19 recorded on Friday. The Centre deputed high-level central teams to Kerala, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal as these states have been reporting a surge in the number of new cases in recent days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-cases-fall-below-8l-for-first-time-in-45-days/articleshow/78726678.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 18, 2020||India||Flat delay: Forum says deal on till refund’s made||MUMBAI: The national consumer commission has ruled that even if a flat buyer had initially sought refund due to delayed possession, in case the entire amount is not returned with reasonable interest and within reasonable time, the builder cannot say the agreement stands cancelled and avoid handing over the flat. Upholding a state consumer commission’s order, the national forum on Friday ordered a city builder to hand over a flat in Malad (west) to a woman who had booked it in an under-construction building almost 20 years ago. “We specifically note that in the year 2003, the complainant (Anita Lewis) had requested for refund of the entire amount paid by her, but the opposite party (Square One Enterprises) did not refund the amount, with or without interest, within reasonable time,” the national commission said. It refuted the builder’s contention that the agreement had no mention of date of delivery of possession. Observing that a flat buyer cannot be made to wait for an indefinite period, the forum said, “We find that the said contention of the opposite party cannot go in its favour as it was its duty to mention the date of delivery of possession in the agreement, and the failure to do so necessarily requires to be read against it.” Read AlsoMumbai: 'Tenants will have to pay higher rent or vacate premises'The draft Model Rent Act circulated by the central government to the states, if implemented, is likely to affect around 25 lakh tenants who live mainly in 14,000 old buildings and chawls in Mumbai alone.When the builder did not hand over possession even two years after Lewis paid Rs 16 lakh in 2001, she sought a refund. She said that the letter was ignored. The total cost of the flat was Rs 21 lakh and it was understood that she would get possession by December 2002. Lewis further submitted that in October 2006, about 3 years and 5 months after she had sent the refund letter, she received a letter from the builder stating that since she had cancelled the agreement and paid only Rs 11 lakh, she could collect it with interest. The builder did not acknowledge Rs 4.5 lakh she had paid in cash. Lewis refused to take the money and in 2007, she learned that the builder was attempting to dispose of the flat through a broker. She moved the state commission that year. In 2015, the state commission directed the builder to hand over possession after receiving the remaining payment of Rs 5.5 lakh. Lewis was also awarded a compensation of Rs 1.25 lakh towards mental agony and costs. Aggrieved, the builder moved the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in 2015. “It is also pertinent that even after filing of the consumer complaint, the opposite party initiated legal proceedings in the civil court with respect to the agreement, which was dismissed. Clearly, this conduct has a bad air,” the national commission said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/flat-delay-forum-says-deal-on-till-refunds-made/articleshow/78726735.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 18, 2020||India||Why some children are thriving in ‘zoom school’||Kavya Kothari used to like going to school. But the six-year-old absolutely loves ‘zooming’ into virtual school. While earlier her twin sister Krisha and the other kids would run to their classrooms from the school’s main gate, Kavya, who has a congenital spinal defect and can’t walk, had to be wheeled inside on a pram. The Kotharis’ house help, ‘aaji’ would sit in class with Kavya and carry her to different parts of the campus for extra-curricular activities. During the physical education period, Kavya stayed behind in the classroom with only aaji for company. But the scenario changed this March. Kavya and Krisha now sit together on a mat in the living room of their house in Pune and attend two and a half hours of school via their parents’ laptop. The 10-minute breaks between lessons go in sharing sandwiches and giggles. “Kavya is less self-conscious, less awkward now. She also feels empowered as she can log into sessions by herself,” says her physician-mother Simpal Kothari. While remote schooling has its drawbacks — too much screen time, too little social contact and a wider gap between the rich and the poor who don’t have access to technology — parents and educators have noticed that some kids are thriving in the digital classroom. The shy child who sat unnoticed in the corner is speaking up; the adolescent with social anxiety is more confident now that he is facing the webcam rather than 40 pairs of eyes, and the kid who was bullied for being ‘different’ finally feels like she belongs. Take the case of Mumbai school girl Vipasana Sen. The 13-year-old, who used to get below average results last year, is now scoring “almost full marks” in online tests. This is because the Class 8 student was ill at ease in the physical classroom. She used to get bothered by loud sounds — such as the bell or the thud of the duster falling on the floor — that are part of school life. These would trigger her tinnitus — a condition characterised by ringing or buzzing in the ears — and also make her nauseous. “Two years ago, Vipasana used to stand at the school gate and refuse to enter. Now she can’t wait for class to start. She simply adjusts the laptop volume to her liking and concentrates on her lessons. This is really a breakthrough for us,” says her mother Priya. Juhi Yadav (name changed) who studies at a south Delhi school is also faring better in the digital space. The seven-year-old, whose father works as a driver and mother as a domestic help, had got admission through the quota for economically weaker sections but did not feel accepted. Her classmates would mock her faltering English and leave her out of birthday celebrations. Annoyed, Juhi would pick fights and eventually get banned from coming to school for a few days because of her “bad behaviour”. But her experience changed dramatically when she started learning through a laptop donated by her mother’s employer. “She aced the math test. The teachers are also very impressed by her discipline and performance in assignments,” says her father Mohan. Distance learning also proved a blessing for Rohit Bhargava (name changed) who was bedridden after an accident in February left the bones of his right leg completely crushed and caused trauma-related complications in his heart and lungs. A rod had to be surgically inserted in his leg to help stabilise his fractured bones and the 22-year-old Delhi resident was confined to the bed. Considering his college only allows students with 75% attendance to write exams, Bhargava would have been debarred. “Online classes saved me an entire year of sitting around, doing nothing and then repeating a year,” says Bhargava, who is currently attending classes from a hospital bed. He was able to submit assignments on time despite undergoing three surgeries last week. Aparna Panse, who heads Bal Kalyan, a Pune-based NGO that works for the welfare of children with special needs, feels digital education is also working better for some children with autism. “These children are very uncomfortable in the presence of others. They can study better in their own safe space,” she says. Now that they have discovered the benefits of e-schooling, some parents don’t want to send their kids back to in-person classes even when the pandemic passes. “I hope we have the option to continue online school for Kavya,” says Kothari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-some-children-are-thriving-in-zoom-school/articleshow/78726823.cms||Neha Bhayana
October 18, 2020||India||By end 2023, go from Delhi to Katra in less than 7 hours||NEW DELHI: By 2023 Diwali, people can travel by road from Delhi to Katra (Maa Vaishno Devi) via Amritsar in less than seven hours. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has floated bids for the first 160 km out of the 634-km greenfield expressway project, which will take off from the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) near Bahadurgarh. The four-lane expressway will be built with an investment of approximately Rs 35,000 crore. Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari has said the construction will start by December end. The project has been planned in a manner that the expressway can be expanded to six-lane in future. “The four-lane plan has been approved considering the estimated traffic on this stretch. It is estimated that the daily traffic would be around 26,641 passenger car units (PCUs) after completion and the increase by 2026-27 is projected around 30,840 PCUs,” said an NHAI official. Though the greenfield expressway will reduce the distance between Delhi and Katra by only 40 km, the total travel time will reduce drastically from the present almost 11 hours as the entire corridor will be signal free and cars will be allowed to run at 120 kmph. “One would be able to reach Amritsar from Delhi in 4 to 4.5 hours and Katra in 6 to 6.5 hours,” said the NHAI official. The expressway project has been approved considering that the existing Delhi–Jalandhar section of NH-44, connecting the industrial and religious centres in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, which has been widened to six-lanes, is likely to breach its capacity by 2028. Widening of this corridor for improving the efficiency is not possible due to continuous ribbon development along the existing NH. Read AlsoTelangana rains: Highways suffer Rs 300cr damageHYDERABAD: The initial estimated loss due to damage caused to the national highways following heavy rains and floods in Telangana is over Rs 300 crore. While immediate temporary repairs have been carried out to restore vehicular traffic on highways, permanent repairs will cost over Rs 300 crore. TheThe expressway will provide shortest connectivity to important Sikh religious shrines at Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and the recently developed Dera Baba Nanak/ Kartarpur Sahib International corridor in Punjab. Source said the NHAI will construct two cable stayed bridges of two lanes each on Beas river in Goindwal in Punjab, which is a dolphin sanctuary. “The two parallel cable-stayed bridges of 700 metres have been planned to ensure that the dolphin sanctuary is not affected at all. We have planned a viewing gallery which will be built by connecting the parallel bridges,” said another NHAI official. Delhi-Amritsar-Katra is one of the six greenfield expressways identified for development under Bharatmala Pariyojna phase-I and has been included in the list of 22 greenfield corridors in the last budget announcement. Watch By end 2023, Delhi to Katra within 7 hours: 4-lane expressway to help commuters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/by-end-2023-go-from-delhi-to-katra-in-less-than-7-hours/articleshow/78726760.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 18, 2020||India||190 kids from marginalised families in Telangana clear NEET||HYDERABAD: As many as 190 students from marginalised families who received free coaching at social and tribal welfare educational institution societies have qualified in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) UG examination. Most of their parents are road-side tea sellers, mechanics, maids and agricultural labourers, or into some other menial jobs, and are struggling every day to make ends meet. Of the 190, 142 students from social welfare institutes and 48 tribal welfare residential students received free coaching. While 74 students from social and tribal welfare institutes secured admission in MBBS and BDS courses in 2019, 40 students secured admissions in 2018. “My parents struggle every day to make a living as labourers. This did not deter me from aiming big. It has been my dream since school days to be a doctor,” said D Girija, who is from a tribal hamlet in Wanaparthy district. Girija, who secured all India 85 rank in the ST Category, will most likely make it to AIIMS. “I am the first in my hamlet to clear NEET. I want to become a cardiac surgeon and make a difference in the lives of poor people,” she added. “I wouldn’t have been able to afford NEET tuitions considering my vulnerable family background and my dream would have been shattered if not for the free coaching by the society,” G Abhilash, who secured 168 All-India rank in SC category. To make things even worse, Abhilash tested positive for Covid-19 a few days before the examination. “I had to self-isolate for 14 days but did not let coronavirus dampen my spirits. With my will power and single-minded focus, I managed to secure a good rank,” he added. RS Praveen Kumar, secretary, tribal and social welfare societies, said, “The success of these students from poverty-stricken families means a lot to their families in overcoming generations of deprivation and underdevelopment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/190-kids-from-marginalised-families-in-telangana-clear-neet/articleshow/78727050.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 18, 2020||India||Vendor’s daughter cracks NEET for govt college||HAVERI: Lakshmi Shivasali, the daughter of a paan shop owner has secured 1,811 all-India rank in the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) this year and is set to secure a seat in a government medical college. She had qualified last year too, at rank 55,212, but had to opt out being unable to afford a private college education. “The journey to becoming a doctor will begin and all this has been made possible by the support of my father and mother. All my teachers also encouraged me a lot. I put tremendous effort into NEET this time, and took coaching in Bengaluru too,” said Lakshmi. Lakshmi’s father Manjunath said, “My wife and I don’t have any educational background and from my small business, we cannot afford to pay the fees for a private college seat. But my daughter has achieved this as promised. We are really happy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vendors-daughter-cracks-neet-for-govt-college/articleshow/78727055.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 18, 2020||India||India ranks 94/107 in Global Hunger Index||NEW DELHI: India ranked 94 among 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index (GHI) 2020 and continues to be in the “serious” hunger category, though it has made some progress, particularly since the enactment of National Food Security Act. Last year, India’s rank was 102 out of 117 countries. The neighbouring countries of Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan too were in the “serious” category but ranked higher than India in this year’s index as has been the trend for several years. While Bangladesh ranked 75, Myanmar and Pakistan were in the 78th and 88th position respectively. According to the report, Nepal and Sri Lanka were in 73rd and 64th position and were in the “moderate” hunger category, the report said. The data shows that India’s score has decreased consistently, a positive sign in this ranking, from 32.2 in 2010 to 31.1 in 2018 and last year the score was 30.3. In the 2020 report, India’s score stood at 27.2. Going by this pace of progress, it is likely to take some more years for India to be in the “moderate” category. Countries that have scores between 10 and 19.9 are categorised as moderate ones. The GHI is calculated by using a three-step process and the indicators used are percentage of undernourished population, percentage of children under five years suffering from wasting and stunting, and child mortality. The report said 14% of India’s population was undernourished and the country recorded a 37.4% stunting rate among children under five and a wasting rate of 17.3% . The under-five mortality rate stood at 3.7%. The data from 1991 through 2014 for Bangladesh, India, Nepal and Pakistan also showed that stunting was concentrated among children from households facing multiple forms of deprivation, including poor dietary diversity, low levels of maternal education and household poverty. During this period, India saw a decline in under-five mortality, driven largely by a decrease in deaths from birth asphyxia or trauma, neonatal infections, pneumonia and diarrhoea. The report said, “While the 2020 GHI does not yet reflect the impacts of Covid-19, it shows that the situation is already worrying in many contexts and is likely to worsen in the years to come.” Watch India improves ranking in Global Hunger Index||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-ranks-94/107-in-global-hunger-index/articleshow/78727057.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Republic TV journo quizzed for 5 hours||Republic TV journalist Pradeep Bhandari was questioned by Mumbai police on Saturday for nearly five hours in connection with a case of ‘obstructing a government servant from doing his duty’ registered against him. The incident pertains to the September 9 demolition at actor Kangana Ranaut’s office. Police said 15-20 people had gathered at the site, including Bhandari, and caused a disturbance while uniformed personnel were discharging their duty. Cops also alleged that the gathering was in violation of a Section 144 order issued earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-tv-journo-quizzed-for-5-hours/articleshow/78727077.cms||---
October 18, 2020||---||NDA will win in Bihar and Nitish will remain CM: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Predicting a 2/3rd majority for NDA in Bihar, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday declared that Nitish Kumar will remain CM minister no matter how JD(U) fares in relation to BJP. “For those wanting to create confusion, I put a full stop on the issue of CMship by declaring that Nitish Kumar will be the CM,” Shah said in a TV interview and added that declarations made in public are irrevocable. The reiteration of the party’s declared stand on Kumar being NDA’s undisputed CM face came against the backdrop of LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s continuing assertion that BJP and LJP will form the next government in the state. Shah took a strong stand against Chirag disclosing that talks with LJP snapped because he refused to accept what BJP and JD(U) considered to be its ‘due’ share of seats. His assertion means that LJP, which has decided to field candidates only against JD(U), will find itself locked in confrontation with workers of the saffron formation as well. In what marked a clear hardening of stand against the ex-ally, Shah said Chirag’s statements criticising Kumar has caused consternation not just among JD(U) cadre, but also among the saffron ranks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-will-win-in-bihar-and-nitish-will-remain-cm-amit-shah/articleshow/78727098.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||NDA will win in Bihar and Nitish will remain CM: Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: Predicting a 2/3rd majority for NDA in Bihar, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday declared that Nitish Kumar will remain CM minister no matter how JD(U) fares in relation to BJP. “For those wanting to create confusion, I put a full stop on the issue of CMship by declaring that Nitish Kumar will be the CM,” Shah said in a TV interview and added that declarations made in public are irrevocable. The reiteration of the party’s declared stand on Kumar being NDA’s undisputed CM face came against the backdrop of LJP chief Chirag Paswan’s continuing assertion that BJP and LJP will form the next government in the state. Shah took a strong stand against Chirag disclosing that talks with LJP snapped because he refused to accept what BJP and JD(U) considered to be its ‘due’ share of seats. His assertion means that LJP, which has decided to field candidates only against JD(U), will find itself locked in confrontation with workers of the saffron formation as well. In what marked a clear hardening of stand against the ex-ally, Shah said Chirag’s statements criticising Kumar has caused consternation not just among JD(U) cadre, but also among the saffron ranks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nda-will-win-in-bihar-and-nitish-will-remain-cm-amit-shah/articleshow/78727079.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||6th TRP scam accused sent to police custody||MUMBAI: The sixth arrested accused in the TRP scam, Umesh Mishra (31), who allegedly made payments on behalf of an English TV channel to households to inflate viewership figures, was remanded in police custody till October 19 by a magistrate’s court on Saturday. Mishra was arrested on Friday. The channel is at the centre of a widening police probe into manipulation of TV ratings. His arrest came in the wake of Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh confirming that three witnesses had given confessional statements under Section 164 of CrPC admitting that Republic TV officials had paid them to watch the channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/6th-trp-scam-accused-sent-to-police-custody/articleshow/78727103.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Endorse PC’s 370 stand, Shah dares Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: BJP on Saturday raised its ante over Congress leader P Chidambaram’s demand for restoration of Article 370, with home minister Amit Shah challenging Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to publicly endorse their colleague’s stand. “ Let Sonia ji as Cong president publicly support Shri Chidambaram who has opposed the change in the status of Article 370 even in Parliament,” Shah said in a TV interview. His dare to Cong came amid BJP leaders escalating attack on the opposition party over the latter’s stand for revival of special status for J&K. “Congress leaders P Chidambaram and Digvijay Singh have said they will restore Article 370 once Congress returns to power. Will the Congress leaders mention their pledge in the manifesto for Bihar polls?” Union minister Prakash Javadekar asked.” He said Congress has become a “narrow-minded” party and is singing to the tunes of a handful of outlaws active in the Kashmir valley. “Even Rahul Gandhi makes no bones about his fondness for countries like China and Pakistan. His love for the two countries is the actual face of Congress,” Javadekar said. Another senior party member Ram Madhav took to Twitter, saying expectations about return of Article 370 is a farce. “Gupkar 2 is just a facade. Every Kashmiri knows that special status is not going to return and they are being taken for a ride... But a good gain for the Modi government is that 2019 has replaced 1953. Welcome to realpolitik,” he tweeted. Congress had on Friday called for restoration of Article 370, inviting a sharp response from BJP which said the opposition party is once again resorting to “divisive politics” on the eve of Bihar polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/endorse-pcs-370-stand-shah-dares-sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/78727123.cms||Akhilesh Singh
October 18, 2020||India||4 held on way to Hathras face another sedition case||AGRA: The four men arrested on their way to meet the victim’s family in Hathras now face two sedition cases. In addition to the one in Mathura, an FIR in Hathras filed against unidentified persons a day before they were detained now names them as those charged under 19 sections of the IPC, reports Anuja Jaiswal. On October 7, the men — a journalist Siddique Kappan, a PhD applicant Atikur Rehman, a civil services aspirant Masood Ahmad and their driver Aalam — had been charged with sedition and under the stringent UAPA by Mathura Police. They had been detained on October 5 . Meanwhile, Rehman has now also been booked for “violence” that took place during the anti-CAA protests in December 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-held-on-way-to-hathras-face-another-sedition-case/articleshow/78727132.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||14,000 arts, commerce students apply for test this year||Over 14,000 students from arts and commerce background have applied for GATE this year. This is the first time that the IITs have opened their ‘GATE’ — quite literally — for students from the humanities background. While the IITs were expecting an increase in applications, after a few changes this year, it has gone up marginally by10,000. While humanities in GATE managed to capture the interest of 14,196 candidates, environmental science, the other subject introduced this year, saw 14,804 registrations. Registrations for these new subjects are much higher than the nine existing subjects (out of 27), which is a good indication, claimed the IITs. In a first, IIT-Bombay, the organising institute of GATE 2021, will allow students to appear in more than one subject, but only in a prescribed set of combinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/14000-arts-commerce-students-apply-for-test-this-year/articleshow/78727134.cms||Yogita Rao
October 18, 2020||Patna||Patna: Organisers rule out glitzy Navaratra amid Covid-19||PATNA: Even as Navaratra began on Saturday, the usual glitz and shine associated with the celebrations are missing this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. There will be no statue, pandal, cultural programme, ‘bhog’ or ‘prasad’ as organizers will only perform ‘kalash sthapana’ and ‘arti’. The Adalatganj Puja Committee will erect no pandal or install Goddess Durga’s statue for the first time in 98 years. “Only an enlarged photo of the goddess will be displayed at the venue of the ‘kalash sthapana’. Besides, there will be no ‘bhog’ or ‘prasad’ after the Puja,” the committee’s assistant secretary, Partho Mukherjee, told this newspaper. The PWD Puja Committee will also not prepare ‘bhog’ or ‘prasad’ this time. Its member Sagar Bhattacharya said, “Only ‘kalash sthapana’ and ‘arti’ will be done during Durga Puja.” Mahavir Mandir Trust secretary Kishore Kunal pointed out that Puja celebrations would be a low-key affair. “Only ‘havan’ and ‘paaths’ will be performed by the priests inside the temple complex,” he added. All efforts will be made to avoid unnecessary crowd at the Ramkrishna Mission Ashram on Nala Road. “There will be no ‘bhog’ this year,” said Prabuddh Biswas of the ashram’s Puja committee. ‘Unprecedented’ times: Old-timers recall that a large number of devotees from different parts of the state used to visit Patna during Durga Puja celebrations. Idol makers, clay modellers, decorators, hawkers, vendors, cloth dealers, tailors, musical bands, florists, confectioners, grocers and priests would earn well during the nine-day festivities. Terming this year’s Puja celebrations “unprecedented”, Patna University’s ancient India history and archaeology department’s former head Jayadeo Mishra said, “During the 1920 Spanish Flu pandemic, the situation was not as alarming as it is today. That said, there is no harm in performing Puja rituals without any pomp and show this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/organisers-rule-out-glitzy-navaratra-amid-covid-19/articleshow/78725163.cms||B K Mishra
October 18, 2020||Patna||It’s BJP’s old warhorse versus ML grassroots leader in Ara||ARA: The electoral fight in Ara assembly segment this time seems to be between a BJP’s old warhorse and a CPI(ML) grassroots leader. Before losing to RJD’s Anwar Alam by a narrow margin of 666 votes in 2015 elections, the BJP candidate, Amrendra Pratap Singh, former deputy speaker of Bihar legislative assembly, had won Ara seat four times in a row. But local political observers said he can hardly afford to be complacent as he is pitted against CPI(ML) candidate Qyamuddin Ansari, who has the support of the RJD as a Mahagathbandhan candidate. As part of an agreement reached between the Mahagathbandhan allies, RJD has not given ticket to its sitting Ara MLA Anwar Alam. Though the CPI(ML) candidate, Ansari, had got only 6000 votes in 2015 elections, the RJD has claimed that it will leave no stone unturned to transfer its core votes to its alliance partner. CPI(ML) election incharge for Ara assembly segment Dilraj Pritam said, “We are establishing coordination at the booth level with RJD. The CPI(ML) already has a strong base in Bhojpur.” The caste arithmetic in Ara assembly segment is tilted towards Rajputs, followed by Yadavs, Muslims and extremely backward castes (EBCs). Among the EBCs, Koeris are in good numbers. Brahmins, Bhumihars, Kayasthas and the Vaishyas are also in pretty good numbers here. “My firm resolve is to make Shahabad region a commissionary with Ara as its headquarters. I am ready to take re-birth and not want salvation till I see Ara as the headquarters of the commissionary. I will raise this issue emphatically in the assembly if people elect me this time. The problems of frequent traffic jams and dilapidated would also be addressed on a priority basis,” BJP candidate Singh said. Spelling out his priorities, CPI(ML) candidate Ansari said, “At least 75% of poor people in Ara assembly segment have bandh khata or no essential documents to avail Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana or various government schemes related to toilets or health facilities. If elected, I will ensure that the poor avail benefits of such schemes. I would also raise the issue of common education system in Bihar so that the poor can get quality education.” Majority of the voters said problems of massive traffic jams, bad condition of roads and poor drainage system are main issues in Ara assembly segment. Ara Bar Association general secretary Vidya Niwas Singh alias Deepak Singh said, “We cannot reach our destination on time even for any urgent work due to frequent snarls. There should be dividers or barricading to regulate the smooth flow of the traffic.” All India Theatre Council president Ashok Manav said, “Stadiums and cultural centres should be used only for sports and cultural activities and they should be handed over to the sports and cultural bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/its-bjps-old-warhorse-versus-ml-grassroots-leader-in-ara/articleshow/78724939.cms||---
October 18, 2020||---||Any decision on LJP after Bihar election: Amit Shah||PATNA: Union home minister and senior BJP functionary Amit Shah said on Saturday that several rounds of negotiations were held with LJP chief Chirag Paswan, but he took the decision to part ways with the NDA. Shah also made it clear that any possibility of LJP’s return to NDA can be looked into only after the Bihar election. “Only Chirag ji can answer why he is not with us ... BJP and JD(U) offered sufficient number of seats to LJP several times. I also talked to Chirag bhai many times to come for negotiations if he wanted few more seats,” Shah said in an interview to a TV channel. He added: “When JD(U) joined us, we were required to make compromises and the number of seats was obviously going to be less for both BJP and LJP. However, he (Chirag) started making one-sided statements leading to reactions from both BJP and JD(U) workers. Still, we did not break the alliance and a formal announcement in this regard was made by him (Chirag) only.” When asked if Chirag could return to NDA fold in future, Shah said: “We will see after the election. Right now we are fighting against each other.” He said all workers of BJP, JD(U), HAM (S) and VIP were leaving no stone unturned for the NDA victory. “We have made a sold social engineering and are hopeful of an impressive victory.” When asked whether LJP would cut into the NDA votes, Shah said: “We have got new allies in HAM (S) and VIP. Nevertheless, people of Bihar understand who is responsible for the alliance break-up.” But Chirag, even on Friday, said if PM Modi and Shah had asked him not to part with the NDA, he would have given a thought to it. Though Chirag has made his exit from the NDA, he keeps saying that PM Modi is in his heart. Incidentally, Modi is to launch his poll campaign in Bihar on October 23 and he is to address 12 physical rallies. On Friday, Chirag presented himself as the mythological Hanuman of implied Ram he saw in Modi. It invited harsh comments from BJP leaders, who said Chirag was no longer a part of the NDA and his party is a ‘votekatwa’ (that cuts into the votes) of the NDA. Chirag objects to ‘votekatwa’ jibe: Reacting to BJP functionaries for using ‘votekatwa’ word for his party, Chirag on Saturday said he understands that they are under pressure from Nitish. “They are the same people who were very close friends of my father (Ram Vilas Paswan). I was not expecting this from them. It has not been even a week since the demise of my father and these people were paying their tributes to him. They should realize that they are making remarks about a man, who was their cabinet colleague. If we were votekatwa, why did they join us in 2014 and 2019 general elections,” Chirag told reporters in Patna.  “I have taken this decision solely that I will fight this election against JD(U). And all wining candidates of my party will support BJP and PM Modi. BJP-LJP will form the government in state,” he reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/any-decision-on-ljp-after-polls-shah/articleshow/78731188.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||Any decision on LJP after Bihar election: Amit Shah||PATNA: Union home minister and senior BJP functionary Amit Shah said on Saturday that several rounds of negotiations were held with LJP chief Chirag Paswan, but he took the decision to part ways with the NDA. Shah also made it clear that any possibility of LJP’s return to NDA can be looked into only after the Bihar election. “Only Chirag ji can answer why he is not with us ... BJP and JD(U) offered sufficient number of seats to LJP several times. I also talked to Chirag bhai many times to come for negotiations if he wanted few more seats,” Shah said in an interview to a TV channel. He added: “When JD(U) joined us, we were required to make compromises and the number of seats was obviously going to be less for both BJP and LJP. However, he (Chirag) started making one-sided statements leading to reactions from both BJP and JD(U) workers. Still, we did not break the alliance and a formal announcement in this regard was made by him (Chirag) only.” When asked if Chirag could return to NDA fold in future, Shah said: “We will see after the election. Right now we are fighting against each other.” He said all workers of BJP, JD(U), HAM (S) and VIP were leaving no stone unturned for the NDA victory. “We have made a sold social engineering and are hopeful of an impressive victory.” When asked whether LJP would cut into the NDA votes, Shah said: “We have got new allies in HAM (S) and VIP. Nevertheless, people of Bihar understand who is responsible for the alliance break-up.” But Chirag, even on Friday, said if PM Modi and Shah had asked him not to part with the NDA, he would have given a thought to it. Though Chirag has made his exit from the NDA, he keeps saying that PM Modi is in his heart. Incidentally, Modi is to launch his poll campaign in Bihar on October 23 and he is to address 12 physical rallies. On Friday, Chirag presented himself as the mythological Hanuman of implied Ram he saw in Modi. It invited harsh comments from BJP leaders, who said Chirag was no longer a part of the NDA and his party is a ‘votekatwa’ (that cuts into the votes) of the NDA. Chirag objects to ‘votekatwa’ jibe: Reacting to BJP functionaries for using ‘votekatwa’ word for his party, Chirag on Saturday said he understands that they are under pressure from Nitish. “They are the same people who were very close friends of my father (Ram Vilas Paswan). I was not expecting this from them. It has not been even a week since the demise of my father and these people were paying their tributes to him. They should realize that they are making remarks about a man, who was their cabinet colleague. If we were votekatwa, why did they join us in 2014 and 2019 general elections,” Chirag told reporters in Patna.  “I have taken this decision solely that I will fight this election against JD(U). And all wining candidates of my party will support BJP and PM Modi. BJP-LJP will form the government in state,” he reiterated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/any-decision-on-ljp-after-polls-shah/articleshow/78724872.cms||---
October 18, 2020||---||No ifs and buts on Nitish Kumar being next CM of Bihar: Amit Shah||PATNA: Union home minister and senior BJP functionary Amit Shah iterated on Saturday that Nitish Kumar will be the next CM of Bihar. In an interview to a TV news channel, Shah said NDA will win the Bihar assembly polls with two-thirds majority. “I would like to put a full stop on all kinds of rumours by saying that Nitish will be next CM of Bihar,” Shah said. When asked about the scenario if BJP gets more seats than JD(U), Shah said: “There are no ifs and buts. Nitish Kumar ji will be the CM ... Few commitments are made publicly and they are adhered to.” He said since BJP formed the government with Nitish in 2017 again, it took the decision that Bihar elections will be fought under his leadership. “It has been said repeatedly from public platforms earlier by me and later by JP Nadda ji, who is the BJP president.” Hailing Shah’s stamp on Nitish, state JD(U) president Bashishtha Narayan Singh told TOI: “Our alliance is very old and strong. Shah and Nadda ji have said it on several occasions that Nitish is the only CM face of the NDA. Nitish has brought manifold development in every sector, be it education, agriculture, road, electricity or healthcare. He is the natural choice for the CM face in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/no-ifs-and-buts-on-nitish-shah/articleshow/78731207.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Vadodara||Less than 1.6K under treatment in Vadodara||Vadodara: The number of Covid-19 patients under treatment in the city and district went down further with 167 patients being discharged against 105 new cases reported during the 24 hours ending on Saturday evening. The new cases were identified from 3,897 tests conducted in the city and district during the period. With the new cases, the total number of persons found infected with the viral disease went up to 13,702 out of which 11,926 cases have been cured. The death toll due to Covid-19 remained at 208 as no fresh deaths were confirmed by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Saturday. With the number of discharged patients surpassing new cases detected in the city, the number of patients under treatment in the city and district went below 1,600 for the first time after September 28. As many as 1,568 patients were under treatment including 57 in a serious condition on BIPAP machines or ventilators. Others included 155 patients breathing with the help of oxygen support. The new cases included 63 from the VMC limits and 42 from the areas outside the civic body’s jurisdiction. Sources said that the significant fall seen in the city areas may not be reflected in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/less-than-1-6k-under-treatment-in-vadodara/articleshow/78724370.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra stable but dazed||Kolkata: Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained stable but dazed on Saturday. Even though his vital health parameters are normal, doctors are worried about his continued drowsiness, which, they believe is a result of Covid encephalopathy. The 85-year-old’s oxygen saturation level remains normal and he has been sleeping well, according to sources. “He is far less restless now and is responding to instructions slowly. But he remains semi-conscious, which is a fallout of Covid encephalopathy. We have undertaken therapies to correct this and it remains a worry,” said a medical board member. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-stable-but-dazed/articleshow/78725405.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||We hid in the bathroom for an hour till firemen came||I saw death from up close on Friday night. There was a point when my brother, Roshan Avari, 70, and I were certain that we were going to die as we remained hidden in our bathroom for over an hour, desperately calling up relatives for help. I was sleeping when the fire broke out. My brother woke me up and alerted me about the fire. We tried to move out of the house, but it seemed too late as the staircase was on fire. We had no clue about what to do. All the neighbours on our floor had already left and we were the only ones stuck behind. I called up neighbours and relatives for help and they advised us to run as far as possible from the fire and stay in the bathroom with the showers turned on. We took their advice. One of my relatives from Bhowanipore had reached our building after I called him, but he could not come up. But he alerted the firemen about our position. Finally, around midnight, a group of firemen walked into our flat and rescued us. My brother had already fallen sick and I was also about to pass out, choked by the thick black fumes. Thankfully, help reached us just in time. (Faria, 65, a third-floor resident, spoke to Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/we-hid-in-the-bathroom-for-an-hour-till-firemen-came/articleshow/78725327.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Those 10 minutes on the cornice were the worst moments of my life||By: Rajesh Jagani I was in my room on the second floor when I heard people screaming and looked outside to find that the building was on fire. I tried to run downstairs, but by then the fire had completely engulfed the staircase and there was no way I could go down that way. I took my family — my wife, who has a broken arm, and my daughter — and started running upstairs instead. We reached the terrace and found many others waiting to be rescued. Some began cutting the barbed wire that separated us from the terrace of the building next door. Meanwhile, I scampered down to the fifth floor to alert a friend who lives there. While they were packing some essentials, his room caught on fire and we had no way to go out. Both of us headed to the bath-room and broke open the wide windows and slipped out to the cornice. It was scary. One wrong step and we would have fallen to our death. But we kept moving, holding on to the water pipes and treading slowly along the cornice towards an adjacent five-storey building. We finally managed to reach the terrace of that building where some men were already helping others on our roof. They helped us negotiate the three-foot distance between the cornice and the terrace railings and we climbed to safety. Those were the most dreaded 10 minutes of my life and each second spent on the cornice seemed like several hours. At one point, I was sure I was going to die. But perhaps luck was by my side and I managed to make it to the other building safely. I immediately enquired about my wife and daughter and was relieved to find they were also safe. (Jagani, 56, a second-floor resident, spoke to Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/those-10-minutes-on-the-cornice-were-the-worst-moments-of-my-life/articleshow/78725289.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||Poor footfall as cinema halls reopen in Patna||PATNA: Movie buffs seem to be avoiding the theatres even though a couple of cinema halls in the city have reopened as per the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 guidelines. Elphinstone near Gandhi Maidan lifted its curtains after nearly seven months on Saturday, but the footfall in its three shows remained in single digit. “I have not seen such a poor turnout in our shows in the 22 years of my career. We ran three shows of late Sushant Singh starrer Kedarnath, but only six, nine and six people respectively came to see the movie,” said Sharad Gupta, manager of The Premiere Square, which houses Elphinstone and Mona cinema halls. Mona has not been reopened yet, he said. When asked about sanitation, Sharad said: “We are using the disinfectants and chemicals on the chairs and all around the hall as per the guidelines of World Health Organisation and Union health ministry. Even the railings are being disinfected after every show.” According to the Centre’s guidelines, only 50% of the total seats have to keep for the audience with markers made at the entry and exit points. Adequate physical distancing has to be ensured while seating and seats ‘not to be occupied’ shall be marked accordingly. On being asked about the possible reason behind poor footfall, Sharad said: “People are probably scared of Covid-19 pandemic and cutting on expenditure owing to the financial stress being faced by many.” Cinepolis, a multiplex in Patliputra Colony, is also witnessing poor footfall. “We are running five movies in six shows, but the footfall was very poor. A possible reason behind it seems to be screening of already released movies. Since new movies are not being released for theatres at present, people might not be interested in watching the old movies. We hope the footfall will increase after the release of new movies,” an executive at Cinepolis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-footfall-as-cinema-halls-reopen-in-patna/articleshow/78725137.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||‘Jinnah spectre’ looms on Jale seat||PATNA: Jale assembly seat in Darbhanga district has hogged the limelight following Congress’s decision to field former AMU Students’ Union president Maskoor Ahmad Usmani as its candidate. The BJP has alleged that Usmani is an admirer of Pakistan’s first PM Mohammad Ali Jinnah and he also faces sedition charges. Usmani’s candidature has also been questioned by Rishi Mishra, a Congress leader, who was a strong claimant of the ticket from Jale. Mishra, grandson of former Union minister L N Mishra, had quit JD(U) and joined Congress to stake his claim for the ticket. The row over Jale seat started when Union minister and BJP firebrand leader Giriraj Singh alleged on Friday that Congress and leaders of Mahagathbandhan will have to explain to the nation whether they supported Jinnah’s ideology. Giriraj also sought to know whether the opposition would nominate ‘Sarzeel Imam’ as its star campaigner in the elections. “Where they (opposition parties) want to take the nation for the sake of votes?,” the union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying asked. JD(U) leader Ajay Alok also joined the chorus and said, “Though it’s internal matter of the Congress party, they will have to pay the price for fielding Jinnah supporter in the ensuing assembly polls. The Congress itself is responsible for its ruin.” Rishi had resigned from the Congress after being denied ticket from Jale. Mishra told mediapersons that he would not have opposed the candidature of the party’s official nominee had any other resident of Jale been allotted party symbol. “The party chose to field a man who is facing sedition charges and is currently on bail. He has been accused of keeping Jinnah’s pictures in the office and stated to be a staunch supporter of the Pakistan’s founder,” he added. On Saturday, senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala had hit out at the BJP for presenting wrong facts about Usmani and said he (Usmani) never supported Jinnah’s ideology. “Instead, Usmani had written to PM Narendra Modi urging him to remove Jinnah’s portrait from AMU, Parliament and Bombay High Court,” he said. Surjewala clarified that senior Congress leaders gathered information about Usmani after the controversy over allotment of ticket erupted and found nothing wrong against him. “In fact, the BJP is trying to divert people from the main issues concerning farmers and unemployed youths,” he said. “It was BJP president L K Advani who had gone to paid homage at Jinnah’s mausoleum in Pakistan and they are questioning us. And it was Lalu Prasad who got Advani arrested in Bihar,” Surjewala said, adding the BJP had no moral rights to raise fingers at the Congress. Meanwhile, Usmani wrote to the CM Nitish Kumar seeking security for him as he apprehended threat to his life. “False allegations are being levelled to defame me and cause harm in the election,” he said and added that the NDA would be responsible for any harm caused to him. Jale had earlier hit the headlines for being a safe haven for some people having connections with terrorist outfits. Besides being the native village of Dawood’s close aide Fazlur Rehman, Jale was also associated with Indian Mujahideen (IM) operative, Yasin Bhatkal. Bhatkal, who used to operate as a Unani doctor named Dr. Imam in Darbhanga before his arrest from Raxaul near Nepal border in 2013, had his strong network with youths from Jale during his stay in 2008 and 2010. NIA along with the district police had also arrested some youths for having their links with outlawed terrorist outfits. Fazlur Rehman, who was earlier associated with Dawood Imbrahim gang, is stated to be a native of Baghauli village under Jale police station in Darbhanga district. Another member of the Dawood gang, Jama Khan, also hails from the same region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jinnah-spectre-looms-on-jale-seat/articleshow/78724979.cms||Ramashankar
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||In viral video, absconding Ballia firing accused claims innocence||Varanasi: The absconding main accused in the Ballia firing case, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, posted a video on social media on Saturday claiming he did not open fire as is being alleged by his rivals and police and had fled as he feared threat to his life. Meanwhile, police threw a security blanket around the district court to foil his surrender bid after a close associate of Dhirendra moved a plea for his surrender. In the video, reportedly recorded on Friday, Dhirendra claimed that he was innocent. He said he had cautioned officials about malpractices in allotment of fair price shops and threat of violence but they did not pay heed. He further claimed that when firing started at the spot, he was standing before the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Suresh Chandra Pal and circle officer Chandrakesh Singh. He further stated that police officials caught him while his family members were being thrashed amid indiscriminate firing by his rivals. Dhirendra claimed he was caught by the CO but he escaped fearing threat to his life. He also accused the district administration and police of taking one-sided action against him and destroying his hard-earned property. TOI could not immediately verify the veracity of the video that went viral after being posted by Dhirendra even as police hunt to arrest him was on since the killing of one Jaiprakash Pal in firing during allotment of fair price shops at Durjanpur village in Reoti police station area of the district. Meanwhile, an audio clip of a conversation between the main accused and the local supply inspector Durga Yadav also went viral on social media. In this clip, Dhirendra is heard threatening Yadav and hurling expletives. In the unverified clip, he is heard asking Yadav why the previous allotment of fair price shops was not cancelled despite repeated calls by ‘Vidhayakji’ (MLA) in this regard. When Yadav asks Dhirendra to speak to SDM in this regard, he challenges him to come to his village and sprays a volley of expletives at him. SP Ballia Devendra Nath admitted heavy police force was deployed in and around the district court compound to foil the surrender bid. “On Friday late night, one more accused, a cousin of Dhirendra, was arrested. So far, seven accused, including two named, who are cousin brothers of Dhirendra, have been arrested. I announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 while DIG Azamgarh range announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on Dhirendra. Massive raids are being carried out to arrest Dhirendra,” the SP said. Moreover, BJP MLA from Bairia, Surendra Singh, accused officials of local administration and police of initiating one-sided action and keeping chief minister Yogi Adityanath misinformed. The Bairia MLA went to the district hospital to meet the injured family members of Dhirendra undergoing treatment and teared up in front of the media and people. Accusing administration and police officials of being biased against Dhirendra and his family, the MLA said, “Even medical examination of injured family members of Dhirendra has not been conducted even though they are admitted in hospital after suffering injuries in the attack by rivals. The rivals of Dhirendra indulged in fighting and opened fire, but the officials have misinformed the CM and are taking one-sided action.” “I am not asking them to spare Dhirendra, but his rivals should also be booked for their crime,” he added. A group of ex-servicemen also came in support of Dhirendra and staged a demonstration under the banner of Purva-Sainik (ex-serviceman) Sangathan demanding FIR against his rivals led by Durjanpur village head Krishna Yadav. Sangathan state in-charge Ramesh Singh said Yadav and his supporters had started fighting and opened fire in a planned way but the administration targeted only Dhirendra, who is an ex-serviceman. They threatened to gherao the Revati police station and intensify their stir if FIR is not lodged against Dhirendra’s rivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-viral-video-absconding-ballia-firing-accused-claims-innocence/articleshow/78726857.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Active cases see further decrease, recovery up at 89%||By: Sharmila Coutinho PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 case mortality count rose to 539 with seven deaths on Saturday. Among the dead were two from Sindhudurg, Maharashtra who were being treated at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. GMC reported six deaths, while one patient died at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. A 50-year-old woman and a 67-year-old man from Sindhudurg died in GMC. The man suffered a cardiac arrest after he was admitted. The female didn’t have any comorbidity. The other deaths included a 50-year-old from Porvorim, a 65-year-old man from Ucassaim and two 67-year-old men from Candolim and Canacona, all of whom had comorbidities. A 55-year-old woman from Ponda who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes also succumbed to the virus. A common factor among Saturday’s deaths was, except two patients, all were detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome shortly after they were brought to the hospitals, which indicates that there was a delay in seeking medical help after the patients developed symptoms. Meanwhile, the state’s tally of active cases dropped to 3,826 with recoveries exceeding new cases. There were 425 recoveries and 309 new cases detected over the past 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate increased to 89% on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-cases-see-further-decrease-recovery-up-at-89/articleshow/78726491.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||Left controls GA: Bihar BJP incharge Bhupender Yadav||PATNA: BJP national general secretary and the party’s Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav on Saturday launched a frontal attack on the Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD, Congress, and the three Left parties calling it an “unholy alliance”. He dubbed CPI(ML) as “extreme Left” and said it has taken “complete control” of RJD. Yadav also attacked the RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is leading the Grand Alliance in the three-phase assembly election in the absence of his father and party chief Lalu Prasad. “The RJD is a party that has weak leadership. Now, it has come under complete control of the CPI(ML),” the saffron party’s Bihar incharge said, alluding to Tejashwi, and also added that the CPI(ML) “promoted class struggle in the state that led to bloody fight among people”. It is popularly believed that under Lalu’s dominance amid the rise of “Mandal-Kamandal politics”, the Left parties were marginalized in the state. The CPI(ML) is contesting 19 assembly seats, CPI six, and CPM three. In 2015, three CPI(ML) candidates were elected to the state assembly, while CPI had its hey days till the 1995 assembly election when Bihar and Jharkhand were united. “What kind of class struggle do the RJD-Congress want to start by taking the CPI(ML) along with them. The extreme Left is trying to spread itself in the state by allying with RJD,” Bhupender said, alleging that the RJD has been “going around taking the Left on its shoulders,” when Bihar “has been on peaceful path due to the JD(U)-BJP alliance” for the last 15 years. Bhupender was accompanied by the party’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and BJP MP-cum-Bhojpuri film star Manoj Tiwari. Continuing his attack on RJD, Bhupender said it cheated its four partners — former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, VIP chief Mukesh Sahani, while the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has alleged that RJD “does not practice political ethics”. On the JD(U)-BJP alliance, Dr Jaiswal said during the 15-year “Lalu-Rabri rule,” Champaran had 250 criminal gangs. “It seems the RJD and the grand alliance partners want to repeat the same history, as they have given tickets to such people to contest the election,” he added. He further said that PM Narendra Modi has given power and gas connection to every “poor household,” and also eight-month free ration due to the coronavirus pandemic. BJP poll song released: The state BJP brass, along with the party’s MP from Delhi and Bhojpuri film star Manoj Tiwari, digitally launched the “Modi Ji (PM Modi) Leher Song” and also the e-kamal website. The party’s national media co-incharge Sanjay Mayukh conducted the programme. The song has voice, feet thumping and swings by the Bhojpuri film singer and star Nirahua. “People of Bihar are familiar with whatever thing the song says. Youths and sisters in the state can believe that what Modi Ji says, he does it,” Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-controls-ga-bhupender-yadav/articleshow/78724904.cms||Abhay Singh
October 18, 2020||Goa||Builder among 4 held for ‘supari’ in Porvorim murder||PANAJI: Porvorim police on Saturday arrested four persons, including a builder, for the brutal murder of Torda resident Vilas Methar near Porvorim. The builder had put a ‘supari’ on Methar, police said. The motive behind the murder, according to police, is that Methar used to file RTI applications and complaints against the builder pertaining to his construction project at Torda. He had approached the panchayat and also filed RERA-related complaints. Police have identified the builder as Altaf Yargatti, who contracted Pawan Badigar, Iqbal Nanpuri, and Vishwajeet Dabholkar. to carry out the hit. “We have arrested all four accused in the case,” a senior police officer said. “Yargatti was arrested from Porvorim, Nanpuri was arrested from Bicholim, and Badigar and Dabholkar were arrested from Sindhudurg, Maharashtra.” Police said they identified the accused from CCTV footage and started tracing them. After two of them were traced to Sindhudurg, they alerted Maharashtra police and asked them to detain the duo. A Goa police team then went to Sindhudurg and took custody of the two accused. Police also said that investigation was on to find out how much money was paid for the hit, and that more arrests are likely. On Wednesday, Methar, who was driving, was waylaid near the Torda creek by two persons who poured fuel on him and set him afire. On Thursday, the victim, who sustained severe burn injuries, succumbed at GMC. “Goa police have done a commendable job by tracing the suspects in the Porvorim murder case, and apprehending them through swift action in Sindhudurg, Maharashtra,” chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted. “Police action will continue until the mastermind behind the murder is identified and brought to justice.” BJP interfering in investigation of Torda murder. The Salvador do Mundo panchayat on Saturday morning accused BJP of political interference in the investigation of the murder of Vilas Methar, who was set afire at Torda. Panch members said BJP’s Porvorim block was trying to gain political mileage from the murder. The panchayat members, including sarpanch Sandeep Salgaonkar, said BJP office-bearer Kunda Chodankar is trying to target the panchayat. Salgaonkar said the victim had his office in the panchayat building and was fighting against an illegal construction. The panchayat had ordered that the illegal building be demolished, but its directive was stayed by the directorate of panchayats. “BJP is not bothered about the family of victim but is instead busy playing politics over the incident, which is condemnable,” deputy sarpanch Reena Fernandes said. Salgaonkar claimed the directorate of panchayats has quashed several orders of the Salvador do Mundo panchayat, thus encouraging illegalities in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/builder-among-4-held-for-supari-in-porvorim-murder/articleshow/78726490.cms||Murari Shetye
October 18, 2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur police arrest woman candidate||PATNA: One Bharti Devi, who has filed her nomination papers to contest the state assembly election from Minapur, was arrested on Saturday when she reached Muzaffarpur collectorate for scrutiny of her papers. She was arrested for her alleged involvement in an 18-year-old case of Maoist violence lodged with Motipur police station in Muzaffarpur district, assistant SP (West) Syed Imran Masood told TOI over phone. He said Bharti herself is a Maoist commander and is accused in at least eight cases of Maoist violence lodged with different police stations in Muzaffarpur district. “She is the daughter-in-law of Maoist leader Musafir Sahni, who was lodged in Beur jail at Patna and died during treatment at PMCH in August this year. Her husband Rohit Sahni, also a Maoist leader, is in jail,” he said. “Police allowed her to get the scrutiny of her nomination papers completed. Thereafter, she was taken to court as she had not secured bail in the 18-year-old case,” he said. Masood said Bharti has filed her papers on the symbol of one Bhartiya Sanyukta Kisan Party. “She is accused in an FIR lodged with Motipur police station way back in 2002. The case is related to an encounter with Maoists in which weapons were recovered,” he said. Masood said she had secured bail in all the cases against her, except this one. “Her background was verified two days back when she filed her nomination papers. Later, police came to know through sources that there was a case pending against her with Motipur police station and she was arrested on Saturday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-candidate-held-in-maoist-violence-case/articleshow/78725018.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Armed robbers fire at bank guard; decamp with Rs 31.50 lakh||JAIPUR: A security guard of a private bank was critically injured after three armed robbers fired at him before looting Rs 31.50 lakh from a cash collection van at Mansarovar’s RIICO industrial area here on Saturday. A van’s staff was also injured in the incident. The guard, who sustained a bullet wound in his lower abdomen, is battling for life at a hospital. Police said the incident took place at 2.10 pm when the cash van reached a private bank to refill an ATM. “Three armed robbers in an SUV, who might have been following the van, came out of the vehicle and overpowered the bank guards and the van’s staff. When guard Bhim Singh resisted, one of the robbers fired at him. A staff of the van, who also tried to stop the robbers, also sustained injuries. The robbers then snatched the cash bag containing Rs 31.50 lakh,” said Avinash Sharma, additional DCP (south).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/armed-robbers-fire-at-bank-guard-decamp-with-rs-31-50l/articleshow/78726493.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Boy dies after fatal fall, woman chokes to death||KOLKATA: When Shafiur Rahman shifted to a spacious house on Ganesh Chandra Avenue in early 2019, he was happy that his sons had a room for themselves. On Saturday morning, Rahman, an exporter, was not sure if he wanted to return to his seventh-floor apartment in Moon House because it would always remind him of his son Unais alias Riyaz (12) who lost his life in the blaze on Friday night. Another resident, 65-year-old Samima Begum, also died in her room on Friday night. The Rahman family, who have taken refuge in a relative’s house in Colootola, was inconsolable on Saturday. “Riyaz’s mother fainted several times. She keeps asking for him whenever she gains consciousness. It has become difficult to console her. I can’t believe my son is no more. It will be very difficult to return to our house where everything will remind us of him every moment,” Rahman said. Riyaz’s uncle Jasim Akhtar said the family was preparing for dinner when neighbours told them to rush to the terrace as thick smoke had started filling up the building. Rahman, his wife and sons rushed to the terrace and tried to cross over to the adjacent Premiere House, separated from Moon House by a narrow gap of three feet. “Riyaz’s father, mother and brother crossed over safely. But Riyaz slipped and fell into the gap between the two buildings,” said neighbour Rajesh Malani. He was taken to SSKM Hospital and then shifted to Belle Vue Clinic, where he was later declared dead Samima Begum, alias Rashida, who lived on the 6th floor also met a gruesome death after tumbling down the stairs even as her son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter were running up to the terrace. A family member said that when the fire was spotted, the family came out of the flat and finding the stairs to the lower floors on fire, began heading upwards. While the daughter-in-law was carrying her child, Samima’s son had picked up a bag carrying important documents and some cash. “Samima somehow slipped and tumbled down. Before she could climb up again, the staircase caught on fire. Her son made attempts to rescue her, but he could not go down to her either,” said Ayub Mondal, a relative of the victim. Trapped from both ends, Samima possibly ran back to the flat and stood inside the washroom under the shower. But when fire officials reached the spot, she was found choked and partially burnt. She was taken to SSKM Hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. Five other residents — Suhani Seth (33), her husband Vikram (38), Mina Seth (65), Sanatan Behera (50) and Anjan Barik (56) — suffered severe respiratory distress due to choking. Suhani and Vikram were admitted to Bellona Nursing Home while Mina was treated at the SSKM trauma care centre and discharged. Behara and Barik are being treated at SSKM. Cops said all of them were out of danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/boy-dies-after-fatal-fall-woman-chokes-to-death/articleshow/78725254.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||I rushed to the roof to help them cross to safety||I was in my ground-floor room, speaking with a relative over phone, when I spotted the fire on the fourth floor of the adjacent building. I rushed out and was shocked to see that the entire building was ablaze and there were people screaming for help. Some had even climbed the terrace to try to escape. On rushing up to the terrace of my building, I saw them trying to cut a barbed wire separating the two terraces so they could run to safety. I helped them cut the barbed wire and then got several people out of the burning building. There was one major difficulty — a three-foot gap between the two buildings and an eight-foot height difference. We initially set up a wooden ladder before the fire department provided a steel ladder to help bring people to safety. Once firemen reached the place and took over the rescue operation, I began serving water to the rescued persons and helped them out of my building down the staircase, which was dark since power had been switched off. We mostly focused on women and children and had to ensure no one slipped between the small gap between the two buildings. It was a scary night. But I am satisfied that I could help bring people to safety and save lives. I know most of them and they are all like my extended family. But I just wish I was there when the 12-year-old boy slipped trying to cross over and fell. (Shamim, the caretaker of adjacent Premiere House, spoke to Amit Moulick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-rushed-to-the-roof-to-help-them-cross-to-safety/articleshow/78725268.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||No ifs and buts on Nitish Kumar being next CM of Bihar: Amit Shah||PATNA: Union home minister and senior BJP functionary Amit Shah iterated on Saturday that Nitish Kumar will be the next CM of Bihar. In an interview to a TV news channel, Shah said NDA will win the Bihar assembly polls with two-thirds majority. “I would like to put a full stop on all kinds of rumours by saying that Nitish will be next CM of Bihar,” Shah said. When asked about the scenario if BJP gets more seats than JD(U), Shah said: “There are no ifs and buts. Nitish Kumar ji will be the CM ... Few commitments are made publicly and they are adhered to.” He said since BJP formed the government with Nitish in 2017 again, it took the decision that Bihar elections will be fought under his leadership. “It has been said repeatedly from public platforms earlier by me and later by JP Nadda ji, who is the BJP president.” Hailing Shah’s stamp on Nitish, state JD(U) president Bashishtha Narayan Singh told TOI: “Our alliance is very old and strong. Shah and Nadda ji have said it on several occasions that Nitish is the only CM face of the NDA. Nitish has brought manifold development in every sector, be it education, agriculture, road, electricity or healthcare. He is the natural choice for the CM face in Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-ifs-and-buts-on-nitish-shah/articleshow/78724882.cms||---
October 18, 2020||---||Left controls GA: Bihar BJP incharge Bhupender Yadav||PATNA: BJP national general secretary and the party’s Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav on Saturday launched a frontal attack on the Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD, Congress, and the three Left parties calling it an “unholy alliance”. He dubbed CPI(ML) as “extreme Left” and said it has taken “complete control” of RJD. Yadav also attacked the RJD’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is leading the Grand Alliance in the three-phase assembly election in the absence of his father and party chief Lalu Prasad. “The RJD is a party that has weak leadership. Now, it has come under complete control of the CPI(ML),” the saffron party’s Bihar incharge said, alluding to Tejashwi, and also added that the CPI(ML) “promoted class struggle in the state that led to bloody fight among people”. It is popularly believed that under Lalu’s dominance amid the rise of “Mandal-Kamandal politics”, the Left parties were marginalized in the state. The CPI(ML) is contesting 19 assembly seats, CPI six, and CPM three. In 2015, three CPI(ML) candidates were elected to the state assembly, while CPI had its hey days till the 1995 assembly election when Bihar and Jharkhand were united. “What kind of class struggle do the RJD-Congress want to start by taking the CPI(ML) along with them. The extreme Left is trying to spread itself in the state by allying with RJD,” Bhupender said, alleging that the RJD has been “going around taking the Left on its shoulders,” when Bihar “has been on peaceful path due to the JD(U)-BJP alliance” for the last 15 years. Bhupender was accompanied by the party’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and BJP MP-cum-Bhojpuri film star Manoj Tiwari. Continuing his attack on RJD, Bhupender said it cheated its four partners — former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, VIP chief Mukesh Sahani, while the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has alleged that RJD “does not practice political ethics”. On the JD(U)-BJP alliance, Dr Jaiswal said during the 15-year “Lalu-Rabri rule,” Champaran had 250 criminal gangs. “It seems the RJD and the grand alliance partners want to repeat the same history, as they have given tickets to such people to contest the election,” he added. He further said that PM Narendra Modi has given power and gas connection to every “poor household,” and also eight-month free ration due to the coronavirus pandemic. BJP poll song released: The state BJP brass, along with the party’s MP from Delhi and Bhojpuri film star Manoj Tiwari, digitally launched the “Modi Ji (PM Modi) Leher Song” and also the e-kamal website. The party’s national media co-incharge Sanjay Mayukh conducted the programme. The song has voice, feet thumping and swings by the Bhojpuri film singer and star Nirahua. “People of Bihar are familiar with whatever thing the song says. Youths and sisters in the state can believe that what Modi Ji says, he does it,” Tiwari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/left-controls-ga-bhupender-yadav/articleshow/78731201.cms||Abhay Singh
October 18, 2020||Hubballi||Many patients tried to fix fractures at home during lockdown, say KIMS doctors||Hubballi: Those who sustained injuries and fractures during the lockdown and, owing to lack of means to visit hospitals to seek treatment, opted to fix the wounds themselves, have been rushing to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi, and other hospitals, following complications that have arisen as a result of incorrectly performed medical procedures. Head of the department of orthopaedics at KIMS Dr Suryakant K said that the hospital had registered a surge in the number of patients in the past few months seeking treatment for complications resulting from lack of proper treatment. “Many people who sustained fractures were unable to visit hospitals owing to lack of transportation during the lockdown. Many of them have developed severe problems that are bound to arise given the delay in receiving proper medical attention,” Dr Suryakant said. Of the 425 patients treated for fracture at KIMS in the past six months, 120 had come to the hospital much later after their injury, he said. “Of the patients, whose fractures we fixed, 25 tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” Dr Suryakant added. KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani said that the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in Dharwad district had been on a steady decline since the second week of September. “We are testing more than 1,000 people using RT-PCR method every day, and fewer than 10% of them are testing positive,” he said. The KIMS director said that there were, in all, 300 patients with both sever acute respiratory infection (SARI) and Covid-19 currently being treated at the hospital. “Prior to the second week of September, this number hovered around 450,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/many-patients-tried-to-fix-fractures-at-home-during-lockdown-say-kims-doctors/articleshow/78724976.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vizhinjam port agitation continues||Thiruvananthapuram: Former chief minister Oommen Chandy has urged state government to take immediate steps to solve the agitation at Vizhinjam that has stalled the works of Vizhinjam International Seaport Limited (VISL) for the last 18 days. In a statement issued here on Saturday, Chandy said the failure of the talks held by government representatives with the local fishermen, who are agitating, is deeply concerning. The main demand of the agitators is to issue the promises made by the government in the form of a government order in the wake of earlier promises being not kept. This has to be done at the earliest. He also blamed the current government for not giving due importance to the project. Despite being a major project, the current LDF government has neither given it any special consideration it deserved nor took any measures to create a conducive condition to complete the works in a time-bound manner. While the state hugely gets benefitted from implementing major projects like this, the inconveniences it causes to local habitants must not be ignored and they must be duly compensated. The government must not forget that it was only because they received the local support, the works of the port could be commenced on time, Chandy said. Meanwhile, government sources said they have initiated steps to end the stalemate of the works at the earliest. On Friday night, secretary (ports) issued a minute of meeting (MOM) detailing every point that was discussed in the meeting with agitators. All the concerns raised by the agitators, such as providing employment to local youth in the port works, addressing the destruction suffered by the fishing harbour owing to the works, the dangers faced by the fishermen venturing into the sea, welfare of senior citizens residing in the close proximity of the port, upgradation of local schools and immediate distribution of compensation for those involved in seine fishing, who are most affected by the port construction were listed in the MOM. Meanwhile, Father Michael Thomas, the vicar of Our Lady of Church, Kottappuram, under whom the local fishermen are agitating, said even though MOM was issued, they were yet to get a copy. No government representative has contacted them after the meeting on Friday. Hence they are continuing the agitation, the priest said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vizhinjam-port-agitation-continues/articleshow/78725591.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist may surpass Chengalpattu’s count in a week||Coimbatore: The district recorded 389 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 39,495, the third highest in the state. At the current rate of daily spike, the district is likely to surpass the Covid-19 count of Chengalpattu, which has been reporting only less than 250 cases a day, in a week. Chengalpattu’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 40,995. On a positive note, 428 patients were discharged from treatment centres on the day, bringing the number of active cases further down to 3,861. The number of patients recovered from Covid-19 has shot up to 35,116 in the district, where the recovery rate has improved to 88.9%. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 518, with the state including six more deaths that occurred in the district in the past two days in the bulletin. All the deceased had comorbidities. Among the deceased were a 73-year-old man with renal failure, hypertension and asthma, and a 78-year-old man with heart problems and hypertension. While the former died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Friday, the latter succumbed to the virus in the ESI Hospital within 36 hours of hospitalisation. Two of the deceased were women in their 60s. One was aged 63 and another 65. Both were diabetic and hypertensive. While the 63-year-old died in CMCH in less than 24 hours of hospitalization, the other woman died in a government hospital six days after admission. The remaining deceased included a 47-year-old man, who was hypertensive and died five days after hospitalization on Friday, and a 54-year-old man, who died within 24 hours of hospitalization on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-may-surpass-chengalpattus-count-in-a-week/articleshow/78724508.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Bus driver death: Cops visit spot||Kolkata: A day after the death of a WBTC bus driver from Rishra, cops reconstructed the incident and the forensic team carried out tests. Paritosh Nandy died after he got off the S-32 bus to confront a private bus driver about overtaking on BT Road on Friday and was run over when the other driver tried to flee with his bus, police said. The incident took place around 1.15pm on Friday near Seal’s Garden crossing on the Dunlop-bound flank. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bus-driver-death-cops-visit-spot/articleshow/78725460.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Patna||9 Bangladesh nationals allowed to return home||PATNA: The nine Bangladesh nationals, who were arrested in Samastipur for violating tourist visa rules, would now be able to go home as the court has disposed of the case against them after imposing fine. They were arrested from Dharampura under Town police station area on April 1 for allegedly making a gathering for religious preaching and had been kept quarantined at a hotel for 14 days. They were tested Covid-19 negative after which an FIR was lodged against them on April 14 under relevant sections of IPC and Foreigners Act and they were forwarded to jail. The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Akansha Kashyap, in Samastipur imposed a fine of Rs5000 on each of them while disposing the case on Friday. They paid the fine immediately. The nine are Mohammad Muhfazur Rahman Akanda of Foridpur, Mohammad Rubul Sarkar of Jamalpur, Mohammad Alamin of Satkhira, Mohammad Nesar Ahmad of Noakhali, Sheekh Torab Ali of Kaulibera, Mohammad Mizanur Rahman of Gaibandha, Abul Bashar Muhammad Abdul Bari of Jamalpur, Mohammad Rihanul Islam of Shyamnagar Batkhira and Emdadadul Haque of Chhaudhagra. They were represented by counsels Ramashish Ray, Ajay Kumar and Mohammad Aftab Ali. Kumar told TOI over phone on Saturday said they submitted affidavits before the CJM court, accepting changes pressed against them under the process of plea bargaining provision in Section 265B of CrPC. “Orders were given to release their passports impounded by the police at the time of their arrest. The court directions would become clear once we get a copy of the order on Monday,” he said. Kumar said the nine Bangladesh nationals had reached Samastipur after visiting the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi in February. Ali said they remained in jail for more than two months after which the court of district and sessions judge in Samastipur had granted them bail. “One Dr Ishteyak, who is the 10th accused in the case along with the nine, was arrested on charges of harbouring them,” he said and added that Dr Ishteyak was granted bail by the Patna high court on June 15. Ali said Ishteyak has not moved the court for plea bargaining. “These Bangladesh nationals could now contact their high commission in order to complete further legal procedures for returning home,” he said. Five Malaysian nationals, arrested from Araria and Kishanganj, for alleged links with Tablighi Jamaat, have moved the Supreme Court seeking direction to the state government to withdraw the cases against them during lockdown for visa rule violations. They are on bail and staying in Bihar. Altogether 56 foreign nationals were arrested from Patna, Araria, Kishanganj, Samastipur and Buxar in Bihar during the Covid-19 lockdown period for their alleged links with Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and flouting tourist visa rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/9-bangladesh-nationals-allowed-to-return-home/articleshow/78725084.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 18, 2020||Patna||Over 1,100 new Covid cases, 9 deaths reported in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 1,173 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,03,060. Nine deaths reported officially, which took the toll to 990. However, the state also saw 1,91,515 recoveries with 10,553 active cases. As per data shared by the health department, two deaths were reported from Darbhanga, taking the toll to 25 in the district. One death each reported from Madhubani, Nalanda, Patna, East Champaran, Samastipur and Siwan. AIIMS-Patna registered three deaths, including a 65-year-old man from the state capital. The other deceased include, a 70-year-old man from Begusarai district and a 71-year-old man from Godda in Jharkhand. While 10 patients were discharged, 18 new patients were admitted, some of whom were from different areas of Patna such as Patra Nagar, Danka Imli, Boring Road and Fraser Road. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital registered one death of a 45-year-old man from Madhopur in Nalanda district. According to the hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal incharge (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, seven patients were admitted and four were discharged and as of Saturday, there were 20 patients in the hospital. Of the total 1,173 fresh cases registered on Saturday, 250 are from Patna, taking the tally in the district to 32,293. However, with 29,793 recoveries and 243 deaths, there are 2,257 active cases in Patna. Covid-19 cases registered in other districts include Purnia (131), Araria (59), Muzaffarpur (58), Rohtas (36), Saharsa 936) and West Champaran (35). State health minister Mangal Pandey through a tweet informed that 1,259 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 94.3%. In the same period, 1,20,713 samples were tested, taking the total tested samples in Bihar to 90 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-1100-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-reported-in-bihar/articleshow/78725196.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar JD(U) MP’s nephew dies in accidental firing||PATNA: JD(U) MP Dinesh Chandra Yadav’s nephew Ranjan Kumar Yadav (32) died under mysterious circumstances at his residence in Banma under Banma Itarhi police outpost in Saharsa district on Friday. Ranjan had a bullet injury mark in the neck. However, his father Ramesh Chandra Yadav told the police that Ranjan died in accidental firing as his rifle went off during its cleaning inside his room, Banma Itarhi outpost incharge Kamlesh Kumar Singh said on Saturday. “The investigation is going on to ascertain how was cleaning the loaded rifle. The arms licence was issued to his father,” he said. Singh said that as per the father’s written statement, Ranjan died on the spot. “The room has been sealed and the rifle along with an empty cartridge were seized from the spot,” he said. Singh said the JD(U) MP’s residence is just beside Ranjan’s house and he had also visited the family after the incident. Ranjan’s wife is the block head of Banma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mps-nephew-dies-in-accidental-firing/articleshow/78725115.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||MGB will not fulfil poll promises: NDA||PATNA: The NDA leaders criticised the joint manifesto released by the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan and said the promises made will not be fulfilled. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the Mahagathbandhan’s manifesto was similar to the ‘dapor shankh’ (the one who promises too much but does nothing), which promises to do away with farm loans and generate employment. “In collusion with musclemen, rape accused and corrupt partners, they want to come to power just to loot,” SuMo tweeted. He further said it was the first NDA government in Bihar which had given employment to 3.50 lakh teachers and increased their payment 60 times in 15 years. Now, they were even given the benefit of Employees’ Provident Fund. He further hit out at RJD for showcasing itself as a well-wisher of teachers and said their party president Lalu Prasad had earlier tried to snatch the teacher’s job by calling their degrees as fake. Another BJP leader and road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav called this manifesto as the certificate of Mahagathbandhan’s defeat. He said the opposition has lost faith in public and people will never trust them. “People of Bihar have seen that the NDA government can only develop this state. It is because PM Narendra Modi’s government is at the Centre and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government in Bihar that the state is developing. In order to make Bihar ‘atmanirbhar’, PM Modi has given various bounties to the state.” NDA partner Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) spokesperson Danish Rizwan asked Congress to implement the promises made in the manifesto in those states where they came to power. He also dared RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to first get the manifesto implemented in Jharkhand, where his party is a partner in the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-mgb-will-not-fulfil-poll-promises/articleshow/78724958.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 18, 2020||Varanasi||Elusive main accused posts video,claims innocence, blames officials||Varanasi: The absconding main accused in the Ballia firing case, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, posted a video on social media on Saturday claiming he did not open fire as is being alleged by his rivals and police and had fled as he feared threat to his life. In the video, reportedly recorded on Friday, Dhirendra claimed that he is innocent. He said he had cautioned officials about malpractices in allotment of fair price shops and threat of violence but they did not pay heed. He further claimed that when firing started at the spot, he was standing before the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Suresh Chandra Pal and circle officer Chandrakesh Singh. He further stated that police officials caught him while his family members were being thrashed amid indiscriminate firing by his rivals. Dhirendra claimed he was caught by the CO but he escaped fearing threat to his life. He also accused the district administration and police of taking one-sided action against him and destroying his hard earned property. TOI could not immediately verify the veracity of the video that went viral after being posted by Dhirendra even as police hunt to arrest him was on since the killing of one Jaiprakash Pal in firing during allotment of fair price shops at Durjanpur village in Reoti police station area of the district. Meanwhile, an audio clip of a conversation between the main accused and the local supply inspector Durga Yadav also went viral on social media. In this clip, Dhirendra is heard threatening Yadav and hurling expletives. In the unverified clip, he is heard asking Yadav why the previous allotment of fair price shops was not cancelled despite repeated calls by ‘Vidhayakji’ (MLA) in this regard. When Yadav asks Dhirendra to speak to SDM in this regard, he challenges him to come to his village and sprays a volley of expletives at him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/elusive-main-accused-posts-videoclaims-innocence-blames-officials/articleshow/78724344.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Aleixo slams move to cancel Covid cover||MARGAO: Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, in a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, expressed his “shock” over the government’s “arbitrary” decision to withdraw the notification that included treatment of Covid-19 under the government’s mediclaim scheme, Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY). “The action of removing DDSSY cover for the treatment of coronavirus clearly indicates that it has been dictated by the powerful private hospital lobby that has been fleecing Goenkars for many years with exorbitant cost of treatment for all ailments, including the current pandemic,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-slams-move-to-cancel-covid-cover/articleshow/78726494.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||468 miss online exam, NU rules out re-test||NAGPUR: The Nagpur University on Saturday held online exams for 25,358 students, out of which 468 failed to appear due to different reasons. Board of examinations and evaluation director Prafulla Sable made it clear that unlike the examinees suffering technical issues earlier, re-exam option through offline mode will be given only to students having genuine reasons for not appearing. The NU blamed the examinees and their colleges for missing Saturday’s exams. The exam section officials received queries from students like they haven’t received one time password (OTP) — the option was done away with on the second day of online exams on October 9 — misplacing hall tickets, id and passwords or not being aware of timetable. Asked if all the 468 students who missed exams will get another chance, Sable said, “No.” It was not clear till going to press whether this students will be declared fail or pass. The exam director added that those facing genuine problems can appear in offline exam later. As the NU exam section struggled to hold online exams in the last nine days, it had kept the option of re-exam for all students who wish to go for second attempt after concluding the online mode. Except Saturday, social media was abuzz with students, parents, activists and even teachers mocking at the NU over its inept handling of the online exams. Surprisingly, as activists and students refrained themselves from posting grievances on social media, an upbeat NU exam section adopted stiff stance of not allowing re-exam to all. Former management council member Mahendra Nimbarte said, “The NU exam section has become shameless. I received same number of grievances from worried students and parents on Saturday too. I had been posting them on social media for officials’ assistance and awareness. As things are not changing, I thought there was no point in posting them,” he said. The exam section claimed to have hold online examinations of science, interdisciplinary studies and commerce on Saturday, achieving 98.15% success rate. On Sunday, re-exams online for the failed exam of October 9 would be held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/468-miss-online-exam-nu-rules-out-re-test/articleshow/78725592.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Regular studies, consistency key to success for Ludhiana NEET toppers||LUDHIANA: It was consistency and hard work that paved way to success for city NEET toppers Ayushi Gupta and Samridhi Manchanda. Speaking to TOI, Ayushi said, “Coaching definitely helped me a lot with the study material and great teachers, along with regular tests.” Ayushi, who has secured 695 marks out of 720 is a city topper, securing all India rank (AIR) 140 and 105 in general category in NEET. A student of Sidhu Memorial Public School, Sunam, she secured 97% in Class XII and had CGPA 10 in Class X from Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar. Dr Shiv Gupta, her father is a paediatrician and mother is a gynaecologist at Satyam hospital. She had also cleared KVPY in Class XI and NTSE in class X. Ayushi wants to become a surgeon and wants to get admission in Maulana Azad Medical College in New Delhi. Fond of watching television , Ayushi said, “On an average, I used to study for 5-6 hours during coaching time and for 10-12 hours before exams and refrained myself from social media. Last two years were very demanding and I discontinued all my hobbies to give full time to my studies.” Giving all her credit to her parents, brother and a coaching institute in Chandigarh. She said, “My mother inspired me to keep going on and motivated me whenever I face hardships. Her mother Dr Monika Gupta said, “We took care of her study environment and nutrition and motivated her at every stage to keep working hard despite frequent failures.” Sharing a tip with the students who will appear for NEET, she said, “One should never study with stress but instead make studies fun. Besides, remaining calm during preparations and exams should be the most important thing. Practising previous years NEET and JEE papers were also quite helpful as well. Lastly, one should revise everything regularly by stressing on important and difficult topics.” Samridhi Manchanda (AIR 262) Samridhi Manchanda, who came second in the city has secured 690 marks out of 720 and bagged AIR 262 and 181 in general category rank. Student of BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, she had bagged 97.8% in Class XII exams and was third district topper. Her father Manoj Kumar is a businessman and mother Teena Manchanda is a housewife. Samridhi is first in the family to pursue medical profession. Not only in studies but she has also bought laurels in the sports field. She is a national winner in chess. She loves to play Casio and paintings, wants to be a surgeon by getting admission in Maulana Azad Medical College, New Delhi. Her second preference is GMCH-32, Chandigarh. To clear NEET exam she had to give up on her social life. Samridhi said, “I used to study for 6-7 hours and daily took a 1-3 hour test and followed what teachers used to teach. I have my spirits inherited from my mother and father, who always taught me that you may have talent but you have to develop skills through hard work.” “Since nursery standard I had an aim to become a doctor,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/regular-studies-consitency-key-to-success-for-city-neet-toppers/articleshow/78722223.cms||Mehak Jain
October 18, 2020||Goa||Most temples in Panaji cancel Navratri celebrations||PANAJI: Heeding the appeal made by Corporation of the City of Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar, for a low-key Navratri celebration in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, most temples in Panaji have decided to cancel Navratri celebrations this year. In fact, the Gujarati Samaj, that organises yearly festivities at Panaji’s famed Mahalaxami Temple, has cancelled their programme this year. “Those who want to have the dandiya/garba programme must do so under the guidelines issued by the central government. The number of participants must be limited and there must be no crowding. Wearing of masks and social distancing norms must be followed,” Madkaikar said. “In this situation we must understand the need to keep celebrations low key. We will celebrate in a big way next year.” Chief of oncology at Manipal Hospital, Dona Paula, and past president of IMA Dr Shekhar Salkar, too, advised people, especially the elderly, not to venture out of their homes. Further, he warned that carelessness could lead to rise in the number of cases. “If we control ourselves and take precautions for another one-and-a-half-month, we will beat Covid,” he said. Highlighting the importance of ‘control’, he said, “It is not necessary to go to the temple to worship, the local bhat and Mahajan will take of the rituals. There’s no need to put more pressure on God. We can worship from our homes. Let’s take care for one year so that we can enjoy Chaturthi, Dusshera, Navratri and Diwali celebrations in a big way next year,” he said. “Help us demolish this Covid-19 demon. Stay inside unless necessary for another month or so. Let’s keep ourselves and others alive to celebrate next year. This year we can wear clothes as per colour guidelines and satisfy ourselves. We can always worship gods from home,” Salkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-temples-in-panaji-cancel-navratri-celebrations/articleshow/78726499.cms||Rajtilak Naik
October 18, 2020||Varanasi||Cops throw security cordon around court to foil surrender||Varanasi: The main accused of Ballia firing case Dhirendra Singh continued to dodge police on Saturday too and further kept cops on their toes by filing a surrender application in the local court. Police threw a security blanket around the court to foil the surrender bid after a close associate of Dhirendra moved a plea before the district court in Ballia for his surrender. SP Ballia Devendra Nath admitted heavy police force was deployed in and around the district court compound to foil the surrender bid. “On Friday late night, one more accused, a cousin of Dhirendra, was arrested. So far, seven accused, including two named, who are cousin brothers of Dhirendra, have been arrested. I announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 while DIG Azamgarh range announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on Dhirendra. Massive raids are being carried out to arrest Dhirendra,” the SP said. Moreover, BJP MLA from Bairia Surendra Singh accused officials of local administration and police of initiating one-sided action and keeping chief minister Yogi Adityanath misinformed. The Bairia MLA went to the district hospital to meet the injured family members of Dhirendra undergoing treatment and teared up in front of the media and people. Accusing administration and police officials of being biased against Dhirendra and his family, the MLA said, “Even medical examination of injured family members of Dhirendra has not been conducted even though they are admitted in hospital after suffering injuries in the attack by rivals. The rivals of Dhirendra indulged in fighting and opened fire, but the officials have misinformed the CM and are taking one-sided action.” “I am not asking them to spare Dhirendra, but his rivals should also be booked for their crime,” he added. A group of ex-servicemen also came in support of Dhirendra and staged a demonstration under the banner of Purva-Sainik (ex-serviceman) Sangathan demanding FIR against his rivals led by Durjanpur village head Krishna Yadav. Sangathan state in-charge Ramesh Singh said Yadav and his supporters had started fighting and opened fire in a planned way but the administration targeted only Dhirendra, who is an ex-serviceman. They threatened to gherao the Revati police station and intensify their stir if FIR is not lodged against Dhirendra’s rivals. The SP, however, made it very clear that there is no question of lodging any FIR against the family of the firing incident victim Jaiprakash Pal. Dhirendra had opened fire with his licensed revolver killing Jaiprakash Pal and escaped even after cops had caught him at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-throw-security-cordon-around-court-to-foil-surrender/articleshow/78724359.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man accused of raping, threatening co-worker held||Thiruvananthapuram: Vithura police on Saturday arrested a 32-year-old man on charges of raping his co-worker and threatening her. The accused, Prince Mohan of B Division, Bonacaud, has been working as a driver at Vithura Jersey Farm. He is accused of repeatedly raping a 35-year-old woman working in the same jersey farm. She is a married woman with children. Police said the woman in her complaint alleged that the accused even impregnated her and forced her to abort the baby. It was on April 29, the accused raped her for the first time. She was returning home after work and the accused grabbed her and forcefully took her to his private farm nearby and raped her. He also captured her images during the rape and then continued to rape her several times by threatening her using those images. He also extorted a sum of Rs 1 lakh from her for not publishing the images on social media. When the accused still continued to mentally and physically abuse her, she decided to inform the matter to police. A police team led by Vithura station house officer inspector S Sreejith and sub-inspector S L Sudheesh arrested the accused after a preliminary investigation. Police said the accused was someone with a criminal tendency. He was an accused in around 10 cases registered at Vithura police station. These included alleged theft of Rs 2 lakh worth machinery from a tea factory in Bonacaud estate and causing hurt cases. He is also an accused in the case pertaining to assault of forest officials during last year’s Bonacaud Kurishumala ‘Way of the Cross’ pilgrimage. Following a high court order, the forest officials had banned the entry of pilgrims into the forest land on Karichattimala, popularly known as Bonacaud Kurishumala. Then, many believers had barged into the restricted zone, assaulting forest officials and police. Prince was one among them. Following the arrest, Prince was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-accused-of-raping-threatening-co-worker-held/articleshow/78725614.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Warli art depicts apparel supply chain in Tirupur college||Coimbatore: A wall painting in the Warli style made by students of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur depicts the apparel supply chain, in which Tirupur plays a major role.The painting depicts the chain right from cotton cultivation, converting it into fibre, yarn, fabric, knitting process and garments. This is followed by quality checking, bundling, packing, exporting from Cochin and Tuticorin ports, goods clearance, buyer plan and product allotment, and ends with a fashion show in Paris. Warli style of painting is the trademark of the Warli community in Maharashtra and surrounding areas. “We have depicted the entire supply chain in the painting. As Warli painting is basically a storytelling art form, we have imagined the story of the fashion industry in Warli style,” said assistant professor Boopathy Vijay.While Warli paintings are made on a mud base with white figures painted using rice powder, Boopathy said the students used maroon emulsion and acrylic white paint for durability. “The painting has been done on a 350sqft wall. We sketched several ideas for the concept on paper and finally arrived at this one,” he told TOI.While Warli painters use stencils for drawing the figures, the students made freehand sketches, said R Sanjay Kumar, a IInd year Costume Design and Fashion student, who, along with M Vasanth Kumar a IInd year Apparel Fashion Designing student, did the painting. S Sabariz, P Manish, G Prakash, and A Kavin — all IIIrd year students, were involved in preparation and background work. They worked for a whole month to complete the painting.The students are planning to bring in all styles of art on the campus walls, Boopathy said. They had done an abstract painting, a graffiti painting and caricature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/warli-art-depicts-apparel-supply-chain-in-tirupur-college/articleshow/78724538.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||CM pledges Mission Shakti to Balrampur dalit rape victim||Lucknow: Launching Mission Shakti from Balrampur on Saturday, a six-month programme to create awareness on women’s security, dignity and empowerment, chief minister Yogi Adityanath dedicated the mega programme to the Balrampur rape victim, a young Dalit girl who died before reaching hospital. Paying homage to the girl, the chief minister said, Operation Shakti would be launched simultaneously to counsel notorious and criminal elements. “If they do not change their ways, they will be ostracised and their photographs will be put up at road crossings,” the chief minister said. The programme, which was launched while the state grapples with multiple cases of crime against women, seeks to create awareness on security and dignity of women. “The state government will ensure dignity and safety of each woman and each girl child and is committed to their empowerment. Those who hurt the dignity of women or harm them will have no place in Uttar Pradesh. They are a blot on society and will be dealt with strictly,” the CM said. Mission Shakti was launched on Saturday, the first day of Navaratra, dedicated to Goddess Durga. The CM enforced the religious link, saying women were a symbol of Shakti, epitomised by Durga. In the ‘sanatan’ tradition, women have been traditionally worshipped, he said, adding the new generation should become a channel for ‘sanatan’ tradition, which epitomises women’s safety and self-reliance. Mission Shakti is scheduled to conclude on first day of Basant Navaratra in April 2021. “Mission Shakti is a step to teach people on women’s dignity. Respect for women should start from home. There should be no differentiation between a girl and a boy and societal ills like foeticide and child marriage should be condemned in public,” he said. The CM spoke about various schemes launched by the state and central governments for women and girl child, including Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, CM Sumangala Yojana, CM Community Wedding Programme. He said, organisations and people who work for women’s rights will be honoured and women help desks will be set up in all police stations and tehsils. And fast-track courts will also be set up as per need. The CM blasted the Opposition, saying for years they only believed in divide and rule and had done nothing for UP’s development. Without naming a party, he told people to recognise those pushing the enemy country’s agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-pledges-mission-shakti-to-balrampur-dalit-rape-victim/articleshow/78726880.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Court allows father to visit minor son||PANAJI: A Mapusa court has permitted a Goan father to visit his son for four hours in Maharashtra, overruling objection filed by the mother that he may infect the child staying with her with coronavirus during the pandemic. The wife is staying separately at her maternal house due to marital discord with the husband. The mother suggested to the court to provide him visitation right via “electronic media” instead of physical visit. She relied on a Supreme Court judgment (Tanuj Dhawan case) which suggested electronic contact instead of physical visit when children are unable to interact with their parents during lockdown even though they have visitation rights. The mother also contended that there may be untoward incidents at the time of visitation which would not be in the child’s interest. While allowing the father to visit son by travelling in his own vehicle, Judge Shilpa S Pandit observed, “Order was passed by the apex court on April 30, 2020 when there was national lockdown for the entire country. However, the situation at present is not of national lockdown.” The court held that the application before this court is not for visitation rights of the child, but is limited to a father wanting to visit the child on his ninth birthday. That being so, with the precautions prescribed by the government, the applicant can be permitted to visit the child on his birthday for the limited duration sought between 12.30pm to 4.30pm,” the judge said. During the hearing of the case, the father said that every year, the birthday of the minor child was celebrated with pomp and gaiety. It is only this year that on account of marital discord the child would be celebrating his ninth birthday at his wife’s maternal house. He sought permission to visit in the interest of the child. The court directed the parents to ensure that no untoward situation is created during the visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-allows-father-to-visit-minor-son/articleshow/78726496.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Agra||51 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 51 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday, taking the district tally to 6,678. Of these, 90.5% have been declared "cured and discharged". And the number of active cases in the district have reduced from 514 on Friday, to 497 on Saturday. Moreover, a 78-year-old man died during treatment at a private hospital. The resident of Sikandra locality was suffering from bilateral pneumonitis, hypertension and had respiratory failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 136 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 6,045 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/51-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78724510.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to permit realtors buy agricultural land for affordable housing||AHMEDABAD: Even as the real estate developers are battling the Covid-19 induced demand slowdown, the realty sector on Saturday received a booster dose with Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani making a slew of announcements. Permission to purchase agricultural land for affordable housingReal estate developers will now be allowed to purchase agricultural land for affordable housing under Section 63AAA of the Gujarat Tenancy Act. The section allows purchase of agricultural land for bona fide industrial purpose. “To ensure availability of land for affordable housing and provide more affordable homes to the people, the state government will permit purchase of agricultural land for affordable housing under the Section 63AAA,” Rupani said while inaugurating the virtual property show of GIHED-CREDAI. “With this, a developer will be able to buy agricultural land in the name of his company and the process to convert land into non-agricultural land can be initiated after the acquisition. This will reduce overall project cost and ensure faster execution of realty projects,” said Ashish Patel, president, CREDAI-Gujarat. Carpet area for affordable housing projects raisedThe chief minister also announced raising the carpet area limit for affordable housing units from current 80 square metre to 90 square metre. At present, a housing unit with a carpet area of up to 80 square metre, as defined under realty law RERA — falls under the affordable housing category. With the raising of the threshold, housing units with 90 square metre. will be included in affordable housing. Developers say the increase in carpet area will result in consumers getting spacious and bigger houses under affordable housing. Interest relief on chargeable FSIThe state government will also provide interest relief on payment of chargeable FSI (floor price index). The developers have to pay charges for additional FSI above the permissible base FSI. An interest is charged if the amount is paid in instalments. “We are considering providing interest relief on payment of chargeable FSI and the benefit will be offered to the developers,” Rupani added. The state government will also bring a uniform policy with regard to chargeable FSI. According to realtors, this will reduce project cost and speed up project launches. Premium on land in non-TP areasThe state government is also considering the demand of real estate developers that the premium on new tenure land be levied only after the mandatory deduction of land in non-town planning (non-TP) areas. “We will deliberate on this demand in consultation with the revenue department so that developers do not have to pay more premium than required,” Rupani added. According to CREDAI-Gujarat, the government has also decided to remove the floor height restriction of 3.6 metres. Same day approval to low-rise building plansStating that steps are being taken to further simplify the building plan approval process under online development permission system (ODPS), the chief minister added the government is working towards granting building plan approvals to low-rise buildings on the same day. “And this will not be a provisional but a final approval,” Rupani added. The announcement in this regard is likely to be made in the next eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-to-permit-realtors-buy-agri-land-for-affordable-housing/articleshow/78726885.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Day one of Navratras saw more crowd than allowed||PANCHKULA: On the first day of Ashwin Navratra on Saturday, between Shree Mata Mansa Devi temple and Kali Mata temple, Rs 23.79 lakh was collected as donation from 20,596 devotees. And for the first time in its history, Shree Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board (SMMDSB) received no foreign currency as donation. The celebrations also flouted many Covid-19 norms, especially the social distancing. Devotees were found standing in long queues without maintaining social distancing. However, no one was allowed to enter the temple without masks by the security guards and the police posted at the temple. The officials of district administration and SMMDSB were also found advising devotees to avoid crowding in and around temple complex. According to the SMMDSB officials, Mata Mansa Devi temple received Rs 18.54 lakh from 16,106 devotees and Kali Mata temple received Rs 5.25 lakh as donation from 4,490 devotees. Besides this, Mata Mansa Devi temple received one gold nugget and 17 silver nuggets while Kali Mata temple received four gold and 44 silver nuggets. Online prashad, which was introduced for the first time, was sold for Rs 37,500 at Mata Mansa Devi temple and of Rs 2,400 at Kali Mata temple. To contain the spread of Covid-19, SMMDSB has decided to 11,000 tokens for offering prayers at the temple through their website www.mansadevi.org.in on first come first serve basis. But Mansa Devi received 16,016 devotees on its first day, exceeding the number fixed by the administration. Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta attended a hawan held to put an end to coronavirus at Mata Mansa Devi temple. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur teams were posted at both the temples for random sampling through rapid antigen test. “Taking RT-PCR samples of all devotees is a time-consuming process. So, we are doing random rapid antigen testing during the mela,” added the CMO. The priests and security guards will be tested regularly and their RT-PCR samples will be taken during the Navratras as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-one-of-navratras-saw-more-crowd-than-allowed/articleshow/78726894.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Congress MLA, councillors meet MC commissioner over pending works||LUDHIANA: The Congress MLA from north constituency, Rakesh Pandey, conducted a meeting with MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal about pending development works in various wards of the constituency on Saturday at the civic body’d zone D office. Congress councillors Gurpreet Singh and Money Grewal also accompanied the MLA. The major complaint was about pending LED streetlight work and road work in the wards under the constituency. The councilors claimed that at least 25% streetlights were yet to be replaced with LED ones in the constituency because the MC had not cleared the payment of Tata company MLA Pandey asked the commissioner to get the work done as soon as possible as people were suffering a lot. He asked about the payment to contractors because most of them were not starting the work by citing the reason that they did not get payments. The MLA had been reportedly irked over the pending works in the wards for the past so many months. He said that works were either at the tender stage or these had been left in between, so it was necessary to discuss things in detail, but the commissioner was busy with some emergency, so they could not discuss for long. He said the commissioner had assured them of resolving the issues as soon as possible and they would conduct one detailed meeting in the coming days. Meanwhile, Money Grewal said the major problem was of streetlights as Tata company did not complete the work in the wards. He said the commissioner claimed that payments were going to be released shortly and work would begin. Private company to develop green belts along Buddha Nullah MLA Pandey said that he got a proposal from a private company to develop the green belts and parks around Buddha Nullah, so he got the contract between the company and MC finalised on Saturday. He said in the coming days company would start work around the drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-mla-councillors-meet-mc-commissioner-over-pending-works/articleshow/78722233.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||If AQI turns severe, odd-even may return in Delhi||NEW DELHI: This winter, the air quality in Delhi started to deteriorate before the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) could kick in, raising fear that the city might be staring at a pollution crisis. If Air Quality Index goes above 400 and remains in the “severe” category for over 48 hours, the capital may see the return of the odd-even road rationing scheme. Track the pollution level in your cityA government official said though regular meetings were taking place on anti-pollution measures, there had been no specific discussion on the odd-even scheme as yet. “We have successfully implemented the road rationing scheme in the past, and with the standard operating procedures in place, it will take about two days to implement it,” the official added. Apart from major public awareness campaigns, another important aspect of the scheme was enforcement of rules. While the mechanism for that was in place, the transport department was better “armed” this season. In August, the transport department’s enforcement wing got 30 new vehicles. Sources said they had also got 120 state-of-the-art handheld e-challan devices, which were linked to the centralised Vahan 4 software. Over 60 such devices were already available with the department. Now, it would be possible for almost all the teams deployed on road to get a a device to check violations. In all, 400 teams were deployed during the last odd-even scheme in two shifts. Of the 200 teams in each shift, 60 were transport department personnel and 140 belonged to Delhi Transport Corporation headed by traffic inspectors and assistant traffic inspectors. The amended Motor Vehicles Act had hiked the fine for violating odd-even rules to Rs 20,000. Watch Delhi: Scientists, doctors raise alarm as air quality remain poor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/if-aqi-turns-severe-odd-even-may-return/articleshow/78725619.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||29 deaths, lowest in Vidarbha since Aug 15||NAGPUR: Vidarbha reported 29 Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, its lowest since August 15. Nagpur district saw 13 deaths during the day, the least it has recorded in the last 77 days. Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Buldhana — three of the worst-affected districts — reported no deaths. On the other hand, Nagpur city recorded 4 deaths, its lowest in last 83 days. The region reported 1,368 new cases while 1,870 patients recovered. Of the total 1,76,144 cases, 1,54,399 have recovered. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is now 87.65%, almost equal to the national average of 87.8%. The case fatality rate, however, is still at 2.71% which is expected to improve if the death toll continues to reduce in the next few days. Washim: The district reported 52 new cases while 25 patients recovered on Saturday. Washim’s caseload has reached 5,292. These include 4,540 patients who have recovered and 113 deaths. Four deaths were added to the district’s tally after reconciliation for the second day in a row. Now, total 639 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The authorities received 535 samples of which 121 tested positive taking the district’s caseload to 8,424. For the second day in a row, Buldhana reported more than 100 cases. On the other hand, 42 patients got discharge taking the number to 7,865. No death was reported for the third consecutive day. Buldhana’s death toll is 113. Total 446 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: A 24-year-old youth from Chamorshi succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday, the youngest deceased in the district. A 60-year-old man from Gadchiroli city also died on Saturday, taking the death toll of the district to 36. Gadchiroli reported 63 new cases while 148 patients recovered during the day. The district now has 4,432 cases, including 3,572 recoveries, 36 deaths and 824 patients under treatment. Bhandara: With record 228 patients getting discharge in a single day, total 6,080 patients have recovered till date in the district. After recording more than 100 cases on Friday, Bhandara’s new cases came down to 79. Two deaths were reported taking the toll of the district to 187. Now, 1,108 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 112 new cases, a 100+ spike for the 5th consecutive day. A 62-year-old man died during treatment taking the toll to 111. Total 38 patients recovered during the day. Now, the number of recovered patients is 7,549. Gondia’s recovery rate is 87.59%, while the case fatality rate is 1.57%. Total 849 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district reported 66 new patients and 8 recoveries on Saturday. Akola also reported death of a 65-year-old man during treatment. The district now has 8,037 cases, 7,308 recoveries, 264 deaths and 465 patients under treatment. Wardha: Four deaths and 45 positive patients were reported on Saturday with the caseload touching 5,755. Meanwhile, 224 were discharged after recovery and total recovered are 4,491. A 66-year-old man from Wardha, a 23-year-old man from Deoli, a 30-year-old woman from Samudrapur and a 36-year-old man from Selu died, taking the toll to 182. The cases were from Wardha (24), Karanja (8), Deoli (6), Hinganghat and Ashti (3 each) and Samudrapur (1). The active patients under treatment are 1082. Chandrapur: With discharge of 153 patients from hospitals, Chandrapur on Saturday crossed the landmark of 10,000 recoveries and the total of cured patients has reached to 10,036. While 145 new cases were detected, there was no death reported during the day. Covid total now stands at 13,227 and toll remains the same at 197. There are now 2994 active patients under treatment. Amravati: Two fatalities and a spike of 109 cases took the district’s death toll to 349 and caseload to 15,418 on Saturday. The civil surgeon’s office reported that 169 patients went home after recovey. Now, 13,871 have recovered in the district. There are 1,198 active cases in the district, including 560 under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded no death on Saturday. In the last 24 hours, 425 test reports have been received of which 36 were found positive. The caseload of the district has reached 9,374 of which 8,444 patients have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/29-deaths-lowest-in-vid-since-aug-15/articleshow/78725612.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||IMD warns of heavy rains for 5 more days||Hyderabad: One person died after Saturday’s fresh bout of rain, which came as a blow to the city even as many areas were just limping back to normalcy after a week of torrential rains. During the rains, a labourer returning home from work was electrocuted in Old Malakpet. The deceased, identified as 55-year-old Somaiah, accidentally touched an electric pole. Many people were stuck as the drizzle in the afternoon gave way to heavy rain in the evening. The India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad, had earlier assured that the rain was ‘light to moderate’ in nature, but many residents feared the worst. The IMD issued a heavy rain alert with thunderstorms accompanied by lightning for five days up till Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, IMD Hyderabad director in-charge K Nagaratna said the rain on Saturday was “light to moderate with intense spells in some places”. She said this was due to “thunderstorm activity and formation of cumulonimbus clouds over the state.” Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist, private weather forecasting agency Skymet, said, “Over the next two days there would be an increase in rainfall activity with a low pressure area also developing over the Bengal of Bengal.” However, he said this would not be as severe as the rains experienced over the week. The city recorded rainfall of 44.5mm till 10pm, as per Telangana State Development Planning Society. The highest rainfall in GHMC was recorded at Uppal in Bandlaguda (153mm), Saroornagar at Rock Town Colony (142mm), Gandipet at GHMC office (133mm). As the rain continued into the night, residents began to worry about inundation again. Fresh flooding was noticed in several places including RTC crossroads, Mint Compound, Domalguda and Gachibowli. “While the main roads were relatively unaffected in my area, the gullies were knee-deep in water,” said Ratnakar Rao, Ashoknagar resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imd-warns-of-heavy-rains-for-5-more-days/articleshow/78726501.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Nigerian gang duping suitors on matrimonial sites busted||Lucknow: A Delhi-based Nigerian gang, which duped women on matrimonial sites by posing as doctors and engineers was busted by UP Special Task Force on Saturday. The gang members — Michael Chiyagoziyama, Francis Imeka, Nelson Chiyagoziyama and Patrick Chakodi — were nabbed from Govindpuri area of south Delhi. Fifty ATM cards, Nigerian currency, expired visas, pen drives, laptops and cheque books were seized from them. The task force got a tipoff while cracking a case of a Hardoi woman, who was duped of Rs 7.5 lakh while scouting for a match on a matrimonial website in May. “The teacher came across a man with the name, Deepak Lee of United Kingdom. On May 18, Lee told her that a gift parcel was dispatched to India and sent an international tracking number of the courier services,” said police. The woman was told the parcel was stuck for customs clearance at Delhi airport. Later, she received a call from a woman posing as a customs officer, who demanded Rs 7.5 lakh. She was told to send the money to a bank account in Vellore, STF said. She was then asked to pay Rs 7.37 lakh as conversion charges and IT department clearance. She got suspicious and reported the matter to police. STF officials said, three other similar complaints were received from other cities in India. DySP Pramesh Shukla said, they found the account belonged to T S Ramesh, who owned a catering business and worked for a Ugandan man, Toni Davis. “Ramesh spilled the beans and he gave details about the four Nigerians who asked him to take the money to his account in leiu of commission. The four Nigerians confessed to the crime and said they worked for the Ugandan kingpin, Toni Davis,” said Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nigerian-gang-duping-suitors-on-matrimonial-sites-busted/articleshow/78726892.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Kushinagar’s Akansha Singh scores full marks in NEET||GORAKHPUR: Kushinagar’s Akansha Singh bagged the perfect 720/ 720 score in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020. However, owing to NEET’s tie-breaking policy, the 17-year-old missed the top rank in the country as topper Soyeb Aftab is a year older to her. Akansha, who made her home state proud, attributed her success to her family’s rocklike support and motivation by teachers. Her father Rajendra Pratap Rao took voluntary retirement from Indian Air Force to stay with her in Delhi for two years. Singh says no social media a/c helped her focus in studiesSpeaking to TOI over phone, Akansha said, “I never made a time table and studied one topic a day. My parents stood by me throughout this gruelling journey and boosted my morale,” she shared. She doesn’t have any social media account and said it helped her to focus. Akansha, who wants to be a neurosurgeon and make healthcare affordable, would commute 70km daily to Gorakhpur for coaching classes before going to Delhi. Inspired by PM Narendra Modi, she wishes to serve the people of her village. A resident of Abhnayakpur village of Kasya block, she now wants to meet CM Yogi Adityanath. “I am inspired by PM Modi as he also belongs to a small town and has achieved great success in life. I also look up to CM Yogi, and if given a chance, I would like to meet him someday,” she said. Akansha did her high school from Kushinagar and joined a coaching in Gorakhpur for NEET preparation. Akansha’s mother Ruchi Singh, a government school teacher, said, “We saw the result around 8pm on Friday. Although I was sure that she would be a position holder, I had no idea she would score full marks. My happiness knew no bounds when I saw that she scored 720 out of 720 marks. Due to NEET’s tie-breaking policy, she stood second, as the boy who scored the same marks is older to her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kushinagars-akansha-singh-scores-full-marks-in-neet/articleshow/78724382.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Use of mask’ programme launched in Ludhiana to find reasons for not wearing it||LUDHIANA: As the number of Covid-19 cases as well as fatalities have reduced significantly in the city, residents can now be seen reluctant in wearing masks or are wearing it improperly. Therefore, the administration has come up with a joint research programme of police and doctors, ‘Use of Mask’, which was launched by the administration in the city on Saturday. Under this programme, the cops will make people fill the forms. Under this survey the police administration and doctors will analyse why people are not wearing the masks. Additional deputy commissioner of police Rupinder Kaur Sra, also the nodal officer for Covid-19 here, said that this survey would cover various aspects to know the actual reason why people don’t wear masks. The survey will also include whether people without masks are literate or illiterate, male or female, are of what age, of what occupation, belong to urban or rural areas, are natives or migrants, etc. Besides, efforts will be made to try and find out if the cost of the mask is the reason for not wearing it, is or is it uncomfortable, or they think that it is not useful. Further, they will also be asked if they feel wearing a mask can prevent Covid-19 spread, and according to them which precaution is most important for its prevention. “This form has been prepared by the doctors of DMC hospital in three languages, Hindi, English and Punjabi. We have set a target to get this form filled by at least 7,000 people. The interns of DMCH will be getting these filled at religious places and markets, besides cops are giving these forms to the traffic wing. The traffic cops at different chowks will make people fill the form. Further, we will also involve restaurants and malls for this job,” added ADCP Sra. She added the person filling the form will also be given a goodies bag sponsored by a company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/use-of-mask-prog-launched-to-find-reasons-for-not-wearing-it/articleshow/78722227.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 18, 2020||Agra||Encroachers occupy land of 106 ponds in Agra district||AGRA: Following orders of the state government, Agra district administration has compiled a list of 106 ponds which have been encroached upon. The ponds were either dry or were filled up by encroachers. The list, prepared on the basis of revenue records, has been forwarded to sub-divisional magistrates and municipal corporation for removal of encroachments on them. The maximum number of encroachments is in the city area. Land of 44 ponds in the Sadar sub-division which covers Agra city has been encroached upon. In Bah block, land of 29 ponds, 29 in Khergarh, three in Kirawali and one in Etamdpur have been illegally occupied. Additional district magistrate (finance and revenue) Yogendra Kumar said, “According to the land revenue records, there are 3,763 ponds in Agra district. Out of these, land of 106 ponds has been illegally occupied. In some places, permanent structures have been made. SDMs and civic body administration have been directed to free the ponds from the squatters."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/encroachers-occupy-land-of-106-ponds-in-agra-district/articleshow/78724539.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||3 smuggle 1.5kg ganja from Kerala, arrested||Coimbatore: Three people, one of them a home guard, have been arrested for smuggling ganja to the district from neighbouring Kerala on Friday evening. Police have seized the truck and 1.5kg contraband from them. The Madukkarai police identified the accused as M Muneer, of Malapuram in Kerala, A Anas, 25, of Kozhikode in Kerala, and M Sherif, 37, a home guard from Madukkarai. Police inspector Murugesan said the trio were nabbed during a vehicle check on Palathurai-Thirumalayampalayam Road near Palathurai. “They were heading to the city. A team led by sub-inspector Thirumalaisamy stopped them and found the marijuana in the truck during the vehicle check,” the officer said. The three were subsequently arrested and taken to Madukkarai police station. During inquiry, Muneer said he used to bring marijuana in his truck to supply to his friends in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-smuggle-1-5kg-ganja-from-kerala-arrested/articleshow/78724543.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Kovai Inc reiterates need for master plan||Coimbatore: Industrialists in the district have reiterated their demand for a master plan to earmark space for industrial development. When plots earmarked for industrial units in rural areas turn out to be agricultural land or unclassified land, they have to go through land conversion process, which is long-drawn and filled with hassles, industrialists say. “Only if we buy land in outer areas, we would get subsidy. But those lands are mostly agriculture lands or unclassified lands. We then have to reclassify it for industrial use with authorities, before we can start construction. As it takes at least six months, most of the industrialists get fed up and abandon projects,” said S Surulivel, president of the Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa). It has been around 20 years since a master plan was made for the district, Surulivel said. J James, district president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (Tact), agreed. “We have been seeking a cluster for micro and small industrial units in the city’s outer areas for more than 10 years. The project would have taken of if there was a master plan,” he said. Authorities have finalised a master plan and sent it to the state government through the directorate of town and country planning, said Coimbatore collector K Rajamani. “They suggested a couple of corrections and we carried them out. It is under process,” he told TOI. “The land conversion process happens in three ways. If the land is under planning area, the conversion would happen through a committee headed by the collector, which would then be issued as a government order through DTCP. If it is under non-planning area and is dryland, DTCP would clear it after obtaining a no-objection certificate from the joint director of agriculture. If it is wetland, again, the proposal would come to the collector, who would process it.” “We have been conducting regular meetings to clear land conversions. We hold meetings once in 15 days to clear pending approvals. If stakeholders feel the process is cumbersome, they can approach me and give their inputs to make it easier and effective,” Rajamani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kovai-inc-reiterates-need-for-master-plan/articleshow/78724553.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Fresh corona cases dip below 400 in south TN||Madurai/Trichy: Though the total Covid-19 positive cases in the southern districts crossed 1.2 lakh on Saturday, the number of fresh cases in the 10 southern districts has come down below 400 in a day, clearly indicating a decline in fresh cases in the region. The last time the figures were less than 400 in a day was in the third week of June. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 418 fresh cases, taking its overall tally to 61,530, and two deaths. The total toll far in the region has touched 811 while the number of active cases was 3,557. It has taken 19 days in the southern districts to add the 10,000 cases after crossing 1.1 lakh cases on September 28. This is a marginal dip from 16 days taken to cross the previous 10,000 cases after recording 1 lakh cases on September 12. A total of 386 Covid-19 cases and five deaths were reported in the southern region on Saturday. But for Madurai (76) and Kanyakumari (65) the eight other districts in the region recorded less than 50 fresh cases. Tenkasi (12) recorded the least number of cases, followed by Ramanathapuram (14), Sivagangai (27), Theni (29), Virudhunagar (33), Dindigul (35), Tirunelveli (47) and Tuticorin (48). Deaths include two in Madurai and one each in Theni, Sivagangai and Tenkasi. Active cases continued to decline with the numbers coming down to 4,031 on Saturday. Six districts have less than 500 active cases with three districts continuing to maintain less than 200 cases. Madurai (787) has the highest number of active cases and Sivaganga (149) the lowest. Thanjavur district which was reported below hundred for the last two days after few weeks, recorded 101 new positive cases. The total count of cases in the district was 14,389 while 13,540 patients who turned negative have been discharged. Tiruvarur recorded 87 fresh positive cases with total count at 8,921. The district reported one death, while Trichy district reported 67 fresh cases talking its total count to 11,788. Nagapattinam district witnessed 56 fresh cases taking the tally to 6,185 while Pudukottai recorded 48 cases, while it was 36 in Karur district. Ariyalur recorded 15 cases and Perambalur eight on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-corona-cases-dip-below-400-in-south-tn/articleshow/78726893.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Supply sufficient water, panchayat heads tell TWAD||Coimbatore: The heads of five village panchayats in Sultanpet panchayat union in the district have petitioned the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) seeking sufficient drinking water supply and warned to stage a protest if the board failed to meet their demand. They said the TWAD has been supplying water to Pappampatti, Pachapalayam, Kallapalayam, Bogampatti and Edayarpalayam panchayats based on the 1996 population, which has increased by at least four times now. Instead of increasing the quantity of water, they have reduced it by half in the recent times, the panchayat presidents said. Manoranjitham Saravanakumar, president of Bogampatti panchayat, said, “The drinking water is stored in the overhead tank at Pappampatti, from where it is supplied to the other four panchayats. As tank is not receiving sufficient water, the supply has become irregular in our panchayat, which is at the tail end.” She said while the residents were using bore water for domestic purposes, they were forced to buy drinking water at times or walk at least 2km to collect the water. P Ganeshan, president of Kallapalayam panchayat, said they were getting only 30,000 to 40,000 litres water against the requirement of one lakh litre per supply cycle. “We have been facing water shortage for the past four to five months and it has become severe in the past one week. Luckily, borewell water is available now. Otherwise, we would have ended up buying water.” Pointing out that the population had increased in the past two to three years, Subbulakshmi Arumugam, president of Edayarpalayam panchayat, said the water supply quantity was cut at a time when they were already struggling to provide water to the newly come houses in the area. “It is more than enough if they could supply sufficient quantity of water once in a week.” She said they had made several representations seeking enough water supply, but to no avail. When contacted, TWAD officials assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/supply-sufficient-water-panchayat-heads-tell-twad/articleshow/78724558.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 18, 2020||Madurai||DVAC seizes Rs 32K unaccounted money from Madurai DSWO||Madurai: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized Rs 32,000 unaccounted money from the district social welfare office at K K Nagar in Madurai on Friday. Officials from the department were being inquired.A DVAC source said district social welfare officer Shanthi convened a meeting with extension officers in the district on Friday. The DVAC received information that a share of bribe received by the officials for government welfare measures like free distribution of sewing machines, widow pensions, was given to higher officials in the department. A team reached the office on Saturday evening and conducted a surprise raid. The team seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs 4,000 from superintendent Vasuki and Rs 4,500 from Thangam, an extension officer. Two bundles of cash - Rs 11, 900 and Rs 11, 530 - were found on the same premises. DVAC official said district welfare officials may have thrown them outside to escape from being caught red-handed. An inquiry was conducted with various officials from the department, including Shanthi.“Officials from the department were found to have collected money from beneficiaries through low-lever workers for issuing welfare measures. All the officials from driver to DSWO were quizzed. An FIR would be registered shortly and legal action initiated,” said a DVAC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dvac-seizes-rs-32k-unaccounted-money-from-madurai-dswo/articleshow/78726896.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur Metro: 100 U-girders erected under priority corridor stretch||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) accomplished another milestone on Saturday when it erected 99th and 100th U-Girders under the priority corridor stretch of the Kanpur metro project (IIT-Kanpur to Motijheel). UPMRC claimed that strategic time management led to completion of this task in the ongoing civil construction of the Kanpur Metro’s nine kilometer long priority corridor. A total of 638 U-girders are to be placed at the viaduct of the priority corridor. The erection work had commenced on August 12 and in the time span of just 67 days, UPMRC managed to complete erection of 100 U-Girders, which according to the corporation is no less than an achievement. Recently, UP Metro had also completed erection of 100 double T-girders for constructing the base of concourse levels of the platforms and till now, the base of the concourse of both of IIT and Kalyanpur Metro stations has been prepared. 50 double T-girders were to be kept in the IIT Metro station and 52 in the Kalyanpur Metro station and this target has already been achieved, UPMRC stated. UPMRC’s managing director, Kumar Keshav congratulated the metro engineers and the team of the contractor and said, “100th U-girder erected in Kanpur Metro Priority Corridor today in a record time. Work progressing at fast pace. We will succeed with our determination and hard work.” The civil construction of the Kanpur Metro Project was inaugurated by CM Yogi Adityanath on November 15 last year and since then the construction works of the project are being executed. It is expected that Kanpur Metro would be on tracks between IITKanpur and Motijheel by December 2021 or January 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-metro-100-u-girders-erected-under-priority-corridor-stretch/articleshow/78724395.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Experts suggest vaccinations as flu season brings vector-borne diseases||HYDERABAD: With the monsoon hitting a high, a spurt in several viral as well as vector-borne diseases are expected and in view of the ongoing pandemic, experts suggest taking flu, pneumonia vaccine and other precautions to avoid the common diseases that happen during this time of the year. While water borne diseases like gastrointestinal and diarrhoeal cases are expected to see a spurt, most individual doctors are already seeing between 7-10 cases of these per week and the numbers might go up further. The cases at various urban public health centres (UPHCs) in the city meanwhile range between 20-30 per week. “There is a spurt in these cases for the last one month or so and now with flooding and water stagnation, it might go up further as water contamination might happen. We have seen over 100 cases, mostly children from slum areas suffering from diarrhoeal diseases. Not having access to clean drinking water is an important factor which is why we see a lot of cases coming from slums,” said a doctor at a UPHC in Banjara Hills. Experts, meanwhile suggest having a flu vaccine and pneumococcal vaccines. Sounding a word of caution against taking over-the-counter medicines and antibiotics for gastrointestinal infections, Dr Vinay Kumar, senior consultant (surgical gastroenterology) said, “With rains come gastro-intestinal infections like vomiting, diarrhoea and cold, cough, running nose and fever. Combination of any of these and Covid-19 may be a deadly combination. Therefore the influenza vaccine for everyone above 6 months of age and pneumococcal vaccine for everyone above 65 years of age and diabetics above 50 years old is advised.” Also, maintaining good hydration and nutrition is advised, while most doctors advise against fasting as it lowers immunity. “Heavy rains can contaminate drinking water. Contamination of drinking water leads to increased diarrheal diseases and increased incidence of acute viral hepatitis. It is important to drink filtered and preferably boiled and cooled water daily in this season and maintain good hydration,” said Dr Moka Praneet, gastroenterologist, Medicover Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-suggest-vaccinations-as-flu-season-brings-vector-borne-diseases/articleshow/78726515.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC spent Rs 5 crore on stray cattle in three years, yet no respite on roads||LUDHIANA: You may still encounter stray cattle on city roads despite the fact that the municipal corporation has already spent over Rs 5 crore on the upkeep and care of stray cattle in the past three years from cow cess funds. This fact has come to light through an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The civic body is collecting a large amount of money in the form of cow cess under various heads but as of now the city residents have not been able to get respite from the stray cattle menace. While replying to the query under the RTI Act, civic body officials claimed that cow cess was introduced in the city through a notification about its implementation on November 17, 2016, while it was again notified with certain modifications on June 19, 2017. However, in the first year there was no major income, but in the following years cow cess amount kept on increasing and it was from this amount only that the civic body officials also paid for the cow shed management, which was meant for keeping the stray cattle. And for this cow shed only the MC paid Rs 4.99 crore in three years. The information was given in response to RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal’s query, who had asked about the implementation of cow cess in the city and its recovery as well expenditure details from the officials. “The civic body has failed completely to resolve this menace and residents are forced to struggle on roads while driving,” he said. Sabharwal also pointed out that the MC also paid Rs 5 lakh compensation to one of the accident victims from cow cess amount in 2017-18 and if victims can get compensation from cow cess, then why not the civic body is paying it to others as well,” he said. However, when contacted, senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla admitted that there was a need of more cattle sheds where stray cows, bulls, horses and other animals could be given shelter. He said the common lands in villages should be identified for the purpose. He claimed that one cow shed of the MC was being constructed and they would start work on that project shortly. On the other hand, a resident of Haibowal, Harish Rawat said, “I am saddened to see the condition of stray cattle when they are seen eating garbage along with plastic carry bags and that further creates health issues for them. When the civic body is generating cow cess from people, then why not amount is spent on taking care of these stray cattle.” box: Cow cess collection details Year ---- cow cess collected 2015-16-- Nil 2016-17—Rs 29,12,988 2017-18—Rs 3,40,14,108 2018-19--- Rs 4,13,80,981 2019-20—Rs 4,19,49,545 Amount paid to private cow shed --- Rs 4.99 crore (2017-20) 2017-18— Rs 1,60,06,420 2018-19—Rs 1,96,17,545 2019-20—Rs 1,43,56,140 Expenditure on cattle shed-- Rs 6.75 lakh Expenditure on cattle catching van-- Rs 17.76 lakh Compensation paid to accident victim-- Rs 5 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-spent-5cr-on-stray-cattle-in-three-years-yet-no-respite-on-roads/articleshow/78722244.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Share of farm fires in Delhi’s PM2.5 particles at 19% on Saturday, highest this season||NEW DELHI: The share of PM2.5 pollutants from stubble burning in other states in Delhi’s air rose to 19% on Saturday, the highest so far this season, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences. Track the pollution level in your city The body identified 882 fire counts on Friday, up from Thursday’s 583, related to burning of harvest remains in the neighbouring states. The prevailing northwesterly wind is transporting the pollutants from Punjab and Haryana to Delhi. On Wednesday, the contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 concentration in Delhi’s air was only 1%, increasing to 6% on Thursday and 18% on Friday. In 2019, the highest proportion of farm fire emissions to the city pollution was 44% on a single day. Dipankar Saha, former head of Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory, explained, “The smoke and other pollutants released from stubble burning travel westward, but whenever there is a north-northwesterly wind, the pollutants reach Delhi and stagnate at the gateway of the Indo-Gangetic plains. The micro pollutants resulting from farm fires transform into secondary aerosol and increases PM2.5 and PM10 levels in Delhi.” Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said, “The wind has been northwesterly since Thursday and the pollutants from Punjab and Haryana are being transported to Delhi. And then because the winds have remained calm during the nights for the past few days, the pollutants have not dispersed.” Sumit Sharma, director (earth science and climate change division), The Energy Resources Institute, said that whenever there were meteorological unfavourable conditions for the capital, the pollutants generated by stubble burning got transmitted to Delhi. “It is an episodic thing that happens every year during this time of the year. However, we need to make long-term plans by focusing on both the in-situ and ex-situ management,” Sharma said. “We need to create a sustainable business model to collect, store and process waste into useful materials. Farmers should feel that the remnant of the harvest is not waste, but a resource for them.” Sharma added that as we moved deep into winter to December and January, the pollution would be higher due to local pollutant sources, including transport, industries and burning of biomass. Watch Delhi pollution: Farm fire share stares at 18% now, raises concern||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-19-farm-fire-share-in-citys-bad-air-touches-seasons-high/articleshow/78725624.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation constitutes teams to check illegal vendors during festive season||CHANDIGARH: With the festival season round the corner, not only the markets but also the enforcement department of the municipal corporation (MC), Chandigarh is buzzing with activity. Officials have been directed to keep an eye on the markets of the city to prevent encroaching by illegal vendors. The department has constituted teams who will be checking various sectors, villages and colonies. “The festival season usually witnesses chaos in the markets areas, parking areas and other non designated areas. Vendors try to sell sneakily, creating problems for the commuters and shoppers. Enforcement teams will be on extra vigil during the specific festival period,” an official said. Sources in the MC said the department has got the information that the vendors whose businesses were affected due to lockdown are hoping to make it up during the festival season. The MC is taking the help of the Chandigarh police to control the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-constitutes-teams-to-check-illegal-vendors-during-festive-season/articleshow/78726911.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Zero crime against women in my area should be every cop’s resolution: Guv||Lucknow: As many as 100 ‘pink patrol’ two-wheelers and 10 four-wheelers were flagged off by Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel under the Safe City Project from Raj Bhawan on Saturday. The project is funded under the ‘Nirbhaya Fund’ of the central government with the aim to make eight metro cities, including Lucknow, secure for women. Inaugurating the project, Patel also said that women police personnel will tour the entire city to give a sense of security and pride to women. The Safe City Project is a 180-day campaign under which all departments including the police will be centralized and work for women’s interests. The campaign will culminate in the April Navratra. The governor said that with crimes against women increasing, the responsibility of society towards women also increases. “As long as women are socially and economically dependent on others, they would be continuously harassed. Women have to be empowered and told of their rights,” she said. She also said that there are criminals with perverted tendencies who harass women for their satisfaction. “Girls are harassed while going to school. Police should stop such people before they commit crimes,” Patel said. Pointing out that women and girls are afraid of approaching the police, she said that police and other departments must meet schoolgirls, teachers and women’s groups and inform them of relevant schemes. Educational institutions must also discuss women’s rights, health, cleanliness, security, nutrition and self-reliance post-marriage. Addressing police, she said, “There should be no incident in your area; every cop has to take such a resolution.” Minister of state for women’s welfare (independent charge) Swati Singh said, “We have to erase the difference between son and daughter. We have to teach our sons to respect daughters to root out crimes against women.” Under the project, workshops will be held in all departments of the region to work and raise awareness for rights and respect of women, said the minister. UP DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said that an attempt will be made to create a fear-free environment by making people aware. “Uncovering the identity of abusers through Mission Shakti, installing women’s desks at stations, increasing public awareness through street plays are some steps being taken. Pink patrol vehicles will be active in other districts too,” he said. ADG women and child safety Neera Rawat added “The 100 two- wheelers and 10 four-wheels under pink patrol in city will be connected to UP 112. These vehicles are equipped with a first-aid kit, flashelight and other features. Women police personnel will deal with crimes against women.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zero-crime-against-women-in-my-area-should-be-every-cops-resolution-guv/articleshow/78726901.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Corporator rescues stranded man||Hyderabad: A video of GHMC corporator, S Swarna Raj, rescuing a person went viral on Saturday The TRS leader from Kapra ward and his aides jumped into the flood water and rescued the person. The person was seen stuck in the middle of a waterlogged stretch in Kapra in the fading light. The stretch was witnessing heavy water flow as well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corporator-rescues-stranded-man/articleshow/78726517.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kanpur||Dalit woman alleges gang-rape, accused absconding||Kanpur:A 22-year-old Dalit woman has alleged that she was gang-raped by two men on gunpoint on October 8 in a village in Kanpur Dehat district, police said on Saturday, adding that an FIR has been lodged against two persons and searches are underway to arrest them. The alleged incident had taken place while the woman was alone in her house on October 8 night, a police officer said quoting the FIR lodged by the woman on Saturday. The complainant is a resident of a village under Derapur police station area. “The woman stated that on October 8, she was alone in the house and attending daily chores, when at around 10 pm two men — Kamlesh and Dinesh — of Amauli Kurmiyan village barged into her house and after holding her gun point took turns to rape her. They thereafter threatened the woman of dire consequences on speaking about the incident to family members and fled. She disclosed about the incident to her kin on Saturday and subsequently lodged an FIR against the accused,” said in-charge Derapur police station Sameer Kumar Singh. Singh further said that the accused are on the run and a hunt has been launched to arrest them. “They have been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including gang rape and SC/ST Act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dalit-woman-alleges-gang-rape-accused-absconding/articleshow/78724416.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Bumpy Nava India road nightmare for motorists||Coimbatore: The road to Meena estate from Nava India signal is hardly motorable. For almost 1km stretch, the road is filled with gravel and sand, making travelling a nightmare. Vinothkumar, a vendor, said, “After electric poles and lamp posts were moved to the corner of the road, the city corporation had commenced the road widening work and laid wet mix three months ago. And they left the work at that stage. As vehicles ply on the road, dust envelops the entire area.” He said the condition of the road was far worse when the city corporation was carrying out the underground drainage work six months ago. Swetha, a commuter, said even pedestrians were keeping off the road now. “Because of the gravel, it is difficult to walk on the road. If you walk, you will end up hurting your sole or twisting your foot. The city corporation needs to fix the road soon.” The road had caved in at two places, where the bitumen road starts, about a week ago. To warn the commuters, the public have placed tree branches and some stones there. Pointing out that street lamps were not working, another commuter, Manoj, said, “Some motorists fall down there every day as the damaged part is not visible until they reach so close.” When contacted, a city corporation official said the road was damaged because of an underground water pipeline leakage, which they were trying to fix. “We will relay the road on the entire stretch within a few weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bumpy-nava-india-road-nightmare-for-motorists/articleshow/78724568.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Only 2 coal power plants switch to better fuel||NEW DELHI: Air in Delhi-NCR could see a significant improvement if the 11 coal-based thermal power plants operating within 300km of the capital were to switch to cleaner flue gas desulfurisation (FGD) technology. However, only six units at two thermal power plants have so far adopted the system, which considerably reduces sulfur dioxide emissions. With two deadlines to control emissions through the FGD installation having elapsed — the first was December 2017, the second the same month last year — the power plants have not been able to comply with the latest emission standards. While CPCB imposed a fine of Rs 18 lakh per month per non-compliant generation unit from January, experts believe that shutting down the thermal power plants that are “far behind” could be a start. Sunil Dahiya, analyst at Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, said while some plants have shown an intention to switch to cleaner technology, others are yet to invite bids for the installation of new technology even after three years. Track the pollution level in your cityEmissions from coal-based power plants include nitrates, mercury and secondary particulate matter, which is largely formed by sulfur compound emissions. A study has estimated that coal, fly ash and secondary particles generated by thermal power plants and industries in Delhi contribute to 35% of PM2.5 pollutants in winter and 41% in summer. “The damage caused by these thermal power plants over the last three years is huge. Those that still seem a couple of years off from the target emission norms need to be shut down, at least in order to send a message,” declared Dahiya. “While the argument of power demand is valid, a majority of these plants operate at sub-optimal capacity. If a plant is running at 20-30% of its capacity, it isn’t a problem to shut it down and divide the generation load elsewhere.” He argued for a concerted effort involving all thermal power plants. “It is illogical to shut down the Badarpur coal-fired plant to curb pollution but let other power generators continue. A new plant is also being set up by the Centre, which will add to the pollution load in north India,” said Dahiya. A recent IIT-Kanpur study listed three air-corridors that were fouling up Delhi’s air, bringing to the city high lead and selenium content mixed with sulphur, an indicator that it came from a coal generation plant. “We were able to identify emissions from power plants as sulphur content is emitted with lead and selenium,” explained S N Tripathi, who conducted the IIT-Kanpur study. “Simple coal burning only emits high amounts of sulphur. This allowed us to zero in on thermal power plants as the source of the pollutants.” According to CSE, the coal power plants account for over 60% of the total particulate matter emissions from all industries, as well as 45% of sulfur dioxide, 30% of nitrogen oxides and over 80% of mercury. A Greenpeace India study in 2018 also determined that adoption of suitable technology could bring down SO2 and NOX emissions from thermal power plants by, respectively, 89% and 79%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/only-2-coal-power-plants-switch-to-better-fuel/articleshow/78725639.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 18, 2020||Agra||UP bypoll: Nomination rejected, Congress nominee cries foul||AGRA: The candidature of Congress candidate Sneh Lata for the by-election of Tundla (SC) assembly constituency in Firozabad district was cancelled during the scrutiny of her nomination papers, which — according to the district administration (acts as the office of the returning officer) — were found to be incomplete. The Congress leader, however, lambasted the administration, saying it was done to “provide an edge to the BJP candidate”, as she had filed two sets of papers and both were rejected “without giving a valid reason”. The Congress candidate had filed her papers amid much fanfare with over 200 party workers and supporters accompanying her to the returning officer’s office on October 14. Later, a case was also registered against the Congress district president for the violation of model code of conduct. Sneh Lata was the only woman candidate across parties who had filed her papers for the seat. Talking to TOI, Sneh Lata said, “My political career spans over 18 years. I had also contested the 2002 assembly elections. I know the nitty-gritty of filing papers. Besides, my lawyers had also cross-checked the papers. I don’t find a valid reason for the cancellation of my nomination. It was done to benefit the BJP candidate. I have communicated to the party leadership about the injustice done by the district administration.” Sub-divisional magistrate (Tundla) Rajesh Kumar Verma said, “After scrutiny of the nomination papers, the candidature of four contestants — Congress’ Sneh Lata and three Independents — was cancelled as the affidavits were found to be incomplete.” A total of 14 candidates had filed papers for the Tundla seat between October 9 and 16. As the nominations of four were cancelled, 10 candidates would be in the fray. The candidates include BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhangar, BSP’s Sanjeev Kumar, SP’s Maharaj Singh Dhangar, five candidates of local parties and two Independents. According to the schedule, the by-elections will take place on November 3 from 7 am to 6 pm and the counting of votes will take place on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-bypoll-nomination-rejected-tundla-cong-nominee-cries-foul/articleshow/78724562.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMSH-16 to start OPD from November 19||CHANDIGARH: After being closed for seven months due to Covid-19 pandemic, the UT health department is all set to operate the out patient department (OPD) at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH-16) in Sector 16 of Chandigarh from November 19. However, dental, eye and ENT OPD will not be started as yet, said ) Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director health services (DHS). The arrangements for conducting the OPD according to the Covid-19 rules have already been put in place at the hospital. The timings and procedure of the OPD will be the same, said the DHS. According to medical superintendent Dr V K Nagpal and deputy medical superintendent Dr Paramjit Singh, the setting up the equipment and public seating arrangement have been made on the orders of the UT adviser. They also said at present only 80 patients are allowed a day in each department. This will be increased after studying the situation. DHS Kang said, “The out-patient departments and non-emergency operation services will be resumed from Monday. Social distancing marked on waiting chairs, transparent plastic sheet partition separating patient and doctors and sanitisation are already done. The number of OPD patients will be gradually increased and from Monday onwards surgeries will also be conducted. SOPs pertaining of Covid-19 pandemic have been out in place and directions have been issued to the ground staff to strictly follow the SOPs.” On the other hand, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is still continuing with telemedicine in which people can consult doctors through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmsh-16-to-start-opd-from-nov-19/articleshow/78726915.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Allegation against senior SC judge: Now, lawyers’ bodies slam Jaganmohan Reddy||Chennai: First the statutory Bar Council of India, then the Tamil Nadu Advocates Association, Madras High Court Advocates Association and now the All India Bar Association — all the top lawyers’ bodies have condemned Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy for having levelled allegations against senior Supreme Court judge N V Ramana. Noting that a section of society is out to destabilise the system of administration of justice, BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra had said: “That it should now come from a chief minister of a state, an important constitutional authority, is most worrisome and alarming.” On Saturday, echoing similar sentiments, the All India Bar Association (AIBA) sought contempt of court proceedings against Reddy for his “scandalous allegations” Justice N V Ramana and other judges. “The scurrilous and scandalous remarks against Justice Ramana, the next in line to become the chief justice of India, and judges of Andhra Pradesh high court, has shaken the independence of judiciary,” said AIBA chairman and senior advocate Adish C Aggarwala on Saturday. Condemning the Andhra chief minister for his October 6 letter to Chief Justice of India Justice S A Bobde, he said Reddy had been facing corruption and money laundering charges in courts and so his letter was “clearly an attempt to obstruct courts,” vilify judges and intimidate them for obtaining favourable orders. “The tone, tenor and timing clearly establish the vested interests and hidden agenda of the chief minister,” Aggarwala said, adding that Justice Ramana was seized of a public interest litigation petition to decriminalise politics and to fast track pending criminal cases against corrupt politicians. Earlier, the Tamil Nadu Advocates Association (TNAA) president S Prabakaran condemned the letter by Jagan, and said it sought to scandalise and lower the authority of the judiciary by raising false allegations against Justice Ramana and other judges under the pretext of interference in the functioning of the subordinate judiciary. Those issuing such derogatory and defamatory statements should be dealt with by ‘iron hands,’ said Prabakaran, adding that appropriate legal action should be initiated against him for having smeared the reputation of the institution. On its part, Madras High Court Advocates Association (MHAA) has also issued a statement condemning the actions of Jaganmohan Reddy. “The letter marks the gravest situation in the history of Indian judiciary,” said the statement signed by MHAA president G Mohanakrishnan and secretary R Krishnakumar. “Time has come for all those within the institution to show exactly what this institution is made up of and curb all such attempts and mischievous activities to all possible extent to establish the rule of law through the might of the judiciary,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/allegation-against-senior-sc-judge-now-lawyers-bodies-slam-jaganmohan-reddy/articleshow/78726520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-Kemrock MD gets extortion calls for Rs 5 crore||Vadodara: Kalpesh Patel, controversial former managing director of Kemrock Industries and Exports Ltd (KIEL) has alleged that he was getting threat calls and the caller was demanding Rs 5 crore from him. Based on Patel’s complaint, three persons identified as Fakruddin Vora (Zorawala), Qutubuddin Damawala and Mustafa Fakruddin Bangdiwala were detained by police when they came to Patel’s house for threatening him on Friday. Patel told police that he received the first call on September 5 from Vora who asked Patel to meet him.  Patel said that he did not know him, so he refused to meet him. But when Vora kept on calling him, Patel blocked his number. On October 14, when Patel had gone to Anand to meet a relative, the trio met him there. They said that they are from Indore and are keeping a watch on him. They claimed that they have come to take money on behalf of Zohar Abbasi, who lives in Dubai. They asked Patel to transfer all his property to Abbasi and pay Rs 5 crore within a day. Police said that Abbasi was a distributor of KIEL and claimed that he had some money due from Patel for the past dealings. “The complainant, however, has refuted the allegations as all monetary transactions have been done and there is nothing left to be paid,” said a police official. While Patel was in Anand, his friend there received a message from a Dubai-based number asking Patel to give time for a meeting. A day later, the trio went to Patel’s house on Race Course Road. But he was not there. The accused then went to Patel’s house again on Friday morning and a heated argument ensued between Patel and the trio. Patel called police control room and lodged a complaint against them. An offence of extortion and criminal intimidation was registered at Gotri police station. “The three accused are in quarantine right now as their Covid-19 test reports are pending,” the police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-kemrock-md-gets-extortion-calls-for-rs-5-crore/articleshow/78724387.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Salem||Man arrested for assaulting adopted son||The Salem city police arrested a 30-year-old man on Saturday for assaulting his adopted child. Afsal, who ran a mobile shop at Salem new busstand, is married to Kannagi, 30, of Five Road, for a few years. Kannagi is a transsexual. They adopted a son who is aged about 10 now. Police said Afsal, an alocholic, often fought with Kannagi and had assaulted her on a few occasions. A few days ago, he demanded Kannagi to transfer her house worth Rs 20 lakh to his name. When she refused, he severely beat her up. On Satuarday, he assaulted the boy and left the house. Kannagi lodged a complaint with the Pallapatti police and produced a video clip of the incident as evidence. Police registered a case and arrested Afsal. He was later remanded in judicial custody. The boy who suffered minor injuries was admitted to the Salem government hospital. Further investigation is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-arrested-for-assaulting-adopted-son/articleshow/78724577.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Hearing in disqualification pleas likely after SC decision||PANAJI: The hearing in two different disqualification petitions filed by Congress and MGP before the legislative assembly speaker against their former MLAs is likely to commence after the Supreme Court decision. Petitioners have approached the apex court for expediting the decision on the disqualification petition. The matter is likely to come up for hearing on October 26. A senior officer in the legislative assembly said that speaker Rajesh Patnekar will start hearing the petitions after a decision of the apex court. The senior officer said that the speaker is not keen on holding hearings because of the pandemic. Patnekar in his reply before the Supreme Court had said that due to the pandemic, no new date was communicated to the parties for hearing the disqualification petitions looking at the safety aspects. In May 2019, MGP’s Ramkrishna Dhavalikar filed a petition before the speaker seeking disqualification of deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar, who quit MGP to join BJP in March 2019. MGP challenged their claim that two-thirds of MGP legislature party had merged with BJP. MGP had three MLAs in the 40-member House and has been reduced to one. Dhavalikar had stated that the 10th Schedule of the Constitution does not postulate such a merger by which the members of the legislature party would meet at midnight and claim that a merger has taken place even of the original political party In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition against 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP in July 2019. State Congress president Girish Chodankar, who has filed the petition before the speaker, had sought that the 10 MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker. On July 10, rebel Congress MLAs led by Chandrakant Kavlekar joined BJP claiming that the Congress Legislature Party had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred Dsa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate. Congress wanted its 10 MLAs to be disqualified under Article 191 (2) para 2, and the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. “In the present case there is no merger of Indian National Congress. The party still exists and is duly recognised and consequently there cannot be a claim of valid merger as contemplated under 10th Schedule,” Chodankar had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hearing-in-disqualification-pleas-likely-after-sc-decision/articleshow/78726938.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Allahabad||HC takes serious view of 3-monthdelay in registering gang rape FIR||Prayagraj: Taking a serious note of inordinate delay of three months in lodging first information report (FIR) of a gang rape survivor and that too after the intervention of the court, the Allahabad HC has directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Prayagraj and station house officer (SHO) of Phoolpur police station of Prayagraj to appear personally before this court on October 20. Hearing a writ petition filed by the gang rape survivor seeking registration of case against the culprits, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “The present petition highlights the laxity shown by the officers in triggering the criminal justice system. The sequence of the evidence, on the basis of instructions received, highlights the sheer callousness of the police authorities in lodging the FIR after about three months of the alleged incident that too only after this court had intervened and had called for instructions.” “It is well settled that the information disclosing a cognizable offence should be initiated with all expeditions, the same is also necessary so as to bring the prosecution to its logical conclusion fairly,” the court further observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-takes-serious-view-of-3-monthdelay-in-registering-gang-rape-fir/articleshow/78724486.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh launches used cooking oil initiative to make bio-diesel||CHANDIGARH: The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) launched Repurpose Used Cooking Oil (Ruco) initiative on Friday to collect and convert used cooking oil into bio-diesel. Dr Amandeep Kang, director health and family welfare, Chandigarh, flagged off Ruco vehicles to kick start the initiative. Dr Kang said the food business operators often use same cooking oil for repeated frying. The consumption of used cooking oil poses adverse health effects since polar compounds are formed during frying. These compounds are associated with several diseases such as hypertension and liver disease. The FSSAI has issued directions to all the states food authorities to initiate the process of disposal and collection of used cooking oil. In lieu of the World Food Day 2020, which is celebrated throughout the world on October 16, the food safety department of the UT Chandigarh, celebrated the World Food Day and launched the FSSAI initiative Ruco. Dr Kang emphasised the food industry people to implement the initiative in their respective institution so that contribution can be made to help the environment and health of the public. She also appreciates the initiative of the food safety and standards department and announced that more such awareness functions will be organised in the near future so that the business community can be educated and made aware about various laws and initiatives of the government. Dr V K Nagpal, medical superintendent, GMSH-16, Chandigarh, said implementation of such initiatives will improve the environment, health of people and the economy of the country. More than 50 food business operators from across the city along with authorised aggregators and bio-diesel manufacture were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-launches-used-cooking-oil-initiative-to-make-bio-diesel/articleshow/78726934.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Centre must provide flood relief to state: Ex-MP||Mysuru: Former MP R Dhruvanarayana on Saturday said the central government should immediately sanction Rs 10,000 crore for flood relief works in north Karnataka. Dhruvanarayana said hundreds of villages in north Karnataka are affected by floods and lakhs of hectares of crops have been damaged. “chief minister BS Yediyurappa is misleading the public on the financial condition of the state. Previous year, the state government had estimated that damages to the tune of Rs 3,516 was incurred due to floods, but the Centre sanctioned just Rs 2,900 crore,” he said. The Congress member said the Centre has completely neglected the state. “It has failed to provide the state’s share of GST. While the state government has already borrowed Rs 3.68 lakh crore, now it is trying to borrow Rs 33,000 crore more. Finance minister Nirmala Sitaram has failed to provide any financial support to the state,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/centre-must-provide-flood-relief-to-state-ex-mp/articleshow/78724885.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Woman help desk at thanas to give receipts to complainants||LUCKNOW: The ‘woman help desk’ to be set up at all police stations of the state, will provide a receipt bearing a unique number to a complainant after taking down her complaint. The desk will then forward the complaint to the in charge of police station for the formal registering of FIR. Acting on the directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy issued instructions to all district police chiefs and commissioners to establish these desks at every police station. The instructions were part of initiative of the government under the ‘Mission Shakti’ scheme. Awasthy said that well-informed and properly trained women constables would be deployed at these help desks. “Training in English communication would also be imparted to women cops deployed in big cities. The Police Training School in Meerut has been chosen for imparting the training as it is also equipped with a language lab,” he said. The DGP said that women coming to file their complaints at the police station would be made comfortable at the reception centre. The person on the help desk would enter their complaint in a computer and then hand over a receipt which will have a number. “The complaint then would be immediately handed over to the police station in charge,” the top cop added. Senior officers said that the complaint number would help know about the status of the case during the review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-help-desk-at-thanas-to-give-receipts-to-complainants/articleshow/78726935.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 18, 2020||Kanpur||Lawyer accused of rape, on run, files papers||Kanpur:A lawyer, who had been accused of raping a woman along with his three aides on October 7 is on the run, filed his nomination for the Ghatampur by-poll on Friday after being given ticket by Rashtriya Janutthan Party. The woman had alleged that she was held captive and gang-raped by four men, including the lawyer, Rajendra Dhamaka, on October 7. Police had registered an FIR and launched a probe. To recall, the alleged incident had taken place in a locality under the limits of Ghatampur Kotwali police station of the district on October 7 morning. “The woman had stated that she was abducted, held captive and sexually assaulted by the lawyer Rajendra Dhamaka at his residence since the past three months. On Wednesday morning, he along with his three aides had again gang-raped her,” said Ghatampur Kotwali police station in-charge Rajiv Singh. The woman had also claimed that the lawyer used to threaten her of fabricating fake criminal cases against her family members, besides to wipe out her whole family, if she opened her mouth. He had also cited having contacts in political circles as well as the police force. CO Ghatampur Ravi Kumar Singh said, “Following inputs that accused Rajendra is likely to come at Collectorate to file his nomination, we had deployed adequate force, but the accused managed to hoodwink police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lawyer-accused-of-rape-on-run-files-papers/articleshow/78724431.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Government school teacher held for wrong information||PANCHKULA: A government school teacher has been arrested for uploading fake personal details on the MIS portal of the Haryana education department. According to the cops, the accused teacher has been identified as Satish Kumar, a resident of Uchana village of Jind district. The police said on August 27, 2019, principal of Government Senkor Secondary School, Raipur Rani, moved a complaint with the cops against the school teacher for providing wrong information to the department. A departmental enquiry was conducted, following which he was suspended. Based on the complaint, the police have registered a case under sections 176, 177, 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at Raipur Rani police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-school-teacher-held-for-wrong-info/articleshow/78726952.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Volunteers save 28 animals in three days||Hyderabad: From pet dogs to bats and snakes, volunteers saved nearly 28 animals in the last three days. According to Animal Warriors Conservation Society (AWCS), an animal welfare organisation which was actively involved in rescue operations, the rains affected hundreds of animals in the city. Pradeep Nair of AWCS said they received over 40 calls for rescuing animals and they were able to rescue 34 animals before being washed away. “We managed to attend most of the calls. Over 25 dogs, a pig, snakes and a fruit bat was rescued,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteers-save-28-animals-in-three-days/articleshow/78726527.cms||Moulika.KV
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||10 months on, no solution in sight for Sadar flyover landing issue||NAGPUR: The landing of Y-shaped Sadar flyover near the RBI Square has become a threat to motorist due to issues with planning and construction. To pre-empt any accident, the traffic police about 10 months ago had diverted traffic coming from Samvidhan Square to LIC Square via Liberty Cinema Square to approach Kamptee Road. This allowed vehicles coming from the Sadar flyover to descend on the road between LIC Square and Samvidhan Square without causing a bottleneck. But traffic diversion isn’t a permanent solution. The flyover was opened to public in January. No concrete steps have been taken yet by the NHAI, the central government agency, and the traffic police is happy to continue with the temporary diversion plan. Also, traffic police hasn’t acted upon MahaMetro’s proposal to make all roads around Kasturchand Park one-way. According to shopkeepers on Residency Road, the Y-shaped flyover was built to decongest this narrow road. “Now, the traffic comprising heavy vehicles has increased manifold leading to frequent jams at Coffee House Square,” said a shopkeeper Deepak Lalwani. “We need to understand that temporary arrangements don’t last long,” said Vidarbha Taxpayers Association secretary Tejinder Singh Renu. He stressed that authorities need to explore and execute a permanent solution as the diversion plan is causing traffic chaos during peak hours. “In the coming years, traffic jam will become a regular feature and it will become an accident-prone spot,” he said. Many motorists, including four-wheeler drivers, coming from Samvidhan Square side climb on the flyover and take U-turn to reach Kamptee Road from LIC Square, thus risking the lives of other motorists. According to Dinesh Naidu, a civic activist and secretary of Parivartan — The Citizens’ Forum, “Right from the leader who envisaged the project to planners and architects who drew up the faulty design are to be blamed for causing the chaos. Even the traffic police are unable to find a solution.” Naidu suggested that proper survey, planning and views of citizens should be made compulsory for all mega projects to avoid such issues in future. NHAI’s executive engineer Abhijit Jichkar blamed the MahaMetro for the mess. “Its building between the LIC square and flyover landing forced us to the change the plan, leading to the chaos,” he said and added that the step taken by traffic police is serving the purpose. Blaming NHAI, senior PI from Sadar traffic zone Atul Sabnis said cops have written to the agency many times for taking some corrective measures like installing traffic signals at the landing site, but to no avail. Sabnis admitted that motorists taking U-turn are a nuisance on the flyover even as NHAI has extended the median over the flyover. The senior PI said that MahaMetro’s plan to make all roads around Kasturchand Park one-way can be implemented only after the projects connecting Kingsway and Ram Jhula are completed. Even VNIT, Central India’s premium engineering institute, had offered to help to suggest some corrective measures. But neither NHAI nor traffic police have shown interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-months-on-no-solution-in-sight-for-sadar-flyover-landing-issue/articleshow/78725661.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Police force to be increased at tourist, religious destinations; awareness stickers to be pasted on vehicles, houses & offices||DEHRADUN: With the festive season starting on Saturday, a high number of tourists are expected to visit Uttarakhand and the footfall is likely to increase manifold at religious and tourist destinations. Besides, a high number of people studying and working in other states too are expected to return to their home in Uttarakhand. In view of this, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat has ordered an increase in the number of police personnel at key locations where high numbers of tourists are expected in the next one month. The CM has directed chief secretary Om Prakash to run a large-scale awareness campaign on Covid-19, which includes posting stickers on houses, shops, offices and tourist locations. “Though the number of Covid-19 cases has gone down in the last few weeks, we cannot drop guard and with the festive season having started we need to be extra cautious. I have directed the state officials to take the help of public representatives, social organisations, and NGOs for running an awareness campaign so that the message reaches out to the maximum possible people,” said the CM. To ensure compliance of social distancing norms and wearing of masks, CM Rawat has directed police officials to act strongly against those flouting the guidelines. In addition to the available force, the CM has asked officials to take services of home guards and Prantiya Raksha Dal staff at religious and tourist destinations. After issuing challan to those not wearing masks, the police teams would provide them free masks as well. The CM added that the number of times the senior doctors were attending Covid-19 patients also needs to be monitored. Chief secretary Om Prakash said that it is time to review the past performance and improve on it. The CS also directed officials to take strict action if unauthorised doctors were found prescribing medicines to Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-force-to-be-increased-at-tourist-religious-destinations-awareness-stickers-to-be-pasted-on-vehicles-houses-offices/articleshow/78724603.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 18, 2020||Kanpur||Darshan Singh Yadav, longest serving village head of Saifai, passes away||Kanpur: Darshan Singh Yadav, a close confidant of Samajwadi Party (SP) patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and party chief Akhilesh Yadav, passed away after prolonged illness at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Lucknow on early Saturday morning. He was 90 and had been representing Saifai, their native village in Etawah district, for the past 48 years as village ‘pradhan’ (head). The villagers and other gram panchayat members had been electing him as the ‘pradhan’ unanimously for the Saifai village panchayat since 1972. Keeping the tradition alive, the ‘pradhan’ and panchayat members had elected him in the last panchayat polls also. It was a known fact that both Mulayam and Akhilesh had made it a point to Darshan whenever they visited their ancestral village to get the feel of Saifai developments. A pall of gloom, meanwhile, descended in and around Saifai following the demise of the senior most Socialist leader of SP. Akhilesh took a road route to reach Saifai from Delhi to pay condolences. “We have lost one of the eldest Socialist leaders in Darshan Singh Yadav. It’s an irreparable loss not only to Neta ji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) with whom he was very close and was his childhood friend, but to us also. He always stood for the cause of the poor and downtrodden and played a major role as far as development of Saifai is concerned, so much so that Saifai became popular all over the world,” Akhilesh said while garlanding the portrait of Darshan Singh Yadav. SP national general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav, besides Pragatsheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) president Shivpal Yadav and former Mianpuri MP Tej Pratap and former Badaun MP Dharmendra Yadav expressed their condolence on the death of the senior member of party. “Two generations in Saifai had voted for Darshan popularly known as ‘Daddu’. He’s known for his generosity and simplicity. Till the time he fell ill, he preferred riding a bicycle and was easily accessible,” said Tej Pratap. “After he was elected unopposed in last panchayat polls, he had become the oldest continuing ‘pradhan’ of the state and even in the country,” he said. “Darshan wanted to make way for the new generation, but every time supporters forced him to file his nomination,” Tej added. “Many a times, Netaji and even Akhilesh offered him ministerial berth, but he always refused saying that he has no big political ambitions,” said Raju, a local of Saifai. He had also been conferred upon with the prestigious Yash Bharti award in SP regime. At Saifai Mahotsav and during Holi and Diwali celebrations, Darshan Singh always used to remain on the top of the list of the invitees being prepared by party office-bearers or district authorities. Also, being the ‘pradhan’ of Netaji’s ancestral village meant Darshan Singh never had to fight for the rights of Saifai or it’s folks. “I never had made any demand from Netaji’ or Akhilesh. Everything is being taken care of by itself,” he had said once. “He was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Lucknow. His medical condition deteriorated in the last 24 hours and despite continuous efforts, the 90-year-old village head of Saifai Darshan Singh Yadav ji passed away,” said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/darshan-singh-yadav-longest-servingvillage-head-of-saifai-passes-away/articleshow/78724462.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Trauma care centre, 10 ALS ambulances for ORR launched||HYDERABAD: In a bid to give immediate medical attention to road accident victims on Outer Ring Road, the state government inaugurated a trauma care centre and 10 advanced life support (ALS) ambulances at Shamshabad toll plaza on outer ring road on Saturday. These ambulances, which will be staffed with required medical and paramedical personnel will be strategically deployed at crucial interchange points on the ORR and will respond whenever inputs of an accident are received. The nearest ambulance will pick up the victims and shift them to the nearest interchange on being alerted of the accident. They will then be moved to the nearest trauma care centre or hospital in a 5-km radius. The trauma care centres are being set up mainly for those accident victims suffering from traumatic injuries to reduce the likelihood of death and is set up with the general surgeons and medical staff from Apollo Hospitals. Apollo hospitals regional chief Y Subramanyam said, “For critical cases, if necessary, we have also put in place a system for video conferencing between trauma care medical staff and surgeons and senior doctors at Apollo hospitals to avoid complications.” This centre will also have 24-hour in-house coverage by general surgeons, and prompt availability of care in specialties such as orthopedic surgery, neurosurgery, anesthesiology, emergency medicine, radiology, internal medicine, pediatric and critical care. “These ambulances each will cover 32 kms stretch, enabling immediate relief in road accidents on Outer Ring Road,” said Arvind Kumar, principal secretary of municipal administration department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trauma-care-centre-10-als-ambulances-for-orr-launched/articleshow/78725672.cms||Moulika.KV
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body house to take call on fee relief to night food street||CHANDIGARH: The estate branch of the municipal corporation (MC) will bring an agenda to waive off monthly rental fee of booths at the city’s lone night food street in Sector 14 in the general house meeting on Tuesday. The operators have made many requests for the relaxation, citing losses during the coronavirus lockdown. In a representation to the estate branch, kiosk runners had requested that since their business was shut from the last week of March and their earnings had dried up, they would be unable to pay the monthly rent of Rs 1 lakh each. A senior official of the MC said, “We have examined the matter but since it is related to the revenue generation of the civic body, any decision will be taken only by the members of the general house. The final call will be taken in the house meeting.” There are a total of four kiosks at the night food street opposite PGI. Three of them were given to successful bidders a few months back. The fourth kiosk was under litigation and not auctioned. Earlier, the general house had waived off the monthly fee of vendors of all categories, including essential, non-essential and mobile ones, for April and May. Moreover, the fee of the paid parking contractors was also waived off during the curfew period and a curtailed one was being taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-house-to-take-call-on-fee-relief-to-night-food-street/articleshow/78723894.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||13-year-old boy drowns in sump||Hyderabad: A 13-year-old drowned in a sump while swimming with his friends in Miyapur on Saturday. The victim was identified as Kondapeta Tarun, son of a driver and resident of New Colony in Miyapur. The Class 6 student had gone to swim with three of his friends when tragedy struck. “His friends were swimming at a sump in a garden near Bachupally road. He went towards the deeper side of the pond and drowned. His body was found after an hour,” said Miyapur SI Ravi Kiran. The boy went towards the side which was over seven feet deep and drowned. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-year-old-boy-drowns-in-sump/articleshow/78725682.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||HC to hear plight of kids in orphanages||Hyderabad: Taking a serious view of the plight of children in orphanages, Telangana high court has converted a letter written by a doctor on the death of a 14-year-old girl at Ameenpur orphanage into a writ petition. The case will come up before Justice P Naveen Rao on October 19. The high court has made the chief secretary, secretaries of home and women and child welfare departments along with DGP, DG (prisons), district collector and SP of Sangareddy as respondents in the case. Expressing serious concern over the safety and security of vulnerable children in these homes, Dr Mamatha Raghuveer Achanta urged the high court to direct the state to forthwith constitute child welfare committees in each district to regularly monitor the welfare of the children in general and girls in particular. District child welfare committees, inspection committees and juvenile justice boards should be constituted, she said in her letter. Dr Mamatha also appealed to the court to frame and issue guidelines for running and monitoring these orphanages. Narrating how the girl at Maruthi Orphan Home in Ameenpur was abused and later killed, she expressed serious reservations over the functioning of the state machinery in this regard. She also urged the HC to direct the district judges to regularly monitor the functioning of these orphan homes by seeking regular reports from the child protection committees and local police. All violations and violators should be booked immediately and conviction should be handed out to such anti social elements in a speedier manner, she said. She also requested the high court to constitute a special committee to monitor the trials in such cases to ensure speedy trial and justice in all such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-hear-plight-of-kids-in-orphanages/articleshow/78725685.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Toilet ads can gush Rs 28 crore into Chandigarh municipal corporation coffers in 5 years||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation (MC), Chandigarh is all set to earn over Rs 28 crore from advertisement on the 55 toilet blocks — the agenda is slated for discussion and approval of the general house of the MC on Tuesday. The issue was pending for almost seven years, but a month ago, the MC has completed the tender process and received the lowest bid. Once the general house gives it s nod, the tender will be allotted to the selected bidder. “We have placed all the records related to the tender and selection of bidder in the agenda and sent it to the agenda branch to place before the general house on Tuesday. The moment we will get the consent of the house, the tender will be allotted for five years and the MC will get Rs 28.58 crore in five years. This will be a major source of revenue for the MC. Since the majority of these toilet blocks are situated in good locations, it helped us to get a good amount,” an official said. The civic body authority had kept Rs 1,000 per square feet per annum to get the space for advertisement on the toilet blocks in the tender, but it received the highest bid of Rs 3,650 per square feet per annum. Five had bid for the contract and the company that quoted the highest bid has been selected. “Besides paying the money for the advertisement to the MC, the selected company will also pay 18% GST (Goods and Service Tax) to the agency concerned, which is between Rs 5 to 6 crore. The selected bidder will be allowed to put advertisements after completing the paper formality in a couple of weeks,” an official said. As the contract of the advertisement will be for five years, the successful bidder will also have to pay 10% increased annual license fee and 5% annual advertisement fee every year. The successful bidders will also have to follow all the related norms and MC will keep the right to cancel the tender or penalise the bidder if he violates the norms. Majority of these toilet blocks are situated in the markets, tourist areas and other key commercial areas of the city. Box: Legal tussle. In 2014, due to a litigation between the civic body and private companies that had earlier won the contracts of the public toilet spaces for advertisement, this source of income came to a halt. There were also some administrative issues that played a role in blocking this particular revenue avenue of the MC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-is-set-to-let-out-public-toilet-spaces-for-adverts-again-28cr-expected-in-5-yrs/articleshow/78723896.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: DBA ad hoc committee challenged in court||CHANDIGARH: The dissolution of present executive body of Chandigarh District Bar Association (DBA) and the formation of adhoc committee by around 40 advocates on October 7 has been challenged in Punjab and Haryana high court. The petition is filed by present president N K Nanda along with other members. The petition came up for hearing, but was adjourned as no one from the petitioner side appeared. The split in DBA, which has been brewing for sometime now, became unavoidable when a group of advocates held a General House on October 7 and dissolved the present executive body and formed the adhoc committee to take care of bar affairs. It was also decided that the adhoc committee will look after functions that the executive body was performing till the new executive body is formed. Also it was decided that the ad hoc committee will seize the record of DBA and cheque book. This was challenged in HC by Nanda, who argued that mere 40 persons cannot hijack the bar. He further stated that this move is illegal. Due to Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, the elections have not taken place and also the courts are not functioning normal way. Nanda also said some members of adhoc committee broke open locks of record room and took forcible possession without any information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/adhoc-committee-formation-and-green-signal-by-bar-council-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/78726958.cms||Neha Sharma
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad residents blame occupied nalas for flood misery||SECUNDERABAD: Thousands of residents of several colonies in Secunderabad are in despair. They say several nalas, which course through the colonies for about 50 to 80 kilometres, are encroached by people with powerful connections. It’s a fact that over 60% of open nalas, built spaciously before Independence, are encroached in the cantonment region. Concerned with the situation, Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has approached the courts to evict these squatters but most disputes are unresolved. Banala Srinivas Reddy, secretary, Cantonment Citizen’s Civic Amenities Development Society said: “Our fight with the SCB officials for the past two decades is to remove encroachments and improve the condition of the nalas. But very little happened. Land sharks have occupied these open nalas and have built several residences. Though the SCB razed down a few, many cases are pending in the court. After witnessing the damage done now, the government has to focus on this issue.” He said that nalas should be cleaned once in three months. “Instead of cleaning the open nalas only during the rainy season, SCB should clean them once in three months. Only then there will be free flow of sewage and low-lying areas will be saved from flood,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/secunderabad-residents-blame-occupied-nalas-for-flood-misery/articleshow/78726538.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR likely to roll out sops for Dubbak||HYDERABAD: The Dubbak political turf is scheduled to some star campaigners hitting the trail before the constituency goes to polls on November 3. TRS leader and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will hit the hustings in the final phase of the campaign, after Dasara festival, and is expected to announce sops and projects for development of the constituency. Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, the sitting MLA of the TRS whose death necessitated the bypoll, was close to KCR. Also, the ruling party is not taking any chances as Congress and BJP have declared an all-out war against the TRS in the bypoll. The CM’s tour to Dubbak will be on one of the last three days before campaigning ends. “As a thanks giving, CM KCR had announced Rs 100 crore sops in Huzurnagar after people gave TRS a huge victory in the bypoll at the height of TSRTC bus strike. This time, he is expected to shower sops on Dubbak before it goes to bypolls,” said a TRS leader. The BJP is planning to rope in two or more central ministers for campaigning. This is the first election for the BJP in the state after winning four Lok Sabha seats. Also, the first poll for Bandi Sanjay after taking over as state BJP chief. The saffron party wants to continue its good show. Former MP AP Jithender Reddy, in-charge of Dubbak constituency, confirmed to TOI that big names will get in the field but refused to divulge details. Though all the Congress top guns from the state are already campaigning in Dubbak, the party may also call some of its more prominent leaders after AICC in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore’s review meeting on Dubbak on October 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-likely-to-roll-out-sops-for-dubbak/articleshow/78725697.cms||Roushan Ali
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR hands over Rs 5L ex gratia to families of flood victims||HYDERABAD: MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday visited families of residents who lost their life due to floods. Rao also gave Rs 5 lakh ex gratia cheques to them. A child who lost his father was promised free education. Additionally, the government has decided to distribute kits to flood victims. Each kit contains ration items and three blankets. This was announced by KTR at a meeting held at GHMC head office. “Each kits cost around Rs 2,800. As of date, we have identified 35,000 flood victims and distribution of kits has already started in parts of city,” said a GHMC official. The kit has five kg rice, wheat flour, oil and other essentials, read a statement issued by GHMC. In Alinagar and Gaganpahad, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy accompanied the minister during his visit to flood affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-hands-over-rs-5l-ex-gratia-to-families-of-flood-victims/articleshow/78726545.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH students oppose cut-off for PhD, MPhil admissions||Hyderabad: Alleging that the University of Hyderabad has reduced the number of PhD and MPhil seats by implementing the cut-off mark, the Students Union staged a protest in front of the administration block on Saturday. “Releasing shortlisted candidates for interview by the varsity is condemnable. Citing 2016 UGC guidelines the administration has left 71 seats vacant even before interviews have begun. Of 71 seats, 64 are in reserved category and this number will only increase after the interview process is completed,” read a statement from the Students Union.  “By enforcing this atrocious clause, the varsity is structurally trying to violate the reservation and thereby restricting the entry of Dalit, Bahujan students into this so-called institution of eminence,” said Gopi Swamy, general secretary of the union. Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson of UoH said that the decision to follow UGC guidelines and UoH norms for admissions was taken in the last academic council meeting. “After students raised the issue, the varsity referred the matter to the admission grievance committee,” said Pavarala, adding that interviews will continue as students from across country are appearing for in virtual mode. As per the UGC guidelines 2016, the cut off for general/EWS/OBC category students is 50% and for SC/ST it is 45%. Students demanded the varsity to remove the existing cut-off criteria for PhD and MPhil seats and publish a fresh list by taking the 1:6 ratio into consideration||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-oppose-cut-off-for-phd-mphil-admissions/articleshow/78725693.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||‘Food safety on wheels’ helps check food quality in Madurai||Madurai: Madurai has got a Food Safety on Wheels, a mobile van to test the quality of food materials and sensitize people on the quality of food they consume. The vehicle provided by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) will be deployed throughout the southern districts.Officials from the food safety department said that Tamil Nadu was given two such vehicles, each costing Rs 50 lakh. While one was delivered to Chennai a couple of years ago to cover northern districts, Madurai got the second vechicle a few months ago. Designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram told TOI that only recently vehicle registration processes was completed. To start with, the vehicle is being used to check the quality of ‘khova’. “It is a major ingredient of some sweets like milk peda which is often adulterated with sugar and starch. When the quality of khova is set right, the final products will be of good quality,” he said.An analyst from the food safety department said that vehicle will soon be put into direct public use. All basic tests to check the quality of milk, tea powder, oil, ghee, colouring agents and pulses can be done using the facilities available in the vehicle. People can bring food materials they want to check and get the results in no time. “The initiative will help to create awareness on quality of products people are consuming. The vehicle will reach out to people in rural areas too,” the official said.Food safety officials said that legal samples cannot be tested using the facility. However, when a food material gets red-flagged during the check, the respective food safety official will be alerted. He would lift legal samples and get them tested and will take legal action against the manufacturer or seller.Officials said that each testing will attract a nominal fee, which needs to be paid by the people. They are in the process of fixing a fee for each testing. Normally, it takes up to Rs 6000 to get a food material tested in a private laboratory, but one can get it tested at a fraction of the cost, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/food-safety-on-wheels-helps-check-food-quality-in-madurai/articleshow/78726959.cms||V Devanathan
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Truck driver’s son, mechanic’s daughter defy odds to crack NEET exam||Dehradun: Mohit Pal from Roorkee, whose father is a truck driver, scored 526 marks in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) exam this year. Tamanna Mansoor, daughter of a mechanic from Dehradun, secured 602 marks. With their families living on meagre income, both of them braved the odds during the lockdown and managed to crack one of the toughest exams. Talking about difficulties faced during lockdown and how he was able to finance his studies, Mohit Pal told TOI that his coaching institute in Dehradun had waived off Rs 50,000 from fees in the first year and in the second year, he managed to crack the scholarship that granted him free tuition and accommodation in Dehradun. "Since my father is the only bread winner, we had to face a lot of tough situations during the lockdown as there was no work for him. Overcoming these difficulties and remaining focus on studies was a daunting task. Though I am happy about how I performed, but I was expecting 560 marks. Hope I get the medical seat in the state colleges itself," said Mohit. Tamanna Manoor, who lives in Brahmapuri area of Dehradun, who secured 19,043 rank, is hopeful of getting a seat in Uttarakhand. She said that she will soon be going to become the first doctor in her family. "In the pandemic, my family faced severe crisis, but my mother’s encouragement and father’s love helped me to overcome all the difficulties. I will be the first person in the family in several generations to become a doctor," she said, adding that she studied 10 hours a day which remained constant for over three years. Ritika Verma, who also hails from Dehradun, scored 604 marks in NEET is also one among those who managed to get success even after several hardships. Her mother suffered a brain stroke and left her paralysed, but this never deterred Ritika in pursuing her dreams. Another student from city’s Subhash Nagar area, Sakshi Manku, scored 570 marks in NEET and wants to get enrolled in any medical colleges in Delhi. Anmol, son of a government teacher in Dehradun, managed to bag 1,506 rank and is assured to get a seat in a government college. "My family is very happy that I managed to fulfil my dream. My aim is to become a cancer specialist," said Anmol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/truck-drivers-son-mechanics-daughter-defy-odds-to-crack-neet-exam/articleshow/78724634.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Backlog of 89 deaths takes Covid toll to 924||DEHRADUN: The number of Covid-19 deaths saw a massive jump to 924, as 89 old deaths were reported on Saturday besides six that took place in past 24 hours. The officials attributed the rise in deaths to the “lackadaisical approach of several government and private hospitals who showed callousness in reporting deaths on time leading to piling up of figures”. Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room told TOI that a notice has been issued to several hospitals of Dehradun, Haridwar and Haldwani after receiving complaints that they are not updating the death figures on a regular basis. “We have received complaints that hospitals haven’t updated death reports of patients who died in the month of July, August. This is when the hospitals in four plain districts were told to update the deaths figured within 48 hours of deaths and if they will fail to do so, action will be taken against them under the Epidemic Disease Act,” said Tripathi. Meanwhile, 606 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported, taking the state’s tally to 57,649, whereas 665 people recovered taking the recovery tally to 50,820 in the Himalyan state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-backlog-of-89-deaths-takes-covid-toll-to-924/articleshow/78724625.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar escapes with 39 tolas of gold||Hyderabad: Narsingi police said that a burglar broke into the house of a software engineer and decamped with 39 tolas of gold ornaments. According to police, Chandrasekhar, a resident of Pupalguda, has been staying with his in-laws in LB Nagar since August 22 as his wife is pregnant. “Sekhar’s wife is pregnant and for better care, they are staying with her parents. However, their neighbour noticed that their main door lock was broken and informed them about the incident. Only gold was stolen and we are suspecting the involvement of only one person,” said Narsingi inspector Gangadhar. The clues and fingerprint teams visited the spot to collect the evidence. A police team is checking nearby CCTV cameras to identify the suspect. A case was booked under sections 457 (Lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence) and 380 (Theft in the dwelling house) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-escapes-with-39-tolas-of-gold/articleshow/78725690.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 80% drop in NEET Marathi applicants, Tamil rises by 1,600%||NAGPUR: The number of applicants for Marathi language NEET paper dropped 80%, compared to last year. This year just over 6,000 Marathi applicants registered as opposed to almost 32,000 last year for NEET, which is conducted in multiple regional languages. Marathi NEET applicants formed just 0.39% of the total registrations this year. A sharp drop indeed from the 2.06% share from last year. The biggest rise was in Tamil applicants as their figures rose by an astounding 1,600%. From just 1,017 applicants last year to 17,101 now, is the sharpest upwards trajectory recorded ever for NEET. Bengali language applicants also rose by a whopping 800%. From just over 4,700 last year, Bengali language applicants shot up to over 36,500 this year. Odia language applicants saw the biggest drop vis-a-vis last year. From over 31,000 in 2019, Odia applicants dropped to a mere 850 this year. Gujarati applicants were the only ones who held fort despite their large numbers. Fall in Gujarati applicants was negligible and they managed to continue to stay above the 59,000 mark. With hardly a few hundred less students compared to last year, Gujarati applicants comprised 3.7% of the total registrations. Hindi continued to be the biggest in terms of numbers in non-English category. In fact, Hindi language applicants rose by almost 13% this year to over 2 lakhs. Why these numbers have risen or fallen drastically is at best speculative according to academics. Zafar Khan, who manages a residential coaching institute, said it’s surprising that students still register for regional options. “These options are available merely to allay political pressure because ultimately the entire studies will be in English only. Also one needs to look at their success figures too. I am sure that many would have registered just for the sake of registering,” said Khan. Sameer Phale, a well known medical entrance exam teacher, said, “Many years ago I had one student who opted for a regional language. That time it was not under the NEET banner. But I also do not understand why one would opt for a regional language route when finally you will study in English.” LANGUAGE — 2019 — 2020 English — 12,04,968 — 12,63,273 Hindi — 1,79,857 — 2,04,399 Assamese — 1,796 — 5,328 Bengali — 4,750 — 36,593 Gujarati — 59,395 — 59,055 Kannada — 2,305 — 1,005 Marathi — 31,239 — 6,258 Odia — 31,490 — 822 Tamil — 1,017 — 17,101 Telugu — 700 — 1,624 Urdu — 1,858 — 1,977 Eng & Hin — 13,84,825 — 14,67,672 Regional lang — 1,34,550 — 1,29,763||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/80-drop-in-neet-marathi-applicants-tamil-rises-by-1600/articleshow/78725700.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents get together to fix approach road in Amravati Enclave||PANCHKULA: After administration failed to fix the potholed road in Amravati Enclave, a retired senior army official has decided to repair the road at his own expense. Inspire by this, he was joined by 150 other residents in his efforts. Brigadier Beant Parmar, a resident of Amravati Enclave, said the residents of Amravati Enclave and DLF had complained many times to the authorities regarding the pathetic conditions of the roads in the locality for the last one-and-a-half years. The potholes have become pits at few places putting the lives of commuters, especially that of the elderly and pregnant women, at danger, said Brig Parmar. Fed up, Brig Parmar decided to fill the potholes at his cost. According to him, he spent Rs 35,000 for the work, which will be completed within a day or two. Brig Parmar said, “The road was last repaired/recarpeted during the elections. After that, no official or any politician helped us. I decided to get it repaired as mostly retired people live here.” Seeing his efforts, around 150 contributed to get the entire stretch repaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/officials-turn-blind-eye-residents-get-together-to-repair-road-at-amravati-enclave/articleshow/78726962.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Three arrested for transferring Rs 35 lakh in SIM card fraud||Hyderabad: Cyber sleuths nabbed three offenders from West Bengal for transferring Rs 35 lakh from a victim’s account by swapping his SIM card. The same police team had also arrested a job fraud offender. Police arrested Sagar Mahato, from Nadia District, Kumar Gaurav Singh and Sanjay Agarwal, from Hoogly in the SIM card fraud. They were brought to Hyderabad on a transit warrant. According to police, the trio was working for a Nigerian offender Shedrick Paul, who had shared the victim’s details with the gang. The Nigerian, Shedrick Paul had sent links to the victim’s email ID on the pretext of an income tax refund. When the victim clicked the link, the offender gained access to his credentials. Later, Sagar Mahato along with his two associates obtained a new SIM card by submitting fake know your customer (KYC) documents of the registered mobile number of the victim which is linked to the bank. Mahato claimed that he had lost his mobile number.  After the number was activated, the trio accessed the net banking details of the victim and transferred Rs 39 lakh to the main offender Paul after deducting their commission. Police said that they have sent money to Paul in the form of Bitcoin. A 7 mm Pistol with six bullets and other material were seized from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-arrested-for-transferring-rs-35-lakh-in-sim-card-fraud/articleshow/78725706.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Mild termors in Suleman Nagar; locals concerned||Hyderabad: Panic gripped Suleman Nagar area in Rajendra Nagar on late Friday night after people in the area felt multiple tremors. Locals had a sleepless night after intensity of tremors created a blasting sound. Though no loss of lives and property was reported but due to sensation the public came out of their houses. The locals said that they first felt tremors at 8:30 pm and it continued till late night. Initially they suspected of house collapse, but since the tremors continued intermittently they came out of their houses. More than 100 people gathered in Suleman Nagar area, upon which teams of Rajendra Nagar police reached the spot and tried to gather information. “Due to rain every now and then we are hearing about the incidents of house collapse, the huge sound with tremors have left us worried,” said Shaikh Jaffar. The residents have spent their whole night outside their residences and most of them including women and children, have spent time sitting on Chabutras. “Though the public witnessed unusual sounds during the night time, tremors can't be confirmed,” said a revenue official. The other week, similar panic was reported at Borabanda area in SR Nagar, after the public witnessed tremors during the night time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mild-termors-in-suleman-nagar-locals-concerned/articleshow/78725703.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested for murder||Hyderabad: A year after a 51-year-old labourer was killed, two men were arrested by Jawaharnagar police on Saturday in connection with the crime. Bhuma Das’s body was found at his house in Balajinagar with multiple injuries in August last year. Das was then living with a woman named Anitha. The offenders, Anitha and her lover, Rajender Suresh, were arrested at Trimulguerry on Saturday for his murder. The victim asked Anitha to end her relationship with Suresh, but she did not. Das caught the duo together in August last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-murder/articleshow/78725695.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Air travellers call for stringent enforcement of Covid safety norms during festive season||Madurai: Air travel is not the safest mode of transport now as passengers flout rules of Covid-19 prevention, especially social distancing, and airline staff also do not give much importance to it, say frequent travellers. They point out that this should be given extra care in the festive season.Professor Dr V Nagarajaan of Madurai, who is chairman and head, Neurosciences Research and Translational task force, ICMR, New Delhi, said that as a medical professional, it required him to travel to different destinations in the country, after domestic travel was allowed. ``Initially, booking counters followed the no-touch rule, but no one followed it now. When passengers are taken to the plane in buses, more than 40 of them are crowded in them. With no physical distancing, they were kept in the bus for a good 17 minutes, which is sufficient for Covid-19 to spread from an infected person to non-infected person due to the proximity,’’ he said.He said the PPE provided to the passenger sitting in the centre seat does not provide proper protection as it does not have a proper cover and the aircraft employees do not ensure if he or she is wearing it properly. Though masks and shields are provided to passengers, most of them do not wear it properly, he said.``Thermal check was not done at entrance in Chennai, but we were checked when we alighted from the flight in Madurai,’’ said S V Pathy who travelled by SpiceJet on Saturday. Face shields are provided but many do not wear it properly and as food is available on board the flight, it doesnt serve the purpose because people remove both the mask and shield to consume it, he said.Madurai airport director S Senthil Valavan said that all possible measures are being taken in the terminal building to ensure safety of the passengers. Sign boards have been kept at vantage points to guide passengers and to remind them to follow social distance. Hand sanitisers are kept whereever possible. Seating arrangements have been made following the distance norms. Glass enclosures have been provided at counters. “We are providing maximum possible safety to passengers and that is the reason why air travel in the country turned out to be a safe mode of transport. Around one lakh passengers have used the airport without any issues ever since flight movement was allowed to operate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/air-travellers-call-for-stringent-enforcement-of-covid-safety-norms-during-festive-season/articleshow/78726960.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Meerut||Once people rise, no government would be spared: Ajit Singh||MEERUT: In a well-attended rally organised by Rashtriya Lok Dal in Bulandshahr, party chief and former Union minister Ajit Singh said no government would be spared once people rise. This was the third in a series of mahapanchayats held jointly by RLD and Samajwadi Party in western UP in the aftermath of the Hathras gangrape and attack on the opposition members by the state police. “As much as they could suppress or buy out the voice of the media, once the public rises, no government would be spared. The public has now risen because if such policies stay, 50% of the population will be pushed below poverty line,” Singh said. Taking a potshot at the Centre and state government’s handling of the pandemic and lockdown, Singh said, “What happened to migrant labourers? They had to trek 400km with their families in 45 degrees. There were 150 non-operational government buses standing in each district. Couldn’t they have been put in service to drop these labourers at their homes? Modi didn't raise any concern for the poor labourers.” Singh also asked the people to support the SP-RLD candidate, Praveen Kumar Singh, in the bypoll here slated for November 3. This seat went to BJP in the 2007 assembly polls. It was won by Virendra Singh Sirohi and a bypoll was necessitated after his demise earlier this year. BJP has fielded Sirohi's wife Usha Sirohi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/once-people-rise-no-govt-would-be-spared-ajit-singh/articleshow/78723912.cms||Piyush Rai
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana rains: Highways suffer Rs 300cr damage||HYDERABAD: The initial estimated loss due to damage caused to the national highways following heavy rains and floods in Telangana is over Rs 300 crore. While immediate temporary repairs have been carried out to restore vehicular traffic on highways, permanent repairs will cost over Rs 300 crore. The state government has written to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) seeking funds to take up permanent repairs of these highways. Vehicular traffic had come to a standstill on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway (NH-44) due to a portion of road caving in at Gaganpahad on the city outskirts. R&B engineering-in-chief I Ganapathi Reddy told TOI that they have sent a report of damages to the NHAI seeking funds to repair. “Over Rs 10 crore was spent on temporary repair works following which vehicular traffic was restored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/highways-suffer-rs-300cr-damage/articleshow/78726560.cms||Roushan Ali
October 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man plots wife’s kidnap and murder by trying to set car ablaze, cops rescue her||BAREILLY: A man conspired with his brother and a friend to kill his wife after plotting a fake kidnap bid. They tried to lock the woman inside a car and set the vehicle on fire. She was saved by a timely intervention of police. The woman is 10 years older than her husband and the couple has a two-year-old boy. The incident was reported from Bahedi area of Bareilly district, late on Friday. It all started when police received a stress call from one Shubham Lohit. The man claimed that his wife had been abducted along with his car near a 'dhaba' on the Nainital-Bareilly Highway. The cops immediately alerted all the units and started searching for the woman. Soon, a car was spotted and the woman was rescued. Police have arrested the accused husband and are looking for his aides. Shubham was married to Shivangi around four years ago and the couple often used to quarrel over different issues. On Sunday night, Shubham took his wife and his son along for a ride in his car when he offered a juice laced with a sedative to Shivangi, and she lost consciousness. Thereafter, he handed over his car to his friend Prashant Kumar and brother Shashank Lohit. Shubham then called the cops and said that his wife was abducted by two persons. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “We alerted the police teams on duty after receiving the stress call and managed to find the suspected car in which Shivangi was kidnapped. It was set on fire by Prashant and Shashank but we managed to rescue Shivangi on time." The SSP further added, "After initial investigation, we found the truth and arrested Shivangi’s husband for conspiring her abduction and attempting to kill her. All three accused are booked under relevant sections. The remaining two accused will be nabbed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-plots-wifes-kidnap-and-murder-by-trying-to-set-car-ablaze-cops-rescue-her/articleshow/78723228.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Jagraon woman dies, 54 test positive in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: A patient from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 54 tested positive on Saturday. As per the local media bulletin, the 71-year-old woman of Jandi village in Jagraon, who had acute kidney injury and diabetes, died at Christian Medical College and Hospital. The day also saw two outsiders succumbing to the virus here and 17 testing positive. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has mounted to 818 and that of outsiders to 297. To date, 3,48,193 people have been tested. Of the 54 positive cases, 23 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 11 positive cases’ contacts, 10 from OPD, one healthcare worker, and nine through tracing process. The district case count has increased to 19,606 and that of outsiders to 2,569. So far, 18,446 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.08% of the total cases. There are 339 active patients. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,677. On Saturday, 120 persons were quarantined and 3,984 samples collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-woman-dies-54-test-positive-in-dist/articleshow/78723915.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Vadodara||7-yr-old girl raped in Karjan, one held||Vadodara: A labourer was detained on Friday for abducting and raping a seven-year-old girl at Sagdol village in Karjan taluka of Vadodara. According to police, the accused Kartik Vasava lured the girl by offering her chocolate and took her away to the house of Manibhai Vasava, who lives in the same village. Kartik allegedly touched the girl inappropriately and then raped her. As the girl started to cry, Kartik left the girl outside her house and escaped from the village. On seeing the girl cry, the neighbours asked her the reason. The girl told them what Kartik had done and continued crying. Police said that she was taken to her parents who then went to Karjan police station and lodged a complaint. Kartik was nabbed on Friday and has been kept in quarantine as his Covid-19 test report is awaited. “The accused is a native of Shinor taluka and had been living in a rented home at Sagdol village as he had a job there,” said a police official. He was booked for abduction, rape and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. On Friday evening, the girl’s medical check-up was done at SSG Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/7-yr-old-girl-raped-in-karjan-one-held/articleshow/78724405.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Meerut||Karate player, 17, raped in car by 'friend' in UP, accused held||MEERUT: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her "friend" inside a car in TP Nagar area of Meerut district on Friday evening. Police were alerted about the incident after the family took the girl to a hospital. Her condition deteriorated and the hospital authorities marked a memo to the local cops. According to the father of the rape survivor, also a complainant in the case, his daughter was sexually assaulted by the accused Pulkit on the back seat of the car. An FIR under rape and relevant sections of POCSO Act was registered against the accused who is currently under arrest, the police said. "Her health deteriorated due to excessive bleeding and my wife got the daughter admitted to a hospital. She narrated her ordeal after regaining consciousness. My daughter told me that Pulkit took her to a deserted lane behind Shambhunagar Gurudwara, forced her on the back seat of the car and raped her," the complaint said. According to police, the accused and the rape survivor were acquainted and used to go to the same karate academy in the city. The car in which the incident took place has also been recovered by the police. A sticker of the ruling party was pasted on the car to which the local police later clarified that the accused has no political affiliation and the sticker was misused by him. "The accused has been arrested. The car has been impounded. Flag on the car was also probed. It was found that the accused has political affiliation. But, he had actually wrongly used it in his car," Ajay Sahni, Meerut SSP, said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/karate-player-17-raped-in-car-by-friend-in-up-accused-held/articleshow/78723922.cms||Piyush Rai
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Debris left after demolition drive in city irks shopowners, residents||DEHRADUN: With no appropriate arrangements to remove the debris that was left behind after the recent anti-encroachment drive in Paltan Bazaar, the shopkeepers of the locality are now grappling with what they term “expensive labour cost for removing the debris.” Talking to TOI, Pankaj Masson, president of the Doon valley Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, said, “After the lockdown, there has been a shortage of labour due to which they are charging double the money from the shopkeepers for removing the debris. The festival season has already started, and we do not have any clarity on how we are supposed to make up for the losses when the market is in a state of mess. We have only been asked to use temporary flex boards for advertisement till October 28. The authorities must share a proper plan with us, as simply demolishing a structure is not a solution.” The shopkeepers have also claimed that the advertisement boards, which were removed during the drive, cost at least Rs 1 to 2 lakh and now the same amount has to be spent again. Meanwhile, the officials of the joint team from Dehradun Municipal Corporation and the district administration said a detailed report has to be submitted at the high court after which the guidelines will be shared with the shopkeepers specifying the permitted levels for keeping boards and constructing ramps which do not encroach the public space. The trader’s body has also demanded that their cost for putting up advertisement boards should be covered under the smart city budget. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the anti- encroachment drive was carried out in Dhamawala area where several unauthorised constructions were demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/debris-left-after-demolition-drive-in-city-irks-shopowners-residents/articleshow/78724640.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Man kills disabled daughter, 7||MADURAI: A 34-year-old man in Virudhunagar district smothered his seven-year-old disabled daughter to death on Saturday. The accused was identified as V Palanikumar from Chatrapatti village near Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district. The girl, P Mahalakshmi has learning difficulties and cannot walk, talk or even lift her head, police sources said. Palanikumar and his wife Ramalakshmi are working in a spinning mill and also have a 10-year-old son. The couple found it difficult to go to work as one of them had to stay back with their daughter to take care of her. Palanikumar decided to kill his daughter. He planned the murder and sent his family members to a temple. Around noon, he smothered the child, said Rajapalayam south police inspector Shankar Kannan. When they returned they were shocked to see Mahalakshmi dead. Palanikumar went to the police station and surrendered. Based on a complaint a case was registered and the accused arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-kills-disabled-daughter-7/articleshow/78726967.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Canter driver killed in head-on collision with truck in Pinjore||PANCHKULA: A canter driver died after a head-on collision with a truck in Pinjore on Friday night. Bhag Singh, 50, a resident of Kona village in Pinjore, reported to the cops that he was going to his home from fields around 8.30 pm and saw a truck coming from Baddi side was being driven rashly. The driver lost control over the vehicle and hit a canter, which was going towards Baddi. The canter driver has been identified as Roshan Lal, also a resident of Pinjore, was seriously injuried. The victim was rushed to the PGI, Chandigarh, where he succumbed. His family members were called on the spot and a complaint was given to the cops. The police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving on public way) and 304-A (death caused due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at Pinjore police station. Cops said, “The canter driver fled from the spot leaving the truck behind. We are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/canter-driver-killed-in-head-on-collision-with-truck/articleshow/78726965.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Salem||Rs 11 lakh unaccounted cash seized from govt offices||COIMBATORE: In a major crackdown on corruption, sleuths of the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized Rs 10,94,605 lakh of unaccounted money from government offices in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem, Namakkal and Krishnagiri on Friday. A team of DVAC officers led by deputy superintendent of police T H Ganesh seized Rs 86,500 from the Coimbatore north taluk office. They interrogated revenue department staff, who had kept the money in several files. The officers registered cases against a deputy tahsildar, two revenue inspectors, a surveyor, a village administrative officer, an office assistant, a record clerk, a staff working for consolidate pay, a temporary driver and a tout under Section 7 A read with 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The officials failed to maintain cash entry register, sources said. “We will file a chargesheet before the special court of DVAC cases against the 10 people. The unaccounted money seizure showed the failure of the taluk administration. So, we will send a letter against the tahsildar to the district collector,” said an officer. Tirupur DVAC officers conducted a raid at the office of the sub-registrar at Avinashi and seized Rs 16,105. DVAC officers in Salem district raided the office of the sub-registrar at Suramangalam to seize Rs 2.53 lakh. The officers interrogated sub-registrar Kanagaraj and other staff, and registered a case. The raid was completed at 7am on Saturday. The sleuths seized Rs 5.25 lakh from the office of the assistant director of town and country planning in Namakkal. They seized Rs 2.14 lakh from the RTO check post at Hosur in Krishnagiri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/rs-11-lakh-unaccounted-cash-seized-from-govt-offices/articleshow/78728421.cms||A Subburaj
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Jana Sena may support BJP||HYDERABAD: BJP Telangana unit has devised a two-pronged strategy to keep up the momentum it had gained in the Lok Sabha elections. Though it failed to work the magic in the subsequent local body elections in the state, the saffron party has decided to try the strategy in the forthcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( GHMC) elections. The party will galvanize voters, not just those who are natives of Andhra Pradesh but also from other states, and have a truck with actor Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party (JSP). At a state-level meeting held on GHMC elections recently, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay has indicated that the party would work with JSP. Jana Sena already has an alliance with BJP in Andhra Pradesh. “However, we are not clear how our understanding with Pawan Kalyan’s party will be, but we are sure of their support,” a senior leader said. The party would focus on 50 wards, including Kukatpally, Qutbullapur, Taranka, Chikkadapally, Serilingampally, LB Nagar and Malkajgiri, where people having roots in Andhra Pradesh reside. “We are looking at caste equations. This time we want to tell them that BJP is accommodative and a strong alternative to TRS,” former BJP city president N Ramchander Rao said, adding “the party would have a separate strategy for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-jana-sena-may-support-bjp/articleshow/78725711.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 11 lakh unaccounted cash seized from govt offices||COIMBATORE: In a major crackdown on corruption, sleuths of the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized Rs 10,94,605 lakh of unaccounted money from government offices in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Salem, Namakkal and Krishnagiri on Friday. A team of DVAC officers led by deputy superintendent of police T H Ganesh seized Rs 86,500 from the Coimbatore north taluk office. They interrogated revenue department staff, who had kept the money in several files. The officers registered cases against a deputy tahsildar, two revenue inspectors, a surveyor, a village administrative officer, an office assistant, a record clerk, a staff working for consolidate pay, a temporary driver and a tout under Section 7 A read with 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The officials failed to maintain cash entry register, sources said. “We will file a chargesheet before the special court of DVAC cases against the 10 people. The unaccounted money seizure showed the failure of the taluk administration. So, we will send a letter against the tahsildar to the district collector,” said an officer. Tirupur DVAC officers conducted a raid at the office of the sub-registrar at Avinashi and seized Rs 16,105. DVAC officers in Salem district raided the office of the sub-registrar at Suramangalam to seize Rs 2.53 lakh. The officers interrogated sub-registrar Kanagaraj and other staff, and registered a case. The raid was completed at 7am on Saturday. The sleuths seized Rs 5.25 lakh from the office of the assistant director of town and country planning in Namakkal. They seized Rs 2.14 lakh from the RTO check post at Hosur in Krishnagiri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-11-lakh-unaccounted-cash-seized-from-govt-offices/articleshow/78724659.cms||A Subburaj
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: 3 crorepatis from big parties in fray||HYDERABAD: A cursory analysis of 55 sets of nominations and affidavits filed by various political parties and independent candidates with the Election Commission of India for the Dubbak bypoll reveals that there are three crorepatis among them. The three candidates belonged to three big players in the fray — TRS, Congress and BJP. While BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao and his wife own Rs 9.1 crore worth properties, Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy and his family own Rs 5 crore. TRS nominee Solipeta Sujatha has assets worth Rs 1.2 crore. According to the affidavit of Srinivas Reddy, son of former minister Cheruku Mutyam Reddy, he, his wife and daughters own movable assets of Rs 71 lakh, including three cars, and immovable assets of Rs 4.25 crore. The family has a liability of Rs 1.1 crore. Raghunandan and his wife own Rs 2.6 crore movable assets, including a Mercedes Benz car, and Rs 6.5 crore immovable assets. Raghunandan and his wife have a liability of Rs 4.5 crore. Raghunandan is a lawyer and has a PG degree in human rights. The BJP candidate has five criminal cases pending against him. including that ofof rape, IT case, money transfer, etc. Sujatha said in the affidavit that she has Rs 48 lakh worth movable assets and Rs 70 lakh worth immovable assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-crorepatis-from-big-parties-in-fray/articleshow/78725723.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Property can be registered, updated for free: Telangana||Hyderabad: The Telangana government has announced that property owners can register their property details on Dharani portal and update details on their own through www.npb.telangana.gov.in. They can also update the details through Mee Seva and the services will be available for free. The service charges payable to MeeSeva will be borne by GHMC/municipality concerned. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar in a press release said the government would come up with modalities in respect of non-resident Indians (NRIs), OCI and foreign nationals’ properties. He said the property owners have to provide Aadhaar number (to protect property from fraudulent transactions), mobile number (to send alerts/information to owners regarding their property), family members’ details as declared by owner (for securing property rights of family members), photograph of owner (for printing on the maroon NPB), extent of plot and built up area. He said the information is required to be furnished by property owners on voluntary basis. If not, properties of such owners would not be migrated to the new system. Those who have already enlisted property through Mobile App need not enlist again using the above channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/property-can-be-registered-updated-for-free-t/articleshow/78725718.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Inundated Sec’bad colonies appeal for help||Secunderabad: Yet to get any respite from the recent floods as several colonies are still inundated, the residents are scared as IMD predicted heavy rains for Saturday. With the flood threat looming, residents of the SAIL Colony, near the Hashmetpet lake have urged the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) to protect them from the impending crisis. SCB responded to their pleas and placed sandbags at the entrance of the SAIL Colony to prevent floodwater from entering the area. “We are also scared about waterborne diseases as floodwater has surrounded colonies. SCB should protect us by cleaning mud and removing waste,” Ganapathy, a resident of SAIL Colony said. When TOI contacted SCB senior superintendent, M Devender, he said, “We are cleaning the colonies. We have already started work in LIC Colony in Marredpally, Pavan Vihar in Bowenpally, Brook Bond Colony in Kakaguda and Viman Nagar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inundated-secbad-colonies-appeal-for-help/articleshow/78726568.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Meerut||Three people end lives in 24 hours in Bijnor districts||BIJNOR: Three people ended their lives at different places in the past 24 hours in Bijnor district. According to police, 35-year-old Navneet Rajput of Bahadarpur hanged himself to death over a family tiff on Saturday morning. Rajput’s father informed police about the incident. In another incident, an 18-year-old youth, Nitin Kumar, of Kotara village under Nagina police station area ended his life by consuming poison on Saturday. He was rushed to a private hospital, where doctors proclaimed him dead upon arrival. Nitin, too, had a tiff with his family members. In a separate incident, 32-year-old Harendra Kumar shot himself dead in Viral village under Chandpur police station. Harendra, a driver, was working with a cooperative bank. Police sent the body for autopsy. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said a probe was going on, but prima facie family tiff appeared to be the cause of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-people-end-lives-in-24-hours-in-bijnor-districts/articleshow/78723931.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang of burglars busted, 6 arrested in Dugri||LUDHIANA: The Dugri police busted a gang of burglars on Friday, with the arrest of six. Two country-made pistols, gold and silver jewellery, four stolen bikes, one scooter and two stolen laptops were recovered from their possession. The arrested were identified as Jeetu of Satjot Nagar, Vicky and Raju of Roop Nagar, Manjinder Singh of Beela village, Jagmeet Singh of Lalton Khud village and Ankur Kumar of Pakhowal. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said with the arrests, the police have solved seven burglaries executed by the accused in different areas of Ludhiana. The accused had been active in the city for the past few years, he said, adding that Raju was the kingpin of the gang and facing trials in four cases of burglaries, while Vicky has two theft cases registered against him. The ADCP said the accused were addicts and executed crimes to meet their need for drugs. The gang stole vehicles parked outside houses and on roadsides. The police have also recovered a Royal Enfield bike that they had stolen from Chandigarh. He said the accused used to do recce in the city in daytime and committed thefts at night. They usually targeted locked houses and were more active in Dugri and Sadar. First, the Durgi police arrested Jeetu and Vicky from a checkpost near Phullanwal. The accused were on a bike and could not produce its documents. When questioned, they confessed to have stolen it. During further questioning, they spilled the beans on more vehicle thefts and burglaries. On the information provided by them, their accomplices were nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-of-burglars-busted-6-arrested/articleshow/78723930.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Bike-borne robbers on prowl in Trichy||TRICHY: Incidences of chain-snatching and house break-in were low in the city in recent weeks, but motorcycle-borne robbers are on the prowl, striking twice in a week. The latest incident happened on Friday evening when J Divya Dharshini of Karumandapam was targeted by a bike-borne man at the entrance of Saranathan engineering college on the Trichy- Madurai bypass road at Panjappur. A BE graduate in the college, she was about to enter the college campus on her two-wheeler when an unidentified man on a bike came close, snatched her handbag and sped away. The student informed her family and lodged a complaint with the Edamalaipattipudhur police station. She said that a smartphone worth Rs 15,000 and some cash were in the handbag. It was only on Tuesday night that a 39-year-old man from Mambalasalai in Trichy city was robbed of his bike, a mobile phone and debit card. B Kannan had parked his vehicle near Padma Garden on Kumbakonathan Salai and was speaking on phone around 9 pm when a three-member gang came on a bike. One of them got down and asked him to guide them to an address. While Kannan was directing them, the man grabbed his phone and wallet with debit card from his pocket. Another one snatched the bike from him and the trio escaped from the spot after pushing Kannan away. With cases registered, police are on the lookout for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bike-borne-robbers-on-prowl-in-trichy/articleshow/78726572.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani portal land applications put on hold||Hyderabad: Enlisting of non-agricultural properties under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits on Dharani portal has been put on hold. On Saturday, the portal was not accepting applications. Applicants were able to enter details but were unable to submit the details as the submit button was removed from the portal. According to GHMC officials, enlisting has temporarily been halted due to the rains. “Enlisting of properties has temporarily been halted in the city due to rains. All staffers have been pressed into service to attend to rain-related grievances. The date when enlisting of properties will resume has not been decided yet,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-portal-land-applications-put-on-hold/articleshow/78725732.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers protest takes a toll on Dappar plaza, loss pegged at Rs 1 crore||MOHALI: For the last six days, farmers have been protesting against farm laws at the Dappar toll plaza situated on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway, which has led to a loss of Rs 1 crore, said toll plaza officials. According to toll plaza officials, there are 12 lanes at the Dappar toll plaza and every day nearly 35,000 vehicles pass through the toll plaza. For the last six days, farmers are forcing the officials to let vehicles cross through the toll plaza without any payment. “They make sure that nobody pays at the toll booth. Everybody is travelling for free,” said a source at the toll plaza. Deepak Arora, corporate relation officer at Dappar toll plaza, said, “On a daily basis, transactions of around Rs 20 lakh are done here, but the protest has taken a toll on this so we have faced a loss of around Rs 1 crore till date. Farmers initially told us that they will protest till Wednesday, but now they are saying they will leave by Sunday.” Deepak also said never ever such an incident took place in the past where the toll plaza had to shut operations due to a protest. Sources also revealed that Punjabi Singer Jass Bajwa also visited the toll plaza three times already to show his support to the farmers (With inputs from Piyush Sarna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-protest-takes-a-toll-at-dappar-plaza-officials-peg-loss-at-rs-1cr/articleshow/78726971.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Site crash adds to aspirants’ anxiety, Ayushi tops Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The result of NEET-2020 was declared on Friday evening. Though it was expected to be announced at 4pm, the website crashed due to huge traffic, giving students and parents anxious moments. The website resumed around 9pm. Ayushi Gupta topped the city with 695 marks, securing AIR 140, followed by Samridhi Manchanda with AIR 217 (690 marks). Among other students who got more than 600 marks are Yajat Singla with AIR 515, Bhavdeep Singh AIR 811, Harshul Sood AIR 1,151, Hargun Kaur Kaira AIR 1,234, Jashanjot Singh Mangat AIR 1,311, Daiwik Goyal AIR 1,604 and Pranav Monga AIR 1,905. Ekjot Kaur got AIR 1,964, Megha Kumari AIR 2,421, Harshita AIR 3,053 and Ritvik Gupta AIR 4,977. In 2019, Mayank Anand and Arshneet Kaur Selhi had secured highest marks in the city, 663 out of 720 each, securing AIR 423 and 431, respectively. Their general category ranks were 332 and 335, respectively This year, 2,164 appeared for the exam in three district centres, out of 2,566 registered students, marking 84.33% attendance. The three-hour exam was conducted on September 13 at SGND Convent School, Andlu, Raikot; Amrit Indo-Canadian Academy, Ladian Khurd, Bagga Khurd, and Guru Nanak Model Senior Secondary School, Doraha. NEET SHEET The exam is conducted by National Testing Agency. It was conducted on September 13, after getting postponed twice due to Covid-19 The exam was of 720 marks, with 180 questions carrying four marks each. There was 25% negative marking for a wrong answer The answer keys were uploaded on September 26 and students could challenge the answer key from September 27 to 29. A few questions from biology invited a row  Cut-off marks for unreserved (general) category is 147 and for SC/ST/OBC is 113 BFUHS, Faridkot, is expected to open applications in the next few days, after which they will declare merit lists with Punjab state ranks National and state counselling for admission to MBBS and BDS seats are expected to start after the declaration of results. MCI will finalise and declare counselling calendar and rules Tie-breaking formula If two or more candidates score the same marks, candidates obtaining higher marks in biology (botany and zoology) will be given preference If the tie exists after calculating biology scores, preference will be given to candidates who scored higher marks in chemistry Next, candidates with less number of wrong answers in all the subjects of NEET will also be given an advantage. If the tie remains, the aspirants older in age will be preferred||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/site-crash-adds-to-aspirants-anxiety-ayushi-tops-city/articleshow/78723932.cms||Mehak Jain
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: As flood waters recede, motor and property damage claims trickle in||HYDERABAD: With the Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao pegging the overall loss due to the recent downpour and floods at Rs 5,000 crore, insurance players too are seeing claims start trickling in, especially on the motor insurance front. The industry expects this trickle of motor claims to turn into a heavier flow over the next few days as the water levels recede. Apart from vehicle damages, goods in factories and godowns as well as crops too have been damaged and insurers expect to get clarity on this front in the next fortnight. In 2015-16, the insurance sector had received over 50,000 claims amounting to over Rs 5,000 crore for losses incurred during the Chennai flood. During Hudhud cyclone, that ravaged Vizag and part of Andhra Pradesh in October 2014, the insurance industry had settled claims worth over Rs 2,700 crore. “In the commercial segment, the insurance penetration in Telangana is quite high and we anticipate that it will take us at least two weeks to get a firm hold on the figures,” Sanjay Datta, chief (underwriting, claims and reinsurance), ICICI Lombard General Insurance said, adding that there could be claims of around Rs 500 crore on the commercial property damage front alone for the industry. Ashwani Gaba, head – claims, SBI General Insurance, said it has received over 40 claims (including motor and non-motor) in the last two days, largely from Hyderabad and nearby areas. An HDFC ERGO spokesperson too stated that it is too early to estimate the extent of the damage caused by the rains in AP and Telangana and as of now, the company has received more than 100 motor insurance claims and about 22 commercial claims and that they expect more claims to be filed in the days to come. TA Ramalingam, CTO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance confirmed that it has started receiving a decent number of motor claim intimations that are mainly related to vehicle submerging and breakdowns. “In terms of non-motor claims, we have received very few and these are mainly due to commercial property damage, wherein the water has entered the property premises and damaged the assets within.” Abhijit Chatterjee, EVP and head - claims, IFFCO Tokio General Insurance confirmed that they expect more claim intimations from the rural areas once the water recedes in those areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-flood-waters-recede-motor-and-property-damage-claims-trickle-in/articleshow/78726579.cms||Swati Rathor
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Gear up for Dharani launch: CS to officials||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will launch Dharani, the land web portal, on October 25 on the occasion of Dasara. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar, who held a video conference with district collectors, additional collectors, tahsildars and naib tahsildars, on Saturday asked them to be ready for the launch, informed them about the importance of the web portal and gave a detailed presentation on the functioning of the portal. The chief secretary said “Dharani is a most innovative, state-of-the art, transparent, accountable, safe and secure, hassle-free, discretion-less portal and will be a trendsetter for the entire country.” Somesh Kumar asked the collectors to ensure 100% readiness in terms of staff and infrastructure for Dharani portal. He also stressed that all tahsildars should undertake at least ten transactions by Sunday on trial basis. The CS instructed the respective district collectors to ensure that hardware facilities for Dharani were fully functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gear-up-for-dharani-launch-cs-to-officials/articleshow/78725724.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||CM pays tribute to MGR, Jaya on party foundation day||Coimbatore: As AIADMK stepped into its 49th year on Saturday, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami hoisted the party flag and paid floral tributes to former chief ministers MGR and J Jayalalithaa at Siluvampalayam in Salem district. Palaniswami, who is also the AIADMK joint co-ordinator, is in his native place to participate in the post-death rituals of his mother. She passed away on October 13. Similarly, the party co-ordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam hoisted the AIADMK flag at the party headquarters in Chennai . In Coimbatore, AIADMK party functionaries arranged party flags in the shape of 49 near Kurichi Kulam bund. A group of party functionaries from Kuniyamuthur distributed sweets to the public and some others cut cakes to mark the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-pays-tribute-to-mgr-jaya-on-party-foundation-day/articleshow/78724678.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old dies in bike accident||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old man died after his bike was hit by a tipper truck in Keesara on Saturday. Police registered a case under section 304-A (negligence causing death) of IPC. Following the mishap, the locals staged a protest in Ankreddypally Chowrasta and it resulted in a traffic jam. Keesara police registered another case against the protesters under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-dies-in-bike-accident/articleshow/78725733.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||NRIs struggle to connect with loved ones in Hyderabad||Hyderabad: With no power in several places over the past few days and communication lines down, NRIs had a tough time getting in touch with aged parents and their kin in the city. The unprecedented power loss left many worried about the safety of their loved ones. Sateesh Reddy, an IT professional who lives near Philadelphia, said, “I tired getting in touch with my parents on Tuesday night when we started realizing how grim the situation was, but they had lost power by then,” he said. Reddy’s parents live in Ameenpur. “Without their phones on charge, we could not reach them the next day as well. Almost 48 hours later, and after repeated calls, we got through,” said Sateesh Reddy. With almost 30 calls to neighbours and friends, Madhav A, who stays in London, finally connected with his aged parents late on Thursday. “It is scary not to know what is happening. This was an unprecedented situation and we could not even get through the neighbours. It is in times like this that we regret being so far.” Nalini Reddy in Birmingham had a was similar story. “With the Wi-Fi down not just calls, even mails were not going through. There should be a dedicated helpline number or services that NRIs can use in times of crisis,” she said. Reddy like many others suggested that the government must have a much more proactive wing to deal with issues concerning NRIs in any kind if crisis, including a helpline exclusively for NRIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nris-struggle-to-connect-with-loved-ones-in-city/articleshow/78726595.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Land acquisition process for river linking set in motion||Trichy: District collector S Sivarasu held talks with landowners in seven villages in the district as part of acquiring 341.2 acres of land required for executing the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking project. The project involves construction of a 255.60km-long canal from Mayanur in Karur district to link Cauvery with Vaigai.Revenue officials appointed to execute the acquisition have earmarked land in the villages coming under Srirangam assembly segment in the district. A total of 319.7 acres of patta land and 21.4 acres of poramboke land have been earmarked along the seven villages. A total of Rs 97.4 crore has been allocated for Trichy district alone for the purpose. The collector along with other revenue officials held talks at two locations such as Ammapettai and Mathur along with panchayat presidents, farmers and land owners who have to forgo their land. They discussed about the area to be acquired and the compensation to be disbursed to the land owners.The project envisages diverting 8.5tmcfeet of surplus water from Cauvery near Mayanur barrage in Karur to Vaigai river in Madurai and further to Gundar via channels. The state government has allocated Rs 700 crore to commence the project. The project is the last leg of the Mahanadi-Godavari-Krishna-Penna-Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river interlinking project envisaged by the Centre. Of them, Godavari, Krishna and Penna have already been linked in Andhra Pradesh, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/land-acquisition-process-for-river-linking-set-in-motion/articleshow/78726591.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Navaratri to be low-key event in Samayapuram||Trichy: The Navaratri festival got off to start at Samayapuram Arulmigu Mariamman temple near Trichy without the usual pomp and grandeur. The festival is being held as a low-key festival due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The annual temple festival held for nine days is celebrated with processions and special prayers and attracts thousands of people from nearby hamlets. With section 144 still active in the state, the temple management has announced that the procession will not be held this year. For nine days beginning from October 17, abishekams will be performed for the Mariamman idol which will be kept at Vasantha Mandapam for one-hour darshan for devotees between 6 and 7 pm.“We have also cancelled the routine cultural events that are hosted at the temple during Navarathri. To avoid crowding, devotees will not be allowed even to halt for a while inside the temple,” K P Ashok Kumar, joint commissioner of Samayapuram temple said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/navaratri-to-be-low-key-event-in-samayapuram/articleshow/78726574.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Meerut||NGT directs UP govt to keep vigilon illegal brick kilns in Delhi-NCR||MEERUT: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to keep an eye on illegal operations of brick kilns in the Delhi-NCR. This includes seven West UP districts and 13 in Haryana. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice AK Goel noted that the brick kiln industry contributed about 5 to 7% of PM10 emissions in winter and summer, respectively, to the ambient air of Delhi and NCR. “The concerned authorities in the state of Uttar Pradesh may keep a vigil against illegal operation of brick kilns so as to protect the air quality in the NCR,” the Bench, also comprising Justice SP Wangdi, said. The tribunal was responding to a hearing of a PIL filed by Akhilesh Singh and others who petitioned the tribunal to act against brick kilns operating without complying with the norms. The petition was originally filed against the operating of 600 brick kilns in Baghpat and it was contended that all of them were operating illegally without obtaining necessary environment clearance licence. Notably, after Delhi-NCR witnessed alarming levels of pollution last winter, the tribunal had banned all sorts of activities in and around brick kilns and stated that the operation of these kilns was only increasing the levels of PM2.5 in the environment, contributing to pollution. However, later it came to the court's notice that during the lockdown period, the chief secretary of UP had directed all the district magistrates to allow the brick kilns to operate in the state and hence on July 9, the NGT reprimanded the chief secretary and warned him to be careful, failing which, would lead to "direct prosecution, stoppage of salary and other coercive measures for violation of the order". (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ngt-directs-up-govt-to-keep-vigilon-illegal-brick-kilns-in-delhi-ncr/articleshow/78723942.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: YouTuber caught sans mask pays fine, makes awareness video||TRICHY: A 50-year-old YouTuber and small-time actor was penalised by the Trichy Corporation on Saturday for not wearing a mask. Corporation workers who were aware of his social media influence made use of him by recording an awareness video promoting the importance of wearing a facemask. The YouTuber Trichy ‘Meesai’ Ramesh from Kariamanickam near Samayapuram, had thousands of followers in the banned TikTok video-sharing platform. After its ban, Ramesh switched to YouTube and other applications. On Saturday, at around 12.30 pm, Ramesh had gone to the Central bus stand, when he was spotted without facemask by the workers. One of the workers, V Shankar penalised Ramesh Rs 200 and also requested him to make an awareness video to encourage people to wear a facemask. “As he (Ramesh) is followed by thousands of netizens, his video will have a direct impact. Although we insist people to wear facemasks, only a few pay attention,” Shankar told TOI. After paying the penalty, Ramesh recorded a 40-second video acknowledging the hardwork of frontline staff. “I did not use the mask due to breathing difficulty. The video shot with corporation workers was shared on social media,” Ramesh said. The video has now gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youtuber-caught-sans-mask-pays-fine-makes-awareness-video/articleshow/78726582.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar held for stealing phones||Vijayawada: Police on Saturday arrested a burglar for his alleged involvement in the theft at a Samsung showroom under Ongole taluk police station limits on October 7. Prakasam district SP Siddharth Kaushal said the accused, identified as Pattem Sai Babu, had broken into the showroom and stolen 13 mobile phones worth Rs 4.04 lakh. Police have recovered all the phones. Sai Babu had five cases registered against him. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-held-for-stealing-phones/articleshow/78725741.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Flooding in Candolim set to be remedied||CANDOLIM: The Ximer area of Candolim is expected to be rid of its flooding woes soon. The state government has launched the second phase of beautification works in Candolim, with the construction of footpaths from Ximer to the Candolim football ground, according to minister for waste management, Michael Lobo. “This area at Ximer always gets flooded. We are going to build two drains on either side of the road with cross-drains that will take the water to the sea,” Lobo said. The Rs 50-lakh beautification is being undertaken through the rural development agency (RDA). Lobo said though the narrow road from Ximer to the Candolim football ground is not going to be widened, footpaths will be created on either side for the convenience of residents and the large number of tourists, who presently have to walk on the road. “People have willingly agreed to give land to build the footpaths, for which we are demolishing their compound walls. We will rebuild them in Goan style and we will also have murals depicting scenes from Goan life,” Lobo said. Work is expected to be completed in 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flooding-in-candolim-set-to-be-remedied/articleshow/78726979.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Mini RO plants become instant hit at Annur||Coimbatore: The district rural development agency has set up mini reverse osmosis (RO) plants in five villages in Annur block, offering residents treated drinking water at a throw away price. And they have become extremely popular with the local residents and commuters in a short span of time. The mini RO plants were set up at Pillaiyappampalayam, Karekavundanpalayam, Masakoundan Chettipalayam, Kunnathur and Pachapalayam below the overhead water tanks at Rs 10 lakh each. All that people need to do is place their water cans or bottles under the unit’s pipe and insert coins inside the machine, which accepts coins in denominations of Rs 1, Rs 2 and Rs 5. Lakshman Murthy, panchayat president of Pillaiyappampalayam, says 2 litres water is priced at Rs 1, five litres at Rs 2 and 10 litres at Rs 5. Private bottling companies charge anywhere between Rs 35 and Rs 60 for 20 litres water. “People are happy with the RO plant and they have found them extremely hygienic and trustworthy. Every day, 50 to 100 people come and take water from the plant. People have been drawing a total of 2,000 litres a day for the past couple of days. People can use the water for drinking and cooking. They amount they pay would be used towards the maintenance and electricity cost of the plant,” Murthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mini-ro-plants-become-instant-hit-at-annur/articleshow/78724688.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation removes encroachments in Woraiyur||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation on Saturday evicted encroachments on the Thiruthanthoni Road at Woraiyur which caused traffic snarls. Dozens of illegal establishments, including night tiffin centres, which were causing traffic snarls due to unauthorised two-wheeler parking, and affecting the flow of water during heavy rains, were removed. “The encroachments were warned orally several times. Since they did not voluntarily remove their belongings, we evicted them with police support,” a corporation official said.Officials said they would next evict encroachments on the Nawab Thottam, Panchavarnaswami temple and Takkar roads at Woraiyur.The civic body assured that encroachments on other narrow roads in Woraiyur shall be evicted in a week. Residents have welcomed the move and have sought the eviction drive to be conducted periodically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-removes-encroachments-in-woraiyur/articleshow/78726576.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid cases dip by 31.2% in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district, which has seen a sharp decline in the Covid-19 curve in the past one week, logged 88 new cases on Saturday. With this, the tally has surged past the 6,000-mark to 6,003. Most of the new cases were reported from the rural areas in the district. According to a health department official, the new cases have dropped by 31.2% in the past one week. At least 105 patients were recovered and discharged on the day, bringing the active cases down to 667. The recovery rate has improved by 4% to 88.3% in the hill retreat. The toll has shot up to 34 in the hill district with one more patient succumbing to the virus. The official, meanwhile, attributed the gradual downward curve in the Covid cases to more testing and strict implementation of standard operating procedures on preventive measures to contain the virus spread in public places. Of the 667 active cases, 18 are admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, while more than 100 patients are in home quarantine. The remaining patients are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and Covid care centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-cases-dip-by-31-2-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78724697.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Students who got govt’s NEET coaching fare poorly||MADURAI: The NEET results declared on Friday showed that only less than 30% of those enrolled for the free government online crash course in the district could score the minimum qualifying marks, said district education officials. In corporation schools, only around 45% of students scored the qualifying marks. According to officials at Chief Education Officer (CEO) office, as many as 226 students from government and aided schools who had enrolled in the free online NEET crash course appeared for the exam. Around 30% of them have got the qualifying marks, said officials. Among them, in case of government schools, a student of Y Othakadai GHSS scored the highest of 320 marks. In aided schools, a student of OCPM Girls GHSS scored 397 marks, to top among them. A number of students from government and aided schools in the district have scored in the range of 200-350 marks, said a co-ordinator for government coaching in the district. Students missed out on the usual residential coaching camp due to Covid-19 and were instead asked to take up online coaching. However, students this year had extra time than usual to prepare for the exams. In the case of corporation schools in Madurai city, as many as 37 students had written the exam of which only around 40% could score qualifying marks. A student of Avvai Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, who scored 234 topped among them. Only two more corporation school students scored above 200. Officials added that around 20 students are being trained by the corporation for the past year and will be writing their exams next year. Meanwhile, in CBSE schools, some students were able to score even above 600 marks. At Kendriya Vidyalaya, Narimedu, two students scored above 600 marks, with the top score being 666. Five students scored 500-600 marks while four scored between 400-500. At some of the private CBSE schools as well in the district, the top scores were above 600.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-who-got-govts-neet-coaching-fare-poorly/articleshow/78726597.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP CM Jagan Reddy writes to Amit Shah, seeks aid of Rs 1,000cr||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking a financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for the state to mitigate the flood damage caused by the deep depression. Incessant rains have caused severe damage to roads and houses in the state, the chief minister said, adding that the twin Godavari districts bore the brunt of the deep depression while the damage to other districts was comparatively low. He requested Shah to send central teams at the earliest to assess the damage caused to the state. The chief minister further mentioned in the letter that rains in August and September too caused damage to the canal system in the state. The roads, particularly in rural areas, suffered heavy damage. The cost of the damage, taking into account all sectors, was estimated to be around Rs 4,450 crore. Jagan further said that over 14 persons lost their lives in the deluge, while several houses were completely destroyed. Some villages were marooned in the flood water across the state, he said. Jagan informed the Union home minister that the state government opened relief camps at several places to help people whose houses got inundated. The rains in Maharashtra and Karnataka too brought flood water through river Krishna, which also contributed its share to the damage. He said the state had suffered heavily due to Covid-19 and the rains and subsequent floods since August have further increased the damage. He requested Shah to take the initiative to send financial assistance to the state at the earliest and also send central teams to assess the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cm-writes-to-shah-seeks-aid-of-rs-1000cr/articleshow/78730043.cms||Gopi Dara
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: ‘Movie theatres and OTT will co-exist in post-Covid world’||NAGPUR:  Manohar Wadhwani is a Nagpur-based film distributor who in the last decade has secured rights of several big blockbusters. A keen student of the film exhibition and audience psyche dynamics, Wadhwani takes us into this fascinating and high stakes world where fortunes are made and lost within just two days of the release weekend. He talks to TOI about their business and what lies ahead in the ‘new normal.’ Excerpts... Q. The state government is talking about re-opening of movie theatres, but everyone is sceptical about the response. People can watch new movies on OTT as well. Your thoughts? A. I can guarantee you that within two months of reopening, it will be business as usual. Obviously we have suffered huge losses due to closure but that will change after reopening. The reason is that movie theatres don’t just exhibit content, they make you a part of an experience. The big screen, the sound system, the atmosphere and the value added services are part of the three-hour experience package. Audiences crave that, which is why the sector has flourished despite over two decades of satellite TV. Watching a James Bond or a Rohit Shetty film on the big screen is a completely different experience. Plus every theatre will operate as per state SOPs. Right from limiting the seating capacity to putting food under UV rays to sanitization of the premises, the safety of audiences will never be compromised. Q. Do you feel that OTT platforms won’t replace you? A. In the post-Covid world, both OTT and movie theatres will co-exist since financial dynamics come into play. If a movie’s budget itself is over Rs200 crore, there is no way an OTT app can spend that amount. That’s because the OTT’s revenue is minuscule considering that their paid users shell out hardly Rs600-odd per year. Mega-budget movies need the reach and infrastructure of the traditional movie theatres. Also, you have to understand the psyche of the audience. People love watching these multi-starrers on the big screen. Content is just one part of these big budget movies. The international locations, hiring professional staff, equipment, special effects and finally the big promotion campaign come at a big cost. The financials of OTTs don’t allow them to bankroll purchase of such exclusive rights. Q. Will OTT be more of a low-budget content platform? A. Yes, when it comes to new releases. For both budget-conscious productions and content which is intended for the classes. There are producers who have high quality intellectual content but their production costs were limited and there’s probably nothing left for promotion. For them, OTT platforms will provide not only an audience but enough revenue to recover their expenses. Web series are flourishing and you can see that many are being made with minimal costs. Q. If OTT and movie theatres co-exist in the future, then who loses the market share? A. Satellite movie channels will be wiped out in the near future. The producer has the right to sell his movie to a channel after two weeks of the release, to reach audiences who could not or cannot visit the movie hall. But now, OTT is an added platform to sell those movie rights and movie channels are now becoming redundant. Q. What are the immediate challenges that you foresee post-reopening for movie distributors and exhibitors? A. Getting new releases with enough star power to pull the crowds. Audiences are different in every territory and we distributors have to take calculated risks. In Vidarbha, only action and skin movies make money. In Mumbai, even the intellectual type movies will do well. Every area is different and so, to ensure that the movie exhibition sector comes back with a bang, you need a movie that has the star power and content. Fortunately, there are a couple of Hindi movies which are ready, and they are packed with bankable stars and all the paraphernalia which comes with a mega budget movie. Q. You mentioned action movies clicking in Vidarbha. Do distributors watch a movie and then decide? A. You will be shocked to know that distributors pay the entire money upfront without even being shown the movie or getting to know the plot. All we get to see is the trailer. Crores are shelled out purely on assumptions based on star cast and the production house banner. There’s no science here, just gut feeling. Once I paid a premium for a big action star’s movie and it bombed. Whereas no one was willing to touch ‘Oh My God’ and ‘Queen’, when I bought their rights. And both did fantastic business. And this high risk, high gain/loss has a short shelf life. The opening weekend is what breaks or makes over 90% of the movies. You may lose everything by Sunday or make more than expected. Q. What does territory/circuit mean in terms of distribution business? A. For distribution of movie rights, India is divided into various territories since the British era, and it has remained status quo. Nagpur is the hub of the CP & Berar territory. We cover Vidarbha, Khandesh, entire Chhattisgarh and some parts of Madhya Pradesh. A distributor buys the rights from the producer for one or more territories and sells it to movie exhibitors. With multiplexes, we work a revenue sharing formula while single screen theatres prefer the old weekly shows rent method. xxxxxxxxx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/movie-theatres-and-ott-will-co-exist-in-post-covid-world/articleshow/78725754.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 18, 2020||Trichy||Urea shortage fake, compelled to buy addl fertilizers: Farmers||Trichy: With samba paddy cultivation under way in delta districts, farmers have been experiencing shortage of urea following the increase in its demand. However, they allege that shopkeepers are trying to create artificial shortage and hoarding the fertilizer. They were also being compelled to buy complex and other fertilizers along with urea though they don’t need them. According to officials, farmers are expected to raise samba paddy on about 4.5 lakh acres in the delta districts. In Trichy alone, they have so far cultivated on 40,000 acres. As the transplantation process has been completed in several areas, urea has to be applied. M Chelladurai, a farmer from Theneerpatti in Trichy district, said he raised the crop on 30 acres and needed to apply urea. When he approached a private agency at Asur, the shopkeeper forced him to buy potash and complex on par with the bags he would buy urea, he said. “A bag of urea costs Rs 266.50. However, they made me purchase complex and diammonium phosphate (DAP) equal to urea. Price of DAP is Rs 1,200. For my 30 acres, I need 30 bags of urea. Why should I purchase 30 bags of DAP spending such huge money? This is the case across the district”, he added. R Senthilkumar, CPI union secretary of Ammapettai in Thanjavur, said that even after the intervention of agriculture department officials, private fertilizer agencies were selling urea at higher price. “Private agencies are fleecing farmers by fixing around Rs 40 for a bag of urea claiming there is a shortage of the fertilizer,” he said. Government is advising farmers to increase their income by minimizing input cost. But here, farmers are forced to buy unwanted fertilizer spending more, said N Veerasekaran, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Sangam. “When agriculture officials are advising farmers to make use of organic and green manure, it is unfair of private fertilizer agencies to compel farmers to purchase unwanted things. In most of the cooperative societies, preference is given only to loanee farmers to sell fertilizers”, he added. When contacted, A Justin, joint director of agriculture department, Thanjavur claimed they have the required amount of urea and there was no shortage. “If any private agency is found violating rules, stern action will be taken,” he said. Trichy district collector S Sivarasu while warning the agencies of action, advised farmers to produce their Aadhaar card while purchasing fertilizer and asked them to demand a receipt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/urea-shortage-fake-compelled-to-buy-addl-fertilizers-farmers/articleshow/78726594.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||AP CM Jagan Reddy writes to Amit Shah, seeks aid of Rs 1,000cr||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking a financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for the state to mitigate the flood damage caused by the deep depression. Incessant rains have caused severe damage to roads and houses in the state, the chief minister said, adding that the twin Godavari districts bore the brunt of the deep depression while the damage to other districts was comparatively low. He requested Shah to send central teams at the earliest to assess the damage caused to the state. The chief minister further mentioned in the letter that rains in August and September too caused damage to the canal system in the state. The roads, particularly in rural areas, suffered heavy damage. The cost of the damage, taking into account all sectors, was estimated to be around Rs 4,450 crore. Jagan further said that over 14 persons lost their lives in the deluge, while several houses were completely destroyed. Some villages were marooned in the flood water across the state, he said. Jagan informed the Union home minister that the state government opened relief camps at several places to help people whose houses got inundated. The rains in Maharashtra and Karnataka too brought flood water through river Krishna, which also contributed its share to the damage. He said the state had suffered heavily due to Covid-19 and the rains and subsequent floods since August have further increased the damage. He requested Shah to take the initiative to send financial assistance to the state at the earliest and also send central teams to assess the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-writes-to-shah-seeks-aid-of-rs-1000cr/articleshow/78724696.cms||Gopi Dara
October 18, 2020||Amaravati||AP CM Jagan Reddy writes to Amit Shah, seeks aid of Rs 1,000cr||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday wrote a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking a financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for the state to mitigate the flood damage caused by the deep depression. Incessant rains have caused severe damage to roads and houses in the state, the chief minister said, adding that the twin Godavari districts bore the brunt of the deep depression while the damage to other districts was comparatively low. He requested Shah to send central teams at the earliest to assess the damage caused to the state. The chief minister further mentioned in the letter that rains in August and September too caused damage to the canal system in the state. The roads, particularly in rural areas, suffered heavy damage. The cost of the damage, taking into account all sectors, was estimated to be around Rs 4,450 crore. Jagan further said that over 14 persons lost their lives in the deluge, while several houses were completely destroyed. Some villages were marooned in the flood water across the state, he said. Jagan informed the Union home minister that the state government opened relief camps at several places to help people whose houses got inundated. The rains in Maharashtra and Karnataka too brought flood water through river Krishna, which also contributed its share to the damage. He said the state had suffered heavily due to Covid-19 and the rains and subsequent floods since August have further increased the damage. He requested Shah to take the initiative to send financial assistance to the state at the earliest and also send central teams to assess the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-writes-to-shah-seeks-aid-of-rs-1000cr/articleshow/78730040.cms||Gopi Dara
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University to study floods, damages in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The civil engineering department (CED) of Osmania University (OU) has launched a survey to study the recurring floods in the city. The head of the department and a few students are conducting an online survey. It focuses on the depth of the flood, the number of times the areas have been submerged in the past decade, the ineffective drainage system, encroachment of nalas and water bodies. It seeks to collect information regarding maintenance of drainage system, loss of lives, damage to property, and the response of government agencies like Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, disaster response management, police, Army. Photographs will be used to study the situation. “So far 200 people responded by signing the quick response sheet. The survey will be completed in a week as the IMD has predicted more rain,” said professor M Gopal Naik, CED. Professor N Suresh Kumar, who analysed the flood, said: “The main reason for flood is clogging and poor maintenance of stormwater system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-to-study-floods-damages-in-city/articleshow/78726627.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||In 2 separate incidents, 10 arrested for dacoity||Vijayawada: Prakasam police on Saturday arrested two notorious gang of dacoits that had committed serial offences on the National Highways under Ongole taluk police station limits. Addressing a press conference, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said 10 persons were arrested for involvement in two different cases of robbing vehicle drivers on the highways. In the first instance, Kaushal said M Naveen (23), A Ajith (25) A Mohammed Jaffer (21), V Gnanesh (21) and V Sai Sandeep (27)—all from Nellore—came together to form a gang and robbed vehicle drivers of their cash and mobile phones at knife point. The gang allegedly committed three such offences in a single night. Based on the victims’ complaints, police formed three teams and managed to trace and identify the accused using CCTV footage on the highway. Police also arrested another five dacoits; SD Rahman (24), Ch Chandrashekhar (24), Ch Mahesh (22), P Dinesh (28) and K Swami Sridhar (30), for offences under Ongole taluk and Singarayakonda limits. Altogether, police seized a car worth Rs 8 lakh, nine kilograms of ganja, 850 grams of white drug powder worth Rs 1 lakh, a dummy pistol and cash, overall amounting to Rs 9.75 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-2-separate-incidents-10-arrested-for-dacoity/articleshow/78724717.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasara begins with Covid norms||Vijayawada: Dasara celebrations at the Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri Hill started with a limited number of devotees on Saturday. On the first day of the nine-day-long celebrations, the Goddess Kanka Durga appeared in Swarnakavachalnkruta Durga Devi attire. Celebrations began with temple priests performing Suprabhata Seva followed by Snapanabhishekam and Bala Bhoga Nivedana at 3 am. Devotees were allowed in at 9am. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu and temple executive officer (EO) M Suresh Babu, along with their families, offered the first prayers to the goddess. Temple authorities put in place safety arrangements in line with Covid-19 protocols. On the first day, only devotees who had registered themselves online were allowed to enter. The practice, temple authorities said, will continue till Dasara. Not more than 1,000 devotees per hour were allowed darshan. Temple staff regulating queues were in PPE kits and issuing guidelines to devotees on maintaining social distancing norms. Temple EO Suresh Babu said that in view of the pandemic, only devotees who have registered for darshan and been issued tickets in advance will be allowed. Devotees will have to come with a printout of the ticket and masks are mandatory, he said. Thermal screening is being carried out at the head of each queue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasara-begins-with-covid-norms/articleshow/78725755.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Hike tea estate wages to match those in Kerala, says CPM||Coimbatore: CPM on Saturday requested municipal and rural administration minister S P Velumani to ensure welfare of tea estate workers in Valparai. Daily wages should be matched with that of Kerala, where workers get Rs 403 compared to Rs 333 here, party secretary P Paramasivam said in a petition to the minister. “While in Kerala, wages are disbursed in the estate itself, it is deposited in Valparai workers’ bank accounts. Our workers lose a working day to travel to banks to draw money. As they have to pay for transport also, they shell out Rs 400 to Rs 800 just to withdraw their wages. There are only three banks in Valpari, none of which have the infrastructure to handle thousands of workers coming to withdraw money,” he said. Labour union tax of Rs 800 is deducted from the wages twice a month, Paramasivam said. “The Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation Limited (Tantea) issues bonus of 20%, but private estates always give only the minimum bonus of 8.33% claiming losses. Meanwhile, tea prices are not dropping,” he said. “The bonus should be increased. Even families working in tea estates for four generations are made to vacate their houses after they retire. They then become temporary workers, who are ill-treated by employers. Tea estates are government-owned lands leased out to private people. The government can definitely create some permanent housing for retired employees,” said the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hike-tea-estate-wages-to-match-those-in-kerala-says-cpm/articleshow/78724727.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hubballi||Koppal district hopes for revival in farm sector with agri varsity||Koppal: The agricultural university proposed in Gangavathi taluk in Koppal district has raised hopes of better times among the farming community in Kalyana Karnataka. With agriculture minister BC Patil striking a positive note of setting up the varsity in Koppal, farmers and stakeholders in the education sector in Kalyana Karnataka, a region that has just the one agricultural university in Raichur district. Gangavathi, known as the ‘Rice Bowl’ of Karnataka, is an ideal place for the setting up of an agriculture university, and farmers and other stakeholders are expecting research into varieties of paddy helping improve harvest and yield. There is also hope technology playing a larger role in agriculture in the region once the varsity becomes a reality. President of Karatagi Rice Millers’ Association N Srinivasa said that, while there would be no direct benefits that the agrarian community would derive from the varsity, its presence in the region would have much impact, albeit tangentially. “For example, the Sona 5204 breed of rice is original but many other strains of rice have been derived from this particular type of grain. Consumers, however, do not find these other varieties very suitable for cooking. Such feedback often results in farmers incurring losses. If researchers at the varsity can focus on such issues, it would help maintain uniformity, which will, in turn, help increase demand both nationally and globally,” Srinivasa said. Scientist at Agricultural Research Station in Kalaburagi Mallikarjun Kanganal, who has previously worked in Koppal, said, “The district currently houses a Krishi Vignan Kendra and Parry Research Station in Gangavathi. But there is no scope for education in agriculture in the district. Students either have to go to Raichur or Dharwad, both of which are 180 to 200km far off. An agricultural university in Koppal will help expand the scope of education for the next generation. In Koppal, barring Gangavathi, the remaining three taluks are rain-fed. Once the varsity is set up, it will house 30 to 40 scientists. The varsity will help boost education, agriculture and economy,” said Kangnagal, pointing to the need for more agricultural varsities in Kalyana Karnataka. Former gram panchayat member in Danappur Shafi Hebbal Makandar lamented farmers in the region being taken advantage of by merchants and representatives from fertiliser companies. “Intervention from experts in agriculture will help them stay informed. Since most of the region is rain-fed and only partially irrigated, this is an ideal place for the setting up of an agriculture university,” he added. Basavaraj Karishetti, a teacher and farmer in Marali village, rued the stagnation of the agricultural sector in Kalyana Karnataka. “The quality of soil in declining. New research and technology will energise the sector and the eminence of the ‘Rice Bowl’ will grow further,” said Karishetti, hoping that there would be no delay in the setting up of the varsity since the Koppal district in-charge minister BC Patil was also the agriculture minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/koppal-district-hopes-for-revival-in-farm-sector-with-agri-varsity/articleshow/78724947.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Translate NEET syllabus to Tamil, says top scorer||Madurai: N Jeevith Kumar,18, a government school student who cleared NEET by scoring 664/720 says the exam syllabus, based on National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), if translated and given to government school students from class 11 onwards, may help them clear it easily. A student of Government Model HSS Siluvarpatti in Theni district, he has triumphed in his second attempt and secured an all-India rank of 1,823. The fact that he could score only 193/720 in his first attempt speaks volumes of the effort he had taken to score that high. Jeevith had studied in Tamil medium throughout his academic career and is only the second student to take up medical studies from this school. He had scored 568/600 in his plus-2 examination. Jeevith’s family is over the moon over the fact that he is going to be a doctor. His father K Narayanamoorthi rears goats for a living and his mother N Parameswari works in the 100-day work scheme. He has a sister who completed BSc while a brother is in class X. Jeevith Kumar says the syllabus is the key to cracking NEET. ``The portions for NEET are much smaller than those given for plus two state board syllabus,’’ he said. Jeevith says he wants to become a good doctor who serves poor people.  His school headmaster, A Mohan said they found the boy good in studies and enrolled him in the government’s 45-day coaching programme soon after he passed plus two. But he scored only 193. “Then we collected money and decided to enrol him in a private coaching centre in Thrissur in Kerala as the fee was only Rs 50,000. But he told us that he would like to study in Tamil Nadu, as clearing his doubts from his teachers in his mother tongue would be easier. His IQ is good and the coaching centre at Namakkal relaxed the fee in the second term, as he was performing well,’’ he said. Arul Murugan, a former teacher at the school, had coached him during the six months of lockdown, by making him stay with him.J Sabarimala, one of his mentors , said the boy needed financial assistance to study in a private centre and continuous motivation, something beyond the reach of most government school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/translate-neet-syllabus-to-tamil-says-top-scorer/articleshow/78726987.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Vadodara||City students crack NEET 2020||Vadodara: Like almost everyone in her family, Shrutangi Vaidya wants to live by the meaning of her last name. She has moved closer towards joining the profession of medicine by bagging All India Rank (AIR) 319 in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 results of which were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday evening. “Our surname is Vaidya. Both my parents and grandparents from both the paternal and maternal side as well as my uncles and aunts are doctors. Now, I too will become a doctor,” said Shrutangi, who has scored 690 out of total 720 marks. Daughter of orthopaedic father Dr Shital Vaidya and ophthalmologist mother Dr Shweta, Shrutangi, whose interest lies in neuroscience, has scored full marks in physics and chemistry. While Shrutangi hails from a family of doctors, similarly Pankhil Shah who belongs family of pharmacists has scored 690 out of 720 marks. Pankhil, who has bagged AIR 268, is son of Samir and Sonal Shah, both of whom are in wholesale business of medicines. “I will pursue MBBS and then decide over future choice. But I have always found profile of cardiologist inspiring. I am attracted to that profession,” Pankhil said. Another city girl - Hetvi Aliwala, daughter of businessman father Jigar and homemaker mother Ketki, secured AIR 476 by scoring 685 out of 720 marks. “Currently, my focus is on MBBS. I will make the choice of post-graduate studies later,” she said. Over 5,500 students had appeared in NEET 2020 in Vadodara. “We had 500 students of which over 400 plus students have qualified in NEET 2020. In fact, in terms of marks, both Shrutangi and Pankhil are the highest scoring NEET candidates that Vadodara had so far,” said Dr Rajiv Vijay, director of RJ Vision Private Limited. “Also, we have 16 students who have scored 600 plus marks,” he added. Parth Institute’s chairman Jagdish Nimavat said that the institute had 165 students of which 152 have qualified in NEET 2020. “We have 12 students who have scored 600 plus marks and there are 75 students who have scored 400 and above,” said Nimavat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/city-students-crack-neet-2020/articleshow/78724428.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Withdraw public notice on change of zone, says Congress||PANAJI: The town and country planning (TCP) department’s recent approval for change of zone under section 16B of the Town and Country Planning Act will open up flood gates of conversion said Congress as it demanded that the public notice be withdrawn within seven days. The chief town planner recently published approvals for change of zone for 72 land parcels under section 16B, without details like the size of the area, name of the applicant and current status of the zone. TCP’s notification is faulty and illegal as it hides details about the land being converted, said Congress even as it demanded that the expenditure for the public advertisement should be recovered from TCP officials and not from the state exchequer. “This advertisement has exposed the underbelly and mass corruption with mass destruction of Goa by the BJP government,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. “The notice is bereft of details which are necessary to be put forth to the citizens under the statute of the TCP Act wherein the citizen understands the property details and can be involved in the process as desired.” Congress also warned applicants that they should not pay the government, ministers, TCP officials and other BJP office-bearers as change of zone nods would not stand the scrutiny of the law and are subject to the writ petition before the high court of Bombay at Goa. “It’s evident that the deputy chief minister Chandrakant (Babu) Kavlekar has continued with the legacy of the past TCP minister who was instrumental in amending the TCP act to legally convert huge tracts of fertile land or green cover under the garb of development,” said Chodankar. Interestingly, as the opposition leader Kavlekar had objected to Section 16B and had said that the TCP act had been amended so that the government could profit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-public-notice-on-change-of-zone-congress/articleshow/78726993.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Man found dead, family suspects murder||DEHRADUN: A 45-year-old man was found dead in a road side cottage on Saturday morning. He had developed the cottage as a cycle puncture repair shop. On the basis of the injury marks on his head, his family members claimed that he had been murdered. Ganga Ram, who was from Badaun in Uttar Pradesh, ran a puncture shop. He used to sleep there during night. After having dinner on Friday night, he had come to the shop. On Saturday morning, his wife came to the shop and found his body. She claims that the money kept inside the hut and his mobile handset was missing. Soon after, senior police officers including SP City Shewta Choubey rushed to the spot. The police are working the case on different angles and checking call records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-found-dead-family-suspects-murder/articleshow/78724716.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt coaching helps girl to crack NEET||COIMBATORE: M Vasuki, who has scored 571 marks in NEET, says she did not take private coaching for preparation. The girl, who stays near the Lakshmi Mills, has got the top mark among the students who prepared through the state government's coaching programme. A student of PSGR Krishnammal Higher Secondary School for Girls in the city, Vasuki said her schoolteachers offered extra classes after the school hours. She also attended online NEET coaching classes offered by the government. “Our teachers gave us extra materials such as qprevious years’ question papers for preparation. I also attended the state government’s NEET coaching through eBox during the lockdown. They also shared material on YouTube,” she told TOI. Vasuki said she also got old CBSE textbooks from her friends and used them for preparation. “I tried to understand the concepts. To clear doubt, I also consulted online resources. I put in effort and involvement.” After completing MBBS, Vasuki wants to specialise in oncology. “A close relative of mine succumbed to cancer. From then, I have had the passion to study oncology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-coaching-helps-girl-to-crack-neet/articleshow/78724734.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||We are richest country in world in terms of data, says NITI Aayog CEO at The Doon School Founders’ Day||DEHRADUN: The two-day-long event held to mark the 85th Founders’ Day of The Doon School concluded on Saturday. Amitabh Kant, CEO of NITI Aayog, participated in the online event as the chief guest. He spoke on the life lessons he learnt during his career as an administrator and asked students to lead by optimism. Kant, who is 1980-batch officer, told students about the global position of India in regards to its vast amount of data. “We are the only country in the world with billion-plus biometrics, a billion plus mobiles and almost a billion plus bank accounts. We have over 650 million internet users and are adding a new internet user in every 3 seconds. Our app downloads are more than US and China combined. This vast scale of data and the massive digital footprint is India’s biggest strength for the technological leapfrogging in machine learning and artificial intelligence development,” Kant told students and guests during the event that was held virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Adding that “India is the ‘data-richest country in the world”, Kant said, “As India moves from being data rich to data intelligent, it will use machine learning and artificial intelligence to find solutions for a vast number of our challenges like water availability, health improvements and others.” Kant, who is an officer from the Kerala cadre, also shared the story behind the ‘Incredible India’ campaign that he had initiated. “After my tenure in Kerala, I was posted as the joint secretary of the ministry of tourism in the Government of India. As I took charge, the twin tower attack took place in New York. A war was ongoing in Afghanistan and an attack took place on our Parliament. There were major travel advisories against visit to India. At the peak of this crisis, we launched the Incredible India Campaign. It was a 360-degree campaign across television, digital, and print. We connected directly with the consumers and brought the wonders of India to the living rooms of the potential tourists from across the world. The campaign brought back tourists and tourism grew rapidly in the country,” said Kant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/we-are-richest-country-in-world-in-terms-of-data-says-niti-aayog-ceo-at-the-doon-school-founders-day/articleshow/78724721.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hawala racket busted, Rs 35 lakh seized in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Officials of the commissioner’s task force (CTF) on Saturday busted yet another hawala racket under Bhavanipuram police station limits and seized Rs 35 lakh unaccounted for cash from three persons. Additional deputy commissioner of police of CTF, KV Srinivasa Rao, said the police received credible intelligence input that the three accused — Ravi Venkata Narayana (40) from Vijayawada, Satyendra Singh Rajput (34) from Rajasthan and Tellakula Satyanarayana from Guntur district — were involved in illegal money transaction. A trap was laid in this regard. When the prime accused, Venkata Narayana, was showing the code given by Satyendra Singh and handing over cash to Satyanarayana, CTF police rushed to the spot and apprehended them. “When they sought bills for the money, the accused gave evasive answers. One motorcycle and three mobile phones were seized from their possession,” Rao said. Cops said they will inform the income tax and enforcement directorate to take up the investigation. While hawala rackets have been a recurring offence in Hyderabad, officials say it’s a new trend to find them operating in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hawala-racket-busted-rs-35l-seized/articleshow/78725762.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||3 from a family, wanted in 23 cases, arrested||Tirupati: A family of thieves, who used to target places of worship in at least four districts in AP, was arrested by Kurnool district police on Saturday. Over Rs 12 lakh worth of stolen property was also recovered from them. Kurnool SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa told reporters that the family of three was wanted in as many as 23 cases of thefts. “Cases have been registered against them in Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur and Prakasam districts. They have stolen valuables, including gold and silver articles, from as many as 20 places of worship so far,” Fakeerappa said. The modus operandi of the gang was to target religious places closer to highways and state borders, which made it easier for them to escape after committing the crime. All family members were involved in the multiple temple thefts reported in the four AP districts in the recent past. A special police team, formed to investigate a temple theft case reported from Sirivella recently, managed to arrest the three members of the gang while they were on the move. The arrested were identified as AN Nagappa, AN Lavanya and AN Prameela. Police recovered gold ornaments weighing 164 grams, over 15 kg of silver articles, Rs 23,780 in cash, a two-wheeler and several mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-from-a-family-wanted-in-23-cases-arrested/articleshow/78724732.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Hill-cutting stopped at Anjuna||SALIGAO: Following the intervention of local panchayat members and members of an NGO, a case of alleged illegal hill-cutting being undertaken by a builder within the jurisdiction of the Anjuna-Caisua village panchayat was stopped recently. Locals pointed out that illegal hill-cutting had been going on for several days at Devul Vaddo in survey no. 509/1, and those involved in the activity could not furnish the permissions for the same. Anjuna PI Suraj Gawas along with a police team rushed to the spot and seized the earth-moving machinery used for the hill cutting. Further investigations are in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hill-cutting-stopped-at-anjuna/articleshow/78726639.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees over 3.5k cases, 24 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,676 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 7,79,146. The toll increased to 6,406 as 24 more people died due to the disease. This is the lowest single-day casualty count in over three months. As many as 5,529 patients recovered from the pandemic on Saturday. There are currently 37,102 active cases with 7,35,638 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 94.4%. This is the highest among all the states after Bihar’s recovery rate of 94.3%. East Godavari reported 567 new cases on Saturday, followed by West Godavari (531). All other districts reported less than 500 cases. For the first time in months, two districts (Kurnool and Vizianagaram reporting 91 cases each) registered fewer than 100 cases. Despite the drop in daily infections in several districts, East Godavari continued to lead the table on an almost daily basis. The cumulative caseload of the district is 1.09 lakh, followed by the neighbouring West Godavari with 78,603 cases. AP has so far tested 69.91 lakh samples, including 70,881 people tested on Saturday. The overall positivity rate decreased to 11.1%. The mortality rate is stable at 0.82%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-over-3-5k-cases-24-deaths/articleshow/78725772.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Flood situation remains grim in Krishna, Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: The second flood warning at Prakasam barrage remained in force on Saturday with the Krishna river brimming with heavy inflows from the upstream, thanks to incessant rains in the catchment. The inflow into the barrage crossed 7 lakh cusecs, but receded to 6 lakh cusecs with discharges being regulated at Pulichintala dam. In Kolluru mandal of Guntur district, a 50-year-old man, identified as S Shankar Rao, was washed away by flood waters. Crops spread over thousands of acres were inundated in downstream areas of Prakasam barrage on either side of the river bank in Krishna and Guntur districts. Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita and minister in-charge for Guntur district, Ranganath Raju, visited flood-affected areas in Tenali and Vemuru constituencies on Saturday. Sucharita said the standing crop has been damaged in Vemuru and Tenali constituencies because of inundation. “Directions have been given to officials to evaluate the extent of damage to fields to give compensation to farmers. Immediate relief measures are also being taken to shift flood-affected people to safer places and for distribution of essential commodities,” she said. The minister also announced Rs 4 lakh for the family members of Shankar Rao, who was washed away in the flood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/flood-situation-grim-in-ap-dists/articleshow/78725783.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Tourists leave behind a trail of litter inside Nagarahole||Mysuru: Plastic waste collected from the deep woods of the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve filled up an entire truck, much to the dismay of the foresters, who were shocked at the quantity of garbage left behind by tourists to the jungle. As part of the cleanliness drive undertaken on the Mysuru-Manandawadi Road in the Dodda Byranna Kuppe (DB Kuppe) Range of the reserve, the foresters were clearing up the litter. Among other items, they found a large heap of plastic covers and bottles discarded on either side of the street. The foresters suspect that tourists from Kerala are responsible for leaving behind a littered forest. Assisted by volunteers from wildlife organisations and locals, foresters collected waste all along Mysuru-Manandavadi Road till Bavali Gate on Monday, while proceeding till Aane Chowkuru, the Kerala border, on Tuesday. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve director D Mahesh Kumar told TOI, “Tourists from Kerala visiting Nagarahole discard plastic covers and liquor bottles inside the forest. We are trying to raise awareness among visitors against littering inside the forest.” He said that pamphlets had been printed in both English and Malayalam to educate visitors against discarding waste carelessly inside the forest. “The plastic waste collected inside the forest will be disposed of at solid waste management units under the purview of various gram panchayats. We will levy a fine of Rs 1,000 on those caught littering the pristine forest,” Kumar added. Forest etiquette *Drinking and smoking are prohibited, as is having food inside the forest *Visitors are not to leave their vehicles and step outside while inside the forest *Forest is a national treasure, please do not pollute it *Do not play music while driving inside the forest *Do not tease or feed wild animals Source: Pamphlets distributed by the forest department in Nagarahole||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tourists-leave-behind-a-trail-of-litter-inside-nagarahole/articleshow/78724751.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Dussehra begins without devotees||Tuticorin: The famous Dussehra celebrations at Kulasekarapattinam village in Tuticorin district began as a low-profile event on Saturday without the presence of devotees and the flag-hoisting ceremony. The temple administration will allow about 8,000 devotees a day to offer prayers from October 18 to 25. “The festival attracts lakhs of devotees every year, with around 5 lakh gathering at the beach to witness the Soorasamharam event. This year, due to Covid-19 pandemic and Section 144 in effect, the district administration and temple management announced various restrictions,” collector Sandeep Nanduri said after inspecting the arrangements. Of the 8,000 devotees to be allowed per day, 6,000 apply for the tickets online. “50% of online tickets will be paid and 50% free. The remaining 2,000 free tickets will be for those coming in person and will be on a first come first serve basis. Devotees will not be allowed to the beach and this year’s Soorasamharam will be held on the temple premises,” he said. While many devotees stay in and around Kulasekaram for up to 10 days till the festival comes to an end, devotees will not be allowed to stay this time. “There is only one lodge in Kulasekaram. This, and those at Tiruchendur have been brought under our scanner,” superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district, S Jayakumar said. The SP said that 500 police personnel have been deployed at the coastal village and at nearby villages to restrict the crowds. Three checkposts have been setup to check devotees entering the town. “They will allow only those with online tickets and the additional 2,000 without tickets,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dussehra-begins-without-devotees/articleshow/78726996.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Doctor held for assaulting woman scribe in Rishikesh||HARIDWAR: A local medical practitioner has been arrested by Muni-ki-Reti police for attacking a woman journalist with a blunt object. The woman was referred to a higher centre and the police registered a case against the doctor and arrested him under sections 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. SHO Muni-ki-Reti police station said the accused doctor Rewat Singh Pundir runs a clinic in the building where the victim woman journalist Binita Khurana lives. The doctor and the scribe entered into an argument over the installation of an AC. Following which, the doctor allegedly hit the woman on her head with a blunt object.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doctor-held-for-assaulting-woman-scribe-in-rishikesh/articleshow/78724770.cms||MS Nawaz
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Flood situation remains grim in Krishna, Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: The second flood warning at Prakasam barrage remained in force on Saturday with the Krishna river brimming with heavy inflows from the upstream, thanks to incessant rains in the catchment. The inflow into the barrage crossed 7 lakh cusecs, but receded to 6 lakh cusecs with discharges being regulated at Pulichintala dam. In Kolluru mandal of Guntur district, a 50-year-old man, identified as S Shankar Rao, was washed away by flood waters. Crops spread over thousands of acres were inundated in downstream areas of Prakasam barrage on either side of the river bank in Krishna and Guntur districts. Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita and minister in-charge for Guntur district, Ranganath Raju, visited flood-affected areas in Tenali and Vemuru constituencies on Saturday. Sucharita said the standing crop has been damaged in Vemuru and Tenali constituencies because of inundation. “Directions have been given to officials to evaluate the extent of damage to fields to give compensation to farmers. Immediate relief measures are also being taken to shift flood-affected people to safer places and for distribution of essential commodities,” she said. The minister also announced Rs 4 lakh for the family members of Shankar Rao, who was washed away in the flood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-situation-grim-in-ap-dists/articleshow/78728002.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Drawing the line while deciding on pet euthanasia||KOCHI: Putting your ailing pet to sleep at the right time is often the hardest call that owners have to make. They hope for natural deaths for the animals but as they don’t want to prolong their suffering they are often forced to seek the assistance of veterinary doctors to subject them to euthanasia, often with overwhelming feelings of guilt, grief and loss. Though rare, doctors make the end of life decision for the pets which have sustained grievous injuries in accidents or which are suffering from critical illnesses like kidney ailments, paraplegia, cancer and other incurable diseases, to end their suffering. Owners often break down when they learn from the doctor that the animal needs assisted suicide to pre-empt it from prolonged suffering. “Emotionally it is difficult to put down the animals. Euthanasia is a procedure that involves administering an anaesthetic drug in overdose. Then the animal goes from sleep to death in a fraction of seconds. We take a decision only after getting convinced that the condition of the animal is irreversible. I did euthanasia in five cases so far this year. The sad part is that many owners break down seeing the pet being put to death,” said Dr Kishore Kumar, who was part of the ABC programme of Kochi corporation. Most of the animals put down are dogs than cats. Vets often give counselling to pet owners before euthanizing animals to help them cope with the loss. However, to the surprise of many, there are some owners who approach the vets with the demand to put their ailing or aged pets to death as they don’t want to meet the treatment expense. “In such cases, we refuse to accept their demand. If an animal eats food, we do not subject it to euthanasia. Necessary care under hygienic condition is enough for the ailing dog to survive. Our clinic did euthanasia in four or five cases so far this year. It includes stray dogs too. When we refuse to do euthanasia, some owners abandon the animals on streets,” said Dr Gokul V of a private veterinary hospital at Angamaly. Dr Eldhose A of government veterinary hospital, Ernakulam, said cats usually prefer to stay away from the sight of humans when they contract illness and that’s why the cases of felines do not come to the fore often.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drawing-the-line-while-deciding-on-pet-euthanasia/articleshow/78724757.cms||T C Sreemol
October 18, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Flood situation remains grim in Krishna, Guntur||VIJAYAWADA: The second flood warning at Prakasam barrage remained in force on Saturday with the Krishna river brimming with heavy inflows from the upstream, thanks to incessant rains in the catchment. The inflow into the barrage crossed 7 lakh cusecs, but receded to 6 lakh cusecs with discharges being regulated at Pulichintala dam. In Kolluru mandal of Guntur district, a 50-year-old man, identified as S Shankar Rao, was washed away by flood waters. Crops spread over thousands of acres were inundated in downstream areas of Prakasam barrage on either side of the river bank in Krishna and Guntur districts. Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita and minister in-charge for Guntur district, Ranganath Raju, visited flood-affected areas in Tenali and Vemuru constituencies on Saturday. Sucharita said the standing crop has been damaged in Vemuru and Tenali constituencies because of inundation. “Directions have been given to officials to evaluate the extent of damage to fields to give compensation to farmers. Immediate relief measures are also being taken to shift flood-affected people to safer places and for distribution of essential commodities,” she said. The minister also announced Rs 4 lakh for the family members of Shankar Rao, who was washed away in the flood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/flood-situation-grim-in-ap-dists/articleshow/78728001.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Local bodies speed up procedures for gas project||KOCHI: With the state government giving mandate to the local bodies to grant permission for digging up roads for laying city gas pipelines within 21 days of receiving application in this regard, the project has gained momentum. Thrikkakara municipality on Thursday gave approval for digging up roads in 30 wards while Kochi corporation, Eloor municipality and Aluva municipality are to complete the procedures to grant permission next week. Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Ltd (IOAGPL), the implementing agency, has expedited the project implementation. “Until last week we had just three contractors to carry out the pipe laying and other works associated with the project. Now, we have six contractors. We have invited tenders to rope in 15 more contractors,” an official with IOAGPL said. Thrikkakara municipality authorities had already given permission to dig up roads in 13 wards in the local body. “On Thursday, they gave nod for digging up roads in 30 more wards. In Thrikkakara, we are giving at least 15 piped natural gas (PNG) connections every day. Our target is to give at least 40,000 PNG connections in Kochi by the end of March 2021,” the official said. Sources with the district administration said that instructions have been given to all local bodies to take measures to speed up the project. “Officials associated with the project will be convening a meeting with the representatives of the municipalities like Eloor and Aluva on Wednesday,” sources said. Kochi Corporation, which had been sitting on the applications submitted by IOAGPL for digging up roads in the corporation limits for more than three years, started the measures to put the agenda for giving the required nod at the next meeting of the council, which is to be held next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gas-project-local-bodies-speed-up-procedures/articleshow/78724772.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Parks and recreation: Rs 116cr facelift for RK beachfront in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The city’s famous RK Beach stretch is getting ready for a makeover. Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has finalised tenders to redevelop the beach front at a cost of Rs 116crore. The beachfront redevelopment project will stretch approximately 3.5 kilometres in length and will be divided into four zones, according to the detailed project report (DPR). Major components of the project include a 3km-long retaining wall, three parks, a 3km-long cycling track, walking track, increased parking facilities, plazas, beach access, upgrade of existing shops, public toilets, drinking water etc. The beach redevelopment project has been so conceptualised that the development blends into the natural landscape. Further, increasing connectivity along the beachfront and improving the streetscape are also part of the agenda. The master plan was prepared keeping site context, ecology, landform, traffic flow, biodiversity and traditional livelihood activities in mind. GVMC chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said that the bids were finalised around two weeks ago. “The bidder has to complete the project in 18 months. A single continuous service road will be laid to close the discontinuity between existing service roads,” said the chief engineer. “The project will give a complete makeover to the RK Beach stretch right from adding a cycling track, a walking track, more parks, increasing greenery and provisioning better public amenities,” Venkateswara Rao added. The 2014 Cyclone Hudhud had devastated several districts of Andhra Pradesh, including Visakhapatnam. Following the cyclone, World Bank approved credit of US$250 million towards the Andhra Pradesh Disaster Recovery Project (APDRP). Counterpart funding of US$120 million will be done by the state government in the ratio of 68:32. Of the six components of APDRP, protection and restoration of the beachfront is the third. The project seeks to restore damages due to disasters while increasing resilience of infrastructure and communities from future impacts of natural disasters and climate change. The three major components of APDRP are: safety and disaster resilience, community resilience and education and awareness related components to protect natural assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parks-and-recreation-rs-116cr-facelift-for-rk-beachfront/articleshow/78724766.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Only virtual darshan at Pavagadh on first day of Navratri||VADODARA: Unlike previous years when around a lakh people used to visit the Mahakali Temple at Pavagadh, there were few visitors on Saturday for the virtual darshan arrangements made by the temple trust and the district administration. On the first day of the Navratri, all roads leading to Pavagadh were closed by the administration. The vehicles coming to the pilgrim place were being diverted towards a ground near Vada Talav. All those who wanted to go to the virtual darshan venues at the Pavagadh bus stand and Maachi on the Pavagadh hill were then carried in state transport buses. Twenty such buses have been pressed into action at the site. Despite hardly any rush at the pilgrimage place, elaborate security arrangements were made by the Panchmahal district police. Some pilgrims were unhappy that shops at the village had also been shut down. The issue was also raised with officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/only-virtual-darshan-at-pavagadh-on-first-day-of-navratri/articleshow/78724449.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||2 Iskcon priests drown in Cauvery River||Mandya: Two priests attached to Iskcon in Mysuru, drowned in the Cauvery River at Mahadevapura near Srirangapatna, on Friday. According to police, the priests R S Das,43, and Gunaravanadas,35, drowned in the river, after they went for a swim. When they had ventured into the river along with three other priests, the victims were swept away in a strong current. There is a heavy flow of water in the river, since there has been heavy rain for the last couple of days in the area. Das was a resident of Nandini Layout in Bengaluru, and Gunaravanadas was a resident of Chitradurga. The deceased were with the Mahadevapura Iskcon branch, which is provides Midday meals to students. Iskcon farm chief Krishnakeshava Das filed a complaint with the Arakere police, after which the victims’ bodies were retrieved and handed over to Iskcon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-iskcon-priests-drown-in-cauvery-river/articleshow/78724783.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Panaji: ‘Cancel land acquisition for double tracking’||PANAJI: In a memorandum to the deputy collector of Mormugao, Goencho Ekvott demanded that the land acquisition process for South Western Railway’s double tracking project should be cancelled. Goencho Ekvott said that many of the affect parties who stand to lose their land are senior citizens and cannot venture out of the house due to the covid pandemic to express their objections. The growing resentment against the double tracking project and the “insensitive government” could lead to a law and order situation said Goencho Ekvott. The NGO said it should not be held responsible for any untoward incidents because of the government’s apathy. “Most of the affected parties that have been served notices for a personal hearing are senior citizens, most of whom are confined within their homes and do not venture out on account of the pandemic,” said Orville Dourado Rodrigues, founder of Goencho Ekvott. Executive committee members of the NGO submitted the memorandum to deputy collector Mormugao Sachin Desai who has been notified as the competent authority for land acquisition and asked him to cancel the land acquisition process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cancel-land-acquisition-for-double-tracking/articleshow/78727001.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Government plans ‘disengagement’ from five premier environment-related institutions by withdrawing funding||DEHRADUN: In a first of its kind move, the Modi government is planning to ‘disengage’ from five premier environment- forest-wildlife institutions of the country that are presently under the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF). The disengagement has been proposed by the department of expenditure (ministry of finance) after a review of 16 autonomous bodies under MoEF. An office memorandum dated October 9, accessed exclusively by TOI, that has been issued by joint secretary (cabinet) Ashutosh Jindal and marked to the secretary, ministry of environment and forests, provides details of the recommendations made by the department of expenditure regarding government disengagement from the Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun), Indian Institute of Forest Management (Bhopal), Indian Plywood Industries Research & Training Institute (Bengaluru), CPR Environmental Education Centre (Chennai) and Centre for Environment Education (Ahmedabad). As per the memorandum, ‘disengagement’ will involve two aspects -- phasing out government support to the institution in a time-bound manner, disassociating from the management of the institutions and allowing the relevant industry/stakeholders to run them. For Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM), the recommendations say that “they may be converted into an autonomous institution or deemed university.” The recommendations further add that the central government should withdraw from these bodies within a three year timeline and a gradual budget reduction of 25% each year. Notably, WII has received central government funding to the tune of around Rs 124 crore in the last four years while IIFM has received Rs 119 crore in central government funds. Dhananjai Mohan, director of WII, when queried about the matter, acknowledged that he had received a copy of the recommendations but refused to comment on its impact on the institution. Meanwhile, opinion was divided among environmentalists on the implications of the proposed move by the central government. Ravi Chopra, Doon-based environmentalist, who is chairperson of the high- powered committee constituted by the Supreme Court to determine the impact of the Char Dham road project on the Himalayan eco-system, said that the government’s decision to disengage from institutions of national importance was “bizarre.” “This will make these institutions worry for bread and butter issues rather than research, which should be their prime focus,” he said, adding that “environment is a public issue and there must be good public institutions to safeguard it.” In a similar vein, MC Mehta, green activist and environmental lawyer said that the government’s disengagement from these institutions was “the first step towards sending them into private hands.” “If the government feels that funds are not being utilised properly or the institutions are not performing well, their officials should be held accountable rather than taking the route of disengagement as this will have an impact on those students who dream of studying these specialised subjects but cannot afford the high fees charged by private universities,” said Mehta. However, VB Mathur, former director of WII, welcomed the move. “This is the first time ever that such an audit has been done of institutions which took around four years to get completed. I feel that the recommendations have to be seen in an objective manner. Making WII and other institutions into deemed universities will give more freedom to the institutions to initiate more courses and have enhanced faculties. If some opportunities are being reduced, others are being opened also,” he added. Of the other institutions whose disengagement has been recommended, the department of expenditure’s report said that the CPR Environmental Education Centre (CPREEC) may be disengaged completely from the MoEF as it has received no government grants during the last three financial years and generates substantial funds on its own through sale of publications. A similar recommendation was made for the Centre for Environment Education which, too, hasn’t received any government funding since 2017. For the Indian Plywood Industries Research and Training Institute, the recommendations were that the institute may be disengaged from the central government “with a three year timeline and a gradual budget reduction of 25% each year as it is largely an industry-driven organisation catering to the requirements of the plywood & panel industry.” The report further recommends that the Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (Coimbatore) which is under the MoEF should be “merged with the regular functioning of the ministry.” It adds that the Society of Integrated Coastal Management and National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, two other bodies under MoEF can be merged to form a single body which would continue to work under the ministry. The recommendations for other bodies under MoEF like Central Pollution control Board (CPCB), Central Zoo Authority (CZA), National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and National Biodiversity Authority (NBA) were that they can continue functioning under the government but “should be encouraged to be self- financed.” The recommendations also said that the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education in Dehradun and GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment in Almora may continue to function as they are.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/government-plans-disengagement-from-five-premier-environment-related-institutions-by-withdrawing-funding/articleshow/78724775.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: ‘Water Metro service will begin in January’||KOCHI: The construction work on the much-awaited Water Metro project is progressing and the state government reiterated that the first journey will begin by January 2021. The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has begun the construction of terminals at Vyttila, Kakkanad, High Court Junction, Vypeen, Cheranelloor and Eloor. A statement released by the state government said that tender procedures for the terminals at Bolgatti, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Kadamakudi, Paliam Thuruth, South Chittoor, Mulavukadu North and Ernakulam Ferry have been completed. “Kochi Water Metro is building world-class terminals similar to the stations of Kochi Metro rail. The ticketing facilities and entry/exit arrangements will also be similar,” said the statement. It also said that facilities will be provided for people with disability to travel without any difficulty. The boat jetties are being constructed in such a way that they float on the water depending on water level. This will avoid the hassle of accessing the boats during high or low tide. The boats are designed to carry up to three wheelchairs at a time. The first boat being built by the Cochin Shipyard Ltd will be handed over in December. This boat can carry 100 passengers. The next four boats are expected to be completed and handed over by March. There will be 23 boats with a capacity of carrying 100 passengers and 55 boats with a capacity of carrying 50 people. Aluminium is used for the construction of the boat body. The boatyard, which can repair up to eight boats at a time, will be located at the Kinfra park. Government land was made available for construction work and acquisition of private land is in progress. The Water Metro service being constructed at a cost of Rs 678 crore will have 38 stations on 15 routes covering a distance of 78.6km. The Water Metro will cater to people living on the islands in Kochi suburbs. The regions to be connected by Water Metro include Vypeen, Wellington, Edakochi, Kumbalam, Nettoor, Vyttila, Eloor, Kakkanad, Bolgatti and Mulavkadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/water-metro-service-will-begin-in-jan/articleshow/78724801.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Remdesivir, after global study hit, faces performance review in Maharashtra||PUNE: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday the state Covid task force would “examine” remdesivir’s performance and write to the Centre seeking directions on the anti-viral’s use in hospitalised patients. “The task force has found that remdesivir has been useful in the state. It has been asked to write to the Centre accordingly,” Tope told TOI. The minister’s statement comes just days after a WHO study found that the drug has had “little or no effect on mortality” among those hospitalized with Covid-19. The report added the drug did not seem to boost recovery either. Tope said the letter to the Centre, seeking new directions on the drug’s use, will be sent by Monday. Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state’s Covid task force, said remdesivir has shown effectiveness if administered between the third and the ninth day of Covid treatment. He said such details will be included in the letter. The task force head added that the drug’s use in the state will continue according to existing protocols until changes are recommended. Oak said several procedures and medicines used in coronavirus treatment are still under scientific investigation around the world. “In the case of remdesivir though, we feel it’s effective if used early, in select patients.” He added, “Many in the medical fraternity have also backed its effectiveness. Initially, there were two schools of thought: one suggesting a five-day course of remdesivir and the other calling for a nine-day course. After much discussion, it was decided a five-day course would be ideal. One must understand that in science, there are currents as well as counter-currents. We should let our treating doctors take the decisions.” Scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), who were part of the worldwide remdesivir study by WHO, said use protocols will be revisited during a joint task force meeting — between central and state officials — next week. “The clinical management protocols will be examined in the light of the WHO results,” said one ICMR scientist. He, however, refrained from commenting on possible advisories to states. The price of remdesivir in India ranges from Rs 2,900 to Rs 5,400 per dose, with patients typically requiring about six doses. In May, Gilead Sciences, the drug’s maker, had licensed it to Cipla, Hetero, Dr Reddy’s, Jubilant Life Sciences and Zydus Cadila to manufacture and market its generic version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/remdesivir-after-global-study-hit-faces-performance-review-in-state/articleshow/78725786.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 18, 2020||Pune||Bike-borne duo held for riding over cop’s leg||Pune: Two motorcycle-borne men were arrested on the charge of running their vehicle over a constable’s leg at Agriculture College Chowk on Friday morning when the latter tried to fine them for not wearing masks. Constable Balaji Pandhare (27), posted with the Shivajinagar police station, suffered injuries in the incident. Police have identified the arrested the duo as Saurabh Lahu Umare (20) and Mayur Dhananjay Chatur (26), both residents of Hingne on Sinhagad Road. The police said the incident occurred when Pandhare stopped the duo at Agriculture College Chowk and asked them to pay fine for being out in the public without wearing masks. “The two bike-borne men started abusing Pandhare and pushed him to the ground. They tried to flee after running their motorcycle over the constable’s leg,” an officer of the Shivajinagar police station said. The officer said the other constables posted at the Shimla Office Chowk to ensure mask compliance among two-wheeler riders nabbed the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bike-borne-duo-held-for-riding-over-cops-leg/articleshow/78725833.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam case: Constable gets 3 days bail to attend father’s last rites||Madurai: The Madras high court on Saturday granted three days’ interim bail to constable X Thomas Francis to attend the final rites of his father who died on Friday evening. The constable is among the 10 police officers and personnel attached to the Sathankulam police station in Tuticorin district who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of father son-son duo Jayaraj and Beniks. Stating that the regular bail plea moved by Francis was dismissed by this court on October 1, justice Abdul Quddhose granted interim bail to the constable for attending his father’s funeral. The bail in effect from 12 noon on October 17 to 6pm on October 19 comes with conditions that include the accused appearing before the inspector of police at Megnanapuram police station in Tuticorin district at 10am every day. Justice Quddhose directed that Francis will bear the escort expenses of the state police and directed them to ensure the safety and security of the trial prisoner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-case-constable-gets-3-days-bail-to-attend-fathers-last-rites/articleshow/78727002.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Minor rape case: Man, parents and girl’s mother held in Tamil Nadu||TENKASI: The Tenkasi all women police on Saturday arrested a man for raping and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. The man’s parents and the girl’s mother were also arrested for getting the foetus aborted. Police said S Subburaj, 26, from a village near Tenkasi, had sexually assaulted the since March. A few weeks ago, she realised that she was pregnant. Subburaj and his parents, Sundarraj, 56, and Mariammal, 49, tried to abort the foetus, but were not successful. After being informed by the girl, her mother picked up a quarrel with Subburaj's family. They were ready to offer Rs 50,000 to the girl’s mother to abort the foetus and settle the issue. But the woman demanded Rs 2 lakh. She approached a hospital with her daughter and got the foetus aborted. The women’s welfare officer came to know about the incident and lodged a complaint. A case was registered under sections 315 (act done prevent child being born alive), 376 (punishment for rape) and 109 (punishment for abetment) of the IPC and sections 5(l) (repetitive penetrative sexual assault on a child), 5(j)(ii) (making girl child pregnant as a consequence of sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 21(1) (punishment for failure to report sexual abuse of a minor) of the Pocso Act. Subburaj, Sundarraj, Mariammal and the girl’s mother were arrested on Friday night. They were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. The girl was taken to a home for temporary shelter and counselling. The girl’s father had been unaware of the developments until police interfered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rape-of-minor-man-parents-and-girls-mother-held/articleshow/78726998.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Pune||Covid: PMR's day’s tally declines to over three-month low||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday recorded 946 cases, its least single day tally since July 1. As many as 2,232 patients recovered in the last 24 hours in PMR, pushing its cured count up to 2.84 lakh. The rural and cantonment areas together recorded 1,017 discharges in the last 24 hours, while the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits recorded 860 and 355 recoveries, respectively. Among 946 new cases, 418 were recorded in the PMC limits, 209 in the PCMC limits and 319 in the rural as well as Cantonment areas. The PMC so far has reported 1.57 lakh cases of Covid-19, which is highest in PMR. The PCMC areas’ caseload has reached up to 85,323, while the cases in the rural areas have increased to 71,271. A report released by the district heath officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the fatalities continued to remain below 50 even on Saturday, with 42 patients succumbing to the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours. Twenty three deaths were reported in the PMC limits, nine patients succumbed to Covid-19 in the PCMC areas and 10 in the rural parts of the district. The region so far has reported 7,418 deaths. The report further stated that about 8,076 samples were tested in the region in the last 24 hours, which pushed the total sample testing above 13.32 lakh. Meanwhile, the active cases of the infection dropped to 21,468 in the region by Saturday evening. As many as 11,563 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 9,905 were in home isolation. Health officials said the active cases have been on decline since the last few weeks because of the decline in new cases and increase in recoveries. The recoveries are up in both municipal corporations and in rural and Cantonment areas, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-tally-declines-to-over-three-month-low/articleshow/78725811.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Daughter’s death was murder, says Divya’s dad||VIJAYAWADA: Disha police who took up investigation into the death of 21-year-old engineering student, Divya Tejaswini, collected statements from the victim’s parents on Saturday. According to sources, police asked Divya’s parents about claims of their daughter being married to the accused, Nagendra, and of her death being the result of a suicide pact. Speaking to STOI, Divya’s father Joseph, questioned Nagendra’s claims citing the 13 stab wounds on his daughter’s body. “It it was a suicide, is it possible to inflict 13 stab wounds or cut injuries? It was a preplanned murder where the accused’s family members or friends are aiding him by putting out pictures and claims of the two being married,” Joseph said. Police have confirmed Joseph’s claims and state that preliminary investigation revealed multiple cut injuries to the victim’s abdomen, hands and neck. Joseph also said the two knew each other and believed they could have been in a relationship but that his daughter had decided to step away from it. He said that Divya was focusing on her engineering studies and that he did not much about her relationship. “More recently, he did contact us and I did allow him to talk to my daughter after he assured us he would not disturb us if she explained her state of mind. Nagendra was outright rejected by her and she even told him to stop calling and disturbing us,” Joseph said. He also noted that his daughter informed him that she was being tormented by a “psychopath” for the past six months. Joseph said he regretted not reporting the matter earlier as he had not thought that the accused would go to the extent of allegedly murdering his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/daughters-death-was-murder-says-divyas-dad/articleshow/78724791.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Homecare Covid-19 benefits yet to click with policyholders||Hyderabad: Over three months after the insurance regulator brought homecare under the ambit of health insurance due to Covid-19, insurers are seeing barely any claims from this segment. Earlier, an insured person had to be hospitalised for at least 24-hours to avail its benefits While many private players confirmed that less than 1% of their total Covid-19 claims have come from the homecare segment, those who have reported slightly better rates attribute it to group policies. Insurers feel that in addition to the lack of awareness, the unavailability of cashless facility as well as low cost of home treatment is resulting in such meagre claims from policyholders. Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd MD S Prakash said that despite its sales team hard-selling the concept of homecare, less than 1% of the Covid-19 claims have come in from this segment. The insurance player gets, on an average, 28,000 Covid-19 claims in a month, of which only 150-160 are from the home segment. “The average claim amount from homecare is Rs 22,260 for us. I feel for homecare to take off, it will require effort from the public authorities and the healthcare sector to train their personnel and offer it as a trustworthy healthcare offering.” Bhabatosh Mishra, director of products, underwriting & claims, Max Bupa Health Insurance, too pointed out that the insurer has so far sold around 25,000 Corona Kavach policies till date and a majority of the claims are primarily for inpatient hospitalization whereas the claims for homecare treatment are negligible as of now. “In most Covid cases, customers who don’t need hospitalization, don’t really need any specific line of treatment and are asymptomatic in many cases. Hence it is unlikely to drive a significant volume of claims,” Mishra said. Insurers across the board pointed out that the claim size from the home segment in Covid case is much lower than hospitals. However, this segment is at a nascent stage in the country with very limited organised players. As per data compiled by Policybazaar, as of September, Covid now forms 40% of the total health claims and Covid patients needed more intensive care with an average claim of Rs 1.18 lakhs versus non-Covid claims average claims of Rs 57,000. Bhaskar Nerurkar, head of health claims, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance pointed out that out of the total Covid-19 claims the insurer received in September 2020, only around 7% pertained to homecare treatment. Most of these claims were from GMC (Group Medical Coverage) customers rather than retail health policyholders. “This can be due to lack of awareness among retail customers. In the case of GMC, HR usually guides employees towards this option, whereas retail customers may not be aware about it,” he said. He explained that it’s difficult to gauge a proper uptake for homecare treatment because most of these claims are on reimbursement basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/homecare-covid-19-benefits-yet-to-click-with-policyholders/articleshow/78725823.cms||Swati Rathor
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Allot marks in sachivalayam exam for Covid-19 duties’||Visakhapatnam: Graduate volunteers of ward sachivalayams who had appeared for the sachivalayam staff selection examination have appealed to the state government to allot ‘weightage marks’ for their services rendered to fight the pandemic. The government has already allotted such marks for outsourced and contractual workers who are graduates and have appeared in the same examination. As per norms, such candidates will be allotted marks depending on their performance in service for the last five years. They can score a maximum of three marks for each year. “As per the examination structure is concerned, these 15 marks are very important and can prove crucial in the selection process. The same marking system should be allotted to ward volunteers also because they were helping the government for one year or so and took pains to carry out door-to-door activities related to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Samyam Hemanth Kumar, state president of Andhra Pradesh Nirudyoga (Unemployed) Joint Action Committee. The committee recently forwarded letters to the municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanaryana and chief secretary Nilam Sawhney requesting them to look into their appeal. The sachivalayam staff selection examination was conducted from September 20 to September 26 and drew around seven lakh candidates. The government is expected to fill up 16,208 vacant positions. Although the exact figures of ward volunteers who appeared for the examination are not known, it is expected that around 70,000 candidates would reap the benefits if the government accepts the proposal. “The volunteers were recruited in two to three phases and in the first phase all ward volunteers were graduates. Later, the government started recruiting only Class X and Intermediate graduates. Around 75,000 ward volunteers were recruited in the first phase on August 15, 2019 and more than 90% of them have appeared for this examination,” Hemanth Kumar added. “Since March we toiled hard to carry out Covid-19 activities keeping in mind their importance. As a result we did not get enough time to concentrate on our exam preparation. The extra 15 marks would help us,” said a volunteer who appeared for the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/allot-marks-in-sachivalayam-exam-for-covid-19-duties/articleshow/78724817.cms||Arpit Basu
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana tops Covid-19 performance index among southern states||Hyderabad: A recent report by the public health experts on Covid-19 performance index (CPI) of the southern states has placed Telangana at the top followed by Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Future projections and performance report by the FICCI Telangana, FTCCI and ASCI gave 0.670 value to Telangana in the overall ranking. The ranking is based on three main parameters of detection of cases, containment of the virus spread, and treatment efficiency. The detection capacity is again calculated based on three sub-parameters of tests per 1,000 people, tests per confirmed cases and tests per confirmed deaths. The containment efficiency is analysed based on sub-parameters of confirmed cases per a million people, doubling time of confirmed cases, deaths per million people and doubling time of deaths. The treatment efficiency is purely calculated on the basis of case fatality rate (CFR). Experts said lesser the CFR, it indicates more efficiency and Telangana stood number one in this parameter as the number of deaths is less and death rate is also less. In detection parameter, the state stood second and in the containment parameter, it came in second place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-tops-covid-19-performance-index-among-southern-states/articleshow/78725871.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 18, 2020||Pune||Eight injured, 25 homes flooded as water pipeline bursts in Janata Vasahat||Pune: Eight residents were injured after a water pipeline burst in the packed Janata Vasahat area late on Friday night.The pipeline burst on the uphill side of lane number 29. Water gushed into 20-25 homes — the wall of one house was badly damaged in the incident. The residents suffered fractures and minor injuries on their legs and hands as they tried to leave their houses after water started gushing in. Elected representatives came to the spot and helped take the injured people to a nearby private hospital and Sassoon General Hospital for treatment. Most of the injured were discharged by noon on Saturday, said people involved in the rescue effort.Suryakant Lokhande, whose house took the worst damage, said he, his wife and child were inside when they heard a blast around 11.30pm. “We rushed out and saw that the pipeline had burst and water was gushing out at a great pressure. The water entered our home. Nearly the entire house has been damaged,” Lokhande said. A resident, Ravindra Kondhalkar. said he and his friend immediately rushed to help other people. “As all the homes are on a steep gradient, the water was gushing at a high speed. We told people to stay safe and not step in the flowing water,” he said.Raju Jabre, another resident, said there was knee-high water in some houses. “The entire area has small houses close to each other,” Jabre said, adding that the water stopped gushing once the supply was stopped immediately after the Pune Municipal Corporation was alerted. PMC’s water supply department said they initiated repairs to the pipeline, which supplies areas along Satara Road. The pipeline is connected to the Parvati water works. “Alternative arrangements have been made to supply water to these areas while repairs are under way,” PMC water department head Aniruddh Pavaskar, said, adding that they would implement necessary measures to avoid a repeat. Local corporator Priya Gadade said they were providing food and other assistance to the residents affected. “We will try and get financial help from PMC,” Gadade said. Gadade also said she has urged the PMC to install air valves at strategic spots to prevent such incidents in the future. Anand Rithe, another corporator, said he advised the PMC to inspect the entire length of the pipeline for any other weaknesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eight-injured-25-homes-flooded-as-water-pipeline-bursts-in-janata-vasahat/articleshow/78725854.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation has no records to keep track of its assets||KOCHI: Even while owning huge assets both moveable and immovable, Kochi corporation doesn’t have a proper assets register. Lack of assets register makes the wealth of the corporation vulnerable to alienation as well as underutilization of its properties. A proper assets register will help address various problems like tax evasion as well as planning various schemes of the corporation in a more efficient manner. “It is sheer negligence on the part of the corporation that leads to the local body losing many of its assets. This attitude can be seen in the purchase of land for scheduled caste development projects. In 2009, the corporation purchased 1.5 acres at Palluruthy for around Rs 1.5 crore from Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA). A demand draft worth around Rs 45 lakh, which was issued in the name of corporation secretary so as to pay the GCDA the remaining compensation for the land, was kept in the local body’s office for almost a decade. As the corporation unnecessarily delayed the payment, now GCDA demands enhanced compensation. Also, the civic body lost even the interest which any bank would have given if the Rs 45 lakh was deposited there. The end result is that the local body lost the land as well as the money spend on it,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party. Similarly, the corporation doesn’t have a proper record of the vehicles owned by it. “We had inquired about the exact number of vehicles owned by the corporation several times. But the local body authorities couldn’t provide the exact number. If there is a proper assets register, we will get such details online,” said C K Pater, councillor from Konthururuthy. According to the corporation authorities, it is the lack of officials in key posts like assets manager that led to the failure in preparing a proper assets register. “Now, we prepare a list of assets in each circle with the help of officials there whenever we need such a list. Key posts like assets manager is lying vacant for several years. We had requested the state government to fill the vacancy,” deputy mayor K R Premakumar said. “A vehicle manager is necessary for the proper upkeep of vehicles. Despite knocking at the doors of the state government several times, the government didn’t fill the vacancy,” he said. Details regarding the number of households, shops, unauthorized buildings, alienated assets like land and buildings owned by the corporation, underutilized assets of the civic body, number of roads and their length, alignment of water supply pipes, streetlights, hoardings erected by advertisers, etc. can be accessed easily once there is an assets register.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-corp-has-no-records-to-keep-track-of-its-assets/articleshow/78724827.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 18, 2020||Indore||Indore: Covid hotspots reduce to half in 20 days||INDORE: Indore district has witnessed a decline of 40.46% in hotspot areas with more than 10 active cases within 20 days (between September 24 and October15). The information came to fore through comparative analysis of hotspot areas. The number of hotspot areas declined from 472 on September 24 to 281 on October 15. The share of hotspot areas in total infected areas reduced to half in that period. The share of hotspot areas reduced from 24.35% on September 24 to 12.74% on October 15. Dr Salil Sakalle, HoD community medicine department said, “This analysis initially helped in forming containment strategies, and increasing survey, intensified contact tracing and carried out different types of awareness programme in more affected parts of district.” Post lockdown, the areas weren’t made containment zones. However, this type of analysis gave a picture about the activeness of virus and infection growth in different parts of the district, said Sakalle. But, now as the hotspot areas had been on a declining path showing a similar trend on line of decreasing number of active cases reported in the district in the first 15 days of the month, said Sakalle. The district in its first 15 days showed a decline in the number of active cases. TOI on October 11 reported that active cases reported a decline of around 13% in first 10 days in comparison to the figures on September 30, though number of cases grows by around 7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/hotspots-reduce-to-half-in-20-days/articleshow/78726674.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: PMK, Congress hit out at governor for sitting on NEET quota bill||CHENNAI: With the NEET quota bill — to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation to the students of government schools — passed unanimously by the state legislature awaiting governor’s assent for 32 days, political parties in the state have come down heavily on governor Banwarilal Purohit. PMK, a key NDA ally, alleged that the delay was deliberate and said it looked like it was governor’s rule that was in vogue in the state. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his cabinet colleagues visited Raj Bhavan on October 5 and made special emphasis on getting support to the bills, which would help around 300 students get medical admissions. The government had introduced the bill to blunt the opposition criticism that government school students were disadvantaged by the introduction of NEET. While the governor has given assent to all bills sent by the government recently, Anna University bifurcation bills and the NEET bill are pending, sources said. “The governor is awaiting legal opinion on the NEET bill,” said a source. Incidentally, the government had brought RTE students under the ambit of NEET quota after receiving legal opinion. In a series of tweets, PMK leader S Ramadoss unleashed a scathing attack on the governor. “What is the respect for a government elected by the people if the governor could block the bills passed by the legislative assembly?” he said. The answer to the question whether Tamil Nadu is ruled by people’s representatives or governor should be immediately found, he added. In another sarcastic tweet, Ramadoss posted a famous quote of former CM and DMK founder C N Annadurai, who equated the governor’s post to a goat’s beard and said both were unnecessary. TNCC chief K S Alagiri said it looked like the governor was not taking a decision on the bill since the BJP government at the Centre had some motives. Madras high court judge Justice N Kirubakaran had turned emotional while arguments were on in the court about the NEET quota issue and the plight of government school students. In 2015-16, and 2016-17, 456 and 438 government school students respectively gained admission, but the situation turned for the worse after competitive examination was introduced. “I would like to warn that there will be dire consequences if the governor continues to act indifferently and does not give approval to the bill,” Alagiri said. He also took a dig at the state government as none of the students trained in government’s 412 centres qualified in NEET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pmk-congress-hit-out-at-guv-for-sitting-on-neet-quota-bill/articleshow/78724816.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 18, 2020||Pune||Frequent sero surveillance expensive & futile: Experts||PUNE: Leading epidemiologists have now asked states to ensure there is a gap of at least two to three months between two rounds of localised sero surveys. The experts said well-spaced surveys, and not monthly ones, will produce better results. “Frequent sero surveys will not produce reliable data. These are also expensive,” said one expert. Many states (including Delhi) have announced monthly sero-surveys. The Indian Council of Medical Research has so far carried out two national rounds of surveys to assess the spread of infection in communities across the country. Director of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Manoj Murhekar, who led the surveys, said a third round of sero-surveillance with the same sample population in the country should now be carried out in December, with adequate gap. These surveys are being done to primarily assess spread, not herd immunity, he said. The cost factor is an impediment too. “It is a costly effort. And we need enough phlebotomists (experts trained to draw and research blood) for these surveys. So local authorities should use discretion,” added an epidemiologist from the state. Professor LS Shashidhara of Ashoka University and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, who was instrumental in conducting the city’s first sero-surveillance survey said the idea of repeated sero-surveillance studies in a large country like India, with uneven spread of infection, is not prudent. “It is too expensive and not an effective way to deal with the pandemic. These surveys were needed in May-June and not now, as large-scale community transmission is evident. What we now need are well-planned sero-surveys in different parts of India that can determine some protective immunity in populations,” he said. The ICMR’s second nationwide study, conducted in August-September, had revealed that over 6.6% of the Indian population above the age of 10 have encountered the virus. The survey showed prevalence had increased nearly 10-fold since the first study three months prior. A third is expected to provide a bigger picture of scale of spread, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/frequent-sero-surveillance-expensive-futile-experts/articleshow/78725878.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Either amend law or take legal route to resume mining’||PANAJI: Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday with a demand that mining activities in the state be restarted from November. “We have demanded that mining should restart from the new season,” GMPF president Puti Gaonkar said. The group has suggested that the government either amend the law or take legal recourse to ensure the same. Sawant has called the group again next week for a meeting on the issue. This meeting, he said, will be a joint one with bureaucrats and mining dependants. “I have explained to them what the government has done so far on the issue. We will also listen to their suggestions,” he said Recently, two crucial meetings on resumption of mining activities in the state, which were supposed to be held in Delhi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi before October 15, were postponed after Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi tested Covid positive. On September 30, Sawant had met the prime minister in New Delhi and explained the mining issue in detail. He told Modi that if the industry doesn’t restart, the state’s economy would be in doldrums. He appealed to Modi to bring in a legislative cure to restart mining. “The PM is positive about restarting mining activities in the state,” he had said, adding that Modi would meet with bureaucrats and other political parties before October 15 to discuss and resolve the issue. Sawant had said that he was looking forward to a positive outcome. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining in the state. There has been no mining activity in Goa since March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government had filed a review petition on February 7, 2018, in the apex court against the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/either-amend-law-or-take-legal-route-to-resume-mining/articleshow/78726677.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chennai||BJP backs M K Surappa over Anna University IoE issue||CHENNAI: BJP state president L Murugan has thrown his weight behind Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa, who has courted controversy by writing directly to the Centre regarding conferring the Institute of Eminence (IoE) status to the university. Murugan said the campaign against IoE status was built on utter lies as it would not affect the reservation system in any manner. Opposition parties were trying to draw political mileage out of the issue by misleading people, Murugan said. Murugan’s support to Surappa has come at a time when the state government has condemned the vice chancellor for directly communicating with the Centre, terming the act indiscipline. The state government, fearing that the issue would provide fodder to the opposition on the eve of elections, has also said it was opposed to giving IoE status to the university. The AIADMK’s ally, PMK, has condemned Surappa’s direct correspondence to the Centre. Despite the issue having the potential to cause political damage, the saffron party has chosen to bite the bullet and support Surappa. Murugan said political parties were interfering in the freedom entitled to the university vice chancellor. “The perception that special status (IoE) will affect reservation is factually incorrect. It will never affect reservation in any manner. Reservation is a constitutional right. It exists everywhere and it cannot be repealed by giving any special status to an institution,” said Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-backs-surappa-over-anna-univ-ioe-issue/articleshow/78724828.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Slipped disc surgery delay causes rare spine condition||PUNE: Delaying surgery for a slipped disc almost cost 45-year-old Avinash, a teacher, his legs. Avinash, a resident of Sangli, was diagnosed with ‘cauda equina syndrome’, a surgical emergency. The condition demands quick treatment to prevent lasting damage, which can even lead to incontinence and permanent paralysis of the legs. The condition occurs when the nerve roots called cauda equina are compressed and disrupt motor and sensory function to the legs and bladder. Patients with this syndrome are often admitted to the hospital as a medical emergency. He developed back pain while lifting a heavy object at home during Diwali cleaning last year. He was then diagnosed with a slipped disc and was advised surgery in January this which Avinash kept on procrastinating. “I was managing the pain with oral medications and physiotherapy. I thought it was not a major thing and kept on delaying the advised surgery,” Avinash said. By the end of April, Avinash started complaining of severe numbness in his right leg. By this time, the scare of contratcing Covid-19 confined him to his house though. On the evening of August 14, Avinash started experiencing a sudden increase in back pain, with his left side gone completely numb. The situation worsened so much that he could not even walk and pass urine. This is when he was immediately referred to the Sancheti hospital for emergency surgery. At Sancheti, spine surgeon Shailesh Hadgaonkar and his team evaluated Avinash within an hour of his arrival to the hospital and posted him for emergency surgery. “His initial minor disc prolapse increased significantly over the last seven months and compressed the cauda equina nerve (a bundle of spinal nerves). This is among the very few surgical emergencies in spinal conditions,” Hadgaonkar said. Avinash was operated upon within hours of his arrival to Sancheti. “The surgery went well without any events and he was discharged on the third post-operative day,” Hadgaonkar, the head of the spine and neurosciences department at Sancheti hospital, said. Two months after the surgery, Avinash is doing better. “The numbness and weakness in both the legs have completely gone. The bladder is in the process of recovery,” Avinash said. Spine surgeon Ajay Kothari said, “CES occurs more often in adults than in children. Children with a spinal birth defect or a spinal injury are vulnerable too.” Another spine surgeon Siddharth Aiyer said, “Loss of sensations in legs, buttocks, inner thighs, backs of your legs or feet and trouble feeling anything in the areas of your body that would sit in a saddle, trouble passing urine are some of the symptoms of this syndrome.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delaying-slipped-disc-surgery-leaves-sangli-teacher-with-rare-spine-condition/articleshow/78725884.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||4 held for issuing fake certificates||Hassan: Hassan police on Friday arrested the driver of a mini goods vehicle at Hassan Industrial Area for allegedly issuing fake police verification certificates for heavy vehicle drivers and cleaners. The accused is Parameshwara, 46, from Kattaya of Hassan. Based on the information given by him, police arrested the other accused — Madappa, 66, Srikanth, 39, and Mahabaleshwar, 56, who are from different parts of the city — the same day. Parameshwara had worked at Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd (MRPL, Mangaluru) as a supervisor at the tankers division from 2015 to 2019. But soon after his mother passed away, he returned to Kattaya and started working as a driver at the industrial area. It is alleged that he issued fake police verification certificates for drivers and cleaners working at Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL, Hassan) for Rs 2,000 for each certificate. The crime came to light after people complained to Hassan Extension police. The certificate is sought by those wanting to join private companies. SP R Srinivas Gowda has appealed to those wanting verification certificates to register themselves on Seva Sindhu portal, and that there is no need for them to visit the police stations. Once registered, jurisdictional police will verify and submit a report to the district police station. After getting a message of approval, the applicant can download the certificate from the portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/4-held-for-issuing-fake-certificates/articleshow/78724826.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man booked, with wife, for ill-treating elderly parents||PUNE: The Chinchwad police on Friday filed a complaint against a man (41), along with his wife (36), on the charge of neglecting and ill-treating his elderly parents over property rights of their flat. The man’s 75-year-old father, a retired state government employee, lodged a complaint stating that his son and daughter-in-law had beaten him and his wife several times, and also abused them. The elderly couple claimed that their son and daughter-inlaw had been completely neglecting them from 2016. Assistant inspector Rohini Shewale of the Chinchwad police said, “They all stay in the same flat. The elderly man stated in the complaint that the couple wanted the ownership of the flat,but he was against it.” Shewale said, “The son works with a reputable biomedical company and his wife is highly educated. Yet, they thrashed and abused the elderly couple on several occasions, prompting him to lodge a complaint.” The assistant inspector said, “As of now, we have not arrested the couple’s son and his wife. The probe is on.” Police have invoked provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, and IPC sections 323 and 324.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-wife-booked-for-ill-treating-elderly-parents-over-flat-ownership/articleshow/78725881.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||1,400 new Covid cases, nine deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday recorded 1,451 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths, taking the caseload in the state to 2,20,675. The toll to 1,265. So far, 1,96,636 patients have recovered even as 22,774 patients are under medical care in the state. The number of containment zones in the state have come down from over 1,000 to 700 now, which authorities said was sign of the viral load decreasing. Among the districts, Bhadadri Kothagudem and Warangal rural has seen a 7% to 10% increase in cases every week, indicating a faster spread of the virus there. A total of 42,497 samples were tested on Saturday in the state, raising the total number of tests in the state to nearly 39 lakh. The samples tested per 10 lakh population is now 1,01,812 going up from nearly 40,000 at the beginning of September. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1400-new-covid-cases-nine-deaths/articleshow/78725892.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Margao: Shadow council smells scam in waste plant deal||MARGAO: The Shadow Council for Margao has demanded for an explanation from the councillors of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) and the legislators of Margao, Fatorda and Curtorim on how the 5TPD (tonnes per day) biomethanation plants proposed to be set up at Sonsoddo are Rs 2.5 crore higher than a plant having a similar capacity that is located in the jurisdiction of the Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC). Pointing out to a notice issued by the Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) inviting tenders for setting up a 5TPD capacity plant for the SMC, Savio Coutinho of the shadow council said the cost of the SMC plant is Rs 2.3 crore whereas the estimated cost shown by the Goa Waste Management Corporation for Sonsoddo is 4.8 crore for one 5TPD capacity plant. “What is special about the Margao 5TPD plant that makes its price more than double?” Coutinho said. Suspecting a scam, Coutinho said the extra amount of Rs 2.5 crore per machine would drain the treasury of the Margao municipality by over Rs 17.6 crore. “At no cost we shall allow that,” he added. “By feigning innocence, ignorance and silence, our local representatives cannot absolve themselves of this fraud. They definitely owe an explanation to members of the public as all are on record unanimously supporting this proposal,” Coutinho said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shadow-council-smells-scam-in-waste-plant-deal/articleshow/78727014.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Miffed SC Char Dham panel chief skips meeting||Dehradun: The chairperson of the Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee (HPC) on the all-weather Char Dham road missed a meeting called on Saturday by the member secretary of the HPC. Terming it an unauthorised meeting, Ravi Chopra, the chief of the panel, said that neither he nor other members of the committee had given approval for either the meeting or the agenda. He added that he had informed Ravinath Raman, the member secretary of the committee, and current Garhwal commissioner on October 16 that he cannot call any meeting of the HPC without the concurrence of the chair. Chopra said, “The meeting was unauthorised and a brazen violation of the honourable Supreme Court’s order. The member secretary is accountable for the HPC, which is an independent body created by the apex court and answerable to the Hon’ble Court only. He has no authority to impose any directions on others for its functioning.” Notably, Raman was appointed as the secretary of the HPC by the state government on October 14. He is said to have called the meeting as per the directions of the state chief secretary. To show their support for Chopra, two other members of the HPC — Navin Juyal and Hemant Dhyani — also didn’t attend the meeting. “We stand with the chairman and demand that independent functioning of the HPC should be restored,” they said in a statement. Meanwhile, Raman couldn't be contacted despite several attempts by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/miffed-sc-char-dham-panel-chief-skips-meeting/articleshow/78724842.cms||Shivani Azad
October 18, 2020||Pune||Pashan family bonds over gardening||Pune: A family that grows a garden together, stays together could probably be said about Sujata Naphade’s family in Pashan. Not only her family, but her brother’s as well her brother-in-law’s families are involved in planting, sowing and tending the gardens at her home. Together they have grown 100 vegetables, fruits and herbs. Naphade said that they chose to tread the path of sustainable living in 2003. “In 2007, we began construction of our residence at Pashan and started growing tomato, fenugreek and papaya. We realised that the plants were growing well, and we were reaping good produce. This prompted us to grow other vegetables, fruits and herbs,” she said. They initially started with tending to the garden of their bungalow as well as on the terrace and an adjoining plot of land belonging to a family member. Naphade said that they started with the knowledge of farming passed down by family elders. “Once we got hooked to gardening, we started studying more about it. We wanted to do so without disturbing nature. We have been studying about sunlight, soil, water, seeds, sowing and harvesting seasons for various plants, and much more. For example, bottle gourd seeds must be sown around Akshaya Tritiya, during the monsoon, and we can harvest the produce in about a month-and-a-half or two,” she said. Besides, common fruits and vegetables like tomatoes, chillies, lady’s finger, curry leaves, papaya and pomegranate can be grown in a kitchen garden, Naphade said. The family members have also grown turmeric, pumpkin, brinjal, sweet potato, grapes, strawberry, passionfruit, mulberry etc. “We make minimum effort for maximum produce. We initially cultivated only in our garden, but development work in the area led us to start a terrace garden for better access to sunlight for our plants,” she said. According to Naphade, their study on cultivation practices have had an immense impact on their diet. “We have started consuming fruits and vegetables according to their fruiting season. For example, many leafy vegetables are not meant for consumption during the monsoon. So, we do not eat them. It is only when the children ask for something unseasonal that we buy vegetables from farmers,” Naphade said. The family members annual supply of turmeric comes from the vacant plot of land. “We get wet turmeric for cooking and also grind dry turmeric sticks to obtain turmeric powder. The produce lasts us for the entire year. Among the three households, we plan and decide what to grow. We plant the creepers on the ground and channel them towards the terrace,” said Napahade. The family members’ exploits in gardening have encouraged many people in the city to start kitchen gardening. “We have multiple WhatsApp groups of friends and neighbours who have started their own kitchen or terrace garden. We share information and exchange knowledge. We also share seeds and saplings and even the produce,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pashan-family-bonds-over-gardening/articleshow/78725894.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Fort Kochi ‘police excess’: 3 cops transferred||KOCHI: City police on Wednesday transferred three police officers from Fort Kochi police station to other stations in the city following allegation that the policemen assaulted a group of youths while enforcing Covid-19 protocol. According to sources, SI C R Singh and civil police officers Sunil Kumar and Gireesh were transferred. Additional commissioner for Kochi city K P Philip issued the order transferring them to Thoppumpady, North and Elamakkara stations respectively, said sources. Mulavukad SI K P Manesh would be posted at Fort Kochi in place of Singh. According to sources, the transfer was based on a report by Fort Kochi station house officer G B Manuraj and Mattancherry assistant commissioner G D Vijayakumar. The issue pertains to policemen using force to disperse the youths who had gathered at a ground at Fort Kochi, reportedly to play cricket. Five youths got admitted to hospitals after the police action, leading to allegation of police excess and subsequent public uproar against the police. Police officers have however shot down the allegations claiming that they were only using reasonable force, and the area where the action took place was a usual hangout spot for anti-social elements. Though the youths claimed that they were brutally thrashed, police attribute the injuries to fall during their attempt to flee from police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fort-kochi-police-excess-3-cops-transferred/articleshow/78724839.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rare certificate tumbles out of Prabhat Studios||PUNE: What was meant to be a regular clean-up of the shooting floor and allied facilities at the erstwhile Prabhat Studios by the art-direction department of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), turned out to be serendipitous discovery of a certificate for the 1944 Marathi film ‘Ramshastri’ which will now be preserved at the museum on the institute’s campus. The discovery was made by FTII’s Ashutosh Kavishwar, an assistant professor of the art direction department, who was part of the clean-up process on the campus. The certificate will be displayed at the Prabhat Museum, which is occasionally opened to the public. The film, in Marathi, was produced by the Prabhat Film Company and based on the life of Peshwa judge Ramshastri Prabhune, who decided on the case of murder of Narayanrao Peshwa, and held his uncle Raghunathrao culpable, passing the death sentence against him. Gajanan Jagirdar played the role of Ramshastri in the film, and also co-directed it, along with Raja Nene and Vishram Bedekar. The certificate to the film was awarded by the Bengali Film Journalists’ Association (BFJA), curiously for “Best Hindi Picture” of 1944. Besides the mention of the film’s production house and the name, the certificate bears the signature of then BFJA president TK Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/clean-up-brings-out-rare-award-certificate-at-prabhat-studios/articleshow/78725896.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 18, 2020||Chennai||BJP has long-term plans for TN, says its national general secretary||CHENNAI: The BJP has a “long term” plan to form a government on its own in Tamil Nadu like it did in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, its national general secretary C T Ravi said on Friday. “The BJP-centric politics has begun in Tamil Nadu. It will be successful in the elections,” he added. The BJP’s base would be strengthened in all the 234 constituencies, he said. “We are not contesting elections just for short term goals. Our agenda is long term too. It is to strengthen our party in TN, just like we did in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh,” Ravi told reporters at the party headquarters Kamalalayam in Chennai before chairing a high-level committee. Ravi took inputs from the senior leaders and functionaries and discussed the party’s growth region wise. Organising secretary Kesava Vinayagam, state president L Murugan, vice presidents V P Duraisamy and K Annamalai and Prof P Kanagasabapathy, general secretaries Karu Nagarajan, K T Raghavan and Prof R Srinivasan and senior party leaders, C P Radhakrishnan, Pon Radhakrishnan, H Raja and L Ganesan, were invited to discuss the party activities and election preparedness. “We have discussed the party’s prospects in the assembly election and the promising constituencies for the party to field candidates. He (Ravi) has also given instructions to step up the party’s activities to grow fast in the state,” said a senior leader who attended the meeting. “We are strong enough to contest in all the 234 constituencies,” he said in response to a question on the number of constituencies the party would field its candidates in the 2021 assembly polls. He said the party leadership’s “intention” was to establish a deep-rooted party base and it has taken the initiative to achieve it. The party has been growing day by day and many youngsters, educated people and celebrities were joining the party. Ravi said the DMK and its allies have been “peddling false propaganda” and painting the BJP as “anti-Tamil” and against the Tamil culture and reservation policy. “It is old and baseless propaganda against our party,” he said. On the anti-reservation tag, he said the Modi government gave constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes. It had submitted an affidavit in the SC in support of reservation. “We are for it (reservation). How can they say we are against reservation?” he asked. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had always respected Tamil language and Tamil people, he said, adding, “A humble woman (Nirmala Sitharaman) from Tamil Nadu became the first woman defence minister of the country and the finance minister too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-has-long-term-plans-for-tn-says-its-natl-gen-secy/articleshow/78724846.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 18, 2020||Pune||Jobless friend held on charge of killing kebab pav vendor in Pune||PUNE: A jobless man was arrested around 7.30pm on Friday, within hours after he allegedly stabbed his friend, a kebab pav vendor, to death outside the Camp Education Society’s High School & Jr College at Hazrat Babajan Chowk following a dispute on Thursday. Victim Obaid Muzaffar Qureshi (30) from Bhimpura and his alleged assailant, Nabil Shabbir Belim (26), were friends. Qureshi was popular among residents of the area and passers-by for his kebab pav. Senior inspector Chandrakant Bhosale of the Cantonment police said on Saturday, “Qureshi had threatened and abused Belim over some dispute on Thursday. In a fit of anger, Belim stabbed Qureshi in the chest with a knife the next day and fled. The critically injured victim was proclaimed dead by the doctors on admission to the Sassoon General Hospital.” Bhosale said, “A police team arrested Belim soon after investigations established his involvement in the murder. We have recovered the knife from Belim. He will be in custodial remand till Monday.” The victim’s brother, Sohaib Qureshi, registered an FIR under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jobless-friend-held-on-charge-of-killing-kebab-pav-vendor/articleshow/78725891.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi MTA may start functioning within a month||KOCHI: The opening of Chambakkara bridge along the busy Vyttila-Petta Road on Thursday has brought back the focus on integrating public transport systems in the city, and officials with the transport department are hopeful that Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (Kochi MTA) will start functioning within a month. Officials with the transport department pointed out the constitution of KMTA will be essential for integration of public transport systems in the city. “There may not be much delay for the Kochi MTA to start functioning. The authority has the powers to take various steps towards facilitating integrated and seamless public transportation,” said an official. The coming of Kochi MTA is expected to streamline public transport systems, identifying new routes and introducing suitable vehicles which facilitate mass transportation. However, officials are of the view that the crucial task will be to make people leave behind their private vehicles and opt for public transport. With the outbreak of Covid-19, more people have started using private vehicles, particularly two-wheelers and cars. Though public transport systems resumed operations, commuters are reluctant to travel by these fearing virus spread. Inaugurating the four-lane Chambakkara bridge, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the successful implementation of the water metro project will place Kochi as the first city in the state to have an integrated public transport system. “The implementation of Kochi water metro is progressing at a fast pace. It is expected that people can travel by the water metro by the beginning of next year,” he said. He also said a two-km space on either side of the roads along the Kochi metro corridor has been identified for developing non-motor transport (NMT) systems. “The aim is to provide safe and secure modes of transport. For this, better walkways, cycle tracks and automatic cycle parking systems will be provided. The Rs 1400 cr integrated urban regeneration and water transport system is also being implemented for making canals in the city navigable,” the CM said. Meanwhile, residents and people’s representatives in the region highlighted the need for improving road conditions. Even though the opening of the Chambakkara bridge will ensure smooth and speedy traffic, motorists will have to slow down to travel ahead from Petta Junction. “The Petta Junction -Gandhi Square road is in pathetic condition. Though authorities say that they have completed tendering process, works are yet to begin,” said Kochi corporation councillor VP Chandran. However, residents said when they took up the case of providing traffic signals at Petta Junction, KMRL informed them that such works would be completed when metro works till SN Junction gets completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mta-may-start-functioning-in-a-mth/articleshow/78724868.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 1,161 new Covid cases, 9 deaths on Friday||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Saturday added 1,161 new Covid-19 positive patients, taking the total to 1.58 lakh. It was the seventh day of below 1,200 daily tally as the state recorded a 2.5% drop in daily cases from the seven-day high of 1,191 on Friday. The new cases included 239 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 116 from Vadodara, 108 from Rajkot and 74 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative tally of Ahmedabad district reached 40,112 - accounting for 25.3% of the state’s total tally. Jamnagar district also crossed a total of 7,500 cases with 7,566. The tally in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot was 33,604, 14,206 and 11,446 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of nine Covid patients, taking the total to 3,629. The deaths included three in Rajkot, two each in Ahmedabad and Surat, and one each in Vadodara and Gir Somnath. It was for the first time that Rajkot topped the daily deaths in the state as the district recorded three deaths in a day after 14 days. A total of 1,270 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.4 lakh. The discharges included 286 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 167 from Vadodara, and 149 from Rajkot. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat got reduced to 14,587. The share of active, discharged and deceased patients in total Covid-19 cases so far include 9.2%, 88.5% and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat carried out 53,746 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 53.22 lakh. It was the second consecutive day for the state to record more than 52,000 daily tests. As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 5.49 lakh persons under quarantine. Watch Covid-19: Gujarat adds 1,161 new cases, 9 deaths in 24 hrs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-adds-1161-new-cases-9-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78726670.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Rly unions demand payment of bonus, to protest on Oct 20||Hyderabad: Demanding to be paid the pending bonus for financial year 2019-20, members of the All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) the largest trade union association in Indian Railways decided to hold large-scale protests in all the zones, including the South Central Railway (SCR) on the occasion of Bonus Day on October 20.  “Local rail users and other prominent personalities shall also be involved in the formation of the committees to create an effective atmosphere to oppose the policies,” a release from AIRF said. The members also said that they will be forced to take direct action if the authorities do not release orders for payment of the bonus amount by October 21. “Bonuses are the right of railway employees, which they take on the basis of production. Railway workers should get the pending bonus for this financial year. On October 22, we will take direct action and might also stop trains to make sure that our demands are heard by the authorities in case orders to release the pending payments are not issued,” said Srinivas Reddy, the president of Railway Mazdoor Union, SCR zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rly-unions-demand-payment-of-bonus-to-protest-on-oct-20/articleshow/78725902.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Min calls Stalin a novice||Tuticorin: Minister for information and publicity minister and the AIADMK’s Tuticorin north district secretary Kadambur C Raju on Saturday called DMK president M K Stalin a novice. “Karunanidhi was a colourful multifarious personality (jagajala killadi). But the AIADMK won seven of the 10 elections we faced against him. The party (DMK) has just come under the leadership of Stalin. Stalin is a novice and is going to face an election only now,” the minister said. Raju said AIADMK workers need not worry about the DMK in the coming assembly elections. Raju was addressing the party cadre in Kovilpatti after paying tributes to former chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa on the occasion of the party’s 49th year foundation day celebration. He said the AIADMK had grown stronger and vibrant over the years and that no other party was worthy of forming the government in the state. “There is no force that can defeat the AIADMK. Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the chief minister of Tamil Nadu on the golden jubilee year of the party in 2021. The AIADMK will be in power in the centenary year in 2071 too,” he said and asked party workers to take this vow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-calls-stalin-a-novice/articleshow/78727010.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||JP Nadda lays foundation of Doon BJP office in online event||DEHRADUN: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday laid the foundation stone of the new office in a virtual event. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, and other senior leaders of the party attended the event. While addressing the party workers on the occasion, Nadda said that he has a very personal relationship with Uttarakhand and believes that this state has potential to achieve great things. “I wish success to my party members in Uttarakhand who now will have a bigger officer. This building will have a separate place for requirements like sections for media management staff, social media management staff, digital library, etc. which will keep the party workers updated,” said Nadda. He added that the BJP believes in treating the party as ‘family’ while other parties are the ‘families’ as party. Chief minister Shri Trivendra Singh Rawat also congratulated the party members for getting a new office in the state capital and said that the new office will catre as venue for big events after the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jp-nadda-lays-foundation-of-doon-bjp-office-in-online-event/articleshow/78724864.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court permits lawyers access to their chambers||AHMEDABAD: After more than six months, the Gujarat high court on Saturday decided to allow lawyers access to their chambers in the high court campus at Sola after laying down an SOP. The Bar Association had requested the chief justice for this. The chambers can be used by lawyers for four hours a day, and lawyers can visit their chambers on alternate days by following odd-even number formula. Lawyers having chambers with odd numbers can come one day and those with chambers having even numbers can use their chambers the next day. The lawyers will have to abide by all Covid-19 guidelines, to use masks, sanitizer and follow social distancing norms. The elevators should be avoided, so is crowding in the lobby in advocate chambers’ buildings. As lawyer will be granted entry once in a day in HC campus. The lawyers are allowed access to both new and old chambers, but with one junior advocate only. They will not be allowed company of clerks and they cannot have access to outside food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-permits-lawyers-access-to-their-chambers/articleshow/78726663.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: After months of silence, play areas in housing societies abuzz with kids’ activities||PUNE: The play areas in housing societies are once again abuzz with activities, after the quiet of six months. Parents keeping their children home and off the playgrounds after the lockdown in March are allowing their wards to return to playgrounds and socialize with their friends cautiously. Sporting proper protective gears while socializing has become a new-normal for the kids. “Our two daughters (seven- and 10-year-old) were not allowed to go and play with their friends in the building through the lockdown. Over the months, they have seen us wearing masks while going out for groceries, use sanitizer and wash up thoroughly when we come from outside. They have also got a hang of the protocols that need to be followed when they go out. We let them go to play now. The elder one takes charge of her younger sister,” says Sudeshna Ghosh, a resident of a society in the NIBM Road area. Shaurya Patil, the father of a eight-year-old child from Undri, says, “My son did not like to wear a mask because it fogged his spectacles. So, when we would not watch him, he used to slide it down. We had to explain him the importance of wearing it properly. We showed him photos of (actors who play) superheroes wearing masks to inspire him and how he should be careful and keep distance in Covid times. But even now, we go down with him and keep an eye when he is playing.” After learning about the pandemic at home, experts feel, children should be given space to discuss it at peer-level to cope with the situation better. “Regular socializing helps in emotional development of children and they need social contact with their peers. They learn more from their peers than any other source. When a child has ample opportunity to interact with others of their age, they become confident about themselves, learn about the new social distancing protocols and social skills, cooperation, empathy and effective problem-solving strategies,” says psychologist Pragati Sureka. Murali Krishnan, a member of the management committee of Raheja Vistas, NIBM Road, says they have opened all facilities for children within the premises except for the swimming pool. “Children in the society are playing football, tennis, cricket and basketball in their free time. We also have coaches. They are coming to teach various sports. I am a tennis coach. So, I take that up with them in the mornings and evenings. Younger children play in the passage and the lobby area. Households having a member not feeling well do not let their children come down to play till they are fine.” Some societies have allowed only certain games in keeping with the norms. “We sent a circular to all residents that as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) norms, we are allowing cricket and badminton, because maintaining social distance is possible in these sports. The playground areas for younger children is open, too. When they are done with their online classes, they come down to play. It is important for their physical fitness,” says Rajesh Mishra, a member of the managing committee of Ganga Satellite, Wanowrie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-months-of-silence-play-areas-in-housing-societies-abuzz-with-kids-activities/articleshow/78725907.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||A’bad Bar Association requests CJ to open courts||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Bar Association has requested the chief justice of the Gujarat high court to open courtrooms in a phased manner stating “30% lawyers are now really starving” and reeling from financial distress without practice. The president and secretary of the Bar, Paresh Jani and Jagat Choksi, dashed off a letter to the chief justice highlighting the plight of a middle-class lawyer, who is left with little means to earn due to closed courts after the nationwide lockdown in March. The letter reads, “After resting for tiresome six months from March to October, I am writing this request letter to inform about the weak financial position of at least 30% lawyers.” The HC had shut down all courts in March, and permitted courts to function in limited manner through video conference. The letter stated that the lawyers are facing difficulties in footing bills and paying children’s education fees. When most institutions have started functioning and the commercial activities are running full-fledged, the chief justice may consider opening the courtrooms in a phased manner. It said that the government has even permitted Navratri Puja by a crowd of 200 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-bar-association-requests-cj-to-open-courts/articleshow/78726669.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Monsoon withdrawal delay longest in Maharashtra in a decade||PUNE: The beginning of monsoon withdrawal from Maharashtra has recorded the longest delay in a decade this year and the more rain forecast for Pune, Mumbai and other parts of the state from October 19 hints at further deferral of the process. The exit of monsoon has already been delayed by about 12 days from the normal date for the start of the process in the state, which is around October 5. The India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s monsoon withdrawal data for yesteryears showed this was the longest that monsoon had taken to start its exit from Maharashtra after 2010, when it began withdrawal on October 26. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, said, “Another low-pressure area developing over the Bay of Bengal around October 19 is likely to bring more showers over the state, including Pune and Mumbai, which is likely to delay the start of monsoon withdrawal from Maharashtra further. Monsoon withdrawal has not even started from the state as low-pressure systems seem to be developing over the Bay of Bengal on and off.” He added, “Last year, southwest monsoon made an exit from India around October 16, after which we announced the simultaneous onset of northeast monsoon. Northeast monsoon has not made an onset so far, as southwest monsoon lingers on.” Kashyapi said the Bay of Bengal had been quite active this monsoon. “The system likely to develop over the Bay of Bengal on October 19 might also have a west-northwest movement like the recent system that gave isolated heavy rain in areas of Maharashtra. The October 19 system will move via Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra. Thus, there is chance of rain in almost all of Maharashtra,” he said. IMD has so far forecast light to moderate rain in parts of the state on October 19-20, which may increase to moderate to heavy rain at isolated places in parts of the state during October 21-23. “We, thus, feel there is no chance of monsoon withdrawal starting from Maharashtra before October 25,” Kashyapi added. It would mean the start of monsoon withdrawal from Maharashtra would be delayed by a significant 20 and odd days in comparison to a normal season. Monsoon’s exit from the entire country has also been delayed. It normally withdraws from all of India by October 15. Sathi Devi, scientist and head of National Weather Forecasting Centre (NWFC), IMD, New Delhi, told TOI, “Rainfall activity is unlikely to stop in parts of Maharashtra for a few days as the next system forms over the Bay of Bengal around October 19. Until the rain stops, monsoon withdrawal cannot take place from Maharashtra. Once the system expected to form moves away and we see no other system that could give rain to Maharashtra, then the start of withdrawal could be possible. Around October 25, rain should reduce over Maharashtra as per the latest scenario assessed on date.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-monsoon-withdrawal-delay-longest-in-state-in-a-decade/articleshow/78725904.cms||Neha Madaan
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: ‘City needs all-weather roads’||KOCHI:  As road conditions deteriorate during heavy rain every year, officials with local bodies like Kochi corporation and road owners like PWD point out the need to adopt weather-resistant technologies to build durable roads. According to officials with PWD, there have been plans to relay roads using soil-stabilisation method, natural rubber modified bitumen (NRMB) technology, geotextiles and shredded plastic waste. “But, it requires political will to implement such projects. Changes will have to be incorporated in the tendering process to relay roads as per these methods,” said a Kochi corporation official. In soil stabilisation method it is possible to do away with need for crushed granite as locally available materials are mixed with cement and used for road construction. It will help in speedy construction of roads and provide durability. As plastic waste is available in plenty and various agencies are engaged in shredding this, road owners like Kochi corporation can procure this and other shredded plastic refuse as raw material for laying roads. “Kochi corporation once experimented with relaying of a road using shredded plastic. However, it was not taken up further. The local body’s leadership was never keen to take up such work,” added the official. He also pointed out that usage of bitumen emulsion could be ideal for repairing potholes on highways and other roads during the monsoon. Meanwhile, Cherian Varkey, chairman of Cherian Varkey Construction Company (CVCC), pointed out that it could be the huge cost factor that deters government from implementing durable roads. “Now they are just strengthening roads. Money is a big factor in building durable roads. We should start working from base or foundation,” he said. According to Varkey, the layering of roads will have to be properly done for durability. The sub-base, granular sub-base, wet mix macadam, dense bitumen macadam and bituminous concrete are the layers that goes into the process of building durable roads. “Moreover effective drainage is also must for durability,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-needs-all-weather-roads/articleshow/78724878.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||WHO chief scientist says reinfection rare; ICMR set to analyse three cases||PUNE: The World Health Organisation’s chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan has said that Covid-19 reinfection has been rare because only a few dozen cases have been reported among the 38 million who have already contracted the illness. But she added that it can happen. “It can. And we are learning more about the immune system,” she told TOI in an email interview. When asked about the development of antibodies, Swaminathan said studies have shown antibodies do develop — even if the infection has been mild. The ICMR, meanwhile, has announced it plans to study three reinfection cases: two from Mumbai and one from Ahmedabad. Experts from the research agency said there were considering a cut-off period of 100 days — between first encounter and emergence — to describe ‘Covid reinfection’. Dr Samiran Panda, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at ICMR, said a high-powered committee has been set up to closely monitor the situation. “But it is not a public health concern of severe magnitude,” Panda told TOI. He said though SARS-CoV-2 was mutating, the changes were negligible, without major impact on infectivity. He explained that major changes in a pathogen like this virus, which can have a bearing on vaccine efficacy, can take up to 15 years. This change is called antigenic shifts and currently, there have been reports of only a minor antigenic shift. Epidemiologist Giridhara Babu said reinfection with SARS-CoV-2 has been rare. He said, “So far, it has been confirmed in only four individuals, out of millions of Covid-19 cases worldwide. This means that sub-groups of people with previous exposure to SARS-Cov 2 may not necessarily develop immunity. Extensive studies are needed to understand a detailed characterisation of this sub-group.” Babu added, “These studies will go on to help us understand the duration of immunity and role of different types of immune responses in people with Covid-19.” He said such research will also have implications on vaccine development and implementation. “If people in this group have not developed an appropriate and complete immunity response, the studies will reveal the reasons why, and how we could ovecome such problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/who-chief-scientist-says-reinfection-rare-icmr-set-to-analyse-three-cases/articleshow/78725910.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Woman cop chases down man who snatched her chain||Madurai: A woman police constable caught a man, who snatched her gold chain weighing six sovereigns with the help of public and handed him over to the Melur police station on Friday. T Vidhya, 42, a head constable attached with district crime branch of Sivaganga district police was on her way home on a two-wheeler from her workplace. When she was travelling at Ganapathipuram, a bike-borne snatcher followed her closely. In no time, he snatched her gold chain and raised throttle in a bid to escape. Vidhya chased him closely. The snatcher, who got nervous and raised the throttle hit another two-wheeler at some distance, fell down and suffered injuries on the hand. Vidhya with the help of a couple of youths caught him and took him to the police station. Based on a complaint a case was registered with the Melur police station. The bike used for the crime was also seized. Inquires revealed that his name was S Rajamohammed, 29, from Kidaripatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-cop-chases-down-man-who-snatched-her-chain/articleshow/78727015.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mangaluru||D.Litt to be conferred on Palimar seer on Tuesday||Mangaluru: The second annual convocation of Srinivas University will be held at its city campus at Pandeshwar here on October 20. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Nayaran will be the chief guest and deliver the convocation address virtually. The university will confer D.Litt (Honoris Causa) degree on Sri Vidyadeesha Tirtha swamiji of Sri Palimar Mutt, Udupi. A Raghavendra Rao, chancellor of Srinivas University will preside over. In all, 38 ranks and 11 gold medals will be conferred on the occasion. Overall, 232 undergraduate, 87 postgraduate degrees and 1 PhD will be awarded on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/d-litt-to-be-conferred-on-palimar-seer-on-tuesday/articleshow/78724874.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Distancing cuts social buzz at clubs, footfalls 1/5 of old normal||Ahmedabad: Clubs in Ahmedabad were once the sites of crackling social interactions. One could find people walking, running, jogging, swimming, working out at gyms, exchanging pleasantries and gossip, and debating serious matters over a cuppa! It has been nearly a month since the clubs in Ahmedabad resumed operations under the new normal. However, most clubs are bereft of what defines them — people and social circles. Thanks to the cap on the time allowed at the clubs and restricted amenities, brought about by the pandemic, footfalls are barely one-fifth of the pre-Covid levels. Karnavati Club, which once used to draw 2,000 persons a day, now hosts 200 persons a day; that too for a strictly limited time. “As soon as the club reopened, footfalls were lower than this. However, as people began getting confident about the precautions being taken, they started coming in and availing of the facilities,” said Jayesh Modi, vice-president, Karnavati Club. “We saw people return particularly since the jogging track was opened. However, in the wake of the pandemic, members are extremely cautious and don’t like spending long hours at the club. Most leave soon after they are done with their activity.” When the clubs became operational again, most imposed timing restrictions. Moreover, people above 65 were discouraged from visiting. “Footfalls are nowhere close to the pre-Covid levels. But for us, the safety of members is of prime importance and the management will do all that is possible to ensure that,” said Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club. “We have introduced a system of prior appointments and a cap on the number of hours spent at the gym and at the club. This is keeping footfalls in check.” Most clubs have adopted an extremely conservative approach and are only gradually opening up various facilities and activities. “Barely 50 members are seen at the club in a day against 1,500 before the pandemic,” said N K Patel, president, Gujarat Sports Club. “Ours was the first club to shut down and convert into a Covid-care centre to meet the need of the hour in Ahmedabad and we were among the last to resume. We have consulted doctors to adhere strictly to the government’s standard operating procedures. We have also shifted the gym to outdoor premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/distancing-cuts-social-buzz-at-clubs-footfalls-1/5-of-old-normal/articleshow/78726690.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 18, 2020||Pune||Search continues for two swept away in Mutha||Pune: The search for the two youngsters, who were swept away in the Mutha on Friday, continued on Saturday. Rescue teams from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), city fire brigade and PMRDA fire brigade conducted search operations in the Mutha and Mula-Mutha rivers at Deccan, Sangamwadi, Yerawada and Hadapsar throughout the day, but did not find the duo. Around 6pm on Friday, Omkar Tupdhar (17) and Saurabh Kamble (20), both residents of Tadiwala Road, had fallen into the river near Vateshwar Ghat near Baba Bhide Bridge, and were swept away by the swift current. The duo had waded into the water to take pictures and selfies when the accident occurred. Inspector Raju Chavan of the Deccan police confirmed the two were still missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/search-continues-for-two-swept-away-in-mutha/articleshow/78725913.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||30-year-old American woman arrested for shooting obscene video in Lakshman Jhula||HARIDWAR: The Muni-Ki-Reti police on Saturday arrested a 30-year-old American woman who was allegedly making an obscene video in Lakshman Jhaula in Rishikesh. However, the American woman has denied the allegations and said she shot the video just for promotion of their online gems and garland business, police said. Earlier, a 27-year-old French woman and a local photographer were arrested in the same case in August, but they were released on bail after police did not find any evidence against them. SHO Muniki Reti police station told TOI, “We arrested American woman in connection with shooting an obscene video on Lakshman Jhula and uploading it on social media. She was produced before the court.” The incident came to light in August when a local resident Gajendra Singh Sajwan filed a complaint against unidentified foreigners and youths for doing obscene acts in a public place after which the police registered a case under section 67 of IT Act and section 294 (obscene acts and songs) of the IPC, and started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/30-year-old-american-woman-arrested-for-shooting-obscene-video-in-lakshman-jhula/articleshow/78724881.cms||MS Nawaz
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Residents want curb on stray animal menace, loos in market||JAIPUR: Kishanpole assembly segment, situated in heritage area, is dealing with many civic issues particularly stray animals and poor drainage network. Residents living in wards starting from 55 to 75 have complained against the degrading civic problems. Since lockdown, the number of stray animals like cattle, pigs, dogs has increased and many accidents have occurred in the area. Ashish Kumar, a resident of Ward number 60, said, “We have complained many times in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) office, but nothing has happened so far. The drainage system is outdated and waterlogging has become yearly feature.” The recent rainfall in Jaipur has flooded the market in Kishanpole and damaged goods in the shops. Businessmen have complained that there is a need to change the drainage system. Another important issue is parking and urinals in the market. Parking tenders have not been given for the last three years which has created congestion issue. Kamal Sharma, further explains that no urinals in the market forces people to relieve in the side lanes. “We had a meeting with the traffic police officials recently in which we took up this issue. Parking is not tendered and as people use side lanes instead of urinals, hygiene is an issue,” said Kamal. Although present MLA Amin Kagzi is from Congress, in last municipal elections, out of nine wards as per old delimitation, six were won by BJP councillors, two by Congress and one independent. This is considered to be a BJP hotspot. Former deputy mayor Manoj Bhardhwaj is from Kishanpole legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-want-curb-on-stray-animal-menace-loos-in-market/articleshow/78725915.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
October 18, 2020||Pune||Movement of six trains affected||Pune: Movement of six trains was affected in the Pune-Miraj section on Friday due to an unsafe track portion between Bhilavdi and Nandre stations, Pune rail division officials said. “Train no. 01039 Gondia – Kolhapur special journey commencing on October 16 was cancelled due to this. Also, train no. 01030 Kolhapur-Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai special journey commencing on October 16 was cancelled. In addition to this, train no. 01040 Kolhapur – Gondia special, the journey of which started on October15, has been short terminated at Satara station. Also, train no. 01029 Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai – Kolhapur special, the journey of which started on October 16, has been short terminated at Pune,” a Pune rail division official said. Among the diversions, train no. 02780 Hazarat Nizamuddin-Vasco da Gama special on October 15 has been diverted to run via Daund, Kudrduwadi and Miraj. Also, train no. 02779 Vasco da Gama – Hazarat Nizamuddin special on October 16 has been diverted via Miraj, Kurduwadi and Daund, the official added. “The repair work on the portion of the track is in progress and should be completed soon. More cancellations and diversions can happen based on the time taken for repairs,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/movement-of-six-trains-affected/articleshow/78725916.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Panchayat shows the way through Disha project||KOCHI: At a time when the state government is actively proceeding with various projects to raise the infrastructure and teaching quality in government and aided schools, the Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat in Ernakulam has set an example to local bodies by implementing their own project to achieve the same goals. The Disha project by the local body has carried out a renovation of the classrooms and labs of all the government/aided schools in the panchayat by providing smart education tools, latest teaching aids and lab materials. The project is implemented in the classes up to VII in eight government/aided schools. The panchayat, under the programme, has been providing advanced teaching training to all the teachers in these schools. Also, they have hired specialist teachers in subjects like music, work experience, drawing, spoken English, physical training, etc. who have been taking classes to all the students in these schools. The libraries in these schools were provided with new books and magazine collection too as part of the programme. “Disha was envisaged by the panchayat in 2018 with the aim of improving the academic standards of all the students in its jurisdiction and since then it was implemented in a phased manner. Over the last two-and-a-half years, around Rs 25 lakh was spent for the project. A monitoring committee of 30 members, including ward members, senior teachers, educationists, retired professors, etc., is ideating the activities,” said Lissie Alias, member of Puttumanoor ward in the panchayat. The Govt UP School, Puttumanoor, is the first school to implement the project. A slew of academic as well as student welfare activities were held as part of the programme. Each lab and classroom was provided with modern teaching aids. English fest, sports meet, creative writing sessions, mathematics workshops, etc. were part of this. Regarding infrastructure each classroom was given projectors, book shelf, table, new desks and benches. All schools were given centralized speaker systems too for the headmaster to make announcements. During the lockdown, counselling sessions were held for each school’s students to help them make aware of the pandemic. “Even though the educational institutions are yet to be reopened, the schools are all set to welcome students and impart education in a stress-free atmosphere. We have been training the kids for various scholarships and this year 34 students from various schools in the panchayat have qualified the LSS/USS scholarship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panchayat-shows-the-way-through-disha/articleshow/78724898.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Criminal plays cop for 3 years, lands in net||PUNE: The crime branch of the city police on Saturday arrested a criminal for posing as a police constable from 2017. The suspect, Imtiyaz Idris Memon (41) from Hadapsar, has five cases, including rioting and body offences, registered against him. “We were tipped off that Memon was impersonating a policeman,” DCP (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. “Memon forged an ID card, with a signature of an IPS officer who was posted as DCP (headquarters),” senior inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of crime branch (unit V) said. “We found that Memon would flash the fake ID card for smooth passage at toll booths. During a recent brawl, he threatened a person with the ID card. That person tipped off the police,” a policeman said. DCP Singh has appealed to anyone with a complaint against Memon to contact the police. A case has been registered under sections 465 (forgery) and 171 (impersonation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-plays-cop-for-3-yrs-lands-in-net/articleshow/78725914.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||2 men held for faking vehicle docus, 1 still at large||ROORKEE: A joint team of regional transport office at Roorkee and local police have arrested two persons on Saturday for allegedly using fake vehicle transfer documents of other states to get registration of vehicles from Uttarakhand. The accused were identified as Manoj Kumar from Dhikoli village in Baghpat district and Khalid from Kankerkheda village in Meerut district of Uttar Pradesh. Their accomplice Sharafat Asgar, from Qila Manglaur near Roorkee, is still at large. According to sources, the accused Manoj approached RTO in Roorkee for registration of a truck, which was earlier registered in Manipur, with a no objection certificate (NOC) issued from Manipur transport department. However during the process of registration, the transport office found that a truck bearing the same chassis number and engine number of Manoj's vehicle was already registered with them. The transport office then reported the matter to local police who inquired from Tata Motors about manufacturing of any truck with the same chassis and engine numbers. "The vehicle manufacturer has confirmed to us that they did not ever produce any vehicle of that number," said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-men-held-for-faking-vehicle-docus-1-still-at-large/articleshow/78724887.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 18, 2020||Pune||Whiff of show-off in two-wheeler thefts||PUNE: A security guard was arrested and his minor friend was detained on Thursday for stealing eight two-wheelers from February. A special team formed under senior inspector Yunus Shaikh of the Yerawada police for curbing vehicle thefts took the guard, Pradeep Raju Adagale (27), and the 17-year-old boy into custody after they were found on a stolen motorcycle at Gold Club Chowk in Yerawada. Sub-inspector Mangesh Bhange, one of the team members, said, “Investigations revealed that the minor boy stole several vehicles by breaking their locks from different parts of the city. He handed over two vehicles to Adagale. The duo then started riding them for joyride to show their friends that they could afford expensive bikes.” He said, “The duo changed the colour of two expensive bikes and replaced the original registration number plates with fake ones to prevent their owners from identifying them. They did not change the colour and number plates of the other vehicles because their typical colours cannot be identified.” He said, “We have recovered two vehicles from Adagale and six from the minor boy. The duo are first-time offenders. The collective value of the vehicles — five motorcycles and three scooters — is Rs2.1 lakh.” Bhange said, “Two vehicles were stolen from Yerawada and one each from the limits of Airport, Faraskhana and Bharati Vidyapeeth police stations. The process of identifying the place from where the three other vehicles were stolen is in progress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/whiff-of-show-off-in-two-wheeler-thefts/articleshow/78725920.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop’s bail nixed to nail police booze trail||Ahmedabad: In an important order, the Gujarat high court has cancelled the anticipatory bail granted to a police constable accused of giving safe passage to vehicles ferrying liquor from Rajasthan to central Gujarat. The aim is to help cops find the other police officials involved in the syndicate. The pre-arrest bail was cancelled on Thursday so that the accused cop could be taken into police remand. Justice Gita Gopi observed that it was necessary “for finding out the syndicate of police officials involved in the illegal activity and to expose them in the larger interest of society.” The judge went on to say: “It is only when the accused is in police custody and put under custodial interrogation, without any protection of anticipatory bail, the truth can be discerned for free, fair and full investigation”. In this case, a constable with the parole and furlough squad in Aravalli district, Maheshsinh Gadhvi, was booked by Gandhinagar police for securing safe passage for vehicles used in bootlegging. He was booked after the bootleggers caught on the spot by a raiding party put the police officials across to Gadhvi over the phone. The bootleggers said that Gadhvi charged Rs 50,000 for each of the five vehicles and had ensured safe passage from the Gujarat-Rajasthan border to Nadiad. Gadhvi approached a sessions court in Gandhinagar for anticipatory bail and got it. The state government immediately approached the high court. Public prosecutor Mitesh Amin submitted that CCTV footage showing the constable accepting bribe money, call details, and WhatsApp messages warranted his arrest and custodial interrogation, but the lower court had ignored the material. The drivers were given code words for safe passage; in this particular case it was ‘Komal’. This suggests there must be a chain of policemen involved in this racket, the government said. The government further contended that a lot of money is changing hands every month for giving safe passage to vehicles used in bootlegging. The accused policeman did not cooperate and instead proceeded on leave. If he remains free, he will influence the investigation, the government said. t is certainly vulnerable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-bail-nixed-to-nail-police-booze-trail/articleshow/78725925.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||182 candidates file nominations on Day 4||Jaipur: On the fourth day of filing nominations for the municipal corporation polls in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota, 201 nominations were filed by 182 candidates on Saturday. In all, 215 candidates have filed 237 nomination papers in four days.Of the total, 41 nominations were filed by 37 candidates in Jaipur Heritage and 91 nominations were filed by 84 candidates in Jaipur Greater municipal corporation on Saturday.Meanwhile, 19 nominations were filed by 14 candidates in Jodhpur North and 23 nominations were filed by 22 candidates in Jodhpur South municipal corporation. In Kota North, 10 candidates filed 10 nominations and in Kota South, 17 nominations were filed by 15 candidates.The state election commission (SEC) on Saturday has directed the district election officers to make preliminary preparations for the elections to posts of panchayat samiti members and Zila Parishads, and also for the elections to 129 civic bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/182-candidates-file-nominations-on-day-4/articleshow/78725918.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||ACB arrests PWD executive engineer for accepting bribe of Rs 1.26 lakh||JAIPUR: A team of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday arrested an executive engineer and a retired executive engineer of Public Works Department (PWD) for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1.26 lakh. The retired executive engineer took the bribe amount allegedly on behalf of the executive engineer from the complainant in lieu of clearing his bills related to the construction of houses for Rajasthan Armed Constabulary at Bharatpur. According to ACB authorities, the complainant, who is a private contractor, accused that executive engineer Ashok Kumar Verma was demanding a hefty amount of bribe in lieu of clearing the bills. "Verma is on deputation with the Police Housing Corporation that works to build quarters and buildings for police and sits at police headquarters. After the complaint, we verified it and laid a trap," said Dinesh M N, Inspector General of Police, ACB, said. According to ACB officials, both the accused had accepted a bribe of Rs 60,000 earlier, but they were again demanding for a bribe of Rs 1.26 lakh. "The complainant was fed up and he approached us and narrated his plight. Thus, after verification of his complaint, a trap was laid and both the officers were caught red-handed for accepting the bribe," he added. As per the plan, the complainant with the bribe money visited a house in Jhotwata locality. "We first arrested G S Chahar, a retired assistant engineer of PWD who was taking bribe on behalf of the executive engineer. Thereafter the arrest of Verma was also made," said Chanchal Mishra, additional SP, ACB. The ACB team also raided other places that belong to both the accused. "It was found that some houses were constructed at Bharatpur that were meant for police use. A private contractor was building these houses. These officers were not clearing his pending bills and were asking for bribe," said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-pwd-executive-engineer-for-accepting-bribe-of-rs-1-26-lakh/articleshow/78725921.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Lease holder of agri plot illegally carrying out mining in river||Jaipur: The aim of issuing lease deed (patta) on a small agriculture plot for sand mining to curb environmental degradation has failed miserably in Jaipur district, as the lease holder is illegally carrying out excavation in riverbeds, outside the leased area. After the Supreme Court restrained large sand mine lease holders, the state government issued leases on agriculture land reasoning that environmental impact will be minimal. However, the sole lease deed holder of Jaipur district is digging sand in uncontrolled manner from Sota river in Kotputli after deploying heavy machinery in adjoining to his lease. Documents in possession of TOI read, the mining department granted patta on Khasra number 1997 2018, 1927 2016, 1927 2019 and 1927 2020 in village Khadab near Kotputli. On December 5, 2019, the sand mining on approximately 1.93-hectare land was allowed for five years. Pradeep Singh, who has filed a PIL against illegal sand mining in riverbeds said, “The lease holder is illegally carrying out sand mining in connivance with mining department. After the approval, the lease owner has issued ravanna (transit pass) for 4,500 tonne, but, on the original site, excavation is negligible. The holder is illegally digging sand from the river (government land).”A villager on condition of anonymity said, the lease holder has dug a pit in 100 square metre in close proximity of the allotted land. “The depth of the river is 30 feet in the area. However, no action has been taken by the mining department. As per the Supreme Court guidelines, the maximum excavation can be done up to 3 metres (nearly 9 feet),” he said. Assistant mining engineer, Sanjay Sharma says, “As the matter has been brought to our notice, we would investigate after carrying out a site inspection.” Sources claimed, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) has made a mandatory provision even for small lease holders to carry out a replenishment study. But, none of the holders in Rajasthan has conducted the study. “There are approximately 350 sand mining leases on agriculture plots in Rajasthan. If survey is conducted, majority of these leases are inside the river. The department issued lease deeds when the applicants produced a NoC issued by the water resources department that they are 45 metre away from the riverbed. However, it’s different on ground,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lease-holder-of-agri-plot-illegally-carrying-out-mining-in-river/articleshow/78725917.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Vadodara||Photos: Vadodara doctor couple’s ‘tabela’ a dairy of health benefits||VADODARA: How does garlic-herb or orange-cinnamon ‘organic butter’ prepared using bilona/valona method sound to your health freak ears? Definitely tasty, right? Then welcome to Manpura village. Located 18km away from Vadodara, Anklav taluka in Anand is not just a dairy of good breed, but a diary of all good habits raised by the hands of two dedicated Vadodara-based physicians — Dr Bhadresh Modi, and his homeopath wife Dr Hema Modi, 48. What was an offshoot trial of their passion three years ago, the hobby is now a ‘tabela’ spread on six ‘bigha’ land having 75 ‘desi’ varieties of cows, buffaloes and calves! It all began in an informal chat over an early morning bicycle ride with friends on a healthy lifestyle and about indigenous bovines, recalls 50-year-old Modi, a physician (MD medicine) from Baroda Medical College. The modern dairy farm also doubles up as a health centre for its bovine with vets preparing vaccination schedules of each newborn calf, treatment of adult bovine including isolation and quarantine facility for infected or diseased cattle. With the growing consciousness towards health benefits from A2 milk and its products, indigenous breeds, especially the Gir cows and buffaloes have gained prominence along with the revival of traditional methods of milk preservation. This realisation led the couple to embark upon a journey with 10 Gir cows and buffaloes procured especially from Saurashtra with the help of a patient.  “As doctors it was a completely different experience for us. But we started doing research and made our farm maintained full-fledged on the principles of ecology,” said Modi, adding that they even got all the cattle certified genetically by Anand Agricultural University while each animal has also been tagged. “We supply unpasteurized, raw fresh milk within our circle. The surplus milk is used to prepared ghee, butter, and paneer while we supply excess milk to Amul Dairy through Manpura milk society,” said Modi, who even plans to manufacture soaps, shampoos, and phenyl from the urine of ‘desi’ cows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-doc-couples-tabela-a-dairy-of-health-benefits/articleshow/78724656.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Navratri celebrations start on low-key note amid Covid fears||Visakhapatnam: With the pandemic still looming large, all festivities have remained low-key. Meanwhile, locals are trying to pep up celebrations in their own way while staying indoors and safe. This is true of Navratri celebrations as well which kicked off on Saturday and would culminate with Dasara on October 25 and will also encompass four days of Durga Puja. Unlike other years, this year will not have dance workshops, danidya and garba parties while pandals and prasadam (bhog) distribution will also be missed. The Navratri puja at Kali temple on Beach Road also did not take place while venues such as Amcosa and Railway Kali temple remained bereft of the food stalls and cultural programmes which are usually set up during the festive period. At other places such as the temples of Sri Vasavi Parameswari and Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi at Old Town, Navratri celebrations started with special pujas with the deity being decorated in different avatars. Durga Puja celebrations will be held at the Steel Plant township but only members will be allowed inside the puja venue. “As per government orders, at various defence civilian colonies, no festivities are being held as these events draw big crowds. There might be a token puja but celebrations will be confined to individual homes and will not be done on a community scale,” said president of defence civilian employees association, Kiran Kumar. Meanwhile, some took the time to take a break at resorts on the city outskirts. “Since there are no dandiya nights or get-togethers this time, my children were getting bored at home. We could not risk visiting crowded places and hence thought of spending some time at a place overlooking the beach. It was beautiful waking up on the first day of Navratri viewing the sunrise at sea. We came back and will perform pujas at home,” said J Aruna, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/navratri-celebrations-start-on-low-key-note-amid-covid-fears/articleshow/78724352.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||JDA earmarks land for warehousing scheme at Amer||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will soon launch agro warehousing scheme at Amer. It has earmarked 1.19 lakh square metre land in Akheda and Maheshpura village.Out of total land, 33,000 square metre will be reserved to develop 18 big warehouse plots. Facilities including hotel, restaurants, petrol pumps, banks and others will be developed on the remaining land.Jaipur Development Commissioner Gaurav Goyal gave a nod to the project during project works committee (PWC) meeting. “The scheme has been launched in the close proximity of agriculture farms. Moreover, it is also connected with the industrial areas, railway and bus stand,” he said.The JDA is also planning to develop similar kind of warehousing project on Ajmer road, Tonk road and Agra road. Officials claim, these projects will boost the infrastructure and jobs avenues in the city and businessmen and farmers will also be benefited.“If companies develop warehouses in these areas, they can definitely get proper connectivity with national capital as Jaipur comes under a counter magnetic city. Moreover, it is not far from Agra, Delhi and nearby areas where lot of industries are established. The investors would be in the centre point of the golden triangle,” an official said.Finding an innovative way to earn revenue, the JDA this year had decided to prepare an action plan to sell its land. The deputy commissioners were asked to include re-planning of the plots, fix auction rates, methodology of auction and wide publicity of JDA assets in the action plan. It was also stressed on the development of warehouse scheme on the land of Ring Road in Zone-11 and new plots on JDA land in Zone-9, 10, 11 and 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-earmarks-land-for-warehousing-scheme-at-amer/articleshow/78725930.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||3 robbers loot jewellery worth Rs 80 lakh||Jaipur: Three armed robbers barged into a jewellery shop situated at Naadi Ka Phatak area in Murlipura locality and executed the biggest-ever robbery of Jaipur this year on Saturday. The robbers intimidated the owner on gunpoint and decamped with jewellery worth nearly Rs 80 lakh. Before leaving, they took the jeep that belonged to the owner to flee. By evening, the jeep was found abandoned in Vishwakarma Industrial Area.The robbery took place just a few minutes after a bank robbery in Mansarover area in which robbers decamped with a cashbox containing Rs 31.50 lakh. Dinesh Saini, son of the jeweller, and his employee are still in shock after the incident which took place in broad daylight. "They took barely eight minutes to execute the robbery and leave the place. It appears to be an organised gang and was aware that the jeweller was having huge stock on the opening day of Navratri," said Hari Shankar Sharma, assistant commissioner of police, Jhotwara. Two robbers decamped on scooty they had used for their arrival while one of them used the jeep. After the incident, the jeweller informed police control room."We have got some CCTV footage in which they are seen arriving at the crime scene. But they are beyond identification. Our teams are also working on collecting scientific evidences to solve the case. It appears that some person in the acquaintance of the jeweller could be behind the planning of the robbery," said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (Crime). Jaipur district (West) and Jaipur district (South) are on high alert mode after reporting two major robberies. Till evening, every vehicle moving across the city was checked. Police have also sought CCTV footages of the highways and have kept a vigil at the railway station and bus stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-robbers-loot-jewellery-worth-rs-80-lakh/articleshow/78725927.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No staff, proceedings stuck at Vizag consumer bodies||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the implementation of Consumer Protection Act, 2019 three months ago, several cases have been filed with the two district commissions in Visakhapatnam. However, no proceedings have taken place in these cases as both commissions are currently short-staffed. “As per the norms, there should be a three-member commission in Visakhapatnam headed by a president. One of these members has to be a woman. However, both commissions in Visakhapatnam have only the presidents. If not two, we need at least one more member in each commission to start proceedings,” a senior official with the consumer forum department told TOI. In the past three months, as many as 47 cases have been filed under the new act with the two commissions. At Commission I, the last member resigned in November last year while at Commission II, the last member resigned in February. At the time, both commissions were forums but ever since, no proceedings have taken place. Members of the fraternity claimed that as per provisions of the new act, district forums had been converted into commissions. The scope of cases at the district commission had increased drastically with the act enhancing the criteria of cases which can be filed with district consumer bodies. Under the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, district consumer courts would be able to accept cases where the claim amount is over Rs 20 lakh and under Rs 1 crore. Earlier, consumer forums could handle only those cases wherein claim value was below Rs 20 lakh. Now, a complainant can file a case at any of the district commissions irrespective of where the product was purchased or the home state/district of the complainant. “It means that now, even if you are from Odisha and purchased a product in Delhi, you can file a case in Visakhapatnam. The only thing is you have to clarify if you are staying in Visakhapatnam for business or work-related purposes. At the same time, with claim value now increase to Rs 1 crore at the district level, one can even file cases pertaining to property or high-end cars in Visakhapatnam instead of going to Vijayawada,” said Consumer Rights Organisation (CRO) state president, Vikash Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-staff-proceedings-stuck-at-vizag-consumer-bodies/articleshow/78724329.cms||Arpit Basu
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: SH College to harvest rainwater on campus||KOCHI: Furthering its green initiatives and ensuring the availability of water resource in all seasons, Sacred Heart College, Thevara, has started the construction of two rain harvesting tanks with a total storage capacity of 10 lakh litres. The plan is to collect the rainwater from the roofs of various buildings on the campus, filter it and redirect to the tank for storage. The project will be completed by the end of December and once completed it is expected to bring a significant reduction in the water bills. The project is funded by central government scheme Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). Each tank has a capacity of 5 lakh litres, and is 21 metre long, 16 metre wide and 6 metre deep. While one is being constructed on the old campus, the other will be set up on the new campus which is nearing completion. The tank to be set up on the new campus will also feature an artificial groundwater recharge system. “The college already has a 50,000-litre water tank and as the consumption is rising we need larger tanks. So we thought of making huge tanks which could realise the management’s long-standing plan of rainwater harvesting method too. It was supposed to be completed last year as part of a series of works held during the 75th anniversary celebrations of the college. But as it is funded by RUSA, the sanctioning and paperwork took its time and the Covid situation too has affected the work. It will be a model for other institutions,” said college principal Fr Prashant Palackapillil. The tank is built on the ground and it will be covered and concreted to make a basketball court thus serving multiple purpose. The construction is done with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols and as the college remains shut it helps faster completion of the work. “Sacred Heart College is also nearing to achieve its dream of being fully solar-powered campus. Apart from the existing 35kW rooftop solar plants, the works on a 120kW rooftop plant have been completed and its inspection works are underway. Once commissioned and connected to the KSEB power grid, SH will be running on solar power,” the principal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sh-college-to-harvest-rainwater-on-campus/articleshow/78724943.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||411th Mysuru Dasara celebrations commence||Mysuru: Imploring deity Chamundeshwari to protect the human race from the infectious novel coronavirus and lend a hand to find a Covid vaccine at the earliest, C N Manjunath, chairman, expert panel, inaugurated the 411th edition of the ten-day Mysuru Dasara atop Chamundi Hills on Saturday. The celebration was restricted to a limited audience this year, but was impressive as usual. This year the festival is being celebrated with religious fervour all over the country, and is being dedicated to Covid warriors. Six Covid warriors were honoured on the occasion, and the event was inaugurated by front-line Covid warrior C N Manjuanth, a Padma Shri, and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular sciences and Research. Contributions of the maharajas of Mysuru to the field of health, education and agriculture were hailed on the occasion. Manjunath felt that it was the biggest honour for him to inaugurate the celebration. “There are still no immediate signs of relief from the novel coronavirus which continues to spread. Phase-III human trials are under way towards developing a vaccine. We can expect the latest vaccine by February or July 2021. Till then, the only protection humans have are wearing masks properly, and to maintain social distancing. Today, I have prayed to the deity to help us find a vaccine, and to ensure that the world is free of the novel coronavirus soon,” said Manjunath. Rs 7.5 cr package to develop Chamundi Hills Heeding to the request of local elected representatives, chief minister B S Yediyurappa promised to sanction Rs 7.5 crore for the development of Chamundi Hills. Two water bodies, including Devikere, will be rejuvenated, and the 1,001 stairs going up the Chamundi Hills will be realigned, and proper lighting will be provided for it. On the occasion, the chief minister prayed to the deity to save the world from the novel coronavirus, and said that the government is committed to provide relief to residents in flood-hit areas of the state. Six Covid warriors feted Covid warriors P Kumar, a police constable, Noor Jaan, an ASHA worker, Rukmini, a senior staff nurse at a Covid hospital, Ayub Ahamed, a social worker, Maragamma, a pourakarmika and T R Naveen, a medical officer, were felicitated by the chief minister during the inauguration of the Mysuru Dasara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/411th-mysuru-dasara-celebrations-commence/articleshow/78724686.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 18, 2020||Hubballi||After seven months, Almatti Gardens set to reopen||Almatti (Vijayapura): The Lal Bahadur Shastri Dam popularly known as Almatti Dam, is set to welcome tourists from October 19. The gardens, which was shut from March 15 because of the pandemic, is now having a trial run. Suresh H, chief engineer, Krishna Bhagya Jal Nigam Limited (KBJNL), Dam Zone, Almatti, told STOI that Vijayapura deputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar has been allowed to open the gardens. "We have been having trail runs from last week and have completed minor repairs. Arrangements have been made for thermal scanning social distancing will be mainatined visitors. We have put posters on the precautions to be taken. The local medical shop will have a dedicated counter to sell masks and sanitizers. The laser show will see two persons seated in a row instead of the usual three," he explained. The musical fountain, laser show, rock garden, Krishna, Lava-Kusha, Moghul, Italian and French gardens have been tested and are ready for the opening on Monday. Tourists can stay here from morning to evening. However, local guest houses will not function. Basavaj Allolli, president, Gajanan Yuvak Mandal, Almatti Dam Site, welcomed the move to open the gardens. "As the gardens were shut, all business and tourism activities had come to a halt in Almatti, Nidagundi, Yalgur and surrounding villages. Hopefully, taxi service, hotels and shops and businesses will slowly bounce back," he added. Andani Tolamatti, a coffee vendor at the dam entrance, said he was closed for seven months. "All the shopkeepers in the area are cleaning their shops and preparing to serve visitors," he added happily. Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) opened its tourist bungalow from Septemeber 24 on hill-lock of Sitimani Hills. Accomodation can be booked online on KSTDC website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-seven-months-almatti-gardens-set-to-reopen/articleshow/78724969.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||Cops cuff criminal, two others booked for committing burglaries using MUV||Pune: The Pune police crime branch on Thursday arrested a criminal, detained a minor boy and booked two others for using a multi utility vehicle (MUV) to commit a series of burglaries and vehicle thefts since September. “We have recovered the stolen MUV, a motorcycle, a scooter and tools used to break door locks valued at over Rs10 lakh from Amarsingh Tak (21) and a 16-year-old boy both from Ramtekdi,” said senior police inspector Rajendra Mokashi from crime branch (unit III). Mokashi and his team were conducting parallel investigations in a burglary case registered with the Warje Malwadi police when they came across a CCTV footage that showed the four men driving a MUV stolen from Saswad.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cuff-criminal-two-others-booked-for-committing-burglaries-using-muv/articleshow/78725929.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||GFP: OTS scheme will benefit 10 MLAs||MARGAO: The Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday raised serious doubts over the intentions of the government and that of the registrar of cooperative societies in issuing a recent notification that provides for one time settlement (OTS) of loans given by credit societies to help beneficiaries affected by the Covid pandemic. Addressing mediapersons, GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said what they found suspicious about the scheme was that the OTS offer covered even those loans that were passed from 2015 during normal times. “We suspect that the OTS scheme has been formulated to benefit the 10 breakaway MLAs who had crossed over to the BJP. We have learnt that these 10 MLAs are beneficiaries of loans from several credit societies. We suspect that the scheme has been introduced to help these MLAs come out of their personal financial crisis. The government should come clear over the issue,” Kamat said. Further pointing out that the government had earlier this year abruptly stopped the housing loan advance given to government employees – the matter is now in the high court – Kamat questioned why such leniency wasn’t extended to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-ots-scheme-will-benefit-10-mlas/articleshow/78727027.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Pune||YCMH affordable, release staff from pandemic-only duties, say activists||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Healthcare activists in the twin towns have urged officials to ensure non-Covid procedures are resumed immediately at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, which has reported a 66% bed vacancy. Maruti Bhapkar, a social activist, said the YCM hospital has been a lifeline for underprivileged citizens. He said ever since the unit was made the lead Covid facility for Pimpri Chinchwad (with all of its beds converted to treat the illness), scores of people who may have needed treatment for other ailments have been "neglected". “The private hospitals demand a lot of money for even minor ailments. But at civic-run units like the YCM, care is relatively affordable. It is now time the administration moves to focus on non-Covid patients," Bhapkar said. Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, said officials are confident the YCM can again start treating non-Covid patients. But he added that decision will be made after a review of the coronavirus situation post Dasara. “We now have enough facilities to take care of Covid-19 patients. But the final decision - whether to completely turn YCM into a non-covid unit, or even partially - will be taken after a thorough review of the pandemic situation,” he said. A top official from the YCM hospital said discussions to resume general treatment have already been held with the civic administration. The official said the unit could start admitting other patients by October-end or by the first week of November. “Barring the pediatric and gynaec units for those with Covid, including the ICU, remaining wards can very well be re-converted for non-coronavirus care. There are no facilities for Covid-positive new mothers or children. So these specialised units will have to continue operations," the official said. Rajendra Wabale, the dean of YCM hospital, said the facility is ready to resume normal operations. But he added that administrators will wait for instructions from the civic body. On Sunday, the YCM had 456 vacant beds from a total capacity of 630.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/as-bed-vacancy-improves-at-ycm-hospital-demand-for-non-covid-treatment-picks-up/articleshow/78738739.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||NCLT asks liquidator to seek SEBI aid||Ahmedabad: The National Company Law Tribunal, Ahmedabad (NCLT) has ordered the liquidator of ABG Shipyard to approach the Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) for its help to recover Rs 101 crore from the company’s promoters. According to advocate Vishal Dave, who appears for the liquidator, the tribunal has passed the order for recovery of the amount from the company’s promoters — Rishi Agarwal and Kamlesh Agarwal — since the capital markets regulator had issued an order to them to deposit money back to the company. The liquidator, Sundaresh Bhatt, had approached the NCLT to recover the amount from the promoters, which were allegedly siphoned off from the company’s books for personal gain, the lawyer said. ABG Shipyard is part of the Reserve Bank of India’s first list of the twelve cases for mandatory resolution. The company owed over Rs 18,000 crore to its creditors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nclt-asks-liquidator-to-seek-sebi-aid/articleshow/78725953.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||With no garbas, aarti holds light||Ahmedabad: Even though the government has not allowed garba this Navratri, Amdavadis have ensured that celebrations continue — either virtually or at least to the extent of aarti. Several residential societies in Ahmedabad organized the Navratri aarti on the first day, Saturday. While some decided to make the celebrations a symbolic affair just for a day, others will continue performing the aarti every day through the festival. “Very few residents participated in the Navratri aarti held at our society,” said Nisha Patel, a Bopal resident. “Every year it is a vibrant affair with youngsters enjoying garba. But this time, the celebrations are muted and it is best to keep them so in the interest of everyone’s health and safety.” Nikhil Amin, a Vejalpur resident, said: “Every year, Navratri and garba are much awaited. However, this time due to the pandemic, residents have decided against any gathering, even the aarti.” Amin went on to say: “People will keep celebrations limited to their homes which is a wise decision.” Continuing its tradition, Gujarat Sports Club organized the aarti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-no-garbas-aarti-holds-light/articleshow/78725984.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Dehradun||Man snatches gold chain from 55-year-old woman in Kankhal||HARIDWAR: A 55-year-old woman was targeted by the chain snatcher and santched her gold chain in Kankhal where she came out for shopping on the occasion of first Navratra. However, police tried to nab the accused but failed to trace them. The victim woman has been identified as Shakuntal Devi, a resident of Munmun school lane falling under Kankhal police station. A few days ago, a similar incident was reported where burglars snachted ear ring from a woman in the Kankhal area. Locals claimed that police are not taking serious steps to stop such crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-snatches-gold-chain-from-55-yr-old-woman/articleshow/78724941.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Students’ Biennale to open as virtual expo in February||KOCHI: Kochi Biennale Foundation has announced the fourth edition of the Students’ Biennale after restructuring the programme as an online exhibition. The programme will also develop other meeting grounds like workshops and interactions, both real and virtual, to effectively engage with the Covid-19 circumstances, biennale foundation said in a statement. The exhibition will open online on February 21, 2021 and the last date for applications is November 15, 2020. The list of selected participants will be announced on December 1, 2020. Students currently enrolled in BFA and MFA (or equivalent) courses in institutions in India are eligible to apply. The Students’ Biennale will be curated by a team of five artists and art educators — Adip Dutta, Archana Hande, Manoj Vyloor, Suresh K Nair and Vasudha Thozhur. Projects selected will receive support in the form of production grants. The exhibition will not be limited to digital art works, but is open to all practices. All components of the exhibition, including communication between students and curators and working towards the display process, will be carried out online. Students will also receive technical and documentation inputs to work with the digital medium. In addition to the exhibition platform, a parallel programme of workshops will also be organized. Since its inception in 2014, over 1,000 students have participated in the exhibition and programmes of the Students’ Biennale across the three editions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/students-biennale-to-open-as-virtual-expo-in-feb/articleshow/78724957.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Disadvantage Cong: Ind gets panchayat nod to contest||Rohtak: Locked in a multi-corner contest in the Baroda bypoll after Congress fielded Induraj Narwal, a loyalist of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the panchayat of Kathura village failed to convince Kapoor Narwal, an independent candidate, to withdraw his nomination. Both the candidates are not related but belong to two neighbouring villages and belong to the Jat community. The faceoff between the Jat candidates of neighbouring villages would split the Jat votes and eventually benefit the BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt. The three of the candidates (Congress, INLD & Independent Kapoor Narwal) are Jats while Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt is a Brahmin. The panchayat was held at Kathura village, one of villages in Baroda assembly segment on Saturday to make efforts to convince Kapoor Narwal, a BJP rebel who is now an independent nominee, to not contest the byelection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/disadvantage-cong-ind-gets-panchayat-nod-to-contest/articleshow/78726685.cms||Sat Singh
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Nature lovers call for intervention to save threatened bird species||PANAJI: Habitat degradation and disturbances at their breeding grounds are some of the reasons for the decline of some bird species in Goa, said Omkar Dharwadkar, naturalist and president of the Goa Bird Conservation Network (GBCN). There are about 44 species found in Goa that have been assigned International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) statuses, he said. Most of them belong to Near Threatened (NT) category, while some are considered Vulnerable (VU) and Endangered (EN), whereas three species - Indian vulture, white-rumped vulture and yellow-breasted bunting are considered critically endangered. IUCN is the global authority on the status of the natural world and the measures needed to safeguard it. It is a membership Union composed of both government and civil society organisations. The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is one of the world’s most comprehensive inventory of the global conservation status of biological species. “The vulture decline is all over India due to the use of anti-inflammatory drug on cattle (Diclofenac) that resulted in a steep decline in vulture population in the 90s. Yellow-breasted bunting is a very rare migrant that comes to Goa, seen once in many years. Its decline was due to unsustainable hunting in the 80s,” Dharwadkar said. Though there hasn’t been a comprehensive study made with regards to these specific species in Goa, Dharwadkar said that the primary reasons for their decline could be habitat degradation, pet trade, hunting, disturbances at their breeding grounds, and perhaps climate change. “Awareness is needed among bird watchers as well as the general public about it. The government can ensure protection to their habitats as well as aid in creating awareness among the masses. Also, locals need to be taken into consideration for effective implementation of any projects with regards to conservation of the species,” he said. To ensure that the birds’ habitat is not disrupted, he said that photographers or bird watchers should not leave anything behind except their footprints. He further advised against disturbing or chasing birds just to get a good picture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nature-lovers-call-for-intervention-to-save-threatened-bird-species/articleshow/78726692.cms||Nida Sayed
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Residents go for voluntary lockdown in Jaisalmer dist||Jaisalmer: Looking at the increasing Covid-19 cases, the general public has come up with voluntary lockdowns. In Nachana, a two-day successful voluntary close took place on Friday and Saturday, while residents in Lathi have decided to go for a three-day voluntary lockdown from Sunday to Tuesday. In Nachana, the markets remained closed, barring the medical facilities, vegetable and milk stores. In the last week, cases of coronavirus infection were on the rise and there were 17 cases in Nachana on Wednesday, which made the people come up with the decision. The people requested for a voluntary lockdown and the Nachana Vyapar Mandal extended complete support to it. On both the days, the markets remained completely closed and the town wore a deserted look. Meanwhile in Lathi too, people have called for a voluntary lockdown from Sunday. A Covid awareness rally was also taken out in Jaisalmer city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-go-for-voluntary-lockdown-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/78726029.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Soldier from Telangana dies in Ladakh accident||HYDERABAD: An Army havildar from Telangana died in a road accident in Ladakh on Saturday. Since the deceased soldier, Shakir Hussain (35) was Covid-19 positive, his body is unlikely to be sent to his home in Kagaznagar of Asifabad district immediately. It was not immediately known where Hussain was travelling to during the time of the incident. Mohammed Azeem, a relative, said they were informed about Hussain’s death in the morning. He said they were told that the vehicle in which Hussain and others were travelling overturned and that six of them suffered injuries. “We were informed that his body would not be sent immediately as Hussain was said to have been Covid-19 positive,” Azeem said. Hussain’s wife has urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to speak with the Army authorities for her husband’s body. “We hope the Army authorities get back to us soon,” Azeem said. Before the pandemic, Hussain had come home in Kagazhnagar for more than a month. He last called up the family on October 15 and told them he was likely to come home after a fortnight. Hussain is survived by his parents, wife, two daughters and a son. He had joined the Army as a sepoy and got promoted as a havildar. Asifabad district collector Sandeep Kumar Jha said they are trying to get more information about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soldier-from-t-dies-in-ladakh-accident/articleshow/78726021.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 18, 2020||Gurgaon||30-year-old man stabbed to death in Hisar||HISAR: A youth was stabbed to death by some unidentified persons in Rawalwas Kalan village of Hisar district late on Friday night, the police said. The deceased had gone for smoking hookah at a nearby dairy. The deceased has been identified as 30-year-old Jagmendra alias Kalia, a resident of Rawalwas Kalan. His body was found near a ‘johar’ (pond) in the village. His mobile phone was also found lying in a damaged condition. SP Balwan Singh Rana and other police officers visited the site. The police said a case has been registered based on the complaint of Sundar Singh, brother of the deceased, against unknown persons under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. In the complaint, Sundar has said his younger brother Jagmendra alias Kalia had gone for smoking hookah in Subhash Malik’s milk dairy in the village after having dinner on Friday. But, he did not return from there. The next morning, as he was going towards the dairy to look for his brother, he saw a crowd near the johar on the way. His brother’s blood-soaked body was lying there in the mud and there were many injury marks on his person. When taken to hospital, he was declared dead, he said. The complainant claims that his brother did not have enmity with anyone. Jagmendra was unmarried and did farming, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/a-man-killed-in-hisar-village-unknown-booked/articleshow/78726694.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vidyapith’s 100th anniversary today||AHMEDABAd: It will be 100 years today after Mahatma Gandhi established Gujarat Vidyapith. But very few know that the emblem of the Vidyapith (Gujarat Mahavidyalaya) was made by ‘Kalaguru’ Ravishankar Raval. In fact, ‘Kalaguru’ also captured the foundation meeting of the university in his photograph in 1920. Bapu’s principal objective of establishing the Vidyapith was to instil in Indians the devotion for self-liberation and knowledge which were its permanent ideals, while political independence came after that. Though the university was founded on 18 October, 1920, from Dahyabhai Mehta’s bungalow in Kochrab and then it moved temporarily to the nearby Aghakhan Estate building, it was not until 9 February 1923, when the new buildings of the university were to inaugurated. It was on this day that Vidyapith got its ‘Dhyanchinh’ or emblem, according to Kalaguru Ravishankar Raval in his memoir ‘Gujaratma Kalana Pagran’. That day, the founders preferred a sketch of the inauguration by Kalaguru istead of posing for a photograph. On that day there was a special guest, a chemist and educationist, Acharya Sir Prafulla Chandra Ray. “That day I also saw the Vidyapith’s emblem that I had made on the suggestion of Kakasaheb Kalelkar etched on a stone,” writes Kalaguru in his memoir. The emblem has its motto “Sa vidya ya vimuktaye” which stands for, “knowledge is that which liberates (us). It is translated in Arabic as “al hikamato zallatual monimine fahaiso uajedaha ahakko leha.” In this emblem there is a banyan tree, which signifies growth. There is also the moon that symbolizes beauty, calmness and development. Lotus shows non-attachment, holy spirit. Lamps on either side in a circle symbolize knowledge. “It was Kalaguru who also took the landmark picture of the foundation of the Gujarat Vidyapith in October 1920. The story is vividly described in his memoir,” says city-based historian Rizwan Kadri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vidyapiths-100th-anniversary-today/articleshow/78726693.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Amit Shah avoids political meetings, visits kuldevi temple in Mansa||GANDHINAGAR: Amit Shah, Union home minister and Gandhinagar Lok Sabha MP, visited his ‘kuldevi’ temple in Mansa on Saturday for Navratri religious rituals. He is likely to return to Delhi on Sunday. Shah, who faced health complications due to Covid-19 earlier, avoided meeting Gujarat BJP leaders, including chief minister Vijay Rupani and other top leaders during his visit to the city. He is learned to have spent time with his family, as he had not visited the city in the past seven months, first because of the lockdown, and then because of his hospitalization. Shah kept his Ahmedabad visit very low-profile and met only state BJP president C R Paatil and minister of state (MOS), home Pradipsinh Jadeja at the airport when he arrived. There was speculation that Shah would address virtual rallies as campaigning for the byelection to eight assembly seats is on and local body elections are scheduled in a few months. There was also talk that he would hold a meeting and address the state party leadership, but following a medical advisory, he preferred to stay at home. Sources said that Shah is expected to return to Delhi on Sunday and come back to Ahmedabad during the Diwali and New Year festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shah-avoids-political-meetings-visits-kuldevi-temple-in-mansa/articleshow/78726040.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Doxycycline-Ivermectin gets place instate’s Covid-19 management protocol||Jaipur: Favipiravir, which was widely prescribed by doctors in Covid treatment, didn't find a place in the Covid-19 management standard protocol issued by the health department on Saturday. Combination of drugs, doxycycline-ivermectin, which has been given by doctors treating Covid, can be used in patients, where hydroxychloroquine is contraindicated. Still, hydroxychloroquine is the choice of drug in treatment protocol, which the doctors have provided since the first case was reported in the state. "Favipiravir may be beneficial in mild cases. However, it has a low-quality evidence in Covid. Currently, it has been recommended by this treatment group or by national treatment guidelines group. Doxycycline-Ivermectin can be used in mild cases where hydroxychloroquine is contraindicated or not tolerated. Besides, drugs such as ulinastatin, mycobacterium, nitazoxanide, niklosamide, unifenovir, currently do not have strong evidence and are not recommended," says the treatment protocol. Awake prone positioning is now part of the treatment protocol prepared by the technical core group formed by the health department. The protocol must be followed by all private and government dedicated Covid hospitals for treatment. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora issued the protocol stating that the treatment protocol has been praised by not only other states, but also the Centre. The protocol includes, airway management, convalescent plasma therapy, other therapies, management protocol for children and chemoprophylaxis. A health department official said that awake prone positioning is now part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol. "Awake prone positioning with oxygenation should be considered in mild respiratory distress in awake non-intubated patients. Any patient with respiratory distress severe enough to be admitted to a hospital may be considered for rotation and early self-proning," the protocol says. A separate treatment protocol for children has also been mentioned in the standard protocol by segrigating asymptomatic, mild, moderate and severe categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doxycycline-ivermectin-gets-place-instates-covid-19-management-protocol/articleshow/78726019.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: One arrested for fake job advertisements||AHMEDABAD: The cybercrime cell of city police on Friday nabbed a 34-year-old man from Rajkot, Sachin Pandya, for publishing fake job advertisements in the name of ‘Gujarat Employment Services’ in various newspapers on October 15 and inviting applications with a fee of Rs 300. He had stated in the advertisement that the jobs would be such that candidates would be selected on first-come first-served basis and would have to work from home on 11-month contracts. Deputy commissioner of police, cybercrime, Amit Vasava, said that within a day the accused collected Rs 14 lakh in fees from 4,500 candidates who had applied online for some 2,520 jobs and paid the fee on line. “If it had continued, the value of the scam would have run into crores,” added Vasava. Assistant commissioner of police Jeetendra Yadav said one Raghuveer Sarvaiya, who has studied up to Class XII and has offices in Rajkot and Gandhinagar, had given Pandya the idea to put out the advertisements. “Pandya said that apart from the Rs 300 ‘form fee’ per candidate, the duo were to collect Rs 1,000 per candidate for online interviews and would have made off with crores if they were not caught. We are hunting for Sarviaya and will soon nab him,” added Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-arrested-for-fake-job-advertisements/articleshow/78726071.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||New facility to expedite Covid test results in Ajmer||AJMER: In the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in the district, the JLN Medical College on Saturday launched the Maglumi 800 machine testing facility which will expedite the test results. This facility will help patients get results immediately and thereby aid in faster treatment. Earlier, patients had to move out for such tests and it took one to two days to get the reports which delayed treatment. College principal Veer Bahadur Singh and superintendent Anil Jain on Saturday inaugurated the machine and said this will help in treatment of Covid patients coming to JLN Hospital. Jain said that this machine will be useful for critical Covid patients as the hospital will not have to send samples outside for test. Briefing on the importance of this machine, head of the department of bio-chemistry Dr Deepa Thadani and Professor Sarla Mahawar said the machine will be helpful in testing interleukin-6, a protein that helps the body to regulate immune responses and such tests will evaluate the condition. The machine will also help in testing d-dimer used to rule out blood clot in Covid patients. The medical college will now be able to get the NT proBNP level, which helps in detecting the condition of heart failure in a patient. If NT proBNP results come normal, that means the symptoms are not going to cause heart failure. Prof Mahawar added that health minister Raghu Sharma took personal initiative to provide this facility to Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-facility-to-expedite-covid-test-results-in-ajmer/articleshow/78726054.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard released in Amrabad reserve||Hyderabad: A six-year-old male leopard that was trapped by forest officials near Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute (WALAMTARI) in Rajendranagar last week was released in Amrabad tiger reserve on Saturday evening. The leopard was shifted to Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad after the rescue, where veterinarians treated it for injuries. On recuperating, it was released back in the wild, forest department officials told TOI. Last week, the leopard was found in one of the traps set up by the forest department after it killed two calves in a cattle shed near WALAMTARI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-released-in-amrabad-reserve/articleshow/78726053.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Autorickshaw driver’s son, farmer’s daughter crack NEET||AHMEDABAD: The recently declared results of National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) have thrown up some fresh tales of how youths have overcome the shackles of poverty to scale new heights. They include two students from Ahmedabad – Faizan Bavani and Urmila Makwana who have cracked the medical entrance exam and are on their path to fulfilling their dreams of becoming doctors. Faizan who scored 602 marks and ranked 18,712 in NEET is the son of Farooqbhai Bavani, a rickshaw driver and lives at Punjabhai Ni Chali at Raikhad. His father used to ferry him to school and coaching classes and ensured that he did not miss any of them. The lockdown came as a blessing in disguise for Faizan who got a 35% discount in fees in the coaching classes that he attended. “Earlier, I could study only three to four hours a day. Post lockdown, I found a lot of time to study as I did not have to attend school or classes in person. This was a game changer for me as I could study for 12 to 14 hours daily for the entrance exam,” said Bhavani, whose father’s annual income is less than Rs 1.5 lakh. He received some financial support from an NGO and a friend of his father. Bhavani aims to become a cardiologist. Urmila, daughter of a farmer Mafatbhai Makwana from Indranaj village in Tarapur taluka in Anand, has been supported by Visamo Kids Foundation in Ahmedabad, where she did her schooling. The organization is a shelter home at Bopal, housing more than a hundred underprivileged children right from the age of 5 years, enabling access to quality education in partnership with the English medium schools in the city. Urmila secured an All India Rank of 11,383 in the SC category at NEET. Through Visamo’s support and collaboration, she completed her schooling from Zydus School of Excellence in Godhavi till Class X and later moved to Kameshwar School to pursue her higher secondary education. An avid reader and painter, Urmila hopes to secure admission at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Patna or Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rickshaw-drivers-son-farmers-daughter-crack-neet/articleshow/78726703.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Fulfill quota demands by November 1: Gujjars to Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: The Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samity, led by Kirori Singh Bainsla, during a Mahapanchayat at Bharatpur’s Bayana (Adda) on Saturday gave an ultimatum to the state government till November 1 to fulfill all their demands related to 4 per cent reservation to the most backward class (MBC). They threatened to hold a statewide agitation from November 1 if their demands are not fulfilled by then. Minister Ashok Chandna and IAS officer Neeraj K Pawan, who were sent to Bayana as government representatives to understand the demands of the Gujjar community and urge them to call off the proposed agitation, had a detailed discussion with the representatives of the samity and the community on Saturday. “We took a decision today (Saturday) that we will ensure that everything is stopped in Rajasthan from November 1. That means all services including trains and road transport,” said Gujjar leader and Kirori Singh Bainsla’s son Vijay Singh Bainsla. “Government representatives came and spoke to us, but there was nothing substantial. We’ve told the government that we don’t want to have any meeting with them. We have asked them to give us what is required. We have been benevolent once, while the government has not been benevolent with us for the last almost two years. So, it’s high time that they start delivering on their promises. Otherwise, this time on, there is going to be no return,” he added. Bainsla further said, “If we sit on the railway tracks, we will continue to do so till the time the election manifesto (of tbe Congress party) is executed in detail, which states that backlog in jobs will be cleared for SC/ST/OBCs. This is the community’s commitment to the government, and we will full this till the time they give us the 35,000 jobs or execute the manifesto in detail.” “The representatives spoke to us about salary fixation of 1252 contractual employees and requested us not to hold an agitation. But, we said, nothing doing, agitation will happen as per our conditions and all the demands have to be fulfilled,” he added. Meanwhile, minister Ashok Chandna, government representative to have a dialogue with the community, said, “I was in Bayana as a government representative to talk to the representatives of the Samity. We spoke to them in length and got a clear understanding of their demands. We have already had 4-5 meetings of the high-level committee. The homework is continuing (on their demands). They have postponed the agitation and gave the government time till Nov 1.” Another representative from the government’s side, IAS officer, Neeraj K Pawan said, “A positive stance has been kept from the government’s side. 5 per cent reservation is being given in all admissions under process and will be ensured in future as well.” Bharatpur Collector Nathmal Didel said internet services has been resumed in the area where Mahapanchayat was held, and in the adjoining areas. “The government’s stance was they are most welcome to come forward and have a dialogue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fulfill-quota-demands-by-nov-1-gujjars-to-govt/articleshow/78726052.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Special train to Tambaram||Hyderabad: South Central Railway (SCR) will run two more daily festival special trains between Hyderabad-Tambaram-Hyderabad starting October 20. Train No. 02760 Hyderabad-Tambaram Daily Special Train will depart at 06.30pm, arrive/depart Secunderabad at 06.50/06.55pm, and arrive at Tambaram at 09.15am on the next day. On return journey, Train No. 02759 Tambaram-Hyderabad Daily Special Train will depart at 05.10pm and arrive/depart Secunderabad at 07.05/07.10am on the next day and arrive Hyderabad at 8am. These special trains will consist of first AC, AC II tier, AC III tier coaches, sleeper class and reserved general seating class coaches. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/special-train-to-tambaram/articleshow/78726074.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Stir to raise stipend: condition of intern doc deteriorates||Jaipur: The hunger strike of intern doctors continued on the third day as talks between the medical education department and the agitating intern doctors did not reach an amicable solution. The intern doctors have been demanding increase in stipend, as they claim that they are getting just Rs7,000 per month, which is not even half of what the other states’ interns are getting. They have been sitting on a hunger strike outside SMS Medical College for past three days. Condition of three of the five intern doctors, who sat on indefinite hunger strike on October 15, has deteriorated. They were given intravenous fluid for his treatment. Across the state, 1,350 intern doctors are providing healthcare services, many of who are giving their services to Covid-19 patients. “We met senior medical education department officials and SMS Medical College administration officials. They are forcing us to end the hunger strike. But we want assurance in writing from the government on increasing our stipend,” said an agitating intern doctor, who did not want to be named. He said, “The officials are saying that they will form a committee and it will take the decision. We want assurance from the government when and how much increase in our stipend will be made.” The state government had increased the stipend from Rs3,500 to Rs7,000 per month in 2017 and since then, no increase in the stipend has been made. After passing MBBS, the candidates have to complete one-year internship, for which they get a monthly stipend. The current batch of internship started on March 6. The agitating intern doctors claimed that AIIMS interns are getting Rs23,500, Karnataka’s Rs30,000, Assam’s Rs30,000, Punjab’s Rs15,000, Meghalaya’s Rs23,500 and Tamil Nadu’s and West Bengal’s are getting Rs20,000 per month as stipend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stir-to-raise-stipend-condition-of-intern-doc-deteriorates/articleshow/78726085.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Panchayati Raj ACS Rohit Singh tests positive||Jaipur: Additional chief secretary (rural development and panchayati Raj department) Rohit Kumar Singh was tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.On October 11, Singh was awarded by Loknayak Jayaprakash International Studies Development Centre in Delhi for his “administration and good governance”. He was lauded for preventing spread of Covid-19 and its management during his tenure as additional chief secretary (health). He was transferred from health to home department in July.“I have tested positive on the Covid-19 test today. When we were bracing up for the pandemic in Feb-March 2020, I never thought I would be discussing the treatment cocktail with the experts for myself. Anyways, down but not out,” Singh tweeted on Saturday.Bhilwara’s ruthless containment model, Ramganj model and treatment protocol for Covid-19 with combination drugs had hogged limelight at national level during Singh’s tenure. Apart from Singh, more than six IAS officers have already been tested positive for Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panchayati-raj-acs-rohit-singh-tests-positive/articleshow/78726075.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan reports lowest daily Covid infections in 22 days||JAIPUR: Finally after 22 days, Rajasthan reported less than 2,000 new Covid-19 infections. Since September 25, the state had been reporting over 2,000 cases daily. On Saturday, 1992 infections were reported, which took the overall tally to 1,71,281. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 1,735. For the fouth consecutive day, the state reported a dip in active cases. On Saturday, the state’s active cases were at 21,255, the lowest in 12 days. For the ninth day, Jaipur too reported a dip in active cases which has now reduced to 7,787. The peak of active cases in Jaipur were reported on October 8 when it rose to 9,241. “The situation is improving in the city as the number of daily new cases are going down. People should keep taking precautions and safety measures in the upcoming festive season to prevent spread of the virus,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (372), Jodhpur (304), Bikaner (226), Alwar (105), Sikar (93), Kota (87), Ajmer (85), Jalore (82), Jhunjhunu (72), Sriganganagar (56), Nagaur (52), Udaipur (50), Bharatpur (48), Barmer (44), Dausa (44), Banswara (37), Sirohi (27), Bhilwara (26), Hanumangarh (24), Pali (23), Rajsamand (22), Bundi (20), Tonk (16), Dholpur (13), Jaisalmer (12), Baran (12), Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (9), Chittorgarh (8), Jhalawar (5), Dungarpur (4), Churu (3) and Pratapgarh (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s fatality count touched 348. Jhunjhunu too witnessed two more deaths which took it casualty count to 23. Elsewhere, Jodhpur recorded its 164th death, Bikaner (128), Ajmer (125), Udaipur (60), Jalore (34), Chittorgarh (24), Sawai Madhopur (21) and Dungarpur (21). BOX: Today’s positive: 1992 Cumulative positive: 1,71,281 Today’s death: 12 Cumulative death: 1735 Today’s recovered: 2106 Cumulative recovered: 1,48291 Active cases: 21,255 Active cases State Jaipur October 17 21255 7787 October 16 21381 7988 October 15 21587 8190 October 14 21711 8418 October 13 21924 8716 October 12 21671 8818 October 11 21412 8922 October 10 21354 9083 October 9 21398 9231 October 8 21382 9241 October 7 21351 9213 October 6 21294 8975 October 5 21215 8722 October 4 21154 8415||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-lowest-daily-covid-infections-in-22-days/articleshow/78727947.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan reports lowest daily Covid infections in 22 days||JAIPUR: Finally after 22 days, Rajasthan reported less than 2,000 new Covid-19 infections. Since September 25, the state had been reporting over 2,000 cases daily. On Saturday, 1992 infections were reported, which took the overall tally to 1,71,281. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 1,735. For the fouth consecutive day, the state reported a dip in active cases. On Saturday, the state’s active cases were at 21,255, the lowest in 12 days. For the ninth day, Jaipur too reported a dip in active cases which has now reduced to 7,787. The peak of active cases in Jaipur were reported on October 8 when it rose to 9,241. “The situation is improving in the city as the number of daily new cases are going down. People should keep taking precautions and safety measures in the upcoming festive season to prevent spread of the virus,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (372), Jodhpur (304), Bikaner (226), Alwar (105), Sikar (93), Kota (87), Ajmer (85), Jalore (82), Jhunjhunu (72), Sriganganagar (56), Nagaur (52), Udaipur (50), Bharatpur (48), Barmer (44), Dausa (44), Banswara (37), Sirohi (27), Bhilwara (26), Hanumangarh (24), Pali (23), Rajsamand (22), Bundi (20), Tonk (16), Dholpur (13), Jaisalmer (12), Baran (12), Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (9), Chittorgarh (8), Jhalawar (5), Dungarpur (4), Churu (3) and Pratapgarh (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s fatality count touched 348. Jhunjhunu too witnessed two more deaths which took it casualty count to 23. Elsewhere, Jodhpur recorded its 164th death, Bikaner (128), Ajmer (125), Udaipur (60), Jalore (34), Chittorgarh (24), Sawai Madhopur (21) and Dungarpur (21). BOX: Today’s positive: 1992 Cumulative positive: 1,71,281 Today’s death: 12 Cumulative death: 1735 Today’s recovered: 2106 Cumulative recovered: 1,48291 Active cases: 21,255 Active cases State Jaipur October 17 21255 7787 October 16 21381 7988 October 15 21587 8190 October 14 21711 8418 October 13 21924 8716 October 12 21671 8818 October 11 21412 8922 October 10 21354 9083 October 9 21398 9231 October 8 21382 9241 October 7 21351 9213 October 6 21294 8975 October 5 21215 8722 October 4 21154 8415||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-lowest-daily-covid-infections-in-22-days/articleshow/78727948.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports lowest daily Covid infections in 22 days||JAIPUR: Finally after 22 days, Rajasthan reported less than 2,000 new Covid-19 infections. Since September 25, the state had been reporting over 2,000 cases daily. On Saturday, 1992 infections were reported, which took the overall tally to 1,71,281. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 1,735. For the fouth consecutive day, the state reported a dip in active cases. On Saturday, the state’s active cases were at 21,255, the lowest in 12 days. For the ninth day, Jaipur too reported a dip in active cases which has now reduced to 7,787. The peak of active cases in Jaipur were reported on October 8 when it rose to 9,241. “The situation is improving in the city as the number of daily new cases are going down. People should keep taking precautions and safety measures in the upcoming festive season to prevent spread of the virus,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (372), Jodhpur (304), Bikaner (226), Alwar (105), Sikar (93), Kota (87), Ajmer (85), Jalore (82), Jhunjhunu (72), Sriganganagar (56), Nagaur (52), Udaipur (50), Bharatpur (48), Barmer (44), Dausa (44), Banswara (37), Sirohi (27), Bhilwara (26), Hanumangarh (24), Pali (23), Rajsamand (22), Bundi (20), Tonk (16), Dholpur (13), Jaisalmer (12), Baran (12), Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (9), Chittorgarh (8), Jhalawar (5), Dungarpur (4), Churu (3) and Pratapgarh (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s fatality count touched 348. Jhunjhunu too witnessed two more deaths which took it casualty count to 23. Elsewhere, Jodhpur recorded its 164th death, Bikaner (128), Ajmer (125), Udaipur (60), Jalore (34), Chittorgarh (24), Sawai Madhopur (21) and Dungarpur (21). BOX: Today’s positive: 1992 Cumulative positive: 1,71,281 Today’s death: 12 Cumulative death: 1735 Today’s recovered: 2106 Cumulative recovered: 1,48291 Active cases: 21,255 Active cases State Jaipur October 17 21255 7787 October 16 21381 7988 October 15 21587 8190 October 14 21711 8418 October 13 21924 8716 October 12 21671 8818 October 11 21412 8922 October 10 21354 9083 October 9 21398 9231 October 8 21382 9241 October 7 21351 9213 October 6 21294 8975 October 5 21215 8722 October 4 21154 8415||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-lowest-daily-covid-infections-in-22-days/articleshow/78726068.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan reports lowest daily Covid infections in 22 days||JAIPUR: Finally after 22 days, Rajasthan reported less than 2,000 new Covid-19 infections. Since September 25, the state had been reporting over 2,000 cases daily. On Saturday, 1992 infections were reported, which took the overall tally to 1,71,281. In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the toll to 1,735. For the fouth consecutive day, the state reported a dip in active cases. On Saturday, the state’s active cases were at 21,255, the lowest in 12 days. For the ninth day, Jaipur too reported a dip in active cases which has now reduced to 7,787. The peak of active cases in Jaipur were reported on October 8 when it rose to 9,241. “The situation is improving in the city as the number of daily new cases are going down. People should keep taking precautions and safety measures in the upcoming festive season to prevent spread of the virus,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (372), Jodhpur (304), Bikaner (226), Alwar (105), Sikar (93), Kota (87), Ajmer (85), Jalore (82), Jhunjhunu (72), Sriganganagar (56), Nagaur (52), Udaipur (50), Bharatpur (48), Barmer (44), Dausa (44), Banswara (37), Sirohi (27), Bhilwara (26), Hanumangarh (24), Pali (23), Rajsamand (22), Bundi (20), Tonk (16), Dholpur (13), Jaisalmer (12), Baran (12), Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (9), Chittorgarh (8), Jhalawar (5), Dungarpur (4), Churu (3) and Pratapgarh (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s fatality count touched 348. Jhunjhunu too witnessed two more deaths which took it casualty count to 23. Elsewhere, Jodhpur recorded its 164th death, Bikaner (128), Ajmer (125), Udaipur (60), Jalore (34), Chittorgarh (24), Sawai Madhopur (21) and Dungarpur (21). BOX: Today’s positive: 1992 Cumulative positive: 1,71,281 Today’s death: 12 Cumulative death: 1735 Today’s recovered: 2106 Cumulative recovered: 1,48291 Active cases: 21,255 Active cases State Jaipur October 17 21255 7787 October 16 21381 7988 October 15 21587 8190 October 14 21711 8418 October 13 21924 8716 October 12 21671 8818 October 11 21412 8922 October 10 21354 9083 October 9 21398 9231 October 8 21382 9241 October 7 21351 9213 October 6 21294 8975 October 5 21215 8722 October 4 21154 8415||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-lowest-daily-covid-infections-in-22-days/articleshow/78727946.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Book loan sharks under PASA, use money laundering law: DGP||AHMEDABAD: As the state government aims to act strictly against loan sharks who extort money at usurious interest rates, DPG Ashish Bhatia has directed all police officials across the state to take strict action against such offenders, including under the of Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) and Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Bhatia said that many times because of threats from illegal moneylenders who operate without proper licences, borrowers commit suicide as the lenders often usurp their property. Bhatia directed police across the state to take quick action according to the evidence, so that such elements do not get the chance to secure anticipatory bail or obtain a stay on the investigation. Bhatia directed cops to make lists of such elements and watch their activities. If they are found to be breaking the law, they should be booked under the The Gujarat Money-Lenders Act, 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/book-loan-sharks-under-pasa-use-money-laundering-law-dgp/articleshow/78726121.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Shimla||Lahaul witnesses flip side of post-tunnel tourism||SHIMLA/MANALI: The curiosity to see Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 3, has resulted in unexpected crowd of visitors to the tunnel and the Lahaul valley, which has caused traffic congestion, littering and safety concerns. Tourists are visiting the tunnel and driving through it to reach Lahaul valley very easily. While some tourists are returning from the tunnel’s north portal, others are visiting temples and other attractions of Lahaul valley. While dhabas, shopkeepers, hotel and homestay owners are happy with the surge in business, jams and congestions have started making life of common people miserable in the tribal valley. A resident Amar Chand said, “I had never seen long queues of visitors outside Trilokinath and Mrikula Mata temples (both in Lahaul). I had never seen traffic jams in the district. To watch visitors litter the place is so disheartening. We are happy that our local people are getting revenue, but unpreparedness and unregulated tourism has started taking toll on the valley.” Garbage crisis for Lahaul Unprecedented footfall of tourists in Lahaul valley after the opening of Atal Tunnel has raised a common concern among the tribal residents. The pristine valley has started showing signs of turning into a dumping ground as tourists are leaving behind piles of garbage and there is no system in place for collecting and disposing it properly. Realising that mounds of trash left behind by tourists is going to pollute the rivers and rivulets, the Sissu panchayat pradhan has demanded diversion of some fund from the green tax collection at Manali to manage the valley’s garbage problem. At present, only 4-5% tourists from other states are entering Lahaul valley through the tunnel, the other 95% are “local tourists” coming from different parts of Himachal Pradesh. Recently, a video of Devi Singh, an octogenarian from Khorpani village of Lahaul, had gone viral on the social media where he was seeing collecting garbage thrown by tourists. Devi Singh said he had asked tourists not to litter, but they did not listen to him and threw the waste in the open. “A majority of visiting people bring packed food and water with them. Once consumed, the containers are thrown in the open. If this trend continues, then Lahaul will turn into a huge dumping ground. We need a system in place to deal with garbage,” said Suman Thakur, pradhan, Sissu panchayat. She said Sissu panchayat has passed a resolution unanimously, seeking a share of green tax collected at Manali barrier to manage garbage from the north portal of tunnel to Sissu. With the money provided from the green tax, facilities like public toilets and garbage collection bins right from north portal, Goofa Hotel, nursery, Sissu Lake and Sissu can be provided. Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda, who is also local MLA, said the locals have preserved Lahaul-Spiti with utter care and tourists should cooperate in keeping the district clean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/trash-jams-lahaul-witnesses-flip-side-of-tourism-post-tunnel-opening/articleshow/78726150.cms||Anand Bodh
October 18, 2020||Shimla||HP court rejects plea against Shanta, slaps Rs 1 lakh cost on petitioner||SHIMLA: Dismissing a petition filed against the Vivekanand Medical Research Trust and former chief minister Shanta Kumar, Himachal Pradesh high court has imposed cost of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioner while observing that the petition was meritless and mischievous and has only resulted in wastage of the court’s precious time. The high court said even the respondents have unnecessarily been dragged into an otherwise avoidable litigation. In the judgment decided on Friday, the division bench of Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua observed that the status report filed by the special secretary (health) in compliance to the order passed by this court on April 14 last year, which again has gone unrebutted, falsifies the claim of the petitioner and is a clear indicator that the petitioner has abused the process of the court. The court said the petitioner has indulged in levelling reckless allegations besmirching the character of others, more particularly, respondent number 5 (former chief minister and former Union minister Shanta Kumar). Petitioner Bhuvnesh Chand Sood had alleged that Shanta Kumar somewhere in the year 1989-90, when he happened to be the chief minister of the state, formed a trust in the name of ‘Vivekanand Medical Research Trust’, which according to the petitioner was a dream shown to the residents of Kangra district, more particularly, Palampur, regarding the setting up of multi-speciality hospital exactly on the line of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, having all facilities for heart, kidney, lungs etc. He alleged that when the same was established, people of area felt cheated and a fraud was been committed upon them by not establishing a charitable hospital, but a commercial hospital, that too, contrary to the provisions of Indian Trusts Act. Not only this, even the nature of the land which was earlier classified as ‘tea garden’ was illegally changed to ‘Banjar Qadim’, that is land not cultivated for six seasons. He had alleged that in addition thereto, the land which otherwise belonged to National Biological Research Institute was illegally transferred in the name of the state government and thereafter in the name of the trust overnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/court-rejects-plea-against-shanta-slaps-rs-1-lakh-cost-on-petitioner/articleshow/78726162.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bareilly||Forced & threatened to withdraw rape case against constable, Rampur woman consumes poison, critical||BAREILLY: Unable to withstand repeated threats and pressure mounted on her for the withdrawal of the rape case she had lodged against a constable who allegedly exploited her sexually — often at “gunpoint” — for months, the woman reportedly consumed poison in a bid to end her life in UP’s Rampur. The woman (30s) — mother of two — is battling for her life at a private hospital in Moradabad. A few policemen, including a woman constable, had been forcing her to reach a compromise with the accused and withdraw the case lodged against him, the rape survivor’s husband, a local shopkeeper, told police. “Ever since the constable was booked, they had been forcing us to withdraw the complaint. A woman constable even offered my wife money to settle the case while threatening to put her behind the bars if she refused,” alleged the husband. “The woman consumed a rodenticide (poison used to kill rats) on Friday,” confirmed Rampur circle officer Srikant Prajapati. “She was admitted at a private hospital in Moradabad. She is critical and undergoing treatment.” “The woman has accused a few police personnel of mounting pressure on her to strike a compromise. We have initiated an inquiry to ascertain the reason behind her taking such an extreme step and also look into the charges levelled by the woman and her husband against the police personnel,” added the CO. Rampur additional superintendent of police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh, meanwhile, said, “The accused constable — Amit Kumar, 27, posted at Patwai police station — was booked and suspended on Thursday soon after police received a complaint. He was, however, arrested on Friday night (after the woman consumed poison) and produced before a court on Saturday. He was sent to jail. Further investigation is underway.” The constable first befriended the woman’s husband and then started “exploiting her sexually while threatening to frame her husband”, said police sources. Kumar was booked under sections 376 (2) (whoever, being a police officer, commits rape), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Patwai police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forced-threatened-to-withdraw-rape-case-against-constable-rampur-woman-consumes-poison-critical/articleshow/78724162.cms||Maria Khan
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mom of ‘jewellery thief’ gets anticipatory bail||PANAJI: The additional sessions court at Panaji granted anticipatory bail to a 63-year-old woman, who accompanied her son to sell valuables stolen by him. During the hearing, the investigating officer submitted to the court that the mother had gone with her son to sell stolen LCD TV sets and had knowledge of other stolen properties. As such, her custodial interrogation was a must. The woman is the mother of Omkar Patil, one of the accused arrested in the murder of a Margao-based jeweller. The court was informed that empty bottles of liquor, a porcelain tray and eight LCD TV sets were recovered at the instance of her son and were attached. However, other stolen properties including gold ornaments and crockery are yet to be recovered, police informed the court. Omkar was arrested on September 30 in Margao. He has also been booked in two crimes recorded at Mapusa and Agasaim police stations. On August 31, a complaint was lodged at Agasaim of theft at a house in Siridao wherein the accused committed theft of 12 gold bangles, 2 gold earrings, 2 gold chains, 3 gold bracelets, 2 gold rings and cash of Rs 4,000, some euros, bottles of wine and whiskey and porcelain items all worth Rs 8 lakh. “The bail seeker is not arrayed as accused in crime. As per Section 437, proviso clause, if the person is a woman, she has to be released on bail. In my opinion, if the applicant is made to report the police station, the investigating officer will get opportunity to investigate with respect to the crime and will meet the ends of justice. The applicant has apprehension that police may arrest her under the pretext of calling her for investigation,” the court stated while granting her anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mom-of-jewellery-thief-gets-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/78727032.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Retired officer of GSLDB booked in DA case||AHMEDABAD: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday booked a retired class II officer, Laxmikant Parulkar, former assistant director in Dahod of Gujarat State Land Development Board in a case of disproportionate assets. Director ACB Keshav Kumar said that they are searching for the accused. ACB sources said that in the inquiry it was found that Parulkar during his service had a legitimate income of Rs 1.93 crore while against it his expenses and investments were Rs 2.95 crore, which is 57.72 % per cent more than his legitimate income. “The accused has used this money to purchase property in his and his relatives’ names,” said an ACB source. The corruption came to light during investigations of different projects like Khet Talavdi, Sim Talavdi and making of water tanks. “In this scandal, ACB has till now booked 20 persons including two class I, six class II and 12 class III officers, and unearthed disproportionate assets worth Rs 26.64 crore,” added an ACB officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retired-officer-of-gsldb-booked-in-da-case/articleshow/78726223.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Agriculture scheme amended to boost vegetable cultivation||PANAJI: In a bid to increase the production of local vegetables and make its seeds available in sufficient quantity for its large scale cultivation in the state, the Local Vegetable Seed Production Programme has been launched amending the Goa Development of Horticulture Scheme. The farmers willing to cultivate local vegetables for production of seed in minimum area of 0.05 ha will be registered by the department of agriculture as registered seed growers. These farmers will be provided good quality local seeds at 50% subsidised rate besides providing technical know-how for the production of quality seeds. Registered seed growers will be extended other department schemes on priority such as assistance for irrigation, fencing, organic inputs, etc. The vegetable seed produced by these farmers will be purchased by the directorate of agriculture at a prefixed rate which will be decided by the committee constituted for the purpose at the beginning of the cropping season. Plastic mulching in vegetables and flowers will be promoted to reduce weed menace and conservation of moisture in the soil. Plastic mulch of 25 to 50 microns black or white colour can be used depending on the crop which will be assisted under the scheme. The estimated cost of plastic mulch per hectare is approximately Rs 16,000 and 75% assistance on the cost of material amounting to Rs 12,000 hectares will be provided to the farmer. The minimum area that can be assisted is 0.05 heactares and maximum of four hectares. Assistance will be provided on the actual area covered and certified by the zonal agriculture officer. Material purchased within and outside the state will also be considered for assistance to transfer the technology to the farming community of Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agri-scheme-amended-to-boost-vegetable-cultivation/articleshow/78726759.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh HC dismisses petition, imposes Rs 20,000 fine||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh high court, while dismissing a petition challenging the order of discontinuation of services and contractual employment of the petitioner, has imposed a cost of Rs 20,000 upon the petitioner and directed him to deposit the cost with the deputy commissioner, Nahan, within two months. A division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on the petition filed by a contractual employee deployed in the office of the deputy commissioner, Sirmaur district, as data entry operator, through NIELIT on outsource basis and joined as such on November 5, 2014. Her contract was renewed from time to time and as per the latest contract executed in September, 2019, her services were to be continued upto September, 2020. However, her contract was discontinued vide order dated January 7 this year. She prayed for quashing and setting aside the said order and for directing the respondent to continue her services and contractual employment on the same terms and conditions. During the course of hearing, it was contended on behalf of the respondents, that the services of the petitioner were discontinued due to her continuous indifferent behaviour and indiscipline in working, despite various verbal and written directions issued to her. It was pointed out that various complaints were also received against her. The petitioner has not contradicted any of the allegations set out against her in the replies by respondents. The court observed that discipline is the hallmark of every employee and thus the punishment handed over to the petitioner is fully justified and no lenient view can be taken in such cases where the subordinate official misbehaves with regular employees, including senior employees of the collectorate despite being appointed as an outsource employee. The collectorate is probably the most visited office in a distirct and therefore it can ill-afford to have such employees. Court observed that because of such false and incoherent pleas by the parties, the judicial system in the country is choked and such litigants consume courts’ time for a wrong cause. The Court further observed that efforts are made by the parties to steal a march over their rivals by resorting to false and incoherent statements made before the court, which is the abuse of the process of the court as the intent of the petitioner is to deceive and mislead the Court that too by taking shelter of falsehood, misrepresentation and suppression of facts in the Court proceedings. Court said that it is required to maintain strictness, vigilance over the abuse of the process of the Court and curb such tendencies with iron hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hc-dismisses-petition-imposes-rs-20000-fine/articleshow/78726198.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Stone inscription documents sale and transfer of land in 13th C||MADURAI: An 800-year- old stone inscription found at Sayalkudi in Ramanathapuram district speaks of the procedures during sale of land in the area in the 13th century AD. Just like today, the process of sale and name transfer had been documented with people concerned, authorising the process by duly signing documents in the presence of witnesses. A team led by president of the Ramanathapuram Archaeological Research Foundation, V Rajaguru found two six-foot-long stones and a three-foot-long stone near the Angala Easwari temple. Rajaguru said all three stones had inscriptions related to each other written in 55 lines. The stones mention that two men -- Nichi Nayaganana Melkirai Natalvan and Manikkan Uyyavanthanana Kulathaiyathayan -- had sold their land to the Sayalkudi Shiva temple. They had transferred their ownership of the land to Chandeswara Thevar, considered the temple's trustee. Many people signed as witness for the sale of land. If the signatory was illiterate and could not sign his name, he was referred to as “tharkuri” meaning illiterate. A literate person, referred to as “tharkuri matterithal,” signed on behalf of the illiterate person whose name is also mentioned on the stone. The inscription also says that three literate people -- Muthan Sivalanganana Imaiye Tharuvan from Pillaiyar Azhakiya Vitangar Temple, Sathanirattaiyaan Anjatha Katathattan and Thatchan SriRaman Moovana Ilamai Asariyan -- signed the document on behalf of three illiterate people. The boundaries for the sold land were two trade routes – pelam, which was a place where fragrant goods were sold, and a pond. The trade route may have referred to the road to Kanyakumari through which a lot of trade was conducted, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stone-inscription-documents-sale-and-transfer-of-land-in-13th-c/articleshow/78727040.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Minister warns protesting KSIC staff||Mysuru: Sericulture minister KC Narayana Gowda on Saturday lost his cool after protesting contract employees of Karnataka Silk Industries Corporation (KSIC) limited raised slogans against the government. He also warned them of action if they did not watch their tongue. He was in the city review the progress of the KSIC unit on Saturday. On learning of his visit, contract employees protested inside the campus pressing for demands including regularization of jobs. As the minister arrived, the protesters started raising slogans against the government. The minister got annoyed over by the language the protesters allegedly used against the government. Later speaking to reporters, the minister said the government is pro-employees and did its best even during lockdown by paying their salaries. “I can understand the problem of employees. If they have any issues, they should get it resolved politely but shouldn’t use foul language,” he said. The employees accused authorities of misleading the government and the minister about their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-warns-protesting-ksic-staff/articleshow/78724823.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bareilly||Nine dead, 34 injured as SUV collides with bus in UP’s Pilibhit||BAREILLY: At least 9 people lost their lives and around 34 were injured in a collision between a compact SUV and an Uttar Pradesh roadways bus in Pilibhit on Saturday. The top half of the bus which turned turtle was completely damaged. Those in the SUV sustained injuries and one of them died during treatment while 8 passengers of the bus, including the driver, died. Pilibhit superintendent of Police Jaiprakash Yadav said, “Multiple teams from nearby police stations were deployed in the rescue operation. All the victims were sent to the hospital where seven were declared brought dead while two died during treatment. Seven survivors are still critical and doctors are trying their best to save their lives. The bodies were sent for autopsy and their family members were informed.” The deceased have been identified as Shakeel (28), the driver of the bus, Gayadeen (45), Kalavati (40), Mohan Bahadur (45), Deepa Vishvas (50) and Shyam (12). The identity of three others is yet to be ascertained, he said. “The ill-fated bus was coming from Lucknow to Pilibhit, and most of the passengers are from Pilibhit and nearby areas,” he said. A police constable carrying out the rescue operation suffered a brain stroke and was hospitalised. Later, he also died during treatment. Rajesh Yadav, co-driver of the bus, said, “The accident occurred around 3.30 am when a vehicle coming from the opposite direction suddenly came in the wrong lane. The bus driver took a sharp turn and lost balance. Thereafter, I lost my consciousness.” Meanwhile, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has condoled the loss of lives in the accident. In a statement issued by the state government, Adityanath directed officials to provide Rs 5 lakh as financial assistance to the family of each of the deceased. He also directed officials to ensure that the injured get proper treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/9-dead-34-injured-as-suv-collides-with-bus-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/78724183.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Police should know which offences must be tried under children’s court’||PANAJI: Former president of Goa children’s court Vandana Tendulkar said police must know which cases should be registered under the Goa Children’s Act and brought before the children’s court, and which need to be reported before other authorities. Any contravention of Sections 3, 4 and 5 of Goa Children’s Act dealing with rights of the child, health and nutrition and education must be reported to the competent authority who is the secretary of women and child development, Tendulkar said. She was speaking at a virtual discussion on ‘Navigating through juvenile justice systems in times of Covid-19’, organised by Goa State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “There are certain provisions of the act which can be dealt with by special officers appointed under the act, by the director women and child development and by the secretary who is the competent authority,” she said, adding contravention of the general welfare of children can be dealt with by these authorities. In corporal punishment cases, police generally book the offender and take the case to the children’s court, although the act provides that corporal punishment be dealt with by the competent authority who is the secretary of the women and child department, she said. “The chargesheet is filed, and it goes to court. The president then makes an order and sends it back to the competent authority and a lot of time is wasted. So the police officer has to know which offences have to be tried under the children’s court,” she said. It is important for all stakeholders to give primary importance to the interest of the child, she said, adding that Goa is a pioneer in the field of recognising the rights of children. The issue of poor rehabilitation of children in conflict with law was also raised , with stakeholders pointing out that children who have committed crimes and want to study, further face financial challenges pursuing education under open school. Stakeholders also said the the Juvenile Justice Board doesn’t have the facility that children’s court has of keeping the accused and victim away from each other, and both are called at the same time, further traumatising the victim. Director Anyay Rahit Zindagi (ARZ) Arun Pandey stressed on the need for the statement of child victims to be recorded at a place suitable to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-should-know-which-offences-must-be-tried-under-childrens-court/articleshow/78727045.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Four students from Jaipur make it to league of top 300 in NEET||JAIPUR: Three students from the state have made it to the top 50 ranks of NEET 2020 results — Vineet Sharma (AIR 4, Dausa), Kartikey Agarwal (AIR 23, Baran) and Chinmayi Kothari (AIR 31, Jaipur), while four students from Jaipur have made it to the league of top 300 ranks. Mahika Mahajan of Jayshree Periwal High School in Jaipur has bagged AIR 195 in NEET. Daughter of an IAS officer Naveen Mahajan, Mahika wanted a career in medical science related to artificial intelligence (AI). “It is very early to say what branch of medical science I will opt for. It is a fast changing world and by the time I will complete my MBBS, the role of AI will reach the advanced stage. Till then, I will explore options as to how medical science gets impacted by AI and then choose my career path,” said Mahika. By cracking NEET, Samyak Jain, a student of India Overseas School, Jaipur, has become the third generation from his family to get into the medical profession. Jain’s grandfather and his parents are doctors in Jaipur. “I am happy to continue the family legacy. This is a proud and emotional moment for me and my family,” said Jain, who secured AIR 295 in NEET. His father Dr Saurabh Jain is in anaesthetics and mother Dr Sheelu Jain is a gynaecologist and cosmetologist. For Mahika and Samyak, the lockdown came as a blessing in disguise. “The extra time gave us an opportunity to thoroughly revise our subjects and clear our doubts to the core,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-students-from-jaipur-make-it-to-league-of-top-300-in-neet/articleshow/78725119.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Coaching hub Kota shines once again||Jaipur: The coaching town Kota has yet again proved its mettle in NEET. The coaching majors have claimed that 38 students from them have made it into the super league of top 100 ranks, including the national topper Soyeb Aftab.Rajesh Maheshwari, director of Allen Career Institute, has claimed to have 36 ranks in the top 100. “For the second consecutive year, our classroom student has claimed AIR 1. It is a matter of pride for the entire ‘Shiksha Ki Kashi’ for delivering the best result in the country,” said Maheshwari.He claimed that his centre has secured three positions in top 10, 19 in top 50 and 36 in Top 100 in which 20 are from classroom and 16 are from distance education.The Resonance Coaching Centre claimed that 2,435 students have got selected in NEET. “Out of them, 1,622 are from classroom programme and 813 from distance learning programme. The top scorers, Rishi Ravindra (AIR-116) and Sanjana K (AIR-128), are from Resonance,” said R K Verma MD and and head, academics of Resonance.Rohan Vijay, academic manager of Career Point Limited, claimed that they have two ranks in the top 100, Vivek Kumar (AIR 34), Tanay Raj (AIR-41) and Meenakshi Meena (AIR 53). “Fifteen students from our institute has made it top 500 ranks.,” said Vijay. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coaching-hub-kota-shines-once-again/articleshow/78725134.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||1 dead, 2 hurt in road accident in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: A youth died while two others were injured when a car, in which a few devotees were going for the darshans to the Tanot Mata temple on the first day of Navratri, met with an accident. The car overturned around 50km from Jaisalmer under Lathi police station area. The two injured were referred to Jaisalmer. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-dead-2-hurt-in-road-accident-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78725143.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: SIT to move court for custody of accused||ALAPPUZHA: Haripad JFCM Court on Saturday remanded Albin Raj (39) – the prime accused in Karuvatta Bank robbery case – in judicial custody for two weeks. Members of special investigation team (SIT) said he was arrested from Coimbatore with 1.85kg of gold. He was staying there with his wife and he did not use a cell phone. But police managed to get the phone number of his wife from the co-accused and this helped them to nab Raj. SIT had arrested Alappuzha resident Shybu (32), alias Appunni, and Shibu (43) of Kattakada on Monday. SIT officers said that they will move applications in court on Monday for getting all three accused in custody for questioning. After SIT took over the case, looked up the records to make a list of thieves jailed in the state for similar kind of robberies. They then narrowed down the list of suspects and nabbed the gang. Earlier, SIT had found that the robbers had reached the bank in an Omni van that was stolen from Kollam and gas cylinders – stolen from a godown in Adoor– were used during the robbery. The arrested robbers had also told the police that they have sold 1.5kg of gold at a jewellery store in Thiruvananthapuram. Karuvatta Service Cooperative Bank in Haripad was burgled during Onam holidays and 5.43kg of gold ornaments and Rs 4.5L in cash were stolen. The bank, located near NH-66, closed on August 27 for Onam holidays. The bank’s secretary reopened the bank on September 3 around 9.30am and noticed the theft. The thieves also stole CCTV cameras, hard disk of the computer connected to the cameras at the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sit-to-move-court-for-custody-of-accused/articleshow/78725181.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bareilly||A Ramleela by jail inmates for inmates webcast on TV||BAREILLY: Every day, inmates gather around the television set at their barracks in Bareilly district jail at 1pm to watch a group of cell mates perform the Ramleela. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic norms, the jail authorities hit upon the idea of live casting Ramleela staged by a group of 40 inmates within the premises. The show went live after "actors" and "crew" reheared for the epic drama for the past two months. Now, their efforts have borne fruit. Most of them have been able to deliver a near perfect performance, earning acclodes from both fellow inmates and staff as each episode unfolds every day. The fact that "audience" attendance is almost 100% every day is a testimony to how well the "show" is regarded. . Vijay Vikram Singh, jail superintendent, told TOI, “I did an orientation two months ago and motivated the inmates to prepare for Ramleela performance. Since Ramleela is not a single day play, it needed extensive preparations And I was surprised to see the dedication of the participants, which is why we decided to go ahead with Ramleela performance. We came up with the idea of webcasting it directly into the barracks through CCTV cameras.” He added that the expenditure for Ramleela is borne by inmate welfare funds. "We have provided them everything possible to ensure a colourful presentation of the stage and the characters. The two-hour performances everyday will continue till Dusherra,” said Singh. Terming it as a stess- buster, he said “ Ramleela performance spreads a positive energy in the premises and gives people something to cheer about during the pandemic."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/a-ramleela-by-jail-inmates-for-inmates-webcast-on-tv/articleshow/78724212.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 18, 2020||Allahabad||IIIT-A to hold webinar with its alumni||Prayagraj: Indian Institute of Information Technology, Allahabad (IIIT-A) will organize an alumni interaction webinar titled “Getting connected again” on September 17. Prof P Nagabhushan, director, IIIT-A will address the alumni as the chief guest. He will speak about his vision towards building a strong relationship between the alumni and their alma mater, IIIT-A. The alumni will also get the opportunity to share their journeys of success after passing out from IIIT-A and ideas on how they would support/ contribute to their alma mater with an aim to make it one of the top institutions in the world. Prof Anupam Agrawal said, “We have received a good response from our alumni in India as well as abroad. We have invited faculty members, officers, staff and current students to the webinar. This will enable our alumni in building a better and stronger relationship with the institute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/iiit-a-to-hold-webinar-with-its-alumni/articleshow/78708208.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diploma to degree: 14,687 on merit list||AHMEDABAD: The Admission Committee for Professional Courses on Saturday announced the provisional merit list for admission to degree engineering courses of candidates who have completed their diploma in engineering. According to the list, 14,687 students who have passed their diplomas from 13 different boards in the state have been included on the merit list. A total of 1,16,726 students registered of whom 14,687 made it to the merit list, the ACPC announced on Saturday. The selection filling process for the mock round has started. Students can fill in their choices for the mock round till October 20. The mock round results will be announced on October 23. Currently there are 5,066 seats at government colleges for students enrolling in degree courses after diploma studies. In all there are 50,600 such seats available after taking into account 45,534 seats at 111 self-financed colleges. According to the new education council guidelines, students who have passed diplomas this year will be able to get admission in any branch of degree engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diploma-to-degree-14687-on-merit-list/articleshow/78726326.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Allotment of land to cricket body: HC issues notice to MLA||Jodhpur: The land of Government College, Barmer allegedly allotted to the District Cricket Association (DCA) in 2013 on the basis of a fabricated document, seems to have caused immense trouble for former revenue minister and present MLA Hemaram Choudhary. Allowing a petition in this matter, the high court division bench has issued him a notice on Friday seeking reply in two weeks. Petitioner Sabal Singh Bhati in his plea has stated that the 16 bigha land of the government college spreading in 2 khasras had been fraudulently allotted to the DCA, Barmer holding Choudhary responsible for it, who was and is the president of the association.“They took illegal and undue advantage of the power while utilizing the same land for the DCA, Barmer in receiving the illegal and undue money by using the said land and stadium since 2013 and created their properties and bank balances,” Bhati claimed. It has been claimed in petition that the land, where already the college stadium existed, was allotted in March 2013 by the then tehsildar on the basis of a forged document dated July 18, 1995 and was mutated on the very next day by the patwari. Students had also given representation to district administration twice but no action was taken. Petitioner’s counsel Gulab Singh said the DCA has been carrying out its illegal sports activities in the said allotted college land by collecting undue money from the students through the Magnate Cricket Academy, Barmer and students of the college are deprived of their legitimate right.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/allotment-of-land-to-cricket-body-hc-issues-notice-to-mla/articleshow/78725152.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||At 69%, Rajasthan stood second in success rate in medical exam||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has achieved second-best success rate in the NEET across the country, says National Testing Agency, the body which had conducted the examination. The data says that the state has achieved 68.80% success rate and was only behind Haryana which got 72%. Figures say that 95,752 candidates had appeared in the examination and 65,758 aspirants met the cut-off mark. This resulted in 68.68% success rate for the state. Interestingly, national topper Soyeb Aftab, who had appeared in NEET exam in Kota, was shown as a top ranker from Odisha in state toppers’ list. It clears that the astonishing result of the state is not entirely due to coaching students who come from outside, but the overwhelming majority of them are domicile students from the state. Experts have commented that the majority of the success in the state is from schools affiliated to the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education. The 4th rank in NEET Vineet Sharma of Dausa has studied from RBSE affiliated school in his native town and in his interviews confessed that syllabus has helped him in scoring well over lakhs of students even without any coaching. Stamping the premise, the state board students are shining in the NEET results, an NGO ‘5o villagers Sewa Sansthan’ based in Barmer. Founder of ‘5o villagers Sewa Sansthan’, an NGO in Barmer, Dr Bharat Saran, who is a medical officer in government medical college, has claimed that all his 45 students appeared in the examination have qualified in the NEET examination. “Our best score was 605 and out of 45 qualified students, 11 of them will study in the government medical colleges,” said an elated Saran. Surprising part of the NGO is open for those students who are enrolled in government schools. “They should be a resident of either a hamlet or a village. The whole idea is we have limited resources and we would like to spend on those who required the most,” said Saran. Kota coaching majors say that their success stories have been bringing a change across the state. Nitesh Sharma, a media manager at coaching major, said Kota has been attracting students from the length and breadth of the state. “We are amazed to see the number of students has been increasing far and wide from the remote corners of the state. From a helmet on the border areas to the socio economically backward villages in the Mewat areas, students are coming to Kota for coaching,” said Sharma. He supported the arguments with the empirical evidences. “In the past, we have seen success from students belonging to poorest economic background, including children of MGNREGA labourers,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/at-69-raj-stood-second-in-success-rate-in-medical-exam/articleshow/78725157.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Gang supplying girls for marriage busted, 3 held||Udaipur: A notorious gang that swindled people by providing fake brides has been taken into custody by a team from Sadar police station of Chittorgarh on Saturday. Three people, including a bride, who are members of the gang were arrested. The gang operated by getting girls married by charging money. After some time once the cash was in hand, they would return from the in laws and then be married to someone else to scam. The gang was busted when cops acted on a tip and raided a Dharamshala where the three accused were found. The bride Neha Kumari, a resident of Jharkhand, had come with her husband Vikram Jain while two others who posed as Neha's relatives had followed her. Vikram told police he was married to Neha some eight months back. One Ajay Kumar Modi and Kaushalya Devi had arranged their marriage and Vikram had paid Rs 4 lakh to them. Vikram said that for a few weeks everything seemed normal but gradually Neha started demanding jewellery and expensive gifts. She also demanded money to be sent to her parents in Jharkhand. She made life hell for her husband. ASP Sarita Singh said that an investigation is underway. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-supplying-girls-for-marriage-busted-3-held/articleshow/78725177.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Electronic age weighs down heavily on Savarkundla’s scale industry||RAJKOT: This quiet little hamlet which weighs everything that’s sold, was literally the country’s ‘weight watchers’ once. However, the pressure of changing times have weighed down heavily upon Savarkundla’s weighing scales units and sales have dropped not only by 40%, but the sector fears extinction at this rate. Based in Amreli district, it is a hub of every kind of manual weighing scales of all measures and sizes. But the age of electronics has given it a rough time for the last few years with stiff competition. Electronic scales have pushed down the demand for manual scales by occupying almost 60% of the Indian domestic market. Almost 600 small and medium scale factories thrive in this small town of 1 lakh people, employing 30,000 people in this industry. Not to be outdone, manufacturers in Savarkundla too turned to electronic scales making but found they can’t compete with bigger cities like Delhi, Kolkata in prices. Savarkundla currently produces 3,000 electronic scales and 10,000 manual scales daily. While prices of manual scales start at Rs 600, electronic scales start from Rs 2,000 onwards. In fact, this price difference is still keeping demand for manual scales alive in a few states like UP, West Bengal, Odisha, and north-eastern states. What’s more, scales from Savarkundla also bring in precious dollars from African and Gulf countries! Kanu Dodiya, a leading manufacturer of Savarkundla told TOI, “Raw materials like load cells, motherboard, display etc come from China, and we only have to assemble electronic scales. So, it’s easy to make and doesn’t require special skills, unlike the manual scales. The whole country is chock-a-block with electronic scales manufacturers, which has killed the demand for our traditional scales by 40%.” An exporter of the manual scales, Nikul Chudasama said, “China is the biggest exporter of weighing scales in the world. Savarkundla too can give China a run for its money provided the government gives us tax benefits, export incentives and ease in ‘inspector raj’.” Chudasama further said that the manufacturers are harassed by the weights and measures department which keeps asking for the same documents at every renewal and the government also needs to ease the process of stamping on the machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/electronic-age-weighs-down-heavily-on-savarkundlas-scale-industry/articleshow/78726771.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 18, 2020||Hubballi||Simple Navaratri celebrations begin in Dharwad||Dharwad: The nine-day Navaratri celebrations began here with the idols of deities at various temples being decorated in various incarnations on Saturday. Special puja was performed at all temples and devotees offered prayers following social distance and other Covid-19 guidelines. At the famed Laxmi Narayana temple, the idols were decorated as Badarinarayana while at Nagareshwar temple, the idol of Kannikaparameshwari was decorated as Ashtalakshmi. The Durgadevi temple in Maratha Colony, Lord Venkateshwar temple at Reddy Colony, Kariyamma and Anugraha Anjaneya Swami temple at Kamanakatti were decorated and wore a festive look. At Gandhi Nagar, an idol of Durgadevi was installed at Shivalaya. The Dasara Jumboo Savari Utsav Samiti which decided to have a simple celebration this year due to the pandemic, took out a procession from Bandemma Temple to Shivalaya in Gandhi Nagar and offered puja to the Durgadevi idol. There will be no fair or cultural programmes as part of Navaratri this year due to Covid-19 and people were content performing puja at their homes. Caption: The idols at Laxmi Narayana Temple in Dharwad were decorated as Badarinarayana and Laxmi on Saturday (TOI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/simple-navaratri-celebrations-begin-in-dharwad/articleshow/78725080.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man held for murdering grandmother||UDAIPUR: In a major breakthrough, police arrested a 25-year-old man for murdering his grandmother and stealing her silver jewellery in Hamirpur Chowki area of Chhoti Sadri block of Chittorgarh district. The 80-year-old woman, Phooli Bai, wife of Bheralal Meena, who lived in a separate portion of the house, was found dead on her bed on Thursday morning. Her grandson Premchand was arrested on Saturday, who confessed to have killing the woman because she refused to give him money for his wife’s treatment. The accused was produced before a local court which sent him in judicial custody. According to SHO Ravindra Pratap Singh, the accused’s father Ramchandra informed the cops about the murder on Thursday. Ramchandra was adopted by his paternal uncle Bheralal and his wife Phooli Bai since the couple did not have children. After Bheralal’s death, Ramchandra looked after their farm and Phooli Bai lived in a separate portion and cooked her own meals. On Thursday morning, when Phooli Bai did not come out of her room, the family members went to her room and found her dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-murdering-grandmother/articleshow/78725186.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara kicks off in Chamarajanagar, Shivamogga||Mysuru/ Shivamogga: Former minister and Congress MLA C Puttaranga Shetty inaugurated the Dasara festivities at Chamarajanagar by offering special puja at Sri Chamarajeshwara Temple on Saturday. Due to the pandemic, the district administration had kept the celebrations simple. District minister Suresh Kumar, who has been tested positive for coronavirus, could not attend the inaugural programme. As part of the celebrations, the administration is lined up cultural programmes for three days at the temple premises. To prevent people from gathering in large numbers to witness the programmes, the administration has made arraignments to live stream the shows on social network sites and telecast them on television. Suresh Kumar later tweeted about the various development programmes launched in the district. In Shivamogga, Navaratri festival commenced with less than 100 people, including corporators, gathering at the city corporation office. The nine-day celebration was inaugurated by corona warriors. Health workers, crematorium staff and police, who have been battling the virus, were felicitated on the occasion. The idol of goddess Chamundeshwari, which was taken in a procession from the office, was installed at Chandika Durga Parameshwari Temple at Kote Road here. The temple has been illuminated for the festival. The idols of gods and goddesses will be brought to Banni Mantap on the ninth day for Shami Puja. The corporation has appealed to people to watch the events on local TV channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-kicks-off-in-chamarajanagar-shivamogga/articleshow/78724613.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Wiring worry for central Kolkata tinderbox||KOLKATA: Big houses standing shoulder-to-shoulder with hardly any gap in between, one door to access the entire building with a single staircase leading to different floors, meter box crammed under the staircase, decades-old wiring and their mixed use, shops on the ground floor and residents on others: buildings in prime central Kolkata locations are not merely fire-prone, they are also death traps for residents. “Most buildings in the belt that were constructed in the ’50s and ’60s are now extremely vulnerable to fire. If a fire blocks the entrance and stairway, residents get trapped. Even firemen have a tough time as they have access only from the front door,” a former additional director-general of state fire services said. The biggest problem, fire experts said, was the location of meter boxes below staircases and old electrical wiring that made them susceptible to electricity leakage and short circuit. TimesViewCentral Kolkata fires pose a unique problem because of the layout of the neighbourhoods as well as their age and nature of upkeep. Government agencies should focus on this zone and its peculiar problems and come up with solutions that can work to preempt repeats. “In some buildings, wirings are decades old and have never been overhauled. People who own offices there are often reluctant to pay their share for the repairs,” said Sandip Jaiswal, resident of a building on Ganesh Chandra Avenue, half of which houses offices. Fire experts said reducing the risk to life was not difficult if meter boxes were removed to the passage, isolating the main door and stairs from fire risk, the electrical load was checked, wiring was revamped and miniature circuit breakers (MCBs) were installed. Storage of inflammables in shops there should not be allowed. People in central Kolkata said conversion of residential buildings into offices that led to installation of ACs and conversion of common spaces into cubicles has turned many old buildings into fire traps. In addition, disputes between landlords and tenants led to poor maintenance. “This is the story in every other house on Central Avenue, Ganesh Chandra Avenue, R N Mukherjee Road, Waterloo Street, British Indian Street and Meredith Street. People have converted old apartments into offices. There is no space for emergency exits or water reservoirs,” said Dilshad Hussain, secretary of a residents’ association, which is fighting a legal case with the landlord to repair the building. Fire consultant Tarak Chakraborty said residents could fund for retrofitting of refuge areas on alternative floors and an escape staircase in the back. “Inhalation of smoke causes maximum casualty. If people can breathe fresh air, they will survive. Rescue operations also become easier for the fire brigade,” Chakraborty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wiring-worry-for-central-kol-tinderbox/articleshow/78726392.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Soldier arrested with 2.3kg ganja||KOCHI: An investigation into ganja trafficking through Speed Post helped Harbour Police, here, nab an Armyman attached to the Madras Regiment. Nearly 2.3kg of the contraband was seized from him. Police identified the arrested as Abdul Nasid, 29, a native of Kadamath Island in the Lakshadweep archipelago. According to Nasid’s statement he was posted in Kashmir. An identity card recovered from him showed him as a soldier on general duty, police sources said. Harbour Police began investigating drug smuggling to Lakshadweep after CISF officials handed over four parcels of ganja that were being sent to the Union territory. The parcels contained more than 1kg of the narcotic substance. The investigation, carried out with the help of the cyber cell, identified the call details of the suspects and led to the arrest of Nasid, who was staying near TD Road in Ernakulam. “He is suspected to be a deserter who has not rejoined duty after proceeding on leave six months ago. We have contacted the Army to garner more details,” said an officer attached to the Harbour Police. Nasid was arrested by a team comprising Harbour CI Sylvester, sub-inspector T G Rajesh, Kailas Nath and ASIs Dinesh and Sajeev. Nasid, who was presented in court on Saturday, has been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soldier-arrested-with-2-3kg-ganja/articleshow/78725233.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bareilly||Priest found dead in temple under mysterious circumstances in UP’s Moradabad||BAREILLY: A priest was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a temple in Asalatpura area under Galshaheed police station in Moradabad on Saturday afternoon. Moradabad police has ruled out any foul play in the case and said the actual cause of the death would be ascertained by the post-mortem report. Moradabad senior superintendent of police (SSP) Prabhakar Chaudhary said, “It appears the priest died a natural death since there were no marks visible on his body. However, the autopsy report will ascertain the actual cause of his death. Based on the findings of the report, further action will be initiated.” According to locals, the victim, Ramdas Ji Maharaj, in his late 50s, was a member of the Ramganga Pollution Control Committee and had been actively protesting against the on-going illegal mining activities in the district. The victim was also associated with the Save Ramganga Mission and had been fighting a case in the high court against illegal mining in the Ramganga riverbed in Moradabad, they added. Soon after the death was reported, priests and mahants in a large number gathered in the area and blocked the Moradabad-Haridwar highway on Saturday afternoon, demanding action in the case. Police dispersed the protesters and restored traffic after assuring them of legal action. “A large number of people had gathered, demanding action in the mysterious death of the priest. The crowd was assured of legal action based on the findings of the post-mortem report, which is awaited,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/priest-found-dead-in-temple-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/78724249.cms||Maria Khan
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||HP relaxes restrictions on assembly in public||Shimla: Moving ahead with the unlock process, the Himachal Pradesh government has now given relaxation in the number of people gathering for social, cultural, religious, academic, sports, entertainment, political and other activities. According to the latest SOP issued by the government, in closed spaces, up to 50% of the hall capacity or 200 persons will be allowed, while the number can go beyond that in open spaces. Earlier, a maximum of 100 persons were allowed in any gathering, but in view of the reopening of more activities and the festive season, permission has been given for gathering of more persons, subject to meeting the Covid-19 norms. The SOP issued by chief secretary-cum-chairman, State Executive Committee on Friday says that wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser would be mandatory in all such venues. In open spaces gatherings can exceed the limit of 200 persons, keeping the size of ground/ space in view. The administrative requirements for such gatherings include identifying spatial boundaries and preparing a detailed site plan to facilitate compliance to the Covid norms. The SOP says for the events running for days or weeks, where the crowd usually peaks around certain hours of the day, the administration would have to plan accordingly, so that crowds could be managed to ensure physical distancing and frequent sanitisation. It further says that exhibitions, fairs, puja pandals, Ramleela pandals, concerts or plays would have adequate measures to ensure the cap on physical numbers. “Staggered timings and restricted entry may be considered,” it says. It also suggests using closed-circuit cameras, if feasible, at each venue to monitor compliance of physical distancing norms, wearing of masks, etc. Persons above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age have been advised to stay home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-relaxes-restrictions-on-assembly-in-public/articleshow/78726376.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Business hours during festive season curtailed for hawking hot spots||KOLKATA: From Sunday, hawkers in Gariahat and Hatibagan will have to stop selling their wares by 2 in the afternoon and wind up an hour later to reduce over-crowding at the two shopping hubs that also house several big-draw Durga Pujas. A circular issued by Nabanna has asked KMC and police to enforce the restriction from Sunday. The move, sources said, follows repeated concerns expressed by doctors over the kind of crowding that the shopping hubs have been witnessing over the past couple of weeks with both retailers and customers ignoring SOPs for the pandemic to shop ahead of the festival. A KMC market department official said they were in touch with police to keep a vigil on the crowd in the major hawker markets. Sources said the internal circular had called for the hawkers to wrap up businesses completely by Sunday as pandal-hopping is to officially commence from Tritiya, Monday. But following pleas by hawker unions, it has now been decided that they will vacate the pavements by 3pm so that pandal-hoppers don’t jostle with the shopping crowd. Usually, shopping continues till Panchami evening and even Shasthi morning. But this year, the absence of the floating crowd that commutes by train and come to shop from suburbs has led to crowds thinning out by 7.30 in the evening since Thursday. However, Hatibagan continues to be chock-a-block with shoppers rubbing shoulders and craning their neck to bag a deal. “Masks are the first casualty when one shops. Despite the campaigns by the government and appeals by us, there is no awareness,” said Gariahat Indira Hawkers’ Union secretary Debraj Ghosh, adding that the restricted timings could help prevent the situation from turning hazardous. Several hawkers at Gariahat have got infected and at least one of the them who had a stall near Basanti Devi College has died of Covid. In Gariahat, the hawkers will first clear the pavements adjoining the access road to Ekdalia Evergreen and Singhi Park. From Shasthi, even the stall structures will be dismantled to allow pedestrians more space. At Hatigaban, hawkers aren’t too pleased with the restricted timings being ushered in so early. “Usually, we are asked to clear the pavements by Saptami and it doesn’t hurt because most of the shopping is over by then. But to restrict timings from Dwitiya, which is a Sunday, is not good news for us,” said a hawker. Organizers of Durga Pujas located in this area are, however, relieved that the crowd will thin around evening. While Hatibagan Sarbojanin and Sikdarbagan Sadharan Durgotsav are smack in the middle of the shopping zone, Nabin Pally and Nalin Sarkar Street aren’t too far off. “We usually don’t have a problem functioning with the shopping crowd in other years. But it feels different this year due to the pandemic,” admitted Hatibagan Sarbojanin Durgotsav secretary Saswat Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/biz-hours-during-festive-season-curtailed-for-hawking-hot-spots/articleshow/78725253.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Fewer deaths, lesser cases reported in Punjab, Haryana and HP region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: A total of 1,850 new Covid cases and 28 deaths were on Saturday reported from the region comprising Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. While most of these deaths took place in Punjab, Haryana saw maximum new cases. Punjab recorded 19 fresh deaths and 427 people were tested positive for the virus. The state’s tally of cases now stands at 127,154—of which 6,230 are active cases—and 3,999 people have so far died of the infection. Of the latest deaths, three patients each died in Amritsar and Pathankot, two each in Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Mohali, and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mansa, Ropar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. Jalandhar threw up maximum 73 new cases in the state, followed by 54 in Ludhiana. Haryana on Saturday saw more recoveries than fresh cases, with a total of 1,318 patients discharged after treatment, while 1,148 new cases surfaced and six patients died across the state. Karnal recorded maximum three Covid deaths and one death each was reported from Jind, Panchkula and Bhiwani districts, pushing the toll to 1,640. Low death counts have contained the fatality rate at 1.10%. A total of 137,176 patients have recovered out of 149,081 cases reported so far, taking the recovery rate to 92.01%. The districts reporting high number of cases were Gurgaon (271), Faridabad (159), Rohtak (129) and Hisar (118). Meanwhile, three deaths and 275 new cases were recorded in Himachal Pradesh, while 234 Covid patients were declared cured. Now, the state’s cases total has gone up to 18,797, of which 2,680 cases are active. In all, 260 patients have died so far, 15,823 have recovered and 29 moved out. The latest cases were reported from Mandi (84), Shimla (49), Solan (29), Kangra (24), Kullu (20), Sirmaur (16), Lahaul-Spiti (16), Bilaspur (14), Una (13), Chamba (05), Hamirpur (04) and Kinnaur (01). Mandi reported 50 recoveries, Kangra 49, Shimla 32, Kullu 31, Solan 29, Bilaspur 20, Una 11, Sirmaur seven and Chamba five. Total 343,186 samples were tested in Himachal till Saturday and results of 221 were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fewer-deaths-lesser-cases-reported-in-region/articleshow/78726398.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops brace for revellers’ car rush on Puja days||KOLKATA: Early Puja trends have led cops to believe that there could be more people on the road in their personal vehicles — four-wheelers and bikes — this year than it was initially estimated. “Pandal-hoppers might try to drive in as close to the pandal as possible to ensure physical distancing. Some may not even try to watch pandals and idols on the move,” senior traffic cops warned their subordinates on Saturday during a Puja meeting. Commissioner Anuj Sharma, who was present in the meeting, reminded his colleagues that they needed to take good care of themselves in order to protect others. In an open letter to his colleagues written in Bengali, Sharma asked his colleagues to wear face shields, N-95 masks, armlets and carry sanitizers and they maintain distance. Sharma has asked all DCPs to monitor the distribution of these items to each cop on duty. Keeping the ground conditions in mind — Tritiya to Shasthi will be working days — the cops have declared that road restrictions will come into effect as early as 4pm on Tritiya. “A few pandals have already opened. Most will be opened by Tritiya. So we need enforce restrictions,” said an ACP. In an important decision, the police are changing the movement on the Lockgate flyover from south to north all through the day. This will be enforced from Saptami. Police have also brought certain changes in the crowd circulation plans at some of the biggest puja blocks. At Chetla Agrani, for example, the exit has been relocated towards its entrance so that crowd can be further channelized towards Gobinda Auddy Road. Similarly, Surya Sen Street and Kaizer Street will see cops diverting the crowd back towards CR Avenue and Vivekananda Road after Santosh Mitra Square declared that no outsiders will be allowed entry. Cops have some contingency plans for Rashbehari Crossing, which is considered the single-most important point during Durga Puja in traffic parlance. “In case of any emergent situation, like overcrowding or serious congestion along Rashbehari Avenue connector, the one-way system along Ballygunge Place and Swinhoe Street will be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-brace-for-revellers-car-rush-on-puja-days/articleshow/78725264.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid test on arrival for UK flyers from next week||KOLKATA: From next week, passengers arriving from London in the direct Air India flight will not have to worry about Covid testing prior to boarding. A paid testing facility will be available at Kolkata airport from next Thursday, considerably reducing problems that passengers from the UK have been facing in getting pre-boarding tests done. Tests in the UK are not just expensive, it is difficult to access and results take a long time to arrive. In the very first flight that operated from London to Kolkata, several passengers were not allowed to board as they had not got themselves tested prior to boarding. The relaxation though applies only to the AI London flight. The carrier was hoping to start a service to Singapore once the testing facility commenced in Kolkata but that has been nixed by the revised SOP issued on Saturday. Only passengers from London will be allowed to undergo tests, either prior to boarding at Heathrow or on arrival in Kolkata. Passengers will be required to get RT-PCR test done on payment basis from the designated testing facility at the airport. Passengers will have to hand over their passports on arrival that will be returned to them once the test results arrive. “We will reserve an AC section where arriving passengers can wait for six-seven hours till the results arrive. There will be refreshment and washroom facility,” the airport director said. While passengers who test negative will be allowed to proceed home, the rest will be sent either to a hospital or a safe house as per the doctor’s advice. The airline has been asked to provide in advance information on how many passengers will undergo tests on arrival so that the exact number of RT-PCR kits and testing facility are available on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-test-on-arrival-for-uk-flyers-from-next-week/articleshow/78725259.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain fury in Hyderabad: Many areas continue to be inundated||HYDERABAD: For scores of residents living in parts of Ramanthapur, P&T Colony (LB Nagar), Barkas (Chandrayangutta), Tolichowki and Maheswaram, life had not returned to normal even on Saturday morning, four days after water from lakes and connecting water channels gushed into their homes. The heavy rain on Saturday evening only added to their misery. The residents have been faced with multiple issues — lack of drinking water, food , electricity supply and property damage. While most people living on ground floors have locked their houses and shifted to their relatives’ homes, some have stayed put on upper floors of their houses. However, ruing lack of basic amenities they’ve urged authorities for immediate help. “In Ramanthapur each house has incurred loss of around Rs 10 lakh. Their cars, bikes, interiors, furniture and electronics have all been damaged. Around 500 cars and 4,000 bikes have been damaged in Ramanthapur. Lives of 1,500 families have gone for a toss,” said Somi Reddy ward member of Habsiguda and resident of Ramanthapur. Said Abdul Raheem Qureshi who lives in Nabil Colony, Chandrayangutta: “Condition of people here is pathetic. Water has still not drained out and politicians and officials have turned a blind eye to our miseries. We really hope they extend some help soon.” Other areas that were inundated on Saturday include Kodandaramnagar (LB Nagar), Sai Chitra Nagar, Laxmi Nagar and Ravindra Nagar (all in Ramanthpur), Syed Colony, Green City (in Chandrayangutta) and Nadeem Colony (in Tolicowki). According to officials efforts are being made to address residents’ concerns. “Measures are being taken to ensure conditions are back to normal in flood affected areas. Even in localities where there is no water logging, silt and mud is being removed. Sanitation activities and anti-larval operations are under way,” read a statement issued by GHMC commissioner, DS Lokesh Kumar, on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-fury-in-hyderabad-many-areas-continue-to-be-inundated/articleshow/78726400.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Shimla||Fewer deaths, lesser cases reported in Punjab, Haryana and HP region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: A total of 1,850 new Covid cases and 28 deaths were on Saturday reported from the region comprising Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. While most of these deaths took place in Punjab, Haryana saw maximum new cases. Punjab recorded 19 fresh deaths and 427 people were tested positive for the virus. The state’s tally of cases now stands at 127,154—of which 6,230 are active cases—and 3,999 people have so far died of the infection. Of the latest deaths, three patients each died in Amritsar and Pathankot, two each in Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur and Mohali, and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mansa, Ropar, Sangrur and Tarn Taran. Jalandhar threw up maximum 73 new cases in the state, followed by 54 in Ludhiana. Haryana on Saturday saw more recoveries than fresh cases, with a total of 1,318 patients discharged after treatment, while 1,148 new cases surfaced and six patients died across the state. Karnal recorded maximum three Covid deaths and one death each was reported from Jind, Panchkula and Bhiwani districts, pushing the toll to 1,640. Low death counts have contained the fatality rate at 1.10%. A total of 137,176 patients have recovered out of 149,081 cases reported so far, taking the recovery rate to 92.01%. The districts reporting high number of cases were Gurgaon (271), Faridabad (159), Rohtak (129) and Hisar (118). Meanwhile, three deaths and 275 new cases were recorded in Himachal Pradesh, while 234 Covid patients were declared cured. Now, the state’s cases total has gone up to 18,797, of which 2,680 cases are active. In all, 260 patients have died so far, 15,823 have recovered and 29 moved out. The latest cases were reported from Mandi (84), Shimla (49), Solan (29), Kangra (24), Kullu (20), Sirmaur (16), Lahaul-Spiti (16), Bilaspur (14), Una (13), Chamba (05), Hamirpur (04) and Kinnaur (01). Mandi reported 50 recoveries, Kangra 49, Shimla 32, Kullu 31, Solan 29, Bilaspur 20, Una 11, Sirmaur seven and Chamba five. Total 343,186 samples were tested in Himachal till Saturday and results of 221 were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/fewer-deaths-lesser-cases-reported-in-region/articleshow/78728275.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Amritsar||Sweets turn into immunity boosters||AMRITSAR: With people trying to bolster their immunity in times of the Covid-19 pandemic, shopkeepers, farm organisations and a few ayurvedic pharma companies have come up with healthy gift ideas in the festive season beginning from Navratras. Modified traditional Punjabi sweets made of gluten free healthy grains including oats, jaggery, dry fruits, and honey tops the chart of healthy sweets. In view of the huge demand for such sweets, advance booking has started in sweet shops. “Due to the pandemic, people have become very concious about their diet, especially during Navratri fasting, we have made special dishes using phool makhana, sabudana, singhada flour etc,” said halwai Kewal Kumar. He said he had also booked orders for home delivery of these articles. Sukhdev Singh, a farmer from Ajnala near Amritsar said he is making traditional Punjabi sweets with gur made from organically grown sugarcane. “We make sweets like burfi, candy, laddoo etc using gur, dry fruits and oats. These are in high demand in the festival season,” he said, adding that production and supply will be at its peak from November 1. President of Jagriti, a farmer producer organisation, Balwinder Singh said traditionally gur and honey are known as immunity boosters, so they are making a range of barfis made of gur, sunth, peanuts, dry fruits and honey etc. District Ayurveda and Unani officer Dr Ranbir Singh Kang said they had also appealed to the public to exchange healthy and immunity boosting gifts such as honey and chawanprash etc during the festive season and avoid eating unhealthy sugar-rich sweets, candies, fried snacks high in salt and fat. “What can be a better gift than Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH) recommended immunity boosters,” he said. A few local ayurveda pharmaceutical companies have also come up with gift hampers comprising chawanprash, haldi drops, giloy vati and kwath tablets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sweets-turn-into-immunity-boosters/articleshow/78726394.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Clubs redo budget after Calcutta HC order||KOLKATA: The small puja committees are now busy reworking their budget after Friday’s Calcutta HC order that has capped the discretionary use of government grants. In an interim order, the court has ruled that 75% of the grant should be spent on masks and sanitizers for pandal-hoppers. On Saturday morning, organizers of the Rajballav Para Pally Puja Samiti near Shyambazar tried to cut down some expenses to make provision for nearly Rs 32,500 out of Rs 50,000 grant that it needs to now spend only on masks and sanitizers. Sreerupa Bonerjee, treasurer of the Samiti, said: “Since there were no such restrictions before, we had budgeted a portion of the fund for use in the puja. But now that we have to adhere to the order, we will only get Rs 17,500 for other expenses. We are now tinkering with our budget to ensure that at least basic costs for various rituals are met,” Bonerjee said. Rakesh Makhija, secretary of the Bengal Boys’ Training Association in Tollygunge, said: “We have halved our budget this year to Rs 2.5 lakh. Sponsors are unable to pay anything this year and people are already burdened. The grant was a breather for many like us. We will abide by the rules and we are trying to find a way out,” Makhija said. Tarun Shaw, secretary of Hindustan Boys’ Sporting Club at Taltala, felt they would not need much for masks and sanitizers not many visit their pandal. “There will hardly be anyone from outside,” Shaw said. For big-budget Puja organizers, these costs were, however, already factored in. Despite a slashed budget this year, they had made elaborate provisions keeping the Covid-19 in mind. “We have already made provisions for masks and sanitizers. We will have volunteers checking temperature of each reveller and sanitizing them. All of them will wear PPE kits,” said Somen Dutta, organizer of Kashi Bose Lane Durgotsav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clubs-redo-budget-after-hc-order/articleshow/78725271.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 18, 2020||Surat||More recoveries, fewer deaths give Surtis hope||Surat: The shine is back on the Diamond City, the second largest city in the state, which had lost its glitter in the haze of rapid spread of Covid-19 cases. However, with the recovery rate improving even as fatality rates are declining steadily, beleaguered Surtis are finally breathing easy. According to the Surat municipal commissioner, the civic body has taken many interventions to tackle the pandemic in the last few months which helped immensely in improving the situation. “One of the major interventions is the high number of Covid-19 testing daily in the city. In July, we used to conduct 136 tests per million per day which has now increased to 2,764 per million per day,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, adding that Dhanvantari Raths too proved to be game changers. SMC deployed 105 raths across the city which conducts tests and provide health services to people’s doorstep as well as removed the stigma of Covid from among the masses. “Moreover, contact tracing of Covid-19 positive patients is also important and we have increased it from eight to 20 per patient. We have also set up Suraksha Kavachh Samitis in all sectors including industry, commercial and residential areas to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are implemented. All these interventions are working in synergy,” Pani told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/more-recoveries-fewer-deaths-give-surtis-hope/articleshow/78724287.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Get ready for another round of liquor price rise next month in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Within a fortnight of a drop in beer prices, here comes a party spoiler. Come November 1 and the prices of India-made foreign liquor (IMFL), imported liquors and other hard liquors are likely to go up further. Sources said the price hike from the current level could be in the range of 10%-20% depending on the brand. The increase will translate into a steep rise of 40%-50% from the pre-Covid level. The state government, like many other state governments, had imposed 30% Covid tax on all liquor, including beer, from April 7. This had led to a 35%-40% drop in IMFL demand and over 85% fall in beer demand. In mid-August, the state excise department had decided to abolish the Covid tax and in lieu decided to introduce a slab-based ad-valorem structure. The new tax structure was proposed to be based on ex-distillery price. The new tax structure is based on ex-distillery price (EDP) and ex-brewery price (EBP). There would be 16 slabs based on declared EBP of beer while for IMFL there would be 22 slabs based on declared EDP. “The declared EDP and EBP should not be more than that of other states and if it is higher, the company has to explain the justification as per the new structure,” sources in the liquor industry said. The new structure was supposed to be implemented from September but it was kept in hold following apprehension of a further price hike by liquor companies and liquor bodies. However, some tinkering was done with the structure in beer earlier this month, following which there was a huge fall in both prices of lager as well as strong beer. The director general of Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), Vinod Giri, told TOI that it had still not agreed with the new structure for hard liquors. Giri had earlier welcomed the fall in beer price. But on the impending hike in liquor price, he felt that it would be detrimental for the industry and even the revenue of the state government. The Indian alcoholic beverage industry had already raised an alarm over the new taxation structure for sale of liquor in Bengal and urged CM Mamata Banerjee not to make any changes in the tax structure in the current fiscal. In a joint representation to CM in September, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies and the International Spirits and Wines Association of India had said that if the taxation structure was changed for IMFL just before the festivities, it would prove to be counter-productive both for the government and the industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/get-ready-for-another-round-of-liquor-price-rise-next-month/articleshow/78725288.cms||Udit Mukherjee
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||‘Meter box short circuit sparked blaze, bike petrol vapour fanned it’||KOLKATA: The devastating fire at 21, Ganesh Chandra Avenue late on Friday was sparked by a bolted short circuit, probably in meter box, and it was accidental in nature, a probe showed. A joint investigation by the fire department and cops from the Bowbazar police station, helped by forensic experts who had reached the spot, revealed the flames had travelled through the corridors and staircase of the seven-storey building that had no fire fighting-system in place and that “several initial symptoms of wires internally weakening” was disregarded.  “The fire broke out on the ground floor after repeated short circuits weakened the wires and heated them up. The presence of eight two-wheelers near the source of fire provided the petrol vapour that allowed the fire to become more devastating,” said a forensic expert. As the second and third floors had shops and trading units, and the lights were switched off, the damage was limited. Most residents live on the fifth and seventh floors. “Those whose doors were shut were saved. Those who had kept their doors open were affected the most,” said the expert. Ten fire engines reached the spot. Bowbazar police said they were registering an FIR after receiving preliminary reports from the fire department and forensic experts. They were also questioning a 78-year-old landlord and his kin. Experts said the heat generated had led to the staircase plaster peeling off. But it was the lone lift shaft that was completely gutted. “Had it not been for the open terrace, it could have turn into another Stephen House. Wires need to be changed every 25 years. It is important for licensed electrical supervisors to check the wiring. Nothing was done in this case,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/meter-box-short-circuit-sparked-blaze-bike-petrol-vapour-fanned-it/articleshow/78726409.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 18, 2020||Surat||Surat: App to inspire cycling among daily commuters||SURAT: With aim to encourage the use of bicycles for daily commuting, the professors and students of the Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) have volunteered to develop mobile application known as ‘C4C’ under the Cycles4Change initiative of the Smart Cities Mission. The mobile application, loaded with features and maps, would inspire and support people to quickly implement cycling-friendly initiatives in response to Covid-19 pandemic and motivate people to contribute towards greener ‘Surat’. Dr Alpa Shah, assistant professor, Master of Computer Application (MCA) department, SCET told TOI, “I and my four SCET students have developed the ‘C4C’ application without physical interface due to Covid-19 in a very short span of time. The application is dedicated for the Cycle4Change initiative and will encourage more and more people to take up cycling for their daily commuting needs” Recently, two city cooperative banks including Varachha Cooperative bank and the Surat People’s Cooperative Bank has come forward to encourage their staff employees to cycle for work and contribute to promoting cycling. While the Surat People’s Bank has introduced interest-free soft loans for purchasing a bicycle for its employees, the Varachha cooperative bank is giving away incentives to its employees cycling for work. A master plan for cycling is being prepared where citizens will vote for the best routes for bicycle lanes, cycling routes, parking stations etc. Rajesh Pandya, deputy municipal commissioner told TOI, “It is important that all the data gathered under the master plan for cycling is collaborated into the mobile application to provide a handy experience to the bikers in the city. There may be few thousand-people cycling for their own health, but we want to promote cycling for daily commuting and reducing the carbon footprint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/app-to-inspire-cycling-among-daily-commuters/articleshow/78724308.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||All test centres in Delhi now collect samples for reliable RT-PCR||NEW DELHI: All the Covid-19 testing centres of Delhi, which were until recently doing only rapid antigen tests (RAT), have now also started collecting samples for RT-PCR tests. RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard for detecting the coronavirus. In each of the 11 districts, only two to five RT-PCR testing centres of the government were located till earlier this month while all other Covid-19 testing centres were conducting rapid antigen tests. RAT is easy to carry out compared with RT-PCR test and it gives results within 15 to 30 minutes, but the latter is considered far more accurate. According to the revised testing strategy, the spotlight is on RT-PCR tests. “Delhi has 310 testing facilities in its 11 districts and all of them have been instructed to carry out RT-PCR-based sample collection based on indication,” said a health department official. It is the reason behind the consistent rise in RT-PCR test numbers over the past several days. The absence of RT-PCR sample collection in all the testing facilities was earlier leading to difficulties in effective Covid-19 containment. “A symptomatic individual who used to test negative was earlier asked to visit the RT-PCR testing centre for getting retested. We, however, found that many of them believed that they were not infected with Covid-19 and did not go for RT-PCR tests,” said a source. Many symptomatic individuals who tested negative on RAT turned out to be Covid-19 positive when tested on RT-PCR. Experts believe that a false negative result is dangerous for other non-infected persons as well as for the government’s efforts to contain the pandemic. “In case of false negative, the person is not immediately isolated. He/she can end up infecting several others. Such individuals mostly report to hospitals during the later stage of the infection,” said an expert. Starting RT-PCR sample collection in all the facilities was not a difficult job as all basic arrangements for testing were already in place. “The staff have been provided kits required to collect the samples, which are later sent for testing,” said a district official. Delhi High Court had in September asserted that RT-PCR should be the way forward. RAT was introduced on June 13 and on September 24, the positivity rate was 4.3% by RAT and 20.33% by RT-PCR. The Covid-19 expert committee has reiterated that retesting of RAT negative symptomatic patients must be done. Till a few weeks ago, more than 80 % tests were conducted by RAT, but now, the RT-PCR tests are increasing fast. Highest 15,660 RT-PCR tests in a day were conducted on Friday while the total number of RAT was 42,485. As many as 13,985 RT-PCR tests were conducted on October 15, 12,596 on October 14, 11,023 on October 13 and 10,260 on October 12. Delhi can do 19,000 RT-PCR tests a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/all-test-centres-now-collect-samples-for-reliable-rt-pcr/articleshow/78725305.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Farmer’s son cracks NEET, but the struggle to be a doctor has just begun||KOLKATA: A NEET (UG) score, which promises a place in Kolkata’s top state-run medical colleges, would make anyone elated. But for 19-year-old Sayan Rana, the son of a marginal farmer in West Midnapore’s Debra, the struggle has just begun. This Radhamohanpur Vivekananda High School topper had juggled between his studies and work in the fields to realize his dream — to become a doctor. Sayan had always topped his classes since Class I. In his Higher Secondary examinations, he bagged the second spot in his school. “I could not afford books. My teachers provided books for me. My family does not have a proper income, the earnings from the fields can barely help us for four months at a stretch. We are heavily dependent on the subsidized rations,” he said. “I have been told that I need to pay a fee of Rs 10,000 for the medical college counselling. I have approached my teachers for help again.” Sayan said some local traders have told him that they can provide his family a ‘soft loan’ which must be repaid once he completes his MBBS. “I used to work as a farm labourer from Class VI and in Class IX and XI could save Rs 5,000, which I used for my HS studies. I got a state government scholarship of Rs 1,000 in the HS classes because I had scored over 95% in Madhyamik. But the money was spent to feed the family,” said Sayan. Sayan hopes his general rank of 10,592, and an OBC rank of 3,962, will secure him admission at one of the state-run medical colleges. “I used to study early in the morning and even late on at night when I had to work in the fields. I also used to earn Rs 180 a day as a daily wage labourer. It has been a battle to continue studies,” he said. His parents — Joydev and Jayashri — always encouraged him to study. They often work as daily wage earners under the MGNREGA schemes. Due to the lockdown, he said, there was no work in the fields, which helped him concentrate more on studies. “To help my family, I worked during the unlock phase to earn Rs 30 for some days spraying disinfectants in the fields,” he said. Sayan said he came across Amiya Kumar Maity, a former SSKM doctor and a NEET mentor. Maity, director of the Kolkata-based Dr Maity Educational and Medical Research Institute, said, “Sayan’s struggle is inspiring. The online mode of teaching and examinations were also a challenge for students in rural Bengal. I hope he is able to pursue his dream.” Sayan said Maity had provided him books and coached him even over the telephone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/farmers-son-cracks-neet-but-the-struggle-to-be-a-doc-has-just-begun/articleshow/78725296.cms||Debashis Konar
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Erstwhile Mysuru royal family begins private Dasara fete at palace||MYSURU: Mysuru royal family, led by titular head Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, started private Dasara celebrations at the residential palace attached to Mysuru Palace on Saturday. Unlike the government, which has scaled down the Dasara festival, the royal family continued with the rituals and traditions, which were restricted to the family members. After conducting pujas, Yaduveer ascended the golden throne at 11.45am and held the Khas Durbar — which marked the beginning of the Navaratri rituals. The royal family began the rituals early in the morning (Brahmi muhurtha) with an oil bath to Yaduveer. The Simha Shikara (lion’s head) of the throne, which was assembled on September 18, was fixed between 5.30am and 6am. After performing puja to deity Sri Chamundeshwari, ‘kankana’ was tied to Yaduveer at Chamundi Thotti at 7.45am and later to his wife Trishika Kumari Wadiyar at Vani Vilasa Puja Hall at the palace. This was followed by the bringing of Pattada Aane, Pattada Kudure, Pattada Hasu and Pattada Onte to the palace along with ‘sumangalis’ carrying kalashas after performing puja at the temples inside the palace. Yaduveer, who arrived at the Durbar Hall, performed puja to the golden throne before ascending it. After priests offered ‘prasada’ to the invitees, the royal family anthem ‘Kayo Sri Gowri’ was played. Later, Yaduveer conducted the private durbar from 11.45am for about 20 minutes. Royal family matriarch Pramoda Devi Wadiyar and her grandson Aadyaveer Narasimharaja Wadiyar participated in the events at the Durbar Hall. The Khas Durbar will be held everyday till October 25 at Mysore Palace from 6.30pm to 7.15pm. Palace sources said that there were only around 30 people, including the staff and priests, during the Khas Durbar. All participants had worn face masks and used hand sanitisers. Due to the pandemic, the royal family had restricted people from witnessing the programme. Mysuru Zoo will be open on Tuesdays Tourists visiting Mysuru will not be disappointed as the authotiries of Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) have decided to keep the zoo and Karanji Nature Park open for public on Tuesdays (October 20 and October 27), which otherwise is a holiday. In a press note on Saturday, zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni stated that the zoo and the park will be open from 8.30am to 5.30pm on all days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/erstwhile-mysuru-royal-family-begins-private-dasara-fete-at-palace/articleshow/78724748.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||Namesakes back in fray to swing margin votes||Bhopal: Call it a coincidence or a well thought out strategy, several namesakes are contesting against heavyweights in upcoming bypolls in MP. But then, namesakes are not new in the Madhya Pradesh elections; candidates with names ‘akin’ to their opponents were present in almost all the recent elections. Same names cause confusion and some voters, unable to distinguish between namesakes, end up casting their vote in the favour of the other candidate. Does it work? Going by past poll stats, it certainly does. In the forthcoming by-elections, two Girrajs and two Ravindras are contesting from Dimani constituency of Morena district. While one Girraj is BJP candidate, the other one is from regional Jan Adhikar Party. Of the two Ravindras, one is the official candidate of INC while the other is an independent. In Sanchi constituency also, two Prabhus and two Madans are in the fray, while one is Dr Prabhuram Chowdhary - the official candidate of BJP - the other Prabhu is an independent. Likewise, Madan Lal Chowhdhary is the official candidate of INC, the other Madan is an independent. In Gwalior constituency, Sunil Sharma is the official candidate of INC while the other Sunil Sharma is an independent. Likewise in Surkhi constituency, former MLA Parul Sahu is the official candidate of INC, one male candidate named Paryul is also contesting the poll as an independent. If we go by the statistics of the previous polls, namesakes do have an impact on poll outcomes. Like in 2018 polls, Mamta Meena of BJP who contested from Chanchoda seat, lost the polls by margin of 9737 votes, two other Mamtas who were also in the fray as independents ,bagged 2063 votes. Similarly in Raghogarh constituency, Bhoopendra Singh of BJP lost by a margin of 46667 votes, and two other Bhoopendra Singhs who also fought as independents, bagged around 1500 votes. Same was the situation in 2013 elections when barring a few—most of the candidates —including heavyweights like revenue minister Karan Singh Verma, GAD minister KL Agarwal, state president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Jitu Jirati, whose namesakes were in the poll fray, lost elections. In constituencies like Ichhawar in Sehore district, an independent candidate Karan Singh Verma, 77, polled 241 votes even as incumbent revenue minister Karan Singh Verma lost with a wafer-thin margin of 744 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/namesakes-back-in-fray-to-swing-margin-votes/articleshow/78725311.cms||Amarjeet Singh
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: October Covid case spike reflects pre-Puja virus curve trend||KOLKATA: With the number of new Covid cases hovering above the 700-mark daily for over 10 days now, the first fortnight of October has recorded more cases than the corresponding period of the previous months during the pandemic. Health care experts see no respite from the Covid onslaught and said the graph could shoot up after the Puja. Between October 1 and 15, Kolkata logged a total of 11,835 cases. Doctors had heaved a sigh of relief in August-end and early September. However, cases started rising gradually from the second half of September after Mahalaya and Ganesh Puja. With Durga Puja shoppers thronging markets and malls and some political gatherings aggravating the situation, the rise has now turned worse. “The number of positive cases is rising daily. It is expected to go up further as Puja celebrations and pandal-hopping begin. This may continue till after Diwali and even beyond as coronaviruses become more active in winter,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. From 10,116 cases in the first fortnight of August, the number had dropped to 7,562 in September during the corresponding period while in July it was 4,990. “Going by the current trend, the number could rise as high as double of what we are seeing at present. It is going to be quite messy,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta. Gupta blamed Covid fatigue and misinformation on social media contributing to behavioural changes in people causing the current surge. “People have become so indifferent to the virus that they are exhausted. There is complete lack of discipline,” he added. Despite a high discharge rate, which is a little above 87%, the number of active cases in Kolkata has shot up to 7,349 on Saturday. This was only 5375 in the month beginning. While occupancy at Covid wards of private hospitals is between 90% and 100%, the four big government Covid hospitals together have an occupancy of 78% at present. Medical College, MR Bangur, CNCI and NRS together have 1,865 Covid beds. “I strongly believe that good sense will prevail among people and they will adopt maximum precautions. Otherwise, our hospitals may see an overwhelming number of sick patients after Puja and the healthcare system may even be paralysed,” cautioned Chaudhuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oct-cov-case-spike-reflects-pre-puja-virus-curve-trend/articleshow/78725309.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||WHO skeptical but Vid doctors say Remdesevir is effective, will continue its use||NAGPUR: A global ‘Solidarity Trial’ by WHO has recently declared that the widely prescribed anti-viral drug, Remdesivir is ineffective in saving lives or shortening the duration of hospital stay for Covid-19 patients. While the result came from the largest global trial by WHO, doctors in Vidarbha who are treating Covid-19 patients said that they will continue using Remdesivir unless the result is accepted in India and ICMR provides fresh treatment protocol. They advocated the use of Remdesivir as the most effective medicine for Covid-19 patients during first nine days of infection. “We will continue to use Remdesivir,” said Dr Nirmal Jaiswal, in-charge of Wockhardt Hospital’s Covid-19 department, a first hospital in private sector to start Covid-19 treatment. “Results of such research and surveys are guidelines and not rules. Finally, it’s up to the treating doctor to decide the drug most suitable for the patient. We have been using Remdesivir since the beginning and it has shown excellent results,” said Dr Jaiswal. Dr Manish Shrigiriwar who is nodal officer of AIIMS Nagpur also said that Remdesivir is used by doctors all across India and its effective on Indian population. “Patients show improvement within 24 hours after Remdesivir is administered to them. The strain of novel coronavirus which is infecting Indians may be responding better to Remdesivir. So, doctors are using it more often,” he said. Especially, an important clinical trial of Remdesivir is under way in Nagpur at GMCH and the doctors attached to this trial said that the initial results are very promising. However, official results of this trial are still not in the open domain. Dr Rajesh Gosavi, head of the Medicine Department of the GMCH said that many patients are recovering with the use of Remdesivir and they are planning to continue using it. According to a senior member of Nagpur district Covid-19 task force, many studies have been conducted all over the world support use of Remdesivir. “WHO is confusing doctors once again. Covid-19 is a complete new disease, and there is no medicine to cure it. Remdesivir is used to treat some major symptoms of the Covid-19. It’s effective in Maharashtra and that’s why our Government is providing it on subsidized rates in private set-up too,” he said. Doctors also claimed that the results issued by WHO were interim and the final outcome could be different. According to many doctors, there’s no point in stopping the use of Remdesivir without proper treatment protocol and guidelines issued by apex body of Indian medicines — ICMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/who-skeptical-but-vid-doctors-say-remdesevir-is-effective-will-continue-its-use/articleshow/78725319.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 18, 2020||Rajkot||RMC clears path to encourage cycling||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Thursday cleared encroachments from the cycle track on Ring Road in a bid to encourage cycling among residents of the city. It also urged people to use cycle as far as possible for commuting. Rajkot is one of 95 cities in India taking part in ‘India cycle for change’ challenge organised under smart cities mission. Civic body staffers have already started coming to office on cycles every Friday since last week. Meanwhile, the municipal commissioner and other senior officials also cycle on the dedicated tracks developed on 11km BRTS route to promote cycling.RMC officials also organized a meeting with bankers, mall officials, hospitals besides private companies urging them to encourage their employees to pedal to office. It also suggested that if many can’t cycle down owing to long distances, they should be encouraged to travel through public transport at least once in a week. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said, “We can maintain our health by cycling and it’s required especially in the current pandemic situation. The government is also providing subsidy on purchase of cycle as it also reduces pollution levels in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-clears-path-to-encourage-cycling/articleshow/78724323.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||Cong releases bypoll manifesto||Bhopal: A fortnight before the November 3 bypolls in 28 assembly seats, PCC chief Kamal Nath on Saturday released the Congress party’s 52-point ‘vachan patra’. If the Nath government returns to power, it will launch the Corona Samajik Pension Yojana, a scheme by which widows of Covid-19 death victims will be given pension. “We consider the Covid pandemic a calamity. The poor facing financial crisis during these times will not be left hungry,” the manifesto stated. “Arrangements will be made for their food and health facilities. And in case of death of the earning head of a family, one member will be given employment,” the manifesto claimed. Congress promised that its government will waive the fee of unemployed youths appearing for various examinations for employment in state government services. Implementation of the Jai Kisan Fasal Rinn Maafi Yojana to waive farm loans of farmers’ that was stopped by the BJP government will also be resumed. The manifesto also stated that the Indira Griha Jyoti Yojana that gave 100 units of power @Rs 100 to domestic consumers will be resumed. After releasing the manifesto, Nath said, “Before the 2018 assembly elections, we prepared a manifesto with 974 promises. Congress was in government for 15-months, including the two-and-half months of model code of conduct and one month of bargaining politics. No matter what BJP says, we implemented 574 promises.” Nath claimed that people of the state are witness to his government’s work. “Now we are going for bypolls, which will determine the future of Madhya Pradesh. We don’t need to apologize or answer questions. Our biggest witness are the people of the state.” Nath said that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan used to claim that no farm loan was waived by the Congress government. “And thereafter, the BJP government accepted on the floor of the House that 27 lakh farmers benefited from the loan waiver”, he said. “BJP does not speak of their performance in the 15 years of their regime. People made them sit at home after 15 years and they hatched a deal to topple my government,” Nath added. Nath argued that there is still no system of Covid testing in Madhya Pradesh. “In the past seven months, nothing has been done other than false announcements and breaking coconuts. Remember that before the Lok Sabha elections, it was Pakistan and now China,” he said. “There are no talks on farmers or youths. Whenever there are elections, I am amazed how Pakistan and China hog the limelight to befool the people,” Nath said. The veteran leader said that people of MP are simple but will not fall in the Chouhan’s trap. “They (people) will slap him. They will not just turn their faces away but slap him in these polls,” Nath said. Nath said, “This manifesto is for the upcoming bypolls in 28 seats. We have made 52 new promises, including pension for families of Covid death victims, Gau Dhan Seva Yojana (on the lines of Chhattisgarh government’s Gau Nyay Yojana) and completing the implementation of the farm loan waiver scheme. Zero interest loan scheme for small traders has also been added.” Nath said the manifesto is a map for development of the state. “We have made a map for the next three years because that will ensure the welfare of the state. BJP destroyed the state and created the maximum number of migrant labourers. You have all seen how labourers came walking back to the state during the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-releases-bypoll-manifesto/articleshow/78725342.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Plans floated to decongest Delhi's Jhandewalan temple area||NEW DELHI: Removal of the statue of Rani Lakshmibai on Deshbandhu Gupta Road is one of the several steps being taken to decongest the roads around Jhandewalan temple. A joint meeting of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, DDA and other agencies on Friday also resolved to make the 1.5-km stretch between Filmistan and Panchkuian T-point signal free and create a new parking lot near the Jhandewalan temple. Jai Prakash, mayor of the north corporation, said that the statue of Rani Jhansi will be shifted from its current spot to DCM Chowk. “The relocation will take around a month and a half. We will rename the park at DCM Chowk after Rani Lakshmibai after the relocation,” said the mayor, who heads the naming and renaming committee of the civic body. In other short-term and long-term measures to decongest the area, both the rotaries on DB Gupta Road and Rani Jhansi Marg will be removed. “UTTIPEC has already approved the decongestion plan for the area,” disclosed a municipal official, adding that the median cuts on Ram Kumar Marg and the Idgah rotary too would be closed. He said, “Also, one-way traffic movement is proposed along Faiz Road between New Rohtak Road and Rani Jhansi Road so that Filmistan does not become crowded.” The authorities are also planning to shift the gas cylinder warehouse near Jhandewalan temple to develop a parking lot. “The temple is visited by big crowds and their cars often halt on the main road, causing jams,” the municipal official explained. Vehicles coming from the Rani Jhansi Road roundabout towards Filmistan are likely to be provided the option of a left turn by creating a slip road. UTTIPEC, Delhi’s road engineering authority, has also approved similar plans for the stretch from Kashmere Gate junction to the northern toe of Rani Jhansi flyover, including the closure of two median cuts on Lala Hardev Sahai Marg at Mori Gate and at the Rajpur Road junction, a provision of a U-turn below Rani Jhansi flyover and a back-to-back U-turn near the junction of Court Road. “For the long term, PWD has been asked to build an elevated road from Tis Hazari to Azadpur Mandi,” revealed another official. Last year, a traffic flow study on Rani Jhansi flyover conducted by the north corporation and Delhi Technological University established that peak hour traffic was at least at the designed volume or beyond it a mere 10 months after its opening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plans-floated-to-decongest-jhandewalan-temple-area/articleshow/78726438.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Silent partner of history, Munnar’s PB No. 9 turns 100||IDUKKI: Snail mail is almost redundant now, but a 100-year-old metal postbox in Munnar has survived the test of time. Post Box No 9 was set up in 1920 and is one of the oldest functioning postal accounts in the country. It was started to service the British staff of the tea plantations. “Post Box No 9 is one of the oldest postboxes in Munnar. In the initial days the region was under Madurai division. It was opened for British planters and is now under Kanan Devan Hills Plantations Co (KDHP). PB No 9 was rescued from the dust heap of history when an enquiry was conducted by the postal department in connection with ‘Postal Week’ celebrations to honour its oldest customers,” remembers Munnar postmaster K Murugayya. According to the official, PB No 9 is still used to deliver the mail of 27 estates under the KDHP division. The company has its own postman (thapalkkaran) and effectively distributes the mail under the division. “PB No 9 has a rare significance in the history of the postal service in India. It is one of the oldest PB numbers still in use. PB No 9 has been witness to the British Raj and the growth of the plantation industry,” Murugayya told TOI. According to a KDHP official, the postbox is used to deliver mail to its employees and their families, numbering about 50,000, living within a radius of around 35km from Munnar town. The Munnar post office started functioning in its new building in 1932. As per records, the post offices in Munnar and Devikulam were started in 1888 and 1892, respectively. In the 1920s Devikulam was the main town and Old Munnar had only one lodge (sathram) and the area was surrounded by tea plantations, Murugayya said. For the distinction of maintaining PB No 9, the postal department honoured KDHP by presenting a memento on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/silent-partner-of-history-munnars-pb-no-9-turns-100/articleshow/78725398.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 18, 2020||Mangaluru||New mela to regale yakshagana aficionados from Vijayadashami||Mangaluru: In a move that will warm the cockles of yakshagana lovers’ hearts, a private temple has come forth to start a yakshagana mela amidst the Covid-19 uncertainties. The new mela – Sri Jnanashakti Subrahmanya Swami Krupaposhita Yakshagana Mandali, Pavanje will start its activities with a performance on the auspicious occasion of Vijayadashami on October 26 and its first ‘thirugatta’ (tour) will commence on November 27. M Shashindra Kumar, managing trustee of Sri Jnanashakti Subrahmanya Swami Temple said on Saturday that the decision to start a mela comes in the backdrop of move by the state government to permit yakshagana performances with riders from end of November. The temple, with a history of more than 200-years, has documented evidence of a yakshagana mela hosted by the temple having been in existence even in that distant past, he said. Patla Sathish Shetty, eminent bhagavatha, who will henceforth be associated with this new mela, said the district has Kateel, Bappanadu, Sasihithlu, Sunkadakatte and Dhenthadka melas. The new mela is unique in that a non-endowment temple has come forward to start it, he said. As of now, 27 artists and 10 background artists have associated themselves with this new venture and the mela will provide them with a livelihood in these uncertain times. The maiden performance on Vijayadashami day will see the mela artists enact Devi Mahatme and Kumara Vijaya, he said. The new mela will primarily focus on mythological ‘prasangas’ and those for which there is more demand from the devotees, will be showcased often, he said. The promoters of the mela have also decided to go with a time bound yakshagana performance format from 6pm to 11pm and artists are free during other times, he said. Kota Shrinivasa Poojari, minister for religious endowment has hailed the temple’s move at a recent meeting with heads of different yakshagana melas, Sathish Shetty said. “We will fulfil the wish of devotees to host ‘harake aata’,” he said. Artists of this mela are free to perform in other melas as guest artists in their spare time, Shetty added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/new-mela-to-regale-yakshagana-aficionados-from-vijayadashami/articleshow/78724723.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After CNI schools, many others ready to appeal in SC over fees||KOLKATA: A large number of city schools have decided to follow in the footsteps of the 12 Church of North India (CNI) institutes and file appeals in the Supreme Court against the Calcutta High Court order on offering 20% concession on fees for the pandemic months. Though the SC was closed next week, it was allowing online filing of cases, , lawyers said, adding appeals would be filed using this window. Some schools, like South Point and MP Birla Foundation, have held back their bi-monthly fees due on October 15, so that the appeal can be filed first. “We have asked our lawyers to file the appeal at the earliest. We feel the order is not balanced,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani. The schools are being represented by lawyer Saurav Bhagat, partner at Fox and Mandal. Bhagat, who is also preparing the papers for schools like Apeejay, said, “In absence of a law in Bengal regulating fees of private, unaided schools, the HC is not justified in passing directions regarding such schools.” Many schools have decided to go into appeals in groups. Heritage, BDMI and Indus Valley World School will be together and have asked lawyer Partha Banerjee to prepare their papers. “We should be ready by Sunday evening and file by Tuesday,” Banerjee said. Some CNI schools claimed no parent had asked for a waiver. Similar was the claim in other religious minority institutes. “Why should we give a waiver when no one has approached us? If parents are facing issues, they would have come to us by now,” said secretary of a prominent CNI school. The 12 schools have prepared their papers and will be among the first to file their appeal on Monday, said lawyer B P Tiwary. Some owner-run English-medium schools will get together under the association they are members of. Talks on fees are rife in Kolkata Sahodaya, a platform for private CBSE schools. Parents have also started approaching schools to gain clarity on fees for the previous two quarters as many have not yet paid up and the HC order asks them to pay the “new” fees after the 20% concession. Schools are yet to announce their new fee structures on their websites, as was asked by the HC. “I have mailed to the school, asking for clarity but the school’s reply doesn’t match the court order. I am confused,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-cni-schools-many-others-ready-to-appeal-in-sc-over-fees/articleshow/78726435.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 18, 2020||Surat||Surat: Big retailers allowed to open on Sundays||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has taken a decision to allow the big grocery stores and large format retail stores to remain open with strict adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines on Sundays. The decision to this effect was taken following the representation by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) few days ago to the SMC chief Banchhanidhi Pani. Talking with TOI, president of SGCCI Dinesh Navadiya said, “The civic body has accepted our demand for allowing the big grocery stores and large retail stores to remain open on Sundays. The grocers and retailers had submitted a representation to the SGCCI regarding the same.” This was confirmed by senior SMC official. Navadiya added, “The Covid-19 situation is gradually improving in the city. If the big retail stores and grocers will remain closed on Sunday, then the residents will be deprived of making the festival purchases and thereby rendering huge loss to the city’s economy.” Sources in the SMC stated that the big format retail stores, shopping malls, grocery stores were not allowed to operate on Sundays due to the possible violation of the social distancing norms as huge crowds would throng on the holiday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/big-retailers-allowed-to-open-on-sundays/articleshow/78724346.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||Rahul Gandhi Priyanka, Pilot to hold rallies||BHOPAL: Congress party on Saturday released its star campaigners’ list for the bypolls in the state. Names of 30 leaders have been listed as star campaigners for the party, including former Congress national president Rahul Gandhi, AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik, former CM Kamal Nath, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. Other names include former CMs Digvijaya Singh and Ashok Chouhan, former deputy CM of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot, former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, national spokesman Randeep Surjewala, former state Congress presidents Suresh Pachauri, Arun Yadav and Kantilal Bhuria, Rajya Sabha MPs Vivek Tankha and former LoP Ajay Singh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rahul-gandhi-priyanka-pilot-to-hold-rallies/articleshow/78725385.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Seat secured, but where to stay, ask outstation students||NEW DELHI: With Delhi University colleges completing admissions under the first cutoff list, outstation students are now enquiring about accommodation even when their coming to the campus isn’t certain because of the lack of clarity on when physical classes will start. Given the queries they are receiving, college principals believe difficulties in arranging accommodation could worry those who have got admissions. Kalpana Bhakuni, principal of Kamala Nehru College, said students are asking if the college could provide assistance in finding living quarters. “While the online admission process was simple, now they are thinking about the time when they have to eventually travel to Delhi,” Bhakuni said. ““We have been given the academic calendar, but we don’t know when physical classes will begin. Some students may feel overanxious about this.” The view of some principals that a fraction of the students might not ultimately come to Delhi if they don’t find accommodation in advance was reiterated by Nuthan Kiron Raj, vice-president, Aikyatha Telugu Students’ Association. “There is a possibility that students from south India may not come to study in Delhi. Many parents in the south wouldn’t want to send their children to Delhi if hostel seats aren’t available because they are unsure about safety in paying guest accommodation,” she said. However, Nandagopan, students’ union secretary of Sri Venkateswara College and member of Kerala Students’ Association, pointed out that even if hostels were a major issue at the moment, many students wouldn’t mind online classes before shifting to the city a few months later. And as Raj added, “While the classes will be in online mode initially, many students want to come to Delhi in order to start their preparations for the civil services and entrance exams.” Vibha Singh Chauhan of Kirori Mal College said she has forwarded all queries about accommodation to the hostel warden. “Once the admissions are over, we will invite application for hostel seats based on a merit list,” she said, adding, “It is natural for students to have anxieties about hostels. But even we do not know when the hostels will open.” Whereas Shri Ram College of Commerce, which takes in a large number of students from south Indian states, has decided to accept hostel applications only after some clarity on when physical classes restart, Lady Shri Ram College for Women has already invited hostel applications from those who are in the list of students allotted seats in the college that will be released by October 28. Many PG owners around Kamla Nagar are hoping that physical classes resume soon. Vikas Bansal, owner of Circuit House PG, said, “We are in a bad situation because we have had no business this year till now. We are hoping students have to come to the campus by November.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seat-secured-but-where-to-stay-ask-outstation-students/articleshow/78725364.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Police helps dead ASI’s wife to get his body released from hospital||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar, who was busy with the review of the economic offences at the Police Gymkhana on Saturday, picked up a call on his cellphone from an unknown number only to get flabbergasted by what a woman on the other side had to say. Wife of an assistant sub-inspector, the woman had called up Kumar seeking his intervention after a private hospital refused to release the body of her husband, earlier Covid positive, who died a day ago. The woman also told the top cop how she had been running from one police station to another (Lakadganj and Nandanvan) for help but in vain. Seeking an humble apology for the inconvenience caused to the deceased cop’s family, Kumar immediately called up senior inspector Sandipan Pawar of Nandanvan and Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde for immediate action to ensure that the body was released at once. The CP also told the senior officers that a deceased colleague’s family facing such hardships was unacceptable. The top cop also asked the other senior officers to seek apology from the widow. The ASI was heading for work when he met with an accident near the Meetha Neem dargah on September 20. He had tested positive for Covid, but later, his test results showed negative. “It’s not a question of any financial issue. The patient (ASI) died at 5.55pm (Friday) and we had informed the NMC officials at 6.22pm. The NMC officials did not turn up as he had tested negative in the last report. Later, we alerted the police as the patient had suffered a head injury,” said a hospital source. It’s learnt that hospital authorities had alerted Lakadganj police station but later approached the Nandanvan police station realizing it was their jurisdiction. As the procedures took long, the family waited for the body following which the wife called up the CP. Kumar’s intervention also ensured that the heads of Lakadganj and Nandanvan police stations, the chief medical officer of the police (Dr Sandeep Shinde) and other officials rushed to the aid of the family. The body was soon shifted to government medical college and hospital for the post-mortem. The cops ensured that the body was handed over to the ASI’s family shortly. In the past, the CP had issued strict instructions to Zonal DCPs and senior inspectors to ensure that no cops face any hurdles in getting beds in Covid hospitals after learning that several of his colleagues were suffering due to lack of timely treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-helps-dead-asis-wife-to-get-his-bodyreleased-from-hosp/articleshow/78725401.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 18, 2020||Surat||Writers pay tribute to corona warriors with handwritten book||SURAT: In a unique tribute to the corona warriors across the country, a first ever hand-written book ‘A Tribute to Unseen Corona Warriors’ highlighting the inspiring stories in Gujarat was released here on Saturday. A city-based organisation, Lekhan Yatra has complied the 150-page book giving tribute to doctors, nurses, policemen, crematoriums etc. for putting up a brave fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The book will be gifted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Yagnik Kanzariya of Lekhan Yatra told TOI, “This is first time that we have decided to come up with a hand written book to give a heartfelt tribute to all the corona warriors. It containls 80 inspiring stories of the corona warriors.” According to Yagnik, a first batch of 1,000 handwritten books will be distributed free to the corona warriors in Surat and other districts of Gujarat. In the second phase, more than 2,000 books will be distributed to various corona warriors across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/writers-pay-tribute-to-corona-warriors-with-handwritten-book/articleshow/78724353.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Congress manifesto meant to confuse people, says BJP||Bhopal: BJP state president V D Sharma launched a direct attack on PCC chief and former chief minister Kamal Nath on Saturday after Congress released its ‘vachan patra’ (manifesto) for the 28 assembly seats where bypolls will be taking place on November 3. Sharma addressed Nath as ‘Kamal Seth’ (rich) and said he should first talk about the manifesto that Congress released during the 2018 assembly polls. “Nath should apologise to the people of Madhya Pradesh for not fulfilling the earlier promises”, he said, while speaking to the media here in Bhopal. Sharma said the supplementary manifesto released by Congress will mislead the people of the state. “Congress did not implement the promises it made during the 2018 polls in its 15-month rule”, he said. Sharma said the Congress manifesto reflects the internal situation of the party. “There is no leader except Nath in the manifesto. While releasing it, the PCC chief kept taking the name of Shivraj Singh Chouhan. It reflects how much Nath is afraid of the CM Chouhan-led BJP government in the state”, he added. “There are no announcements in the Congress manifesto. It appears that even Rahul Gandhi has distanced himself from Nath”, Sharma said. “The erstwhile Congress government distributed fake farm loan waiver certificates. I met farmers who recently deposited their loans and the Nath government later issued a certificate of loan waiver to them as an eyewash”, Sharma said. “Promises made by Congress in the 2018 assembly polls such as unemployment allowance and bonus to vegetable and milk farmers were not met. Now, Congress is talking about Covid-19 but when efforts were required to check the virus spread, Nath was busy preparing for the IIFA Awards and clicked photos with Salman Khan and Jacqueline. He bluffed the people of state”, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-manifesto-meant-to-confuse-people-says-bjp/articleshow/78725417.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Two US companies keen to set up shop in Goa, CM assures red carpet||PANAJI: Two US companies, a pharma company and a mining heavy machinery company, have expressed interest in setting up shop in Goa. A letter of intent was presented to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday by the pharma company where Sawant promised that all the necessary permissions will be granted as quickly as possible through the Goa Investment Promotion Board. The chief minister invited US companies to set up manufacturing units at the electronic manufacturing cluster at Tuem. “I invite US companies to invest in Goa through the 100% FDI route. My government will have a red carpet for such investment,” Sawant told the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC). The IACC set up its Goa chapter on Saturday where West India Council regional president Naushad Panjwani presented the letter of intent on behalf of the pharmaceutical company. The Houston-based pharmaceutical company already has a manufacturing facility at Navi Mumbai and wants to set up another manufacturing unit in Goa. Royal Equipment, which works with mining heavy machinery and equipment, is the second firm that has shown interest in setting up in Goa. “Goa has potential to attract FDI as it has multiple advantages,” Panjwani said. While addressing the gathering that included heads of Goa’s leading business entities, Sawant said that the state is focusing on setting up knowledge-based industries, the healthcare sector. He said that the government wants to create an entertainment hub and a film city, while also attracting startups. “Our Investment Promotion Board would facilitate such investments on a priority basis with all clearances through the single window system. We are in the process of setting up the greenfield electronic manufacturing cluster close to the new airport. I would like to invite the member of the chamber to set up their units there,” Sawant said. Sawant said that Goa has good connectivity with rail, road, a port and two airports which can together help create an export hub. Officials said that an MoU between the state government and the US state of Texas is in the offing. IACC inked an MoU with the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry to enable companies in both the countries to explore bilateral trade and other business opportunities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-us-cos-keen-to-set-up-shop-in-goa-cm-assures-red-carpet/articleshow/78726858.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||‘No road, no vote’: Villagers to boycott polls in Bada Malhera||BHOPAL: After Ashoknagar, now villagers in Bada Malhera assembly constituency have threatened to boycott the upcoming bypolls if a road is not constructed at the earliest. Angry villagers have blocked an arterial road with boulders and tree trunks and are not allowing politicians to enter. They said netas make promises in every election that they will construct the road but it only remains in paper. Bhangua village is located barely three kilometres away from Bada Malhera tehsil headquarters and one kilometre from the state highway in Sagar. “Every time we raise the issue of a proper road, the administration and politicians promise they will construct it but they never keep their words”, said villager Kashi Bai Lodhi. “Though the elections are the right occasion to raise this issue again, our experience in the past elections is not good”, said Nimman Ahirwar, another resident of the village. “This time we have blocked the road and politicians are not allowed to enter our village. They are not welcomed here”, said another villager seeking anonymity. Like Bhangua, people in the Mungaoli assembly segment of Ashoknagar district have also threatened to boycott the November 3 bypolls if roads in the constituency are not constructed. They said that they have been demanding roads for a long time but politicians don’t seem to care. People in Khujrai village said they had been raising the issue for a long time. With elections round the corner, they have raised the demand once again. Villagers have started holding demonstrations, demanding the immediate construction of a road. “No road, no vote”, they said. Bhangua has a population of about 4,500 people and the number of voters is about 1,500. Lodhi and scheduled caste voters are in majority and both BJP and Congress candidates in Bada Malhera seat belong to the Lodhi community. BJP candidate Pradhyuman Lodhi said the road would be constructed on a priority basis as soon as the elections are over. Ramsiya Bharti, the Congress candidate has said that her election agenda was only development. “Not only this road, I have many things in mind for the development of the region”, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-road-no-vote-villagers-to-boycott-polls-in-bada-malhera/articleshow/78725476.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: DPEO, education department clerk caught demanding Rs 10 lakh bribe||SURAT: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested the district primary education officer (DPEO) of Tapi district along with his clerk on Saturday by for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 10 lakh from a school administrator. The bribe amount was sought after a surprise inspection not to take action against the school. The accused Bharat Mangal Patel, DPEO, and his clerk Ravindra alias Jigo Shankarlal Patel from Vyara started inspecting schools in June soon after the lockdown was relaxed and demanded the bribe even when the schools are still closed down for the pandemic. After finding some irregularities the DPEO served a notice to the school in August asking explanation for the irregularities, the complainant said. The school administrator approached the ACB after the accused demanded Rs 10 lakh and was not ready to negotiate despite multiple requests, said an ACB officer. The complainant offered to pay Rs 7 lakh initially and the remaining amount later at which, Patel asked the complainant to pay the money to Ravindra. ACB police inspector V A Desai then laid a trap on Friday. However, Ravindra, who went to take the amount, refused to accept it but due to some unknown reason and left the spot. On basis of strong audio and other supporting evidence, ACB registered a case of demanding bribe against the accused. During a search at Bharat Patel’s residence ACB also found four bottles of liquor, following which it was seized and a case was registered in Vyara police station on charges under prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dpeo-edu-dept-clerk-caught-demanding-rs-10l-bribe/articleshow/78724379.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Nashik||Dead fish & lobsters choke Malegaon’s water supply||Nashik: Water supply to the Malegaon, Nandgaon, Dahiwad regional water supply scheme and the Chalisgaon areas in Nashik and Jalgaon districts from the Girna dam was stopped from Thursday night when a large volume of dead lobsters and other fish chocked the jackwell. Water supply resumed on Saturday after the water was found to be safe following a potability test. Agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, who represents Malegaon Outer, has ordered a thorough probe to understand the cause. Samples of dead fish were sent to forensic laboratories for post-mortem. The Girna dam is one of the largest in Nashik supplies water to parts of Nashik and Jalgaon districts. Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) commissioner Deepak Kasar said the dead fish were seen floating near the jackwell and more than 600 quintal of lobsters were found inside the jackwell. “We need 65-70 million litres of water on a daily basis, and Girna alone supplies 55 MLD. Since the dead fish had entered the jackwell, we stopped the supply immediately and drew water from Talwade — a storage tank downstream of Chankapur dam,” the officer said. According to the water resources department (WRD) sources, this could be an act of business rivalry or even a case of illegal fishing. “This is a serious offence and the ones who are playing mischief should be brought to the book. This is playing with the lives of the people who drink water from the dam,” Bhuse said. “Fisheries contract is awarded to a person or company. But business rivals may try to spoil the produce. Some people carry out illegal fishing activities by using crude bombs to kill fish with shock waves or using chemicals. An overdose can kill the fish. At Girna, the fact that schools of fish were seen swimming in the same areas after eight hours shows that the toxins had diluted or vanished now,” the officer said. Anwar Hussain — who was given the fishing contract — has resgistered an FIR against unidentified person for causing him loss of Rs 3 lakh by killing the fish. The local administration had closed the local fish markets on Friday and Saturday to ensure that the dead fish do not find their way to the markets. The police also maintained strict vigil to ensure the stock was not transported out of Malegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dead-fish-lobsters-choke-malegaons-water-supply/articleshow/78725457.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||German-made machine guns for state police||Thiruvananthapuram: The state police have for the first time acquired MP5 submachine gun, which is one of the most widely-used submachine guns in the world, especially among counter-terrorist and special-operations units. Police purchased 15 MP5 Parabellum machine guns which is a lightweight and handy gun manufactured by German small-arms manufacturer Heckler and Koch. The guns were purchased with Rs 26 lakh, under the modernisation of police force (MoPF) scheme of the Centre. The weapons, that are mainly used in urban warfare, will be used by commando units and anti-Naxal force of the state police. The weapon can fire single shot, double shot and can also be converted to automatic mode with a switch. Ever since its introduction in the 1960s, Heckler and Koch MP5 submachine gun (SMG) has become the most widely-used SMG. The weapon is mostly used by secretive units mainly for quick elimination of the enemy in clandestine operations. It has the reputation of being an accurate weapon, with a design to mount accessories like a suppressor or a grenade launcher. Well-known special operations units of various countries like the US Navy SEALs and the British Special Boat Service (SBS) and agencies like the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) use tailor-made variants of MP5. Agencies in more than 80 countries use this SMG. Other than the latest acquisition, the state police have added 200 submachine guns to its collection of artillery for close combat operations and quick response teams of the force. In November 2017, government had cleared acquisition of submachine gun 9 mm carbine 1A1 as part of addressing the shortage of weapons in the short range weapons category in the police force. The sub-machine guns worth Rs 1.19 crore, were acquired in 2018 from the small arms factory at Kanpur. The 9mm carbine 1A1 is a short-range personal weapon capable of being used up to 183 metres which can be fired in fully automatic and single shot modes. In January 2017, the West Bengal-based Rifle Factory Ishapore (RFI) had handed over to state police the first consignment of rifle Ghaatak, developed by the factory indigenously for the defence, central paramilitary and state police forces. The state is in category B of states for which funds for modernization will be shared in a 60:40 ratio between the Centre and state, respectively. According to sources, the state now has a collection of assault rifles — AK47s, SLRs and indigenously-built Ghaatak — and limited submachine guns used in close quarter battle. The traditional 303 rifles, that were termed obsolete in 1995, are giving way to the advanced weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/german-made-machine-guns-for-state-police/articleshow/78725481.cms||KP Saikiran
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s gets DCGI nod for Phase 2/3 trials of Sputnik V||HYDERABAD: After the Indian drug regulator turned down Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd’s proposal earlier this month to conduct direct Phase-3 human trials in India for the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V, the company and Russia’s sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) have now received the Drug Control General of India (DCGI) nod to conduct an adaptive Phase 2/3 human clinical trial for the Russian vaccine in India. The Phase 2/3 trial will be a multi-center and randomized controlled study, which will include safety and immunogenicity study, Dr Reddy’s and RDIF said. It is learnt that while the Phase-2 trials of the Russian vaccine in India will be conducted on 100 subjects, the Phase-3 trials will be conducted on 1,500 subjects. The approval for the trials was given by the subject expert committee (SEC), that advises the drug regulator on clinical trials as well as drug and vaccine approvals, at its meeting held on Friday. Dr Reddy’s co-chairman and managing director G V Prasad termed it as a significant development that will allow the company to commence the clinical trials for Sputnik V in India. “We are committed to bringing in a safe and efficacious vaccine to combat the pandemic,” he said. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitrev said that in addition to Indian clinical trials data, RDIF will provide safety and immunogenicity study from the Russian Phase-3 clinical trials as well. “This data will further strengthen the clinical development of Sputnik V vaccine in India,” he said. At its meeting on October 5, 2020, the SEC had turned down the protocol submitted by Dr Reddy’s to straightaway conduct Phase-3 trials of the Russian vaccine in India stating that the safety and immunogenicity data in overseas Phase 1/2 trials of Sputnik V was too small and that no data was available on Indian subjects. “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the company should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct Phase 2/3 clinical trials in the country with proper monitoring for humoral & cell mediated immune response,” the committee had said while asking Dr Reddy’s to submit a revised proposal with the protocol for conducting Phase-2 and Phase-3 studies. RDIF had entered into an agreement with the Hyderabad-based pharma giant in September this year to carry out Phase-3 clinical trials of Sputnik V in India and distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine in the Indian market after regulatory approvals. While Sputnik V is currently undergoing Phase-3 clinical trials involving 40,000 volunteers in Russia, a Phase-3 clinical trial of the vaccine has also commenced in the UAE last week. While scientists had raised doubts about Sputnik V’s safety and efficacy as Russian President Vladimir Putin had announced its development to the world without conducting large-scale trials or publishing data, later medical journal Lancet had said that two trials of the vaccine in June and July 2020, involving 76 participants, showed all the participants developed antibodies to the novel coronavirus without any serious side-effects. Sputnik V, which has been developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and RDIF, became the first Covid-19 vaccine to be registered in the world based on the human adenoviral vectors platform on August 11, 2020. The vaccine uses two adenovirus vectors (rAd26 and rAd5) against SARS-CoV-2 virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-2/3-trials-of-sputnik-v/articleshow/78726449.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 18, 2020||Madurai||49 autos seized in Madurai for flouting rules||Madurai: RTO officials have seized 49 auto rickshaws for violating Covid-19 rules and Motor Vehicles (MV) Act by carrying more than the allowed number of passengers. Officials have warned that action will continue if auto rickshaw drivers do not follow the rules. RTO officials from South, Central and North offices carried out a special drive along with motor vehicle inspectors recently as complaints poured in from various quarters against auto drivers. Only three passengers are permitted in an auto rickshaw as per the motor vehicle act. But auto rickshaw drivers in the city and rural areas carry up to 10. Diesel auto rickshaw drivers make necessary seat adjustment in such a way that the boot space is utilized to seat passengers. Officials said that more than 500 auto rickshaws were checked during the special drive, of which 49 erring vehicles have been confiscated. Legal action is being initiated against the vehicle under the MV Act. An official said that apart from checking and taking appropriate actions, a meeting was also conducted with the participation of auto rickshaw drivers. They were asked not to carry more than three passengers. “No passengers should be allowed to board the vehicle without wearing a mask under any circumstances. They were told not to move vehicles without ensuring that all necessary documents are available in the vehicle,” he said. “Most of the violations were found in city’s peripheral areas. People too should be cautious and avoid crowded auto rickshaws. People should start using government buses which are not crowded nowadays to ensure safety,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/49-autos-seized-in-madurai-for-flouting-rules/articleshow/78726840.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Jawaharlal Nehru University panel to look into re-entry of students||NEW DELHI: After weeks of protests by Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU), the university administration on Saturday said that it had set up a committee to work out detailed guidelines for the phased return of students to the campus. In a notice, the registrar stated that the administration had received suggestions from deans of schools and chairpersons of special centres for the phased return of students for their academic pursuits. “Suggestions have also been received from hostel representatives. The dean of students, along with the provosts and wardens, are looking into the feasibility and logistics for the return of students to hostels.” The notice further stated that “JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar has constituted a committee to work out the detailed guidelines to be followed and the logistics to be managed for the phased return of the students.” It asked students to avoid mass gathering and follow Covid-19 guidelines. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh said that the union had been demanding this since the new “Unlock guidelines” were issued by the ministry of home affairs in which colleges were allowed to have phased return of students. The committee, however, does not have a chief medical officer who would guide on Covid-19 SOP, she claimed. “The committee also lacks a student representative. The decision has come very late and we do not think that re-entry can happen before November. We have our PhD submissions by the end of December. This will force students to drop out.” In a recent survey conducted by student researchers, a majority of participants had stated they wouldn’t be able to submit their thesis if they did not get an extension as they were dependent on the materials available in the university campus. “We wanted students to come and stay in hostels and use library and internet facilities available in the campus for their research,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-panel-to-look-into-re-entry-of-students/articleshow/78726463.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||More recoveries again, 1434 walk home after beating Covid in Bhopal||BHOPAL: With 1222 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, the count of positive patients in the state reached 159158. Friday was also the 17th consecutive day when the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. While 1434 people recovered on Saturday only 1222 new cases were reported. With these new people recovering, the count of total people who had recovered from the disease reached 142707. The recovery rate of covid-19 patients as on October 17, stood at 89.66 % which has improved as it was 76% on August 31. Apart from the new cases 18 deaths were reported in the state, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 2753. On Saturday fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of state. Among the districts where fresh cases were reported, maximum cases were reported from Indore where 312 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 231 people tested positive, Jabalpur where 58 people tested positive and Gwalior where 49 people tested positive for covid-19. Of the total 26483 samples that were tested on Saturday a total of 1222 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate—number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested –for Saturday stood at 4.6%. The overall positivity rate as on October 17, in the state was 6.21%. This has increased in past one month as it was only 4.6% on August 31. As on October 17, there were a total of 13698 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-recoveries-again-1434-walk-home-after-beating-covid/articleshow/78725485.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Nashik||Man held for threat call on Devendra Fadnavis’ event in Maharashtra's Jamner||NASHIK: The Jalgaon police have arrested a 32-year-old bus conductor working at an MSRTC bus depot in Jalgoan in connection with the threat call made to the personal assistant of former water resources minister MLA Girish Mahajan on Wednesday. The PA, Deepak Tayade, had filed a complaint with the Jamner police that he had received a phone call threatening to blow the inauguration event of a private hospital in Jamner taluka of Jalgaon district with bombs if an extortion amount of Rs one crore was not paid. Police said in the phone call at 3.18 pm, the unidentified person told Tayade that bombs were kept in all four corners of the inauguration venue. At 3.37 pm, Tayade received a message that said send Rs one crore by 5pm. The private hospital was virtually inaugurated by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday in the presence of other senior BJP leaders, who were at a bungalow in Jalgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-bus-conductor-held-for-threat-call-at-fadnavis-event-in-jamner/articleshow/78725482.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 18, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra home minister meets slain kids’ parents; three detained||NASHIK: State home minister Anil Deshmukh termed the brutal murder of four minor children of farm workers at Borkheda village in Raver taluka of Jalgaon district as “inhuman” and said that police have detained three people in connection with the case. The minister has instructed the collector to provide the family with a ration card, caste certificate, a house under Gharkul scheme and land for farming. The siblings — Savita (13), Rahul (11), Anil (8) and Suman (6) — were found axed to death at their makeshift house in the farm where their parents worked between Thursday night and Friday morning. Their father Maytab Bhilala along with his wife had left for Madhya Pradesh on Thursday morning to attend a ritual of a deceased member of their family, leaving the children alone at home Deshmukh met the bereaved family in Raver and assured them of justice at the earliest. “The police have got some leads. The case will be tried in a fast track court and the special public prosecutor, Ujjwal Nikam, will be appointed to argue the case in court,” he added. Raver MP Raksha Khadse, MLA Shirish Chaudhary, MLA Anil Patil, former state minister Eknath Khadse, Gulabrao Deokar, IG (Special) Pratap Dighavkar, district collector Abhijeet Raut, SP Pravin Munde and other senior police officers and political leaders accompanied Deshmukh during his visit to the family of the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/3-detained-in-siblings-murder-case-minister/articleshow/78725486.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Gambling ops: 8 Chinese, 40 apps named in chargesheet||HYDERABAD: Authorities from the Central Crime Station (CCS), Hyderabad, on Saturday said they have identified 40 mobile applications, using which Chinese nationals associated with Beijing T Power Company duped several Indians by collecting nearly Rs 2,000 crore through online gambling, live porn streaming and other services. After probing the fraudulent Chinese online gambling for two months, the CCS has filed a chargesheet against 22 persons, including eight Chinese nationals, in the Nampally criminal court. Police claimed 14 Indian nationals colluded with the Chinese to dupe hundreds of people. When the online gambling racket was busted in August, CCS officials had booked two cases based on complaints of two victims. A few days ago, Hyderabad police had filed a chargesheet in one of the cases. Similarly, several cases were registered in various parts of the state. The chargesheet was filed against arrested Chinese national Yah Hao, South East Asia operations in-charge of Beijing T Power Company, and seven of his compatriots. The remaining accused are Indians, who helped them by becoming directors or in setting up registered offices in India. Yah Hao is in judicial remand facing multiple cases registered by various agencies. “Though this case has multiple dimensions, we have filed the preliminary chargesheet only on three counts — organising betting, money circulation and cheating. As and when we get more evidence on various aspects, supplementary charge sheet will be filed in the case,’’ sources in Hyderabad police told TOI.  Since commission was reportedly paid by the Chinese firm for patrons who referred new customers, money circulation charge was also slapped against the accused. As gambling was organised under the garb of e-commerce, police booked them for cheating too. Police in the chargesheet also attached electronic evidence gathered to prove the gambling charge. The online gambling was organised by the Chinese firms by manipulating it in 30:70 ratio, which means 70% times the gambler would lose money. The accused were booked under the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes Act, Gaming Act and Section 420 and other sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gambling-ops-8-chinese-40-apps-named-in-charge-sheet/articleshow/78726461.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||Duo who stole fuel from pipeline nabbed||Hassan: Two persons who had allegedly drilled a petroleum pipeline to illegally draw the fuel was arrested on Friday. Abdul Hakeem, 42, a driver from Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada and Abdul Rehman, 53, a cook, from Mangaluru are the accused. A complaint was lodged on September 29 evening by the company employee at Hassan city police station. “An employee of the oil firm that has laid the pipeline from Mangaluru to Bengaluru, observed some fault in the pipe at the 155km mark at a farmland in Vidyapeeta near Kandali of Hassan. He found the pipe was intentionally damaged to lift oil illegally,” said police. After getting information that the accused were in Mangaluru, a police team on Friday took them into custody and brought them to Hassan for interrogation. “Abdul Hakeem had taken the farmland on lese to cultivate ginger and other commercial crops. He joined hands with locals to carry out the crime. The investigation is under way to assess how much fuel was drawn and to trace other absconding accused,” said SP R Srinivas Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/duo-who-stole-fuel-from-pipeline-nabbed/articleshow/78724811.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Truck driver fleeing from MVD officials found dead||ALAPPUZHA: A truck driver, who ran away along with his helper after parking his vehicle on seeing motor vehicle department (MVD) officials, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the wee hours here on Saturday. The deceased has been identified Shanavas K, 37, of Karunagappalli and the incident took place on NH 66 at Kalithattu Junction within Mararikulam police station limits. Police inspector S Rajesh said that Shanavas was driving the truck carrying manufactured sand (M-sand) from Marady in Ernakulam to Karunagapally on Friday night. “As per CCTV visuals, after seeing the vehicle of MVD, Shanavas parked the truck along NH 66 at Kalithattu Junction here between 8:30pm and 9pm. Shanvas and his helper Vincent, 35, of Karunagapalli, ran away from there. MVD officials reached there and got the contact details of the truck owner and called him and informed of the incident,” Rajesh said. “The owner called the helper, and both tried to trace Shanavas without success. They lodged a missing person complaint with Mararikulam police,” he said. Mararikulam police team found Shanavas dead in a private land near Kalithattu Junction. “We suspect that while running he might have fallen down and died of a cardiac arrest. His body was shifted to Alappuzha medical college hospital morgue for legal and medical examinations and will be handed over to relatives on Sunday,” he added. Menwhile, Tipper Owners Drivers Welfare Association has come out against the police and MVD department in connection with the death of Shanavas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/truck-driver-fleeing-from-mvd-officials-found-dead/articleshow/78725503.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Two get life in jail for brother’s murder||KOLHAPUR: Distict and sessions judge M K Jadhav has sentenced two people to life imprisonment holding them guilty for their cousin’s murder. They have also been slapped with a fine of Rs 20,000 each or one-year simple imprisonment. The duo has been identified as Vijay Dinkar Karande (42) and Rajendra Dinkar Karande (39). They were found guilty of Dhanaji Karande’s murder. According to prosecution, Dhanaji was constructing a new house adjacent to his existing house. However, his cousins objected to the same. The Karande brothers claimed their right on the land on which Dhanaji was building a new house. They had also threatened to kill Dhanaji if he did not halt the construction work. The Karande brothers later hit Dhanaji with a huge stick, causing serious injuries that led to his death at a private hospital. The incident took place at Bele village in Karveer tehsil on March 8, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-get-life-in-jail-for-brothers-murder/articleshow/78725490.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Rajkot||Lawyer, builder among five more aides of Jayesh Patel identified||Rajkot: Names of five new associates of dreaded extortionist and land mafia, Jayesh Ranpariya (Patel), who were booked with Patel and eight others, were revealed by police on Saturday.The five associates include a lawyer Vasant Mansata, two history-sheeters Yashpalsinh Jadeja and his brother Jaspalsinh Jadeja; builder Mukesh Abangi’s brother Ramesh and Sunil Changani. Elaborating their role, cops said that Patel took the help of Mansata for all legal advice. Mansata was also hired to represent Patel in all civil and criminal cases as well as publish notices related to land dealings in newspapers. The Jadeja brothers were hired to take forcible possession of land or to pressurize the owners of properties Patel was interested in. The duo has already served sentence for similar crimes. Like his brother Mukesh, Ramesh used to help Patel investing money received through extortion or other means. Changani helped in extorting money or take illegal possession of properties of persons involved in betting businesses. Meanwhile, the eight others who were arrested on Friday were remanded to police custody. Sitting BJP councillor of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation Atul Bhanderi, prominent builder Nilesh Toliya, owner of a local newspaper Pravin Chovatiya, former head constable of local crime branch (LCB) Vashram Miyatra and realtor Anil Parmar were remanded to police custody till October 29. Three others – Mukesh, Jigar alias Jimmy Aalatiya and Praful Popat were remanded till October 26. Cops said that the eight accused will be interrogated to know which traders and businessmen they had targeted and how much money had they extorted. They will also be questioned about where the extorted money was invested and through which sources. During the custody period the disproportionate assets that have been bought through their crime syndicate will be seized, cops said. Jamnagar police had booked Patel and his close associates on Friday under the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC). Although this is the fifth offence lodged under GujCTOC in Gujarat, it is the first case registered under section 4 of the act which pertains to possession of accountable property belonging to an organized crime syndicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lawyer-builder-among-five-more-aides-of-jayesh-patel-identified/articleshow/78724401.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: After months of lull, traders pin hopes on Navratri sales||BHOPAL: The month-long festivities began on Saturday with Navratri festival. The market is expected to pick up momentum and shed its Covid lag to an extent. With the increased number of people visiting the markets, hope of the trading community has risen. Some consumer segments have shown clear signs of recovery after months of Covid lethargy; this includes the four-wheelers, especially the car and compact SUV segments. The two-wheeler market is yet pick up. Regional director, federation of automobile dealers association (FADA) Ashish Pande who is also the president of Bhopal unit of the association, said, “Sales of two-wheelers is expected to go down by 20 % compared to last year, but we expect a healthy growth in the four-wheeler segment. The bookings are very encouraging in the four wheeler market.” The two-wheeler customers majorly include the workers and farmers. “ The soybean crop has been damaged leading to huge losses to the farmers; it has also affected the sales of two-wheelers”, he explained. Despite all odds and corona crisis, the traders are hopeful. General secretary of New Market Traders Association Ajay Devyani said, “ People have reasons to celebrate and buy new clothes, jewellery and electronics goods. It has been seven months, they have not celebrated anything. During Navratri and forthcoming Dussehra, Diwali plus wedding season that begins after Diwali , people are showing inclination to shop”. Traders are buoyed over the fact that a large number of people visited the markets in the last four days to buy “ pooja” material for Navratri festivities. The trading community is also happy that government has now allowed the shops to remain open after 8 pm . This would help the office-goers of Bhopal to shop after the office time, they claim. State general secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Udhyog Vyapar mandal Navneet Agrawal said, “We have begun the season on a positive note. We see positive vibes around us and are ready for the upcoming season”. He said that people have been visiting the markets and the increase in footfalls would also convert into shopping now. The electronic bazar may not be doing well as the two biggest online sales of the year began on Saturday. When the people are avoiding stepping out during the coronavirus pandemic, the online sales would definitely dent the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-months-of-lull-traders-pin-hopes-on-navratri-sales/articleshow/78725489.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Metro ridership hit by lack of buses||NAGPUR: Even though Nagpur Metro is currently the cheapest and safest mode of public transport in the city, not many people are riding due to lack of feeder bus services. Only 947 people boarded the Metro on Friday, which is a third of pre-lockdown levels. The Sitabuldi-Khapri stretch will become operational from Sunday and its ridership won’t be any better due to lack of feeder buses. Metro officials said that they had submitted proposals to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to start feeder buses from eight Metro stations. “But the civic body sanctioned feeder buses for six stations only before the lockdown. Now, we will submit proposals for eight more stations next week and request the NMC to sanction buses for all 16 stations, including the two that were not sanctioned before the lockdown,” said an official. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said that a meeting would be held with Metro officials soon and a plan would be prepared for starting the feeder services. However, a transport official told TOI on condition of anonymity that the NMC would not start city buses any time soon. “The NMC’s committed monthly expenditure is Rs120 crore while we get Rs100 crore goods and services tax (GST) grant from the state government every month. The administration is finding it difficult to raise the rest of Rs20 crore. If the city buses are started, the NMC will have to incur an additional expenditure of Rs15 crore per month. Where will this money come from? If Metro wants feeder buses then it should compensate us for the loss in running feeder services,” he said. Gajanan Pande of Grahak Panchayat slammed the NMC for not starting the city buses. “It is the basic duty of a civic body to provide water, sanitation, city bus services, fire services, etc. The officials can’t deny any of these services to us just because the NMC doesn’t have money. They must find ways to increase their revenue,” he said. Pande pointed out that prices of petrol have increased in last few months. “In absence of the city bus services, people have to travel by two-wheelers. The salary or income of most people working in private sectors has gone down. The NMC, by not running the city buses, is making their lives miserable,” he said. Savitri Hatwar, a domestic help, who lives in Manewada, said that her travel expenses had increased manifold due to no city bus services. “I have to travel by six-seater autorickshaws where the drivers pack us like animals. They charge more and it is unsafe too due to lack of social distancing,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-city-buses-hitting-metro-ridership/articleshow/78725526.cms||Ashish Roy
October 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 79 cases, Sangli identifies 260 more||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Saturday reported 79 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 17 from the city, along with six deaths. With this, the total number of confirmed patients in the district swelled to 47,290. The district’s death toll at present stands at 1,594 while 43, 309 patients have been discharged from various facilities after successful recovery. At present, 2.387 patients are undergoing treatment. People fined for not wearing face masks The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) drive against rule violators in the city continued with people being slapped with fines. Over 200 civic officials in batches of 10 each were deployed at major markets and junctions in the city to keep a watch on rule-breakers. On Saturday, Rs 18,000 fine was collected from violators. Sangli adds 260 cases, 8 deaths Sangli district registered as many as 260 cases along with eight death on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases has reached 42, 732, of which, 1,568 have succumbed to the virus. At present, Sangli district has 3,048 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-79-cases-sangli-identifies-260-more/articleshow/78725535.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara districts registers 264 new cases, 7 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district registered as many as 264 new coronavirus cases along with seven deaths since late night on Friday. With this, the total number of cases in the district stood at 43,233,of which, 6,112 are currently active. The district has also witnessed 35,699 patients getting discharged from various facilities. Meanwhile, Solapur district reported 125 cases, of which, 101 were from the rural areas. The district also witnessed 320 patients getting discharged on Saturday. In addition, Solapur district identified nine Covid-related casualties on Saturday. All the deceased were from the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-districts-registers-264-new-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/78725516.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Missing Mumbai woman’s skeleton found year after murder in Amreli district||RAJKOT: Sinister murder of a 31-year-old Mumbai woman, who was missing for the past one year, has been unravelled after her skeleton was found from a farm in Selana village of Amreli district’s Savarkundla taluka. Her husband Ashish Ukani, who confessed to killing her over money dispute in October last year led the cops to the crime scene where her skeleton was dug out from a four foot deep pit he had dug. Ashish is a native of Selana village where his father is engaged in farming. Ashish, who has been living in Mira Road of Thane district, had married Nikita in February last year. Nikita was his second wife. His first wife and two children live in Surat and Ashish used to shuttle between two cities. “Ashish trades in ready-made garments and does business in Surat, Mumbai and other cities too,” said Rajendra Chandankar, investigating officer, Kashimira police station in Thane district. Investigation revealed that Ashish and Nikita had conned a resident of Andheri of Rs 15 lakh last year and the couple fled to Surat after the victim Litesh Sheth lodged a complaint against them. They were living in Surat’s Mota Varachha area for a year. Chandankar said the duo have cheated several people of big sums in Mumbai and Thane too. In the meantime, Nikita’s brother who has a shop in Borivili in Mumbai, lodged a missing persons complaint with Kashimira police station, after he failed to contact or trace her. Police, which was already on the look-out for the duo in the cheating case, got a tip-off that they were living in Surat. On October 11, they detained Ashish from his house in Hari Krishna building and took him to Mumbai for questioning. When they grilled him over the whereabouts of his wife Nikita, Ashish revealed that he had murdered and buried her body in his native village. On October 15, a team of Kashimira police station cops came to Amreli and met district superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai who directed Vanda police station to probe the matter. On Friday, Ashish took them to the farm, which was adjacent to his father’s, where the body was extricated in the presence of sub-divisional magistrate, mamlatdar and other police officials. Threw her into well after drinking binge Rajkot: Nikita’s murder was a bitter fall-out of the frequent quarrels with Ashish over the Rs 15 lakh the couple had conned from the Andheri resident. After they started living in Surat, Nikita demanded a share of the cash, but Ashish refused to give her any money. Also, from the Rs 15 lakh, they purchased a brand new Tata Nexon car. On October 13, 2019, they started from Surat for his native Selana village and reached Amreli on October 14. However, they stayed at a hotel near Amreli bus depot and late in the night, the duo went to Ashish’s farm in Selana. Here, they consumed a lot of alcohol. During the drinking binge, Nikita again started fighting with Ashish over money and in a fit of rage, Ashish picked her up and threw her into a well in his farm. As she did not know how to swim, Nikita drowned. Ashish himself went inside the wellAfter she died, Ashish got scared that he would be caught for her murder. He decided to dispose of the body and entered the well himself by tying a rope to his car, said Vanda police station’s Bhagirathsinh Jadeja. Ashish tied Nikita’s body on his back and brought it out of the well. He then dug a four-foot deep pit in a farm adjacent to his father’s in Selana and buried the body there. After that, he didn't even pay his father a visit and drove straight to Surat, said Jadeja. Police found pieces of a saffron-colour kurti and black leggings on the skeletal remains and have sent these for forensic examination.Vanda police have booked Ashish for murder and destruction of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/missing-mumbai-womans-skeleton-found-year-after-murder/articleshow/78724424.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM urges people to be careful during festivals||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended greetings to people on the beginning of Navratra on Saturday and urged everyone to follow Covid-19 guidelines in public places. Kejriwal visited the city’s famous Jhandewalan Mandir in Karol Bagh and offered prayers. “I extend my heartiest greetings to all of you. May Maa Durga bless you all and give you all good health,” Kejriwal said, asking people to wear mask. The CM said that he was happy to learn that the Jhandewalan Mandir management has arranged eight chariots with the idols of goddess Durga, which will be sent to different locations every day during Navratri to allow people to worship the goddess in their localities. He was accompanied by Aam Aadmi Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta. The temple made the arrangements in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure there is no rush at the temple during the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-urges-people-to-be-careful-during-festivals/articleshow/78726468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Star-studded Ramlila begins amid Vedic chants in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: Nine days of star-studded Ramlila began at Laxman Qila in Ayodhya on Saturday amid chanting of Vedic verses by 100 baal brahamcharis (young celibate scholars) on first day ‘Sharadiya Navratra’. The event was telecast live on Doordarshan in 14 regional languages and live-streamed across social media platforms, including YouTube. The inauguration was jointly done by tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari and Ayodhya MLA Ved Prakash Gupta with the lighting of diyas. Covid protocols forced a no-audience performance on Saryu banks, but mammoth LED screens at key locations of the temple town enabled devotees to watch the Ramlila live, which began with ‘Narad Tapasya’ — dialogue between Narad Muni and Lord Vishnu — followed by ‘Ravan Tapasya’. Talking to TOI, Subhash Malik, Delhi-based organiser of the event, confirmed the arrival of the star cast in Ayodhya. “Television actors Sonu Dagar will play Ram, while Kavita Joshi will play Sita. Members of Parliament Manoj Tiwari and Ravi Kishan will enact the role of Angad and Bharat respectively while Vindu Dara Singh will play Hanuman. Cine star Asrani will perform the role of Narad, Raza Muraad as Ahiravan, Shahbaz Khan as Ravan and Rakesh Bedi as Vibhishan.” The grand Ramlila will be staged from 7-10pm between October 17 and 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/star-studded-ramlila-begins-amid-vedic-chants-in-ayodhya/articleshow/78726839.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||With just 25% occupancy, special Shatabdi Express back on tracks||BHOPAL: With only 25% seats filled, the Habibganj-New Delhi-Habibganj Shatabdi Express resumed from Saturday under special category after seven months. Railway authorities had reduced the charges to attract passengers. However, meals were not provided. It was available inside as passengers could buy it from there. In all, 231 passengers boarded from Delhi while only 226 went from Habibganj in the first train. The train had a capacity of around 1200 seats. Akash Verma, a Bhopal-based businessman, had been a regular traveller of Shatabdi Express before lockdown. Asked about his journey after train service resumed, he said, “This was a new kind of experience. I was not that comfortable as I used to be in the pre-lockdown time. Covid has changed everything.” Verma said that the poor presence of passengers is enough to understand the fear. “In past 10 years, I had never seen empty coaches in Shatabdi. I am hoping that the situation turns normal soon.” As a part of the Covid norms, the Railways tried to follow the SOPs strictly. “As it was the first train the things were fine. Let’s see what will happen after a few days,” said another passenger Vikas Pahuja. The train will run as per its earlier schedule. It started from New Delhi at 5.30am on October 17 and arrived at Habibganj station at 2.25pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-just-25-occupancy-spl-shatabdi-exp-back-on-tracks/articleshow/78725523.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: CPM dishonouring Guru, alleges BJP||ALAPPUZHA: BJP leader P K Krishnadas met SNDP Yogam leader Vellappally Natesan at the latter’s residence at Kanichukulangara here on Saturday. After meeting Natesan, Krishnadas told reporters that CPM only dishonoured Sree Narayana Guru at all times. “They also made it very clear with the appointment of vice-chancellor in the open university,” he said. The BJP leader said that CPM executed the religious agenda of higher education minister K T Jaleel keeping an eye on the vote bank. He said that Muslim League has come against SNDP Yogam general secretary after he criticized the LDF government’s decision. So, it is clear that Muslim League is in love with CPM, he added. Speaking to TOI, Natesan said that Krishnadas visited him to congratulate him over his victory in SN Trust secretary  for the ninth consecutive time. “There was no political agenda behind his visit. Both of us are friends. I didn’t share anything regarding the appointment of vice-chancellor in the open university. How I can share it with BJP. The BJP also ignored our request for naming a central university after Sree Narayana Guru,” said Vellappally. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-dishonouring-guru-alleges-bjp/articleshow/78725544.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||On hilltops, inside forests: Villagers in Goa build temporary sheds for students||POINGUINIM: Temporary wooden structures called ‘mallo’ have cropped up in some remote villages in Canacona and Sanguem, mainly on hilltops and inside forests. The structures — on stilts — have been built by villagers to help their children brave the weather as they access their online classes. Panchayat officials in the villages have now been left frustrated with the unresponsiveness of officials to their pleas to either address the network issues here or to devise alternative ways of learning for these children. Netravali sarpanch Archana Gaonkar said that authorities are yet to redress their grievances despite several reminders from the panchayat. In villages like Netravali and Bhati in Sanguem and Gaondongrim in Canacona, internet connectivity is non-existent. But since the pandemic, classes have moved online, and the ‘maallo’ erected in areas that receive the faintest network are the students’ best bet at keeping pace with the syllabus. BSNL authorities have been intimated several times, but to no avail, said Netravali deputy sarpanch Abhijit Desai. “There are BSNL towers here, but it looks like they are non-operational. Hope the government opens its eyes soon,” he said. Desai said government officials are well aware that children in areas like Netravali do not have network connectivity whatsoever. “Yet, officials insist on attending online classes. Is the government serious?” In July, chief minister Pramod Sawant had admitted that there is no internet connectivity in many parts of the state, blaming it on opposition by locals to mobile towers.  Later, a telecom policy was announced, promising to improve connectivity across Goa within a short period. Sawant had also promised that offline teaching methods would be used in remote areas. In Netravali, Bhati and Gaondongrim, the route to the ‘network areas’ is like a daily obstacle race for the students, with wild animals and dense patches of forests along the way. Desai said that students are forced to walk atop hillocks or venture into forested areas in search of network, putting their lives at great risk. “The dense forests of the Netravali wildlife sanctuary can be dangerous,” he said. “The children have to brave possible wild animal attacks and the weather when finding connectivity.” “Students are seen beginning their trek early in the morning to get internet access, and they return only by late afternoon, once their online classes end,” said Bhati sarpanch Uday Naik. Satish Gaonkar, the father of Class VI student Yogita in Saljini hamlet of Netravali, said it is a pitiful sight to see students left at the mercy of dodgy internet to access a basic like education. “I feel disgusted and sad to see students wander the forests in search of connectivity,” he said. “The government does not seem to be bothered.” A student from the village, Vaibhavi Prabhu, had earlier written to the PMO about her struggles after she and her brother had to sit by the roadside to attend online classes every day. “When students are showing such enthusiasm to learn, it is up to the government to step in and offer to help,” said another parent from Saljini, Krishna Gaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-panchayats-fume-at-poor-internet-villagers-build-temp-sheds-for-students/articleshow/78726464.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh to lay foundation of 176 projects in Lucknow today||LUCKNOW: Defense Minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh will lay the foundation of as many as 176 projects in city on Sunday from the funds allocated by 14th finance commission. According to Lucknow Municipal Corporation officials, Rs 51 crore would be allocated for several civic works including maintenance of roads (Rs 13 crore), drains (Rs25 crore), beautification of parks (Rs 5 crore), laying of interlocking tiles and improving drainage system in several wards under the civic body across the city (Rs 2 crore) and maintenance of community centres & installing of water tanks (Rs 6 crore). Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Funds received under 14th finance commission have been allocated for various projects as per the mandate. The construction work will start next day right after the foundation laying ceremony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/def-min-rajnath-to-lay-foundation-of-176-projects-in-city-today/articleshow/78726844.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Rajkot||Community health centre nurse raped by two at knife-point in Dhrol||Rajkot: A 25-year-old nurse working with a community health centre (CHC) near Dhrol town of Jamnagar was allegedly raped by two persons, who first brutally thrashed her husband and scared him away by threatening him with murder.Police have arrested the accused Kadar Dafer and Azharuddin Juneja who took turns to the rape the nurse when she was going to a temple with her husband on a scooter on Friday.Police said the nurse’s husband had stopped the scooter to eat ‘faaki (betelnut mixed with nicotine and lime) on an internal kuchha road towards Jodiya at around 2pm. The two accused who passed by stopped the bike seeing the man as they knew him. “They thought that the woman was his lover and picked up a fight with him. Despite desperately trying to convince them that she was his wife, they did not listen and started thrashing him. After one of them brandished a knife and threatened to stab him, the man ran away towards the main road nearby,” said CM Kateliya, lady police sub-inspector, Dhrol police station.The duo then forced the nurse on their bike and took her to some distance where they allegedly took turns to rape her in the roadside bushes at a knife-point. They even returned her and husband mobile phones which they had snatched away during the fight, Katelia said.The rape survivor then walked towards the spot where her husband’s scooter was lying. When she reached the main road, she met her husband and his friends. The couple then went to Jodiya town at his parent’s house and later lodged a complaint.The couple had got married in February this year.The woman has been working for the last three years on contract basis at a CHC, 12 km from Dhrol town, where she travels daily for work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/community-health-centre-nurse-raped-by-two-at-knife-point-in-dhrol/articleshow/78724440.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Patna||‘Pati-Patni’ served themselves: Bihar CM||AURANGABAD/PATNA: Launching a scathing attack on RJD’s first family, JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar said in an election rally at Nabinagar assembly segment in Aurangabad district on Saturday that half of the family of ‘pati-patni’ is already behind bars and the rest will also spend major part of their lives in prison. “Because of the work that those people did for 15 years, they are behind bars. The others will also follow the suit,” Nitish said while addressing the rally in support of JD(U) candidate from Nabinagar Virendra Kumar Singh and HAM(S) candidate from Kutumba segment Shravan Bhuiyan. Nitish enumerated the achievements of his government in the last 15 years and made several election promises, including providing water to every farm and empowerment of women. Attacking the opposition without naming anyone, the CM said ‘husband and wife’ government lasted for 15 years, but they worked only for themselves. Nitish said the state’s annual income in 2005-06 was Rs 76,466 crore, which has now increased to Rs 4,14,977 crore. “Crime was at its peak and massacres were rampant 15 years ago. There was no development at all. Doctors and traders were scared of their lives. We have changed the atmosphere and there is rule of law and justice in the state now,” he said. Nitish counted the achievements of his government in 15 years and said his goal was development with justice. “According to a report of the central government, in the year 2018, Bihar was on 23rd rank in the country in terms of crime. The rule of law is established. Bihar’s growth rate is highest at 12.5%. Bihar’s achievement is also good in terms of per capita income. Women have been given 50% reservation in panchayati raj system and girls given cycles and clothes. Due to this, the number of school-going girls has increased manifold,” Nitish said. Meanwhile, at Dinara assembly constituency in Rohtas district, Nitish made a fervent appeal to people to make his cabinet colleague and science & technology minister Jai Kumar Singh victorious for the third consecutive term. Addressing an election rally at the Baldev High School ground in Dinara, Nitish praised the hard work done by Jai Kumar and appeled to people to ensure his victory for more development works. “Jai Kumar Singh is very laborious. He does too much work. He does lots of labour. Except for the development-related works, he never came to me for any other work. Whatever assignments I gave to him, he did them very well. As a minister, he is very hardworking,” Nitish said. Dinara has turned out as a prestigious seat for the JD(U) after the entry of a senior BJP leader, Rajendra Prasad Singh, as an LJP candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pati-patni-worked-for-themselves-cm/articleshow/78725549.cms||Madan Kumar
October 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu V-C told to fill vacant posts in Urdu dept||Aurangabad: Principals and activists, including former students of Urdu department, on Saturday demanded the vice-chancellor of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) to fill vacant posts in the university’s Urdu department. In a statement issued on Saturday, Zaker Ali of Kohinoor College at Khuldabad pointed out that the university has issued advertisements for filling up vacancies on contract basis, but has left out Urdu department where at least three posts are lying vacant with only one lecturer working. Zaker Ali, along with others, said that the university has recently advertised 18 posts for different departments, including German, Pali and Buddhism, along with the ones dealing in science and arts streams. Online applications were sought from aspirants for the posts of assistant professors with the varsity offering remuneration of Rs 24,000 per month. The activists demanded that the university should also consider filling up posts for the Urdu department in the same manner. “We have decided to make a representation to the other authorities too,” said activist Syed Irfan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-v-c-told-to-fill-vacant-posts-in-urdu-dept/articleshow/78725550.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Goa||Got Covid despite taking best ayurvedic immunity-boosters, says Shripad Naik||CALANGUTE: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik said on Saturday that he couldn’t escape Covid-19 despite taking ayurvedic immunity-boosters. “Despite taking the best of ayurvedic medicines and boosting my immunity, I was still infected by the disease, as I came in contact with a large number of people to help them during the lockdown,” Naik, who recently recovered from Covid, said. “People need to continue taking the utmost care — wear masks and maintain social distance to minimise the chances of getting infected.” He was speaking after felicitating Covid warriors from the Candolim primary health center and Calangute residency care centre. “The Covid warriors, putting their families and their own lives at risk, worked to care for Covid-19 positive patients,” he said. “We have to appreciate that and thank them for that.” “If the Covid warriors had not responded and worked as they did, the situation would have been much worse now,” he added. “We have managed to control it through their efforts.” Calangute MLA and minister for waste management Michael Lobo said that almost all of the 1,106 patients admitted in the Calangute Covid care center have been cured. “Covid warriors have given the best care and best facilities, for which we want to thank them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/got-covid-despite-taking-best-ayurvedic-immunity-boosters-ayush-minister/articleshow/78726466.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu students forced to wait for hours at exam centre||AURANGABAD: Students appearing for online/offline exams at the Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) for both PG and UG courses faced technical glitches and had to wait for hours to get question papers. At an exam centre in Aurangabad College for Women premises, the students were asked to come at 4 pm sharp, but they were made to wait for about two hours before they were given question papers at around 6 pm. In addition, the students were given only one hour to attempt the paper, said a guardian of one of the students. He said that when the exam centre authorities were questioned about the incident, they put their hands off the issue pointing fingers towards the university’s administration. They admitted that the students were called at 4 pm; however, they said that they had not received the online paper by the time to be shared with the candidates. “On October 15, the question paper was not sent to the exam centres by the university authorities till 7 pm and we had to return home without giving the exam,” said Roofia Fatema who had opted for offline exam mode. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Vidyarthi Sena has taken up the issue seriously and made a representation to the vice-chancellor of Bamu drawing his attention towards the utter chaos and confusion caused by the university’s administration. Tukaram Saraf, a member of the university wing of the Bharatiya Vidyarathi Sena told TOI that the administration had declared the examination schedule and had forgotten about it until the exams began. We had no one to approach and share our grievances with at the exam centres or at the university campus. We made a strong representation to vice chancellor Pramod Yeole, threatening to launch a severe agitation. It was then Yeole promised that no student would have to suffer losses on account of the glitches and mistakes on part of the university.” When contacted, Yeole told TOI, “The problem occurred due to technical difficulties. Since yesterday, it has been quite streamlined. The university will conduct re-examination of those who could not appear for the exams. We are trying our best to ensure that such glitches do not re-occur in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-students-forced-to-wait-for-hours-at-exam-centre/articleshow/78725548.cms||---
October 18, 2020||---||‘Pati-Patni’ served themselves: Bihar CM||AURANGABAD/PATNA: Launching a scathing attack on RJD’s first family, JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar said in an election rally at Nabinagar assembly segment in Aurangabad district on Saturday that half of the family of ‘pati-patni’ is already behind bars and the rest will also spend major part of their lives in prison. “Because of the work that those people did for 15 years, they are behind bars. The others will also follow the suit,” Nitish said while addressing the rally in support of JD(U) candidate from Nabinagar Virendra Kumar Singh and HAM(S) candidate from Kutumba segment Shravan Bhuiyan. Nitish enumerated the achievements of his government in the last 15 years and made several election promises, including providing water to every farm and empowerment of women. Attacking the opposition without naming anyone, the CM said ‘husband and wife’ government lasted for 15 years, but they worked only for themselves. Nitish said the state’s annual income in 2005-06 was Rs 76,466 crore, which has now increased to Rs 4,14,977 crore. “Crime was at its peak and massacres were rampant 15 years ago. There was no development at all. Doctors and traders were scared of their lives. We have changed the atmosphere and there is rule of law and justice in the state now,” he said. Nitish counted the achievements of his government in 15 years and said his goal was development with justice. “According to a report of the central government, in the year 2018, Bihar was on 23rd rank in the country in terms of crime. The rule of law is established. Bihar’s growth rate is highest at 12.5%. Bihar’s achievement is also good in terms of per capita income. Women have been given 50% reservation in panchayati raj system and girls given cycles and clothes. Due to this, the number of school-going girls has increased manifold,” Nitish said. Meanwhile, at Dinara assembly constituency in Rohtas district, Nitish made a fervent appeal to people to make his cabinet colleague and science & technology minister Jai Kumar Singh victorious for the third consecutive term. Addressing an election rally at the Baldev High School ground in Dinara, Nitish praised the hard work done by Jai Kumar and appeled to people to ensure his victory for more development works. “Jai Kumar Singh is very laborious. He does too much work. He does lots of labour. Except for the development-related works, he never came to me for any other work. Whatever assignments I gave to him, he did them very well. As a minister, he is very hardworking,” Nitish said. Dinara has turned out as a prestigious seat for the JD(U) after the entry of a senior BJP leader, Rajendra Prasad Singh, as an LJP candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pati-patni-worked-for-themselves-cm/articleshow/78731184.cms||Madan Kumar
October 18, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA urges action againstprof; notice to ex-registrar||Mangaluru: Dr Y Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA, has urged C N Ashwath Narayan, minister for higher education, to take action against a professor in the department of post-graduate studies in economics, Mangalore University, accused of sexually harassing a student. Shetty, also a member of the academic council of the university, demanded that the professor be placed under suspension immediately. In a letter to Ashwath Narayan, released to the media here, the MLA said not taking any action against professor Arabi U despite the internal complaints committee of the university’s findings on the issue in 2018, sends across a wrong message to the student community. The fact that the university woke up only after the Karnataka State Commission for Women sought an action taken report recently points to a cover up. Urging the university authorities to proceed against the professor as per law established, Shetty said the university should also ensure that there is no repeat of such instances in the future. REPORT TO NCW: VC Vice-chancellor P S Yadapadithaya told TOI that the university will proceed against Arabi as per classification and control rules based on the legal advice sought and which is expected on Monday. In the interim, a report will also be submitted to the National Commission for Women on the developments that have transpired in this case including a copy of the legal report and the entire process is expected to be completed within a month. In a related development, the university has also issued a show-cause notice to A M Khan, former registrar, for his perceived dereliction of duty in not placing the report of the ICC before the university authorities for suitable action. The ICC set up as per SPARSH guidelines had given its report on the allegation made by a student against Arabi in December 2018 and Khan had kept the same in cold storage without acting on it. EOM/October 16, 2020" a||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-urges-action-againstprof-notice-to-ex-registrar/articleshow/78724429.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Reporter alleges assault at police station, Delhi cops say accusation ‘false’||NEW DELHI: A 24-year-old journalist has alleged that he was detained and beaten up by Delhi Police officers at Model Town police station on Friday when he had gone to the area to report on a protest by the family members of a minor girl who had allegedly died by suicide earlier this month. Senior police officers said the journalist had not revealed his identity and was, therefore, detained along with others for violating the Epidemic Act and other restrictions currently imposed due to the pandemic. The police have dubbed Penkar’s accusations as “false”. In a letter sent to the Delhi Police commissioner, editors of the magazine have said that the ACP kicked and slapped the journalist inside the police station. They said he had repeatedly said he was a journalist and displayed his press card. He suffered injuries on his nose, shoulder, back and ankle, the letter said. Ahan Penkar of The Caravan was detained for nearly four hours. The police took away his phone and deleted videos and pictures on the protest, the journalist claimed. Penkar alleged that ACP Ajay Kumar, along with five other officers, thrashed him. Anant Nath, Editor of The Caravan, said: “The detainment and assault on a reporter who was discharging his professional duties is brazenly unlawful and is part of a dangerous trend that has been set by Delhi Police in recent months of completely disregarding its constitutional duties with respect to protecting citizens’ rights. If journalists are being assaulted in police stations in the heart of the capital for merely reporting on protests against government and police inaction, one can only imagine the truly alarming state of affairs in the rest of the country. We urge the police commissioner and the Union home ministry to take strict action against those responsible.” On October 4, a 17-year-old girl, working as a housemaid for a septuagenarian woman living alone in Model Town, allegedly hanged herself. When the matter was reported to the police, fire fighters broke open the doors of the house and the body was shifted to a hospital for an autopsy. Deputy commissioner of police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said her post-mortem was conducted at Safdarjung Hospital by a board of doctors and they concluded that it was a suicide. Sexual assault was also completely ruled out, Arya said. On Friday, however, a group of protesters, including some of the girl's relatives, staged a protest outside Model Town police station. “Despite explaining the facts of the case and repeated warnings to disperse, a few people remained adamant. Since they flouted Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) guidelines issued in the wake of the epidemic, they were detained. A case has also been registered for the violations under relevant sections of IPC, including criminal conspiracy, Epidemic Act and DDMA Act against them,” the DCP said. Arya said Penkar, who was also seen protesting in the crowd, was also detained and later released with the others. “He later claimed he was a press person and alleged misbehaviour,” she added. The DCP said police have issued a notice to the journalist to record his statement and for questioning him in the matter. Indian Newspaper Society (INS) and Delhi Union of journalists have condemned the beating up of the journalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reporter-alleges-assault-at-policestation-cops-say-accusation-false/articleshow/78726477.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: No takers for Covid-19 beds, private hospitals stare at financial crisis||NAGPUR: The sudden drop in mild to critical Covid patients seeking beds has left private hospitals staring at a huge financial crisis. Responding to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) diktat and also looking at the revenue potential, many hospitals had invested heavily in converting their facilities as per the Covid protocol and recruiting staff by paying a three-fold salary hike. Yet, within a span of over a month, these hospitals are worried about their fate as well as the staff they engaged in Covid management poor hospitalization demand from even non-Covid patients. Dr Sadashiv Bhole, one of the directors of Seven Star Hospital, said, “Paramedics and doctors were demanding three times their actual pay but it was justified. It was difficult but we made it possible. But we may not be able to maintain the same model.” While Covid patients were being treated, elective surgical cases of other patients remained compromised. “We are incurring huge losses,” he said. Dr Anshul Chadda, director of Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences, said fresh investments were made to purchase ventilators, oxygen cylinders and also to make structural changes. “There was no price cap on these essential items. They were purchased at inflated prices. Even oxygen cylinder refills were being given at more than double the routine price.” The hospital needs further structural changes. “Separate sets of staff will be required for both sections which will further increase the required manpower for treating the same number of patients. Even after doing all this, non-Covid patients are not willing to get treated at hospitals which were Covid hospitals,” he said. Kamptee’s Lifeline hospital director Dr Tameem Fazil said, “Right now, every thing is not manageable with few Covid patients admitted, overburdened staff and the absence of non-Covid patients. It’s difficult for us to run the hospital with poor patient flow,” he said. Dr Hema Dhoble, head of medical administration, Suretech Hospital, said vacant Covid beds are adding to the burden. “Finances are not manageable as we have to pay hiked salaries to nurses, consultants and support staff for risking their lives. Investment in additional resources, food, transportation etc is a big burden. Wards with empty beds are locked and causing revenue loss as we cannot use them for other patients,” she said. She feels that the government should share at least 25 to 30% of the loss due to vacant beds in private hospitals because it capped charges. The hospital heads also want the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to take responsibility when they lose financially due to vacant beds. They urged the civic body to waive charges on biomedical waste, oxygen, and also subsidize electricity and water charges. Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association, a body of 110 private hospitals, issued a statement appealing to the authorities to have a ‘dispute bill cell’ wherein the occasional 50 odd disputed bills of the thousands of discharged patients could be checked. It also put forth similar problems faced by member hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-takers-for-covid-19-beds-pvt-hospitals-stare-at-financial-crisis/articleshow/78725554.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 18, 2020||Rajkot||Father-son killed in accident near Gondal||Rajkot: A father-son duo died in a road accident near Gondal city on Saturday morning when their car was rammed by an unidentified vehicle at Gundala Chowkdi on Gondal bypass. Kashyap Thakar (28) and his 55-year-old father Raja Thakar who conduct religious ceremonies at different devotees’ houses, were on their way to perform a function at a devotee’s home when they entered the highway and met with the unfortunate accident. Material for pooja was found from their car. Police said that while there were no eyewitness to the accident, it is suspected that some heavy vehicle may have hit the car and left it completely mangled.“The accused vehicle driver fled the spot, but we are trying to identify the culprit through CCTV camera footage,” said a police official. An offence was registered against an unidentified person at Gondal City police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/father-son-killed-in-accident-near-gondal/articleshow/78724478.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Parents reluctant, many schools to remain shut||LUCKNOW: Several private schools in the city will not resume on campus classes from Monday. The reason: While some have not received written consent from sufficient number of parents willing to send their wards to school, others have taken a more cautious approach. They will take a final call after analysing how things go in schools which are reopening from Monday. The state government had allowed schools to resume operations in a phased manner with classes for standards X and XII first. The schools were closed in March after Covid-19 outbreak. Online classes resumed in July. TOI spoke to management of various schools and found that only some that have received enough written consents from students’ parents. “Only two of 12 schools run by Christian missionaries—Cathedral Senior Secondary Schools and St Paul’s School—will open as over 25% of the students’ parents have given written consent,” said father Vincent Pinto of Catholic Diocese of Lucknow under whose jurisdiction these schools come. The others, such as St Agnes School and Loreto Convent will wait for now. St Francis College received very few consents from parents of students enrolled in class X, but got over 50% consents from students’ parents in Class XII. “Hence, we have decided to resume practical classes for class XII from Monday,” said father Alwyn Moras. La Martiniere College will resume classes from October 26, while La Martiniere Girls’ College will decide after reviewing the situation post-Diwali. Spring Dale College will resume classes for Class X and XII post-Dussehra in all three branches. “We have got written approval from only 30% of parents. So, we decided to reopen after Dussehra and start with practical and ‘problem-solving’ classes before moving to full teaching for the two standards,” said director Rita Khanna. The eight branches of Rani Laxmi Bai Memorial school will open only for class XII. “For the rest, we will watch the situation for some time before taking any decision,” said director Nirmal Tandon. All 17 branches of City Montessori School will reopen from Monday for class X and XII. “The attendance will remain low as parents are reluctant to send wards to school in the pandemic times. We are opening up only for board students for which we have received 40% consent from the parents,” said CMS spokesperson Rishi Khanna. All the branches of Lucknow Public School and Lucknow Public College will resume classes for standard X and XII from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parents-reluctant-many-schools-to-remain-shut/articleshow/78726851.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra Home minister to hear grievances of victims||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh will interact with victims of economic offences, land mafia and goons at the Police Gymkhana on Monday. This is a first of its kind initiative to address grievances of commoners. City police chief Amitesh Kumar and his team will also be present. On the first day, Deshmukh will hear complaints of 50 persons at the ‘Vishesh Takrar Nibaran Shibir’ or the special grievance redressal camp. Another lot of victims will get to meet the minister in the same set up in the coming days. The home minister will hear complaints in the presence of top police officers and the action taken in such cases would be also discussed at the public hearing camp. It’s learnt that the complainants would be also informed about the course of action which would be initiated to deal with their grievances. In August, Deshmukh had kicked off a drive from his Ravi Bhavan office where he invited complaints against the land mafia, goons and anti-social elements who managed to give police the slip. The minister had assured citizens that anti-social or mafia elements who were overlooked by the police department shall be dealt with by him through complaints filed during the drive. While many queued up at his office to submit their complaints in a sealed box, there were some who handed them over to Deshmukh’s officer on special duty Sanjay Dhote. Several complaints were submitted during the drive. Around 300 were shortlisted for action to be taken. The complaints were also forwarded to the police department to decide the future course of action. Though Deshmukh had initially suggested that some of the complaints may be referred to dedicated special investigation teams (SIT) depending on their gravity, senior police officials said that such decisions are yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-minister-to-heargrievances-of-victims/articleshow/78725568.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Class VI girl raped, murdered by cousin in Dantiwada||PALANPUR: A 25-year-old man was arrested for alleged abduction, rape and murder of his 12-year-old cousin from Deesa taluka of Banaskantha on Saturday. Body of the Class VI girl from Deesa town was found with her head smashed on the outskirts of Moti Bhakar village of Dantiwada taluka, some 10 km from Deesa town. “The girl was missing since Friday evening from he house,” said deputy superintendent of police Deesa Kaushal R Oza, adding that they came to know about the body at about 8 am on Saturday. The accused lured the girl with promise to take her to Dntiwada to see the dam there. He however, took the girl to the forest area near Moti Bhakhar and allegedly raped and killed her before smashing her face with a heavy object. Police said that they have detained the accused and are interrogating him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/class-vi-girl-raped-murdered-by-cousin-in-dantiwada/articleshow/78724454.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||‘Crime up as Goa govt overloaded with tackling pandemic’: Shripad Naik||PANAJI: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik said on Saturday that since the police and state government are busy with Covid management, some anti-social elements are taking the opportunity to engage in criminal activity. Speaking to reporters, Naik said that the law and order situation is under control, and that the state government is "taking care of it". He also said the government is working to provide better governance to the people of the state. The past couple of months have seen a couple of heinous crimes, including the daylight murder of a jeweller in Margao, and the setting on fire of a person near Porvorim. Naik also reacted sharply to Congress targeting the government over its failure to maintain law and order, calling it a political move. "The opposition wants to take advantage of the situation to move ahead," he said. He said the opposition should have supported the government during Covid, but they're only pointing out its mistakes. Speaking on Mhadei, Naik said the government is trying its level-best to save it, but the matter is sub-judice. "This is not the time to fight each other, but to work together to protect the interest of the state," he said. Naik also defended the state's Covid-19 mortality rate. "There is no rise in mortality rate in the state," he said. When asked why VIPs get admitted to private hospitals (if tested positive), he said that it is not the case. "When I tested positive, there were no arrangements at GMC, and that's why I was admitted to a private hospital," he said. He said that when people learn that people recover quickly at private hospitals, they go to private hospitals too. "Now that there are good arrangements at GMC for Covid patients, the rush to private hospitals will stop," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crime-up-as-govt-busy-with-covid-shripad/articleshow/78726474.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi police seize drugs worth Rs73L||Udupi: Udupi police in a joint operation with the internal security division of the Karnataka state police, drugs controller and revenue officials, have seized drugs worth Rs 73.4 lakh in three separate major cases. While police busted a case last week, specialised teams set up to crack the drugs racket operating through the dark net succeeded in busting two more cases this week. Police have arrested four persons in connection with these three cases. Superintendent of police N Vishnuvardhana told reporters here on Saturday that three specialised teams headed by Kumar Chandra, additional superintendent of police, have carried out these three operations. The teams include a technical team, execution team and an investigation team, with each of these teams operating as per a well-defined operational brief given to them, the SP said, adding this focussed approach has borne results. Withholding details of the accused for operational reasons, as an investigation is on, the SP said while one of the accused was from outside the state, the other three were locals. Police seized 1,019 MDMA tablets weighing 540g valued at Rs 30.6 lakh in one case, 1,000 LSD stamps worth Rs 30 lakh, 30 grams of brown sugar worth Rs 3 lakh and 131 grams of superior quality hydro weed valued at Rs 9.8 lakh, in these separate operations. Thanking the cooperation from other departments in its endeavour to crack down on drugs, the SP said police have also tightened the noose against people consuming, transporting and peddling ganja. Udupi police has registered 209 cases, he said, adding this is the highest number of cases registered under the NDPS in the last five years. This is also the first instance where police have seized synthetic drugs in the district in such large quantities, he noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-police-seize-drugs-worth-rs73l/articleshow/78724471.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Parishioners rear animals & take to farming to build church||By: Rajeev KR KOZHIKODE: Constructing a new building for St Mary’s Orthodox Church at Edakkara near Nilambur in Malappuram has been a long-cherished dream for the small parish of 80 houses and last year, parishioners put their best foot forward by commencing works with an estimate of Rs 1.5 crore. With funds and contributions drying up following the impact of Covid-19, including continuing restrictions on the number of participants in holy masses, church authorities, along with parishioners, have turned to farming to raise funds and complete the construction of the church building. Church authorities have taken up a range of participatory farming initiatives including distributing goats and male buffalos for rearing to parish households and the sale proceeds of which will be used for completing works of the church building. “Last year's floods and the pandemic have hit the income and livelihood of parishioners and residents. It has had an impact on fund raising for the church building as well. When people are battling the pandemic, we feel it is not proper to approach them for donations. That is why we devised this programme to raise money through farming initiatives and parishioners, who are mostly farmers, were very forthcoming in taking up activities,” said Fr Varghese Kurian, vicar of the church. Church authorities along with parishioners have already started paddy farming in three acres, plantain in around one acre and have also ventured into aquaculture. “We are distributing 45 female goats in parish households and families will raise the animals and return the goat and new-born lambs after delivery. They can keep a lamb to themselves,’ he added. Also, church authorities are planning to distribute male buffalo calves in interested households. After rearing it for one-and-a-half years, the animal would be returned and the profit from its sale will be shared equally between households and the committee formed to build the new church. Fr. Kurian said that raising money through farming would give each household the satisfaction of building their church with their own sweat and toil and it will be more gratifying for them than making a financial contribution. “We had hoped to get funds from some well-off churches under the congregation. But, the pandemic has become a hurdle due to difficulties in travel and restrictions in the conduct of holy mass. Farming initiative is our own way to achieve a bit of self-reliance so that we need to seek donations for a lesser amount,” said convener of the church building construction committee Babu K Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/parishioners-rear-animals-take-to-farming-to-build-church/articleshow/78725573.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: With NEET results out, online admissions begin||PANAJI: With NEET(UG) results declared, the admission process has finally been set rolling by the directorate of technical education (DTE) for the degree programme seats in Goa for medical, dental, homeopathy, ayurveda, nursing and the five paramedical programmes. Due to the pandemic, applications will be accepted online from October 17 to 24. The application process has to be carried out on the special website created by DTE - www.goa-degree-admissions.in. Students have to register and fill the application Form A(N). As the process is taking place online this year, students will also have to state their choice of courses at the application stage itself. “Fill all particulars on the form, including category and choice of courses. Upon final submission, acknowledgement is sent on registered email-ID, which applicant should retain. Applicants, who have not registered for GCET-2020 earlier, need to remit an application fee of Rs 1,500 through the website,” DTE has said. It has also said that students, who have submitted Form A(G) earlier for admissions to GCET based courses, will have to submit Form A(N) afresh, by following instructions provided on the admission website. They will also have to indicate their ‘Choice of Courses’ afresh. “Dates of eligibility list display, compliance, merit list display and schedule of allotment shall be duly notified on DTE website, which applicants are advised to refer regularly,” DTE has said The directorate has also said that ‘separate window (dates) will be notified for students who have submitted Form A(G) earlier, but are not submitting Form A(N) to apply for NEET based courses, who wish to revise their choice of courses submitted earlier, for rounds of allotment to be conducted hereafter.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/admission-process-for-neet-based-courses-finally-begins/articleshow/78726479.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Civic body to launch live web streaming at Santhikavadom||Thiruvananthapuram: City corporation will introduce live web streaming and online booking at Santhikavadom crematorium in view of relatives of the deceased being unable to take part in final rites owing to restrictions due to Covid-19 protocol. Eleven cameras will be installed at Santhikavadom and live streaming can be accessed on webpages of Smart Trivandrum, YouTube channel of Santhikavadom and on Facebook. The online booking for cremation can be done via smart Trivandrum online app and web portal. A 24-hour call centre will also be made operational for Santhikavadom. “There are restrictions for the participation of relatives in funeral rites due to Covid-19 protocol. This has led to emotional concerns. The corporation is planning live web streaming to make sure that relatives can witness the last rites of their loved ones,” said mayor K Sreekumar. The corporation will also arrange a display system at Santhikavadom to screen the funeral rites. A facility to download cremation certificate directly from the web portal will also be activated. Cremation certificate needs to be furnished to receive ashes. At present, relatives need to apply for cremation certificate at main office and this is followed by an inquiry report and only after the submission of the report will the cremation certificate be issued to relatives. Downloading from portal is activated to avoid delay, said the mayor. Santhikavadom has two electrical crematoriums and four furnaces that run on wood. Two more gas crematoriums will also start working at Santhikavadom. “When you make the online booking, furnace number will be displayed in the booking ticket. This number can be used for access to web streaming and for downloading cremation certificate later on,” said a corporation official. Since March, the health team of the corporation carried out last rites of 381 people who died of Covid-19. Of these, nine people were from other states and 181 were from other local bodies. The project is expected to be launched by November. The corporation has initiated steps to install video conferencing at the main office. Technical requirements for web streaming will be met along with the project for video conferencing. The corporation also plans to introduce a new data collection method at Santhikavadom by which all details of the deceased will be collected and transferred to registration team. This is expected to modify the existing system wherein only an entry on book is done for cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/civic-body-to-launch-live-web-streaming-at-santhikavadom/articleshow/78725584.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 190 students from poor families crack NEET||HYDERABAD: As many as 190 students from marginalised families who received free coaching at social and tribal welfare educational institution societies have qualified in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) UG examination. Most of their parents are road-side tea sellers, mechanics, maids and agricultural labourers, or into some other menial jobs, and are struggling every day to make ends meet. Of the 190, 142 students from social welfare institutes and 48 tribal welfare residential students received free coaching. While 74 students from social and tribal welfare institutes secured admission in MBBS and BDS courses in 2019, 40 students secured admissions in 2018. “My parents struggle every day to make a living as labourers. This did not deter me from aiming big. It has been my dream since school days to be a doctor,” said D Girija, who is from a tribal hamlet in Wanaparthy district. Girija, who secured all India 85th rank in the ST Category, will most likely make it to AIIMS. “I am the first in my hamlet to clear NEET. I want to become a cardiac surgeon and make a difference in the lives of poor people,” she added. “I wouldn’t have been able to afford NEET tuitions considering my vulnerable family background and my dream would have been shattered if not for the free coaching by the society,” said G Abhilash, who secured 168 All-India rank in SC category. To make things even worse, Abhilash tested positive for Covid-19 a few days before the examination. “I had to self-isolate for 14 days but did not let coronavirus dampen my spirits. With my will power and single-minded focus, I managed to secure a good rank,” he added. RS Praveen Kumar, secretary, tribal and social welfare societies, said, “The success of these students from poverty-stricken families means a lot to their families in overcoming generations of deprivation and underdevelopment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/190-kids-from-poor-families-crack-neet-in-telangana/articleshow/78726478.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 18, 2020||Agra||Another sedition case filed against journo, 3 others held on way to Hathras||AGRA: The four men arrested on their way to meet the victim’s family in Hathras now face two sedition cases. In addition to the one in Mathura, an FIR in Hathras filed against unidentified persons a day before they were detained now names them as those charged under 19 sections of the IPC. On October 7, the men — a journalist Siddique Kappan, a PhD applicant Atikur Rehman, a civil services aspirant Masood Ahmad and their driver Aalam — had been charged with sedition and under the stringent UAPA by Mathura Police. They had been detained in Mathura on October 5 near when they were travelling to Hathras. Police had then said they had seized “sensitive literature” from them which, they believed, was meant to “disrupt peace” in Hathras. Now, Hathras Police have added their names to an FIR lodged at 3.40pm on October 4 at the Chandpa police station, under whose jurisdiction the village where the alleged gang-rape and murder happened. At the time, the FIR had been filed against unidentified persons, including an unidentified journalist, a leader and others, for an alleged conspiracy to instigate riots and defame the state government. Now, it names the four men, who the police say are associated with the Islamic organisation Popular Front of India and its student wing Campus Front of India, and charges them under 19 sections of the IPC — sedition, criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony, among others. “They were named in the FIR after close examination of the 17 to 18 pages of documents seized from them. It was revealed that they were coming to Hathras to disrupt peace,” Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal told TOI. “Hathras court has issued warrant B (warrant for production) for all four, asking them to appear on Monday.” Mathura district jail senior superintendent Shailendra Maitrey confirmed warrant B had been received. “In case of Rehman, two warrant Bs were received — one each from Hathras and the Muzaffarnagar CJM's court,” he said. A police official said Rehman has now been booked for “violence” that took place during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in December 2019. He has been charged with 13 sections of the IPC — rioting, unlawful assembly, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from duty, attempt to murder, voluntarily causing hurt, endangering human life, criminal conspiracy — and the Criminal Law Amendment Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/another-sedition-case-filed-against-journo-3-others-held-on-way-to-hathras/articleshow/78724444.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tourism department to hasten registration of flats, homes||PANAJI: In a bid to encourage hundreds of operators offering ‘unregistered’ accommodations, which are mostly in the nature of flats and houses classified under category ‘D’ and rented out for tourists, the tourism department is sought to speed up the registration process. The department will issue registration certificates to class D accommodations pending inspection. Recently, the department came out with modified rules that makes registration mandatory for all accommodations/units rented out to tourists. Travel and Tourism Association of Goa president Nilesh Shah said many rented out their houses and flats to tourists, but the department had no record. The tally of unaccounted rooms will be huge, he said. At times, tourists visiting Goa for a month or more choose to rent a house or flat as it serves their interest better. Villas or single-story houses with an element of luxury are rented out at a higher rate. “The government does not earn any revenue when residential houses are used for commercial purposes. Genuine operators are also affected due to unfair practices followed by some persons,” he said. Shah said it is a good step that the department has provided this relief as it will encourage property owners to register with the department. The registration certificate will be issued initially on verification of ownership documents of the accommodation unit submitted by the applicant along with house tax receipt and no-objection certificates from Goa State Pollution Control Board, fire and emergency services and the panchayat or municipal body. Director of tourism Menino D’Souza, in the public notice issued recently, stated that during actual inspection done subsequently, if the applicant is found non-compliant towards any condition or rules in force, the registration certificate will be withdrawn. All certificates/NOCs that are listed for obtaining registration certificate shall be obtained by the applicant before commencing commercial activity. All units issued registration certificates shall adhere to safety and hygiene guidelines laid down by the ministry of health and family welfare, reads the director’s notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-to-hasten-registration-of-flats-homes/articleshow/78726475.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: New super-specialty block likely to begin ops in March||PANAJI: Even as work on the new super-specialty block of Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim has been nearly completed, its commissioning has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and is likely to be opened in the first quarter of 2021. The new block was originally scheduled to be commissioned in January 2021, but its opening may be deferred by two to three months, GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar told TOI. The super-specialty block will have a capacity to accommodate over 500 beds. It has been built under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY). The foundation for the 350-crore project was laid in 2018, and it has been constructed through Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation. “The construction of the block has been almost completed. Service departments such as laundry and others are being readied. Furniture is also being procured,” Bandekar said. A meeting with higher authorities was also held recently to discuss various issues linked to the project. “The process to have electricity and water connections is under way. These works are being done parallelly,” he said. All existing super specialities of GMC will be shifted to the new block that would the help tertiary care utilise vacant beds for other departments. At times, the hospital runs short of beds, particularly the gynaecology department, and patients have to be accommodated on the floor by laying out mattresses. The neurosurgery department also falls short of beds when cases of head injuries rises due to road accidents. Besides the existing super specialities such as neurosurgery, neurology, cardiology, cardiothoracic, nephrology, urology and plastic surgery, it also wants to introduce gastroenterology and liver transplant facilities. Asked whether the super speciality block will be operated with the help of a private healthcare provider, Bandekar said the government has appointed a committee to identify the best workable model. “That aspect is still not decided, but the academic part of each department will be retained by GMC. The super-speciality courses will be conducted by us,” he said. The hospital is only looking to outsource services such as high-end MRI scan, pact CT scan, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-super-specialty-block-likely-to-begin-ops-in-march/articleshow/78726488.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 18, 2020||---||Bihar: Jobs, youth & farm sector focus of MGB’s manifesto||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan released its joint manifesto titled ‘Prann Hamara Sankalp Badlav Ka’ on Saturday, placing the 10 lakh government jobs on the top of the list. The second on the list, aimed at wooing the young voters, is free application forms for entrance exams and travel expenses to be taken care of by the government. The manifesto released by senior MGB leaders, including its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, promises to double the honorarium of Jeevika workers and self-help groups and provide equal pay for equal work for ‘niyojit’ teachers, apart from repealing the new farm laws enacted by the Centre and waive off farm loans. The document, which has 25 salient features, has been prepared to focus on all sections, with stress on employment-related issues and promises to spend 12% of the state’s budget on education. “The contract culture will be abolished. Niyojit teachers will be made permanent and will be given equal pay for equal work and Jeevika self-help group cadre will be made permanent, and their honorarium will be doubled,” read a part of the manifesto. Talking about the features of the manifesto, Tejashwi said the alliance has released it on the day of ‘Kalash Sthapna’ and taken the pledge: Prann Hamara Sankalp Badlav Ka. He said this manifesto talks about providing an alternate solution for street vendors and poor, instead of razing their homes. We have promised to reduce the electricity rate in Bihar, one super speciality hospital in all divisions and dialysis centres at all Sadar hospitals, he added. Tejashwi also lashed out at 15 years of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s rule and mocked him over special status not provided to Bihar by his allies at the Centre saying “US President Donald Trump will not come here to provide special status”. “Since the last 15 years, he has been ruling, questions will be asked from him. They are criticizing me for having no experience, then why did they make me deputy CM,” said Tejashwi. He said in every state ‘Karpoori Shramvir Sahayata Kendra’ will be opened to provide help to migrant labourers in case of any disaster or need. “Sugar, jute, paper and rice mills which have been shut down, will be started in the state and stress will be on the food processing unit,” he added. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala took a jibe at BJP saying it has allied with three parties in Bihar — one with JD (U) which is visible, one with LJP, which everyone knows, and the third with Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM. “In the first session of the new assembly, our government will pass bills to abolish three farm laws enacted by the Centre,” Surjewala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/jobs-youth-farm-sector-focus-of-mgbs-manifesto/articleshow/78731160.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jobs, youth & farm sector focus of MGB’s manifesto||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan released its joint manifesto titled ‘Prann Hamara Sankalp Badlav Ka’ on Saturday, placing the 10 lakh government jobs on the top of the list. The second on the list, aimed at wooing the young voters, is free application forms for entrance exams and travel expenses to be taken care of by the government. The manifesto released by senior MGB leaders, including its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, promises to double the honorarium of Jeevika workers and self-help groups and provide equal pay for equal work for ‘niyojit’ teachers, apart from repealing the new farm laws enacted by the Centre and waive off farm loans. The document, which has 25 salient features, has been prepared to focus on all sections, with stress on employment-related issues and promises to spend 12% of the state’s budget on education. “The contract culture will be abolished. Niyojit teachers will be made permanent and will be given equal pay for equal work and Jeevika self-help group cadre will be made permanent, and their honorarium will be doubled,” read a part of the manifesto. Talking about the features of the manifesto, Tejashwi said the alliance has released it on the day of ‘Kalash Sthapna’ and taken the pledge: Prann Hamara Sankalp Badlav Ka. He said this manifesto talks about providing an alternate solution for street vendors and poor, instead of razing their homes. We have promised to reduce the electricity rate in Bihar, one super speciality hospital in all divisions and dialysis centres at all Sadar hospitals, he added. Tejashwi also lashed out at 15 years of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s rule and mocked him over special status not provided to Bihar by his allies at the Centre saying “US President Donald Trump will not come here to provide special status”. “Since the last 15 years, he has been ruling, questions will be asked from him. They are criticizing me for having no experience, then why did they make me deputy CM,” said Tejashwi. He said in every state ‘Karpoori Shramvir Sahayata Kendra’ will be opened to provide help to migrant labourers in case of any disaster or need. “Sugar, jute, paper and rice mills which have been shut down, will be started in the state and stress will be on the food processing unit,” he added. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala took a jibe at BJP saying it has allied with three parties in Bihar — one with JD (U) which is visible, one with LJP, which everyone knows, and the third with Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM. “In the first session of the new assembly, our government will pass bills to abolish three farm laws enacted by the Centre,” Surjewala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jobs-youth-farm-sector-focus-of-mgbs-manifesto/articleshow/78725590.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Passenger can’t board train if Covid test report awaited||NAGPUR: Possessing an authentic ticket may not guarantee entry to a train if the passenger has undergone Covid test but the report is awaited. Action will be taken if the passenger tries to board train by concealing Covid positive status. With an aim to prevent surge in infections post-festive season, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and railway authorities are set to join hands for creating awareness among passengers about Covid appropriate behaviour. RPF would also ensure that passengers don’t board trains if they are disqualified by health check-up teams at the railway station after medical screening. Following a high-level meeting, RPF has issued a nine-point guideline for passengers. It mentions that the passengers who had given their samples for Covid test should not board trains if the results are awaited. The RPF has categorized such action as having potential to spread coronavirus and “endangering lives of fellow passengers”. Senior divisional security commissioner (Sr DSC), RPF, South eastern central railway (SECR), AK Swamy said that first passengers would be made aware. “But they will be penalized for irresponsible behaviour. Action will be taken under sections 145, 153 and 154 of the Railways Act, which means imprisonment up to six months or maximum fine of Rs5,000 in case someone does not cooperate and indulges in activities which may lead to spread of coronavirus,” he said. SECR’s RPF is set to start their drive and action on Itwari to Chhindwara and Rajnandgaon to Bhilai sections. Ashutosh Pandey, Sr DSC, RPF, Central Railway (CR), said that guidelines will issued to passengers for maintaining hygiene and cleanliness on railway station premises. “RPF’s escort and patrolling parties would create awareness and also take action, if needed, with the objective of deterrence,” he said. The guidelines also include mandate against spitting or ejecting any bodily waste or fluid, wearing masks improperly or travelling without one and not following Covid distancing among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/passenger-cant-board-train-if-covid-test-report-awaited/articleshow/78725579.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 18, 2020||Meerut||Desi scientist's work on ‘extreme’ life key to decoding existence on Mars||For a decade, Dr Ram Karan has been looking for the answer to one question — how does life survive, and thrive, in extreme conditions? While he looked for answers on earth, the discovery of liquid “water” bodies (as opposed to frozen) on Mars with exactly the kind of extreme conditions he analyses means his work could hold the key to understanding extraterrestrial life.Over the past two years, there has been a lot of debate over the presence of “liquid water” on Mars. On September 28, a study in ‘Nature’ confirmed the presence of a subglacial lake on Mars first identified in 2018 and detected three others around it. How did they stay liquid though? Salt, it seems, is the answer. The freezing point of salt water is much lower, meaning it has to be colder for it to turn into ice. “The reason it’s still not frozen despite an average -60°C temperature is the high salt content,” said Karan. This is where his work comes in. The 37-year-old enzymology research scientist at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia. He has been studying extremophiles, microorganisms that thrive in inhospitable conditions — no oxygen, sub-zero temperatures, salt content that would kill most organisms — of the Red Sea, Antarctica and others.“We found similar conditions in Deep Lake Antarctica. The most intriguing part was that despite high salt content, we extracted extremozymes (enzymes derived from extremophiles). This strengthens the possibility of existence of such enzymes, the building blocks of life, on Mars as well,” he said. In his paper published in ‘Microorganisms’ journal on Friday, Karan, who is the lead author, wrote, “Studies of extremophilic proteins may not only help to understand the early evolution of life on Earth, but also provide clues for how life could potentially survive on other planets.” A paper he co-authored in 2017, which documented the discovery of an Antarctic microorganism in the ‘Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America’, had also said, “The molecular basis for its survival is relevant to the search for life on Mars, as well as on the many newly discovered planets in our galaxy.” In fact, the ‘Nature’ paper about buried lakes on Mars refers to the icy lakes of East Antarctica: “Several previously undetected subglacial lakes have been found by applying some of the criteria originally used in East Antarctica.” So, the first possible application of Karan’s research could be exploring the possibility of life beyond Earth. “It is not only important for understanding survival under extreme terrestrial environments but may also enhance our understanding of the potential for life to exist beyond planet earth,” said Dr Tune Usha from the National Center for Coastal Research, Union ministry of earth sciences. Then, it could provide the closest possible match of Martian ecosystems. The field of astrobiology, to a large extent, depends on that. “His research on enzymes from extremophiles will enhance our understanding of life throughout the universe. These studies give scientists a window into how life could have evolved and adapt to exist on Mars,” said Thorsten Allers, professor of archaeal genetics at the University of Nottingham. So, when Martian samples are analysed, Karan’s research could help provide a framework. “In the future, when we are able to examine Martian salt samples for signs of life, we will rely on such analyses of Earth life,” said biologist Bonnie K Baxter, director of Salt Lake Institute, Westminster College.Finally, it could hold a clue to how life functions when it does survive. Terry McGenity, professor of environmental microbiology at the University of Essex, said, “His research extends our understanding of how microbes function in extreme environments on our planet and potentially beyond Earth."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/desi-scientists-work-on-extreme-life-key-to-decoding-existence-on-mars/articleshow/78723815.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 18, 2020||Goa||GMC seeks permission to start 10 super speciality courses||PANAJI: The Goa Medical College (GMC) has applied to the Medical Council of India (MCI) for permission to start 10 super speciality courses. If granted permission, these courses will be introduced in GMC from the academic year 2021-22. The three-year duration doctorate of medicine (DM) courses GMC plans to start are cardiology, cardiothoracic surgery, neurology, neurosurgery, paediatric surgery, plastic surgery, nephrology, urology, cardiac anaesthesia and endocrinology. Once these courses start, it will reduce the need for Goan students to move outside the state to pursue these super specialities. “We have applied to the MCI to allot two seats each for 10 super specialities in our college. We hope to introduce the new courses from the next academic year, if permission is granted. It will be our one of the biggest achievements,” GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said. “Due to lack of these courses in Goa, our students have to go elsewhere if they wish to pursue these DM courses.” GMC’s over 500 bed super speciality block is almost ready and is likely to be commissioned in the first quarter of 2021. This block will also allow GMC to meet the infrastructure requirements that a medical institute needs to be able to start new teaching courses among other conditions laid down by the MCI. The MCI is expected to conduct an inspection sometime in April 2021, he said. The GMC presently has 118 post graduate and 180 MBBS seats. Two years ago, GMC had applied to MCI seeking permission to start a DM in cardiology. This request was turned down as the institute was unable to meet all requirements. Bandekar said these issues have now been taken care of. A senior official said that when GMC started the departments of cardiology and cardiothoracic surgery six years ago, it was also intended that college would also start courses in the two super specialities. The process however remained pending due to various issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-seeks-permission-to-start-10-super-speciality-courses/articleshow/78726482.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Agra||BJP functionary shot dead by bike-borne assailants in UP, 3 arrested||AGRA: Ahead of the Gram Panchayat elections and assembly bypolls in Uttar Pradesh, a BJP functionary was shot dead in Firozabad on Friday night. Three bike-borne assailants had opened fire at Dayashankar Gupta outside his building materials shop in Nagla Beech locality under Naarkhi police station. The area comes under Tundla constituency, where assembly bypolls are due on November 3. On Saturday morning, the police, following a complaint by family members, arrested three men, including the main accused Viresh Tomar and two of his uncles – Narendra Tomar and Devendra Tomar. Dayashankar's younger brother Atul Gupta said, “My brother was a committed worker of BJP. I request chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure strict punishment for his murder. My brother has left four minor children. The state government should help the widow of my brother." According to police, the 46-year-old BJP functionary was shot when he was returning home from his shop. He was rushed to a hospital in Agra where he breathed his last. Agitated over the killing, locals started to protest in the area. Senior police officers reached the spot and an elaborate security force has been deployed. The cremation was held only after Firozabad MP Dr Chandra Sen Jadon and MLA Manish Asija spoke to the family. SSP Sachindra Patel said, "Three accused have been arrested and are being questioned. A case was registered against them and two unknown people at the Naarkhi police station under IPC sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy). All the aspects are being thoroughly examined." According to a copy of FIR accessed by TOI, Viresh Tomar recently had a heated exchange with Dayashankar on Facebook. On October 16, Viresh had threatened to kill Dayashankar. Locals said that Viresh had recently joined the BJP, and Dayashankar was not happy with the development. SP (city) Mukesh Kumar Mishra said, "Initial investigation suggests that Dayashankar and Viresh had developed a personal rivalry due to political differences. Viresh's uncle had earlier contested the local village body polls from Ratigarhi in Firozabad against Dayashankar, and he had won. Viresh and his uncle had been associated with a different political party in the past." Naarkhi SHO Vinod Kumar said, “The matter is being investigated in detail. We are still trying to recover the bike and weapon used in the crime. Besides, we are looking for any CCTV footage of the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-functionary-shot-dead-by-bike-borne-assailants-in-up-3-arrested/articleshow/78724485.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Polytechnics alternative exams in November||PANAJI: For students of various polytechnic institutes , who had chosen not to answer their exams during the pandemic, the alternative exam is expected to be held in November. In a circular issued on October 1 4, the Board of Technical Education has said, “As decided in the extraordinary meeting (held on October 9), those students who had opted for answering alternative exam in view of the pandemic situation are hereby informed that the alternative board examination is proposed to be conducted from November 16 to 27 (tentatively).”The board has, however, said that the exact schedule of the exam will be informed to students ten days prior to the commencement of the test. Many students had protested conduct of the exams during the pandemic in July. However, the directorate of technical education had said that students of engineering, pharmacy and hotel management diploma programmes can opt to answer the exam later. For students, who are appearing for this alternative exam, it will still be considered their first attempt, officials had said. But the exam was conducted in July for those who wished to answer so that they can seek employment or pursue higher education without any hurdle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/polytechnics-alternative-exams-in-nov/articleshow/78726484.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Basant Soren seeks ‘mob justice’ for rape culprits||DUMKA: Even though police is yet to make headway in the gang-rape and murder of a minor tribal girl under Ramgarh police station in Dumka, Basant Soren, JMM’s candidate for the bypoll, on Saturday said those committing such heinous crimes should be handed over to the people for justice. Basant, who met the relatives of the victim at Fulo Janho Medical College and Hospital on Saturday, said, “Culprits of such crime should be handed over to the society rather than the legal system. Such incidents are not acceptable and the only way to get rid of these is to hand over the rapists to the society so that people can do justice on their own." A Class V student was raped and killed after she left home for tuition on Friday morning. triggering protests. Protests against the state government and the poor law and order situation continued for the second consecutive day on Saturday as another group — Adivasi Chhatra Sangathan — burnt the effigy of chief minister Hemant Soren in Dumka town. A delegation of state BJP also visited the family of the victim and assured their support for fair probe and justice to them. JMM’s MLA from Jama and Hemant’s sister-in-law Sita Soren accused the police of indulging in illegal mining and coal trade rather than focusing on law and order. In a post on social media, she said, “How can one expect proper policing when Dumka DIG Sudarshan Mandal is busy in illegal mining in the district.” Meanwhile, Mandal and Dumka SP Ambar Lakda continued to camp in Ramgarh block headquarters where a few suspects have been being detained for questioning. "The investigation is on to identify the culprits and a few suspects are being interrogated," SDPO Animesh Nathani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/basant-seeks-mob-justice-for-rape-culprits/articleshow/78726916.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||After 7 months of hardship, Navratri brings hope for Jamshedpur traders||JAMSHEDPUR: After staring at losses for nearly seven months, sellers of puja items here are upbeat about raking it in during Navaratri, which began from Saturday, as business is picking up pace. In the past two days, the traders have recorded a steep jump in their business and are expecting the trend to continue all through Diwali, Kali Puja and Chhath Puja next month. “With the temples remaining shut until early October, we had been suffering huge losses right from Chaitra Navratri in April. But now the situation is finally improving,” said Madan Kumar, who owns a puja items shop in Kadma market. Bijay Kumar Singh, who has a shop near Rankini temple in Kadma, said after Maha Shivratri in February, the ongoing Navratri festival is the first occasion in seven months which has brought buyers to their shops in large numbers. “Navratri being a nine-day-long festival, the chances of our business recording a growth are more compared to the day-long festivals like Maha Shivaratri, Krishna Janmashtami, etc.,” said Vishnu Sahu, who sells puja items in Sakchi-Baridih main road. Another vendor named Krishna Kumar said he has noticed a change in customers’ preferences this year in view of pay cuts and job losses in the aftermath of the pandemic. Kumar, who owns a shop at Rani Kudar in Bistupur, said, “The demand for expensive incense sticks and butter is lesser than what it was last year. And I am not surprised since there is less money in the customers’ pockets owing to pay cuts and job losses.” Some of the traders are hoping that the money earned during Navaratri would help them settle the wholesalers’ dues to a considerable extent. Meanwhile, the shopkeepers made it a point to ensure that the customers followed the Covid protocols while buying the puja items. In Sakchi market, the shop owners were on their toes to see to it that everyone wore masks and maintained social distancing. “Although all the customers were wearing masks, they had to be constantly reminded for maintaining social distancing. If district authorities come down for an inspection here, then I will be penalized and forced to shut down my shop,” a Handli Line-based shopkeeper preferring anonymity said. Despite the district administration repeatedly appealing to the buyers in Sakchi market on loudspeakers to maintain social distance, some of them were seen coming in close contact with others while buying the puja items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/after-7-mnths-of-hardship-navratri-brings-hope-for-steel-city-traders/articleshow/78726565.cms||B Sridhar
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Most sweets shops yet to display manufacture and best before dates||RANCHI: Even a fortnight after district food safety cell issued an order asking retailers of non-packaged and loose sweets to display the manufacturing best to use by date, many prominent sweetmeat retailers in city are yet to comply with the new protocols. The order was issued by the Ranchi district food safety cell after they were directed by FSSAI, New Delhi, the apex licensing authority for food safety and standards in country, on September 25, 2020, to ask all sweets retailers to ensure food safety for public interest. TOI visited several shops across the city and found that just about 40% of are complying with the norms while most others, including prominent and renowned names in the sweets and savouries business, still do not display manufacturing as well as best before dates on their products. At Uday Misthan Bhandar, a famous sweet shop near Lalpur Chowk, none of the sweet trays displayed on Saturday had any dates mentioned on them. Punjab Sweet House on Main Road and Jalajoga at Albert Ekka Chowk too were not following the new rules. The manager at Uday Misthan Bhandar said that they will start displaying the relevant dates once they receive instructions from their proprietors. On the contrary, a few sweet shops have also complied with the rules as Rajasthan Kalewalaya, a sweet shop chain in city has displayed the dates at all its outlets in Lalpur, Kutchery and Kanke Road. Rasik Lal Sweets in Hinoo too was also found to have complied with the orders. Ranchi food safety officer S S Kullu said they have already written to shop owners about the norms and have also started field visits on a daily basis since October 1. “We have warned shop owners that they will be penalised as per provisions if they are found flouting the norms. Till now we have completed inspection of shops at Hinoo Chowk, Birsa Chowk, Dhurwa and Harmu Road and our teams are working to cover the entire city at the earliest,” said Kullu. A meeting in this regard was also conducted by Ranchi SDM Sameera S with representatives of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries as well as with representatives of sweet shops in state capital a week ago to apprise them about the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/most-sweets-shops-yet-to-display-manufacture-and-best-before-dates/articleshow/78726547.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Over 3,300 cases settled in first e-lok adalat since lockdown||RANCHI: As many as 3,308 cases, including a suit pending for the past 20 years, were settled on Saturday through the first e-lok adalat in the state since the lockdown began in March. The exercise was held at the Ranchi civil court. District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) said the first e-lok adalat was held at the direction of Jhrkhand high court Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan. According to the DLSA, one Sunil Kumar Chowdhary had filed a case related to property dispute valued at Rs 7,30,000 againt his brother in 2000. The case was disposed of after both the brother agreed to settle the issue amicably. The authority also said different cases involving a total sum of Rs 1.39 crore were settled during the exercise. Among them, 29 cases were of the electricity department. A total of 40 benches, including 28 of judicial officers and two of executive officers, were set up for the purpose. Principal judge of the family court, Piyush Kumar and judges Diwakar Pandey, S K Pandey, Dinesh Kumar and Vishal Srivastav jointly inaugurated the proceeding earlier in the day. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar said, “Apart from electricity, cases related to forest, excise and compoundable criminal cases were settled.” Notably, settlement of disputes through the physical lok adalats had come to a standstill because of the Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown. With the starting of the e-lok adalats, disputing parties could settle their cases which in turn will reduce the number of pending cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-3300-cases-settled-in-first-e-lok-adalat-since-lockdown/articleshow/78726953.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi administration to take control of famed Deori temple||RANCHI: The district administration on Saturday took over the management of the centuries’ old and much revered Deori temple on the Ranchi-Tatanagar stretch of National Highway-33 after “frequent complaints of wrongdoings and lack of transparency in its functioning”. Until now, the temple was being run by a few priests and some locals (bahubalis) which allegedly led to disputes and financial mismanagement. From now on, a 13-member committee, comprising four representatives from the administration, two public representatives and the rest from the temple and nearby villages, will look into its day-to-day affairs. Talking to TOI over phone, Tamar circle officer Kamal Kishore Singh said, “Since October 12, Bundu sub-division and administrative officials held several meetings regarding management of the temple before the new committee was formed. The district administration had to intervene in the management of the temple’s affairs following several complaints of financial irregularities.” He further said all donations and funds that the temple receives will be under monthly scrutiny and audits from now on. “Like we get to see in Ranchi’s Pahari mandi, Deoghar temple and others, the administration will put a seal on the donation boxes (daan-petis) which will only be opened once a month under video surveillance. The donations will be the temple’s property and not someone’s personal earnings,” he added. While the decision to bring it under the administration’s control was met with resistance from a few section of people associated with the temple and some local tribals and non-tribals who resorted to protests, the district officials claimed that such disputes have been settled now. A panda (priest) unwilling to be named said only a handful of people used to run the temple which was leading to tiffs. “It had to stop somewhere. Only those who don’t want transparency in its functioning and wish to control the temple and its earnings are resorting to agitations. All the villagers are, however, happy with the decision,” he said. Located around 60km from the state capital, the temple is a worshipping place a goddess Durga idol with solabhuja (16 hands). The the idol is believed to be around 700 years old. It is reportedly the only temple where tribal priests, known as Pahans, perform rituals and prayers alongside Brahmin priests. During Navaratri, devotees flock to the temple to offer puja and the line is often 7km-long which extends all the way to NH-33. The temple came into prominence when former Team India skipper M S Dhoni began visiting it whenever he was in his hometown. (With inputs from Mukesh Kumar Bhatt)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-to-take-control-of-famed-deori-temple/articleshow/78726526.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: JVM student tops state in NEET with AIR 204||RANCHI: Jarubii Akanksha of Jawahar Vidya Mandir (JVM), Shyamli, secured an All India Rank (AIR) of 204 to emerge as the state topper in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2020, the results of which were announced on Friday evening. Jarubii, who dropped out for a year in preparation of the examination after not securing a good rank in the first attempt, said, “Studying medicine in a top college of the country has been my childhood dream. I am happy with the results now.” The state topper said there were many critics when she dropped out of studies for a year. “I just remained focused and blocked all de-motivating opinions,” Jarubii said, adding, “Taking coaching from private institutes give a competitive edge. However, it is not essential if one has the right textbooks and the guidance of a good teacher.” Jarubii had also secured a rank in the first 3,000 in the JEE (Advanced). The JVM management said a total of 20 of its students, including Sumit Pal, Saumya, Swarnim Aditya, Kanisk Kataria and Shoib Akhtar, qualified for the examination. School principal Samarjit Jana said the result was because of the hard work of both the students and the teachers. Delhi Public School (DPS) Ranchi said 25 of its students from the current 2019-20 batch cracked NEET in their first attempt. Among the successful students are Pratik Singh, who became the school topper with AIR 303, and his twin brother Pratyush Singh. Both brothers have the played state-level under-16 cricket tournament. Other students include Anima (AIR 369), Ashima Singh, Shirsh Jaurihar, Rishi Bhakat and Ankit Modi. School principal Ram Singh congratulated the successful students. Loyala Convent School Ranchi also said its student Arpit Kumar has succeeded in the examination. Meanwhile, the state school education and literacy department said 25 students enrolled under its Akanksha 40 programme succeeded in NEET. In addition, five students from previous batches also cracked the exam. Notably, Akanksha 40 is operated by the state government to provide coaching to poor but talented students for competitive examinations. Under the programme, students selected from government schools are provided free education, coaching and accommodation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jvm-student-tops-state-in-neet-with-air-204/articleshow/78726539.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Covid tally nears 96,000-mark, active cases rise 1st time in October||RANCHI: For the first time in October, the number of new Covid cases detected was higher than the number of patients making a recovery through the day. With 542 fresh infections and 501 recoveries on Wednesday, the cumulative case of Jharkhand stood at 95,976 cases, of which 6,576 are active and, 88,559 have been cured of the deadly virus Meanwhile, Jharkhand reported eight new Covid deaths on Saturday, taking the toll to 832. East Singhbhum reported four deaths followed by Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih and Godda with one each. About 2.58 % of the 20,952 samples tested returned a positive result with Ranchi continuing to report three-digit rise in new infections with 242 cases. East Singhbhum remained second on the list with 66 new cases. Ranchi had 2,330 active cases on Saturday evening. Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.50 per cent. The recovery rate in the state was 92.28 per cent against the national recovery rate of 87.80 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-covid-tally-nears-96k-mark-no-of-active-cases-rises-1st-time-in-oct/articleshow/78726445.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Oraon questions auto-debit timing, JMM vows eco block||RANCHI: Questioning the timing and the rationale behind the Centre’s decision to invoke a clause to auto-debit nearly Rs 1,417.50 from the state’s account with RBI, Jharkhand finance minister and state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday said his government is unlikely to pay salaries and pensions to its employees and retired personnel on time or continue with the ongoing development works. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, the lead ruling party in the coalition government, has threatened to launch an economic blockade over the “arm-twisting” tactics of the Centre. In September second week, the Centre wrote a letter to Jharkhand asking it to clear the Rs 5,608 crore pending dues for power usage to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) for the 2015-17 period. The letter also threatened to invoke the Tripartite Agreement (TPA) to auto-debit the amount from the state’s account with Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on failure to pay the bill. In its response on September 23, the state government told the Centre that the bill amount is inflated and said its re-calculation after taking all stakeholders’ consent fixed the amount at Rs 3,919 crore. It also sought more time for payment citing the financial crisis because of the pandemic since early this year. Oraon said the Centre ignored their request and came to know that part of the bill amount has already been auto-debited only on Thursday. He questioned the timing of the Centre’s action when the twin bypolls of Bermo and Dumka constituencies are only a fortnight away. Talking to TOI, Oraon said the entire amount was for the period when Raghubar Das was the chief minister of the BJP government. “Why was the clause not invoked and the amount auto-debited then?” he said. “We never said we will not pay. In fact, we had paid about Rs 700 crore to DVC soon after coming to power. But this recent act of Centre is nothing but a planned attack on Jharkhand, its people and the poor tribals. The Centre must answer why was the TPA not invoked during its own government;s regime before? Doesn’t it mean that it is arm-twisting the non-BJP-ruled states?” he said. “By the same yardstick, the Centre should also immediately clear the over Rs 7,000 crore GST and coal royalty dues. Give us that money so that we can run the state,” he said, informing that he will hold a meeting with his cabinet colleagues to chalk out further modalities to put their demands before the Centre. Taking an aggressive stance, he said, “I foresee such auto-debits in the coming months and I am not going to sit idle.” He added, “The immediate impact of taking away such a massive amount will be the affect on our capacity to pay salaries or disburse pensions on time. Several of the welfare measures to create jobs and bail out a large population of the state who are hit by the pandemic and the lockdown will be hit. We had already inherited a frail economy when our government came office in January this year but through various cost-cutting measures, we had been managing to walk on a tightrope.” Earlier, chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren had dubbed the Centre's action as a blatant move to hurt the state’s treasury and registered his protest. Addressing a press conference here, JMM general secretary Vinod Pandey said, “Jharkhand became a separate state through sustained struggles. It’s time to launch another struggle for our rights. The party demands that the Union government clears the pending dues but if it continues to be non-cooperative, we will be forced to launch an economic blockade. We supply almost everything to PSUs and other central agencies in the form of resources and raw materials. Our hands will be forced to stop these resources if we are made to starve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oraon-questions-auto-debit-timing-jmm-vows-eco-block/articleshow/78726467.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant Soren inaugurates 21-crore civic body building in Deoghar||DUMKA: Chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurated the Rs 21-crore Deoghar Municipal Corporation (DMC) building on Saturday. Spread across 89,993sq ft area, the DMC building will be the biggest and the best among all the civic body structures in the state. It will be constructed by the Jharkhand Urban Development Corporation Limited and proposes to set up a fountain, a park and a rainwater harvesting facility among others. Hemant also laid the foundation stone of an urban drinking water supply project, estimated to cost above Rs 275 crore. Later, he distributed loans and assets to beneficiaries of different government schemes. Speaking on the occasion, Hemant highlighted the non-payment of Jharkhand’s GST shares by the Centre and accused the latter of having a discriminatory approach towards the state. “The people of this state are going through a tough time because of such a discriminatory attitude. Our patience must not be taken for granted any longer,” he said. He said the Centre should extend cooperation or the entire country would plunge into darkness if Jharkhand starts blocking coal lifting from the state to other places. The chief minister also talked about the recent auto-debit of over Rs 1,400 crore by the Centre from the state’s RBI account to pay outstanding dues to the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). He said those dues were accrued during the previous BJP regime and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre purposely did not take up the matter then. Hemant was accompanied by agriculture minister Badal Patralekh on his visit to the temple town and paid his respects at the Baidyanath Dham temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-inaugurates-21-crore-civic-body-building-in-deoghar/articleshow/78726580.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jagarnath Mahto likely be shifted to Chennai for lung transplant||RANCHI: Hours after the medical board formed to monitor the health and treatment of state education minister Jagarnath Mahato ended on Saturday afternoon, chief minister Hemant Soren asked senior officials and to explore options of shifting him to a higher medical centre for treatment. Mahato was diagnosed with Covid about three weeks ago and he continues to remain in a critical condition at the private hospital to which he was shifted to from Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, the CM’s principal secretary Rajiv Arun Ekka and Medica hospital medical director Dr Vijay Mishra attended Hemat’s high-level meeting to decide Mahto’s future course of treatment. Earlier in the day, principal secretary to CM Rajiv Arun Ekka reached Medica to take stock of Mahto’s health. He later held talks with the members of the medical board. Talking to TOI, Mishra said: “We are in touch with a team of doctors from a hospital in Chennai that specialises in Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) treatment. The team will visit the minister at our hospital on Sunday. A decision on whether to shift him to Chennai will be taken after a thorough assessment of his condition on life-support system.” Mishra added, “EXMO is a life support technique that gives prolonged cardiac and respiratory support to persons whose heart and lungs are unable to provide an adequate amount of gas exchange or perfusion to sustain life. As Mahto’s condition remains critical, the visiting team will observe him for six to eight hours. If they find it suitable, he might be shifted (to Chennai) on Sunday or Monday. We have an ECMO machine at our hospital and we have made necessary arrangements to administer this treatment to the minister.” Hospital sources said a team from Medanta Hospital, Gurugram, was scheduled to visit Mahto on Saturday afternoon, but it failed to turn up. The members held an online meeting with the treating doctors and suggested Mahto be shifted to a lungs transplant centre at the earliest. “The experts from Medanta said Mahto must be put on ECMO treatment so that he can be shifted to a higher centre that specialises in lung transplants as he remains critical and his oxygenation level continues to be totally dependent on non-invasive ventilation support on a high flow oxygen supply,” said a doctor in the knowhow of things on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mahto-likely-be-shifted-to-chennai-for-lung-transplant/articleshow/78726450.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Simhachalam temple gets ready to host marriages||Visakhapatnam: Marriages will be allowed in the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple in Simhachalam henceforth, the temple management announced on Saturday. However, invitees should not be more than 50 members. Bookings for Kalyana Mandapams and other rooms started Saturday. The temple will also resume issuing marriage certificates, a practice which was discontinued since 2011. In order to book rooms in temple premises, applicants will have to send their pictures, Aadhaar cards and wedding cards. They should also submit Aadhaar card photocopies of their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/simhachalam-temple-gets-ready-to-host-marriages/articleshow/78724534.cms||Siva G
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Automobile sector pins revival hopes on festive season||VISAKHAPATNAM: With Dasara beginning Saturday, automobile dealers in Visakhapatnam are hoping for an uptick in sales this month. Automobile sales were hit badly during the lockdown and saw a gradual resurgence since July. Now, automobile dealers hope that sales will pick up and reach pre-Covid-19 levels soon. Speaking to TOI, deputy commissioner of road transport authority (RTA), GC Raja Ratnam said that the monthly number of vehicle registrations is almost 70% of the usual numbers. “We hope sales pick up. Consumers must also bear in mind that we are registering only BS-VI standard vehicles,” Ratnam said. He clarified that BS-VI standards are not applicable for re-registration of motor vehicles. City-based automobile retailers say that around 7,000 two-wheelers sold in Vizag in August and nearly 5,000 in September. This month, they hope to sell 10,000 two-wheelers. CEO of Varun Motors’ two-wheeler retail unit, A Srinivas, said that the 60-odd vehicles sold from their Siripuram Junction has brought much needed relief after an extremely bleak period from March to May. “We saw some improvement in July and August due to the auspicious Sravana Masam. Now, we are hoping for a revival during Dasara. But we aren’t really sure if we will be able to make up for the loss incurred during the lockdown period,” Srinivas told TOI. Four-wheeler retailers too have seen an increased demand and hope to sell 4,000 four-wheelers. One of the reasons why car sales have picked up is because people are looking for ways to commute without taking crowded public transport, according to an executive at a four-wheeler retail unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/automobile-sector-pins-revival-hopes-on-festive-season/articleshow/78724549.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Socially-distanced Dasara begins at Durga temple in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Dasara celebrations at the Kanaka Durga temple atop Indrakeeladri Hill started with a limited number of devotees on Saturday. On the first day of the nine-day-long celebrations, the Goddess Kanka Durga appeared in Swarnakavachalnkruta Durga Devi attire. Celebrations began with temple priests performing Suprabhata Seva followed by Snapanabhishekam and Bala Bhoga Nivedana at 3 am. Devotees were allowed in at 9am. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu and temple executive officer (EO) M Suresh Babu, along with their families, offered the first prayers to the goddess. Temple authorities put in place safety arrangements in line with Covid-19 protocols. On the first day, only devotees who had registered themselves online were allowed to enter. The practice, temple authorities said, will continue till Dasara. Not more than 1,000 devotees per hour were allowed darshan. Temple staff were regulating queues were in PPE kits and issuing guidelines to devotees on maintaining social distancing norms. Three queues were arranged starting from the Vinayaka temple at the foothill of Indrakeeladri and each queue further divided. Separate queues were maintained for devotees with Rs 100 and Rs 300 darshan tickets. Lines were marked to ensure social distancing. Temple EO Suresh Babu said that in view of the pandemic, only devotees who have registered for darshan and been issued tickets in advance will be allowed. Devotees will have to come with a printout of the ticket and masks are mandatory, he said. Thermal screening is being carried out at the head of each queue. Special pujas such as Laksha Kumkumarchana, Chandiyagam and Srichakranavavarachana are being held only by priests on behalf of devotees. As many as 4,000 police personnel were deployed to regulate queues and ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/socially-distanced-dasara-begins-at-durga-temple/articleshow/78724561.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||32 stolen bikes seized, 3 held||Tirupati: Anantapur police arrested three persons, including a minor, in connection with multiple bike theft cases reported in the district in the recent past and seized 32 stolen bikes worth over Rs 10.5 lakh from them. Anantapur SP B Satya Yesubabu said the gang used to target parked bikes at busy junctions in the city. “Police have recovered 32 stolen bikes from the accused ,” he said. The arrested were identified as Muthyalu (22) and Prasad (22). The minor has been shifted to a juvenile home.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/32-stolen-bikes-seized-3-held/articleshow/78724571.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Webinar on crimes against women||Visakhapatnam: Women are facing a lot of discrimination in the society and crimes against women are increasing with each passing day, said Justice T Rajani of the AP high court judge, at a webinar on ‘Crimes against women and human rights: Problems and perspectives’ organised by Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University on Saturday. “Our long-term goal should be elimination of violence against women. We can achieve this by arming police officers, prosecutors and victim advocates with the information needed to identify, investigate and prosecute difficult cases successfully,” said Justice Rajani, who was the chief guest of the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/webinar-on-crimes-against-women/articleshow/78724597.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Day 2 of Navaratri Brahmotsavams||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy mused devotees from Chinna Sesha vahanam on the second day of the ongoing Navaratri Brahmotsavams in Tirumala on Saturday morning. In the evening, the presiding deity was carried on the Hamsa vahanam to a mandapam inside the Tirumala temple and various religious formalities were carried out by priests under the supervision of TTD’s Jeeyar swamis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/day-2-of-navaratri-brahmotsavams/articleshow/78724616.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: As commuters turn wary of crowded autos, driver unions call for fare hike||VISAKHAPATNAM: Auto-rickshaw unions in the state are calling for a hike in fares in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The unions that had initially shown support for the shared auto system are now seeking a hike in metre rates. G Vanamurti, secretary of Auto Drivers’ Workers’ Federation, a trade union affiliated to AITUC, said, “Most autos now ply on a share basis. But with social distancing having become the new norm, passengers are looking to hire autos individually. Therefore, we are sending a formal proposal to the government to increase fares.” According to the rule, the transport department fixes auto fares. Auto fares were increased for the last time in 2019. The government had declared auto fare in Visakhapatnam to be Rs 24 for the first two kilometres and Rs 11 for every subsequent kilometre. Informally however, auto drivers have already almost doubled fares for autos running on a shared basis. For example, while auto drivers would earlier charge a passenger Rs 20 for travelling from Kommadi Junction to RTC Complex in Visakhapatnam, they are now charging Rs 40 for the same distance. Auto drivers say that they have been forced to double the fare because the number of passengers has gone down and further autos have been restricted to take only two passengers at a time. This arrangement has not worked well for them over the last few weeks. “Even after charging a double fare, we are unable to match our earlier income,” said P Shivkumar who is worried that the introduction of APSRTC city buses from September 18 is taking away passengers as buses have lower fares and manage better social distancing. Earlier auto fares used to be at par with buses. “But now we’re in a dilemma. With doubled auto fares, people would naturally prefer buses. Even if we charge the normal fare, there is no guarantee that we will get enough passengers,” said P Karthikye, another auto driver. “Passengers are now hiring autos individually or along with family. So the government should increase metre fare to a considerable extent,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-commuters-turn-wary-of-crowded-autos-driver-unions-call-for-fare-hike/articleshow/78724633.cms||Arpit Basu
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Demolition drive near AU sparks tension||Visakhapatnam: Tension prevailed near Andhra University engineering college on Saturday morning after Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) officials demolished several shops adjacent to the road leading to the college. According to GVMC officials, the shops were built on an encroached site belonging to the water resources department. While the vendors claimed they had not received any notices from the civic body, GVMC town planning wing officials said they had served the notices several times in the past. GVMC officials reached the spot as early as 5 am, much to the surprise of the occupants of the shops. While the vendors staged a protest against the demolition drive, matters took a serious turn after the local TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu reached the spot and entered into a heated argument with the officials. ‘ “What is the need for the GVMC to swoop down on these shops in the early morning? How can they demolish without serving any notices? When I questioned them, the GVMC officials could not show any documents,” Ramakrishna Babu told the media. S Usha, whose shop was pulled down on Saturday, said the demolition had put them out on the road. “We were struggling to make both ends meet even while running the shop. Now, we are left jobless and without shelter,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/demolition-drive-near-au-sparks-tension/articleshow/78724638.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Cutoffs drop 0.25-4% in Delhi University's second list||NEW DELHI: Despite the first list of qualifying marks for admission to Delhi University being higher than in the past years, more than half the seats available in the colleges were filled. But there's still hope for aspirants with the second list, released on Saturday, showing a drop in the cutoffs ranging from 0.25 to 4 percentage points. Students will, however, have fewer seats in political science (H) to vie for, with 23 of the 45 colleges offering that course having filled the vacancies. Lady Shri Ram College for Women, which had 100% qualifying bars for three subjects, still has seats for economics (H), for which the cutoff has come down to 99%. For the other two subjects, psychology (H) and political science, the cutoff now is 99.75%. Of the around 70,000 seats available in 61 DU colleges, around 40,000 have already been allotted to students qualifying under the first list. In 12 colleges, no seat left for EnglishPolitical science is followed by BCom (H) in terms of filled seats, with 14 of the 54 colleges offering the course no longer able to admit new students for lack of seats. Shri Ram College of Commerce can still take students and has reduced the bar by a single percent, leaving the cutoff now at 98.5%. However, the cutoff for economics (H) there is the same at 99%. Economics (H) too proved a popular course and applicants took up whatever was available in 13 of the 38 colleges where the course can be pursued. In a few colleges, such as Aryabhatta, economics (H) was also declared closed for reserved category students. In 12 colleges, no seats are left for the English course, with some like Gargi, Hansraj, Kalindi and Bhagat Singh even closing admission in the OBC category. However, there was a drop in the cutoff for the remaining seats, with the biggest being at Zakir Hussain College, where the bar for English (H) in the second list is 93%, sliding from 96% in the first list. Admissions have been slow for the science courses. In the 24 colleges offering physics (H), only five colleges filled their seats under the first list, including for the OBC category in a few. Mathematics (H) is no longer offered for admission 12 colleges. At Dyal Singh, the cutoff for the subject dropped to 94% from 97% in the first list, while for physics (H) the eligibility slid by four percentage points, with the cutoff in the second list at 94%. According to a senior Delhi University admission official, it is with the second cutoff list that the actual status of admissions will be known. “Students will now withdraw their applications from some colleges and move to other. This will enable us to determine the exact admission status,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cutoffs-drop-0-25-4-in-delhi-universitys-second-list/articleshow/78727262.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Students removed from online school group over unpaid fees||MANGALURU: Many students of a private CBSE school in Mangaluru were removed from its WhatsApp knowledge group over unpaid fees, parents have alleged. The school’s teachers shared notes, tips and study material on the WhatsApp group. The parents allege that a number of students were abruptly removed from the group on October 15. They have written to the central and state governments, seeking action. “On October 15, it was heartbreaking for me and other parents to see our children’s names being removed from the online class group. The names were excluded because we could not pay the fees. My elder child was traumatised and asked if he should work rather than study in an institution where money is the first priority,” a parent claimed. The children had given their first unit test on October 5. “Forcing parents to pay fees is against the government’s order, yet no action has been taken against the school management,” another parent said. The parents claimed the school had been unfair and unprofessional. “When we enrolled our children in the newly built school, the management had assured us that charges won’t be increased for five years. But it announced a hike the next academic year itself. We sought a reduction, but our pleas were not answered,” said the father of a student. The school principal told TOI that several students were removed from the group as their parents had not settled the previous year’s charges. “It is difficult to run the school if parents don’t pay fees,” she said. Malleswamy, the deputy director of public instruction, Dakshina Kannada, said parents must file a formal complaint. “Without a complaint in writing, we cannot take action. The government order is very clear that educational institutions cannot force parents to pay fees,” Malleswamy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-removed-from-whatsapp-school-group-over-unpaid-fees/articleshow/78726999.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mumbai||ED calls Maharashtra corporation heads in dam scam||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate has summoned the executive directors of the Konkan and Vidarbha irrigation development corporations and the Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation next week. They have been asked to remain present before the ED’s assistant director, along with all the records of tenders for irrigation projects, contracts, revised administrative approvals and bills paid to contractors for the period between 1999 and 2009. During the period 1999 to 2009, NCP leader Ajit Pawar, who is now deputy chief minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, had been heading the state’s water resources department. Soon after the MVA led by Uddhav Thackeray came to power in November 2019, the state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau had filed an affidavit before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court giving a clean chit in the irrigation scam to Ajit Pawar and another NCP leader, Sunil Tatkare. Ajit Pawar and water resources minister Jayant Patil of the NCP did not respond to TOI’s message for a comment on the ED notice. A senior bureaucrat confirmed to TOI that the ED’s notice, sent under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, states that the KIDC executive director should remain present before the ED’s authorized officer on October 21. The executive directors of the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation and Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation have to appear after him, the bureaucrat said. When BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis was leader of opposition in 2014, he had alleged that there was a Rs 70,000 crore scam in the state’s irrigation department. Subsequently, when he took over the state’s reins as CM, he on December 24, 2014 granted permission to the Anti-Corruption Bureau to conduct an open probe against Ajit Pawar and two other NCP leaders, Sunil Tatkare and Chhagan Bhujbal. For five years, ACB conducted the probe but failed to nail Ajit Pawar or Tatkare. The ACB had set up a special investigation team for probing the irrigation scam, but barring naming a few contractors and officials of the irrigation department, the SIT failed to make progress. “The BJP government’s target was Ajit Pawar and Sunil Tatkare, but it failed,” a senior NCP leader said. The ACB did record their statements in connection with corruption in major irrigation projects in the Konkan region, but it was unable to register a criminal case against them owing to lack of evidence. On the basis of records of the water resources department for the period between 1999 and 2009, the ACB submitted its affidavit before HC saying no criminal liability was disclosed during the period under investigation. The ACB’s contention was that while Pawar and Tatkare were accused of graft,, from the records it was confirmed they had not committed any irregularity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-calls-maharashtra-corporation-heads-in-dam-scam/articleshow/78727278.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka legislative council elections: People with Covid can vote in PPE||HAVERI: The Election Commission (EC) will allow voters with the coronavirus infection to exercise their franchise in the legislative council elections on October 28. But they must wear full personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, follow other safety guidelines and arrive at the polling station in the reserved time slot of 4pm to 5pm. The elections will decide the candidates for four council seats. “We will allow people with Covid-19 to vote, provided they wear full PPE gear and arrive in a dedicated ambulance in the last hour of polling,” said Amlan Aditya Biswas, the returning officer for the Karnataka West Graduates constituency and Belagavi regional commissioner. He added that health-safety guidelines would also be followed for voters from containment zones, contacts in home quarantine and people with symptoms such as cough, cold, fever and throat pain. To avoid a situation where voters from the said categories need to be sent back, an isolation facility will be set up at the nearest health centre. Officials may also create a makeshift hospital. Covid-19 patients and citizens aged above 80 can also cast their votes through postal ballot if they have submitted form 12D. In the West Graduates constituency, no one has applied for the postal facility. The commissioner of the state health and family welfare department has sent guidelines to all returning officers on how to conduct council elections and assembly bypolls. Voters with symptoms may be asked to take a rapid antigen test. If positive, they will be still allowed to vote in full PPE. “The whole exercise should be monitored by the sector health regulator and sector officer. All polling stations will have ambulances to carry suspected or quarantined electors,” said Haveri additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/council-elections-people-with-covid-can-vote-in-ppe/articleshow/78727018.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka likely to add 2.5 lakh Covid cases in 25 days: Study||BENGALURU: The total number of Covid-19 cases in Karnataka will touch 10 lakh, or 1 million, by November 12, according to the projections made by Project Jeevan Raksha, a private initiative studying infection patterns. The state’s tally of positive cases currently stands at 7.5 lakh, with about 10,000 cases getting reported every day. At this pace, it could add 2.5 lakh cases in the next 25 days. The forecast of 10 lakh cases is based on the test positivity rate (TPR), which has hovered around 11-12 per cent for the past eight weeks, said the team of researchers. TPR is considered a crucial factor to measure the viral spread in a region. The study also took into account the moving growth rate (MGR) of coronavirus cases in Karnataka, excluding Bengaluru. “The moving growth rate in the rest of Karnataka is 50 per cent, in line with the corresponding data of the country and mega states,” the research team told STOI after a web conference on Saturday. The projections were shared with the state government on October 15, said Mysore Sanjeev, the convenor of Project Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima management consulting firm. “Our study seeks to mobilise resources, including ICU and oxygen beds. This requires preparation in the entire ecosystem. If the current situation continues, every new 1,000 cases will result in 15 deaths. The projection model can help the government to plan ahead,” said Sanjeev. The study was conducted with technical guidance from the Indian Medical Association and the Public Health Foundation of India. It states that 12 states, including Karnataka, collectively account for 70 per cent of the country’s coronavirus infections and 77 per cent of deaths. “Among these mega states, Karnataka has the highest test positivity rate of 11.6 per cent after Maharashtra (19.7 per cent). Karnataka’s rate has not eased for more than 10 weeks,” the team said. The prediction model has also factored in the daily average of Covid-19 cases seen over the past 30 days and recoveries. “Movement in the mortality rate and death per million population indicate the severity of the spread of the virus in Karnataka,” the researchers said. According to the study, the expected surge in infections will have a cascading effect on the healthcare system, leading to greater demand for critical medical infrastructure, which is already stretched beyond its threshold level. It estimates that Karnataka may require 22,500 beds with oxygen supply, 16,800 ICU beds and 11,200 ventilators over the next three to six weeks. “Testing is crucial,” said KV Rama Mohan, the director for consulting at Proxima, adding that the stigma associated with coronavirus was preventing many from taking a test. The researchers noted that district-wise testing data shared by states is very important to understand TPR. “States like Telangana, Assam and Manipur have not disclosed this data, which suggest non-performance,” Sanjeev said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-likely-to-add-2-5-lakh-covid-cases-in-25-days-study/articleshow/78727021.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Air quality still poor in Delhi, may improve by Tuesday||NEW DELHI: Delhi witnessed a layer of haze on Saturday morning with its air quality deteriorating further even as it remained in the "poor" category. The capital's Air Quality Index (AQI), which was 239 on Friday, increased to 289 on Saturday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe AQI reached the higher-end of the poor category from the lower-end mainly due to weather conditions and transfer of pollutants released from stubble burning to Delhi, said experts. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said the AQI was likely to stay in the higher end of the "poor" category to the lower end of the "very poor" category on Sunday. "Low surface winds may slowly improve from Sunday. Air quality is likely to improve to the poor category by Monday and further improvement is expected by Tuesday. Transport wind direction is favourable for transfer of pollutants and an increase in stubble contribution to PM2.5 estimated is around 19% for Saturday," said SAFAR. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, "Though the wind speed had picked up on Thursday and Friday during day times with an average speed of 8-10 kmph, the pollutants were able to disperse. The rise in wind speed helped in improving Delhi's air quality on Friday." Srivastava added, "The wind speed dropped to nil from 8 pm on Friday to 8 am on Saturday. It resulted in accumulation of pollutants and affected the city's air quality." Delhi has been recording "poor" air quality days since October 7. It touched the extreme end of the "poor" range on October 13 with 300 AQI. However, the capital with 312 AQI entered "very poor" category on October 15 after eight months but it again slipped back to the "poor" range on Friday. While an AQI reading of 50 or below is classified as "good," readings between 51 and 100 fall in the "satisfactory" category and those between 101 and 200 are classified as "moderate". "Poor" air ranges from 201 to 300, "very poor" from 301 to 400 and "severe" from 401 to 500. Watch Delhi pollution: Farm fire share stares at 18% now, raises concern||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-still-poor-in-delhi-may-improve-by-tuesday/articleshow/78727291.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation issues 116 challans, gets Rs 3 lakh fine||NEW DELHI: Continuing its drive against polluting activities, South Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday issued 116 challans, and collected a fine of Rs 3 lakh. Radha Krishan, SDMC spokesperson and deputy commissioner, said civic body officials have been closely monitoring all the five hotspots under its jurisdiction. "The central zone has issued 60 challans, Najafgarh zone 13 challans, south zone 27 and west zone issued seven challans on Saturday. Other cases have been sent to the metropolitan magistrate," he explained. The deputy commission added that dedicated patrolling teams have been constituted to take instant action against violators, including erring government and related institutions. "Teams have been told to be vigil round-the-clock on rotation basis. All zonal deputy commissioners have been ensuring that there is no leniency during the festive season," he said. Giving details about Saturday's action taken report, Krishan said two water sprinklers covered an area of around 28 kms in the central zone, while seven mechanical road sweepers covered around 120kms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-delhi-municipal-corporation-issues-116-challans-gets-rs-3-lakh-fine/articleshow/78727292.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka finds over 48,000 TB cases amid Covid fight||Bengaluru: Karnataka has detected more than 48,000 cases of tuberculosis this year while battling the coronavirus pandemic, officials claim. The TB case data was obtained from door-to-door surveys conducted by accredited social healthcare activists, or Asha workers, and from fever clinics that screen people with suspected coronavirus infection. The TB battle slowed during the lockdown months, but cases were identified during Covid-19 surveillance efforts, in which Asha workers visited households to note down residents’ health status. The treatment for normal TB, caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, is a six-month course therapy. India ranks among highly burdened countries for the disease and accounts for more than 26 per cent of the hard-to-treat, multidrug-resistant cases in the world. Experts fear that TB control campaigns in India and other countries may suffer as they focus on containing the Covid-19 spread. The World Health Organization (WHO) had warned that about 1.8 million people could die of TB globally this year. Last year, 91,000 patients were diagnosed with TB in Karnataka. This year, 48,242 cases have been identified so far. Of these, nearly 14,000 are in Bengaluru alone. State TB officer Dr Ramesh Chandra Reddy said the pandemic had affected the TB diagnosis process. “Adherence to the treatment is seen among diagnosed patients, who are in recovery mode. But detection of fresh cases has taken a beating as many people are not coming forward for testing. The 48,242 cases were picked up largely through door-to-door surveillance,” he said. In May, the case-finding strategy resumed with the help of Asha workers. Fever and cough for two weeks are among the symptoms associated with the disease. “We have clinically examined all cases of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection for TB signs. Those who had symptoms but tested negative for Covid-19 were checked for TB,” said an official of the state TB eradication unit. “Covid-19 patients have dry cough, while TB patients usually develop a cough productive of sputum. The latter also suffer high fever and loss of appetite and weight.” While the target is to reach a case notification rate of 192 TB patients (estimated incidents) for every one lakh population every year, Karnataka has achieved the figure of 89 so far this year. Last year, the state reached a case notification rate of 135. Pulmonologists say in the past seven months, many cases went undiagnosed or didn’t show up for follow-ups because of virus fears or travel restrictions. According to Dr Sunil Kumar K, a consultant for interventional pulmonology at Aster CMI Hospital, many directly observed therapy (DOT) centres that provide medicines to TB patients were closed during the lockdown. “Several patients may not have completed the six-month treatment and there could be chances of the disease spreading,” he said. Interruptions in treatment can lead to drug resistance, which complicates things further. “Sputum-based test is the gold standard in TB diagnosis, but nearly 20 to 30 per cent of the suspected cases, there won’t be sputum production. In such cases, we generally do induced sputum by using hyper-tonic saline for inhalation, which is an allergen. This liquefies the airway secretion and promotes coughing, allowing spitting of secretions. But because of the Covid-19 situation and concerns over aerosol generation, the sputum-induced test has taken a back seat,” Dr Sunil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-finds-over-48000-tb-cases-amid-covid-fight/articleshow/78727009.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Recovery mode: Business picks up at electronics stores in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Footfall at electronics stores in the city is improving as Bengalureans working from home look to buy bigger and powerful devices and appliances. Stores have lined up various offers, including freebies like pulse oximeters, to boost sales during the festive season. The coronavirus-induced lockdown dealt a blow to this segment, which had grown exponentially from 2000 following the IT boom. The demand for electronic devices and home appliances did not improve immediately after outlets reopened on May 3. But things are looking a tad brighter now as customers have returned to stores. “It would be a lie if I say the Covid-19 situation didn’t affect us. More than the virus, it was the fear among people that hurt our business. Now, people are more confident, visiting stores in good numbers to make enquiries and purchases. We strictly follow health-safety guidelines such as distancing, mask use and sanitisation,” said Rajkumar Pai, the managing director of Pai International Electronics Private Limited, which has a chain of 40 stores in Bengaluru. There is stiff competition from online platforms, but owners of bricks-and-mortar establishments say many people still prefer to physically examine a product or an appliance, test features and get an overall feel before making the purchase. “There is a large section of such customers. As the state gradually opened up under the Unlock phase, customer numbers also started to pick up slowly,” said Paras Jain, the owner of Adishwar India, which has 41 home-appliance outlets in Bengaluru. “The footfall is still lower than what it was before. Window shopping has reduced drastically, but we think that’s a good thing, given the situation.” Jain’s business is again logging profits and he expects brisk sales during Dasara and Diwali. Adishwar is offering freebies that reflect customers’ new focus on health. “We are giving away oximeters, temperature guns and other solutions used for Covid-19 prevention to customers who shop with us. We believe these are the right gifts in such testing times,” Jain added. R Pandian, the marketing head of electronics and home-appliance chain Girias, said offline stores offered people a neighbourhood shopping experience. “There are people who have a bond with certain stores and have been their customers for many years. Unlike on websites, one can physically examine products at the store and build a relationship with the seller,” he said. The festive season is a crucial period for the businesses as they seek to cover lost ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/recovery-mode-business-picks-up-at-electronics-stores-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78727013.cms||Petlee Peter
October 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s ambient air pollution level highest among 6 cities||MUMBAI: Among six cities in the country, Mumbai’s ambient air pollution levels are highest, according to data recently presented by Indian Institute of Tropical Management (IITMPune) scientists. Taking advantage of reduced activity during Covid-19 lockdown, agencies recorded baseline pollution levels for Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Kolkata and Chennai, which has been practically impossible to get until now due to uninterrupted emission of some source or the other of pollution in urban complexes. The data is part of a research paper published in the international journal ‘Environmental Research’. Gufran Beig, project director at SAFAR and lead author of the paper, presented the data at a virtual discussion on urban air pollution organized by Natural Resources Defense Council on Thursday. “Lockdown created an unprecedented emission scenario with near-negligible magnitude, which was virtually impossible under normal scenario and paved the way to determine baseline levels. Immediately after lockdown, while the weather was very calm, steady and consistent, levels of pollutants sharply dropped and attained a minimum within 4-6 days, and were steady for more than 2-3 days. This minimum value can be defined as baseline level,” said the research paper. The pollutants were measured from February 20-April 14 (pre-lockdown and lockdown). The data showed Mumbai’s permanent concentration of PM 2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 microns) at 33 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) was highest. At 6 µg/m3, Chennai had lowest baseline levels. Ahmedabad, Pune, Delhi and Kolkata recorded 32 µg/m3, 29 µg/m3, 22 µg/m3, and 18 µg/m3 respectively. “Mumbai has higher dispersion of pollutants, but baseline pollution levels are higher compared to landlocked cities like Delhi. Mumbai saw the highest dip in pollution levels during lockdown,” said Beig. The paper indicated that people exposed to higher baseline levels of particulate pollution run a greater risk of Covid-19 mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-ambient-air-pollution-level-highest-among-6-cities/articleshow/78727299.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
October 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Dakshina Kannada Red Cross sees 50% rise in blood donation||MANGALURU: While many blood banks in the state are facing shortages, the Indian Red Cross Society’s arm in Dakshina Kannada district has recorded a 50 per cent increase in blood supply. A decentralised model followed by NGOs working in the field, networking, regular small blood-donation camps and frequent appeals to donors have helped in ensuring adequate stocks in the district. “Before the pandemic, the Red Cross in Dakshina Kannada was supplying 1,000 units per month on average. This has now increased 1,600-1,700 units per month,” said CA Shantaram Shetty, the chairman of the society’s district arm, which is supplying blood to several hospitals. “Because of Covid-19, many blood banks stopped conducting donation camps. At least five hospitals with blood banks now depend on us. We also help centres in Bengaluru, Dharwad and Davanagere.” The Red Cross provides about 250 units per month to Government Lady Goschen Hospital in Mangaluru. “We have been motivating donors and organising frequent small camps. Though the current situation is challenging, we have managed to meet blood requirements. This month, we have already dispensed 800 units. The district arm is receiving great support from deputy commissioner KV Rajendra, who has been encouraging plasma donation,” Shetty said. There are several organisations in Dakshina Kannada that focus on blood donation, adopting a decentralised model. Thajuddin Tarly, the district in-charge of SKSSF Viqaya Blood Donors’ Forum, said: “We have 12 zones, each with a separate in-charge. A representative is constantly in touch with blood banks and hospitals. In a 40-day period, from August 19 and September 30, we organised 18 blood donation awareness camps in every zone and collected nearly 1,300 units.” The efforts did not stop during the lockdown. “We ensured volunteers were picked up and dropped off. Volunteers have donated 62 units of plasma, travelling to Bengaluru for the process initially. Whenever blood banks inform us that there is a shortage, we organise camps,” he said. Dr Shamee Shastry, who heads the department of immunohematology and blood transfusion at Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, said that weekly donation drives had greatly helped maintain the supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dk-red-cross-sees-50-rise-in-blood-donation/articleshow/78727004.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Monorail is back with 30 services from today, Metro 200 tomorrow||MUMBAI: Metro rail will be back on track on the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar corridor from Monday while Monorail will start operating on the 20km corridor between Chembur and Jacob Circle from Sunday. Both transport networks had been shut from March 22 when the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown was announced. Mumbai Metro One Private Ltd chief executive officer Abhay Kumar Mishra said, “Even though the services were shut, we had 300 employees coming in every day to keep the system ready for operations. We will run around 200 services between 8.30am and 8.30pm from Monday.” Before the lockdown was announced, MMOPL ran around 400 services carrying 4.5 lakh passengers on weekdays. Metro trains operated from 6.30am to 11.30pm. Mishra said, “There are new protocols to be followed by passengers to control the spread of Covid-19. We have set up kiosks at entry points to check body temperatures as only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel. Wearing of masks is mandatory and we have made a provision for hand sanitizers as stations.” MMOPL has also decided to do away with the token system for ticketing. He said, “Passengers will have the option to buy mobile tickets through pay wallets, Metro smart cards and paper QR tickets.” He said cleaning of trains will be done after every round trip and enhanced cleaning of frequent touch points such as escalators, staircases, handrails, ticket counters and platform benches will be undertaken too. The number of entry and exit gates will be fewer than pre-Covid to ensure smooth handling of the passenger crowd. Meanwhile, Monorail is geared to operate services after 210 days from Sunday. A Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) spokesperson said, “Train operations will be between 7.09am and 11.15am and then 4.09am and 9pm. A total of 14 services will be operated during morning peak hours and 16 during evening peak hours.” Passengers are advised to travel with minimum luggage and avoid carrying metallic items for faster frisking. They must keep only pocket-sized sanitizers, if any, during travel. At Monorail stations, too, entry points will be limited. MMRDA commissioner R A Rajeev said, “We urge our commuters to support us by abiding by all guidelines and precautions prepared to curb the spread of Covid-19 virus, and enjoy a seamless and safe journey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-monorail-is-back-with-30-services-from-today-metro-200-tomorrow/articleshow/78727310.cms||Manthank Mehta
October 18, 2020||Delhi||Money laundering: ED chargesheet against Tahir Hussain||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Saturday took cognisance of a chargesheet filed by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case related to northeast riots against former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, "There is prima facie sufficient incriminating material about the involvement of the accused persons. Thus, cognisance of the offence under Section 3 read with Section 70, punishable under Section 4 of PMLA, 2002 is taken against accused Tahir Hussain and Amit Gupta." The legal provisions, dealing with "money laundering" and "offences by companies" applied in the chargesheet, filed through special public prosecutor NK Matta, are of Prevention of Money Laundering Act. ED informed the court that investigation in the case was ongoing and a supplementary complaint could be filed later. "ED may proceed with further investigation, as per law," directed the court. It is alleged that Hussain carried out money laundering and other "fraudulent" acts of cheating, forgery as part of a criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/money-laundering-ed-chargesheet-against-tahir-hussain/articleshow/78727315.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||Fin firms can’t recover dues forcefully, says Nagpur Police||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar on Saturday said that financial firms can’t resort to criminal activities like forceful seizures to recover their dues. He also said that in the coming days, public places would be free of trouble makers, especially those who consume liquor in the open. Referring to a complaint, Kumar said a man had gone with his family to the Sitabuldi market to make some purchases when his vehicle was whisked away by recovery agents. “Brazenly, recovery agents seize vehicles and one often fails to understand whether they have been stolen, towed by cops or where have they gone. Our objection revolves around such brazenness and inappropriate action,” said the top cop. Kumar, who is determined to deal with the issue sternly, stated that forceful recovery of dues or seizures would not be tolerated. “Recovery of loans and dues are essentially matters where legal discipline must be observed and followed to the hilt,” he said. Underlining the fact that the police department does not endorse any delay or default of loans or dues, Kumar said that the main concern is to ensure that the process is devoid of discourteous or bad behaviour. Kumar added that the mandate of the police department is to ensure that financial institutions do not take the help of agents to recover dues forcefully. “Financial institutions must follow proper procedures and protocols. Local police stations and the concerned persons must be informed well in advance,” said Kumar. He also said that financial institutions must check the character credentials of the recovery agents. “We keep getting information that many of the recovery agents have criminal backgrounds which is objectionable,” he said. The police chief also vowed to tackle trouble makers who openly consume liquor in public places like parks and playgrounds. “We will not tolerate illegal activities, including drinking in the open,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fin-firms-cant-recover-dues-forcefully-says-cp/articleshow/78725377.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 18, 2020||Nagpur||‘MSEDCL scuttling solar roof top sector though negative policies’||NAGPUR: Maharashtra Solar Manufacturers’ Association (MASMA) has charged MSEDCL with scuttling the solar roof top industry in the state by adopting negative policies. Saket Suri of MASMA told TOI that since April 2019 there was no subsidy scheme for solar roof top in Maharashtra and MSEDCL demanded just 25MW subsidies for the entire state from the ministry of non-renewable energy (MNRE) last year. “On the other hand discoms of Gujarat which is half the size of Maharashtra had taken up 600MW,” he said. According to the solar entrepreneur, when MASMA narrated the entire episode to the newly-appointed energy minister Nitin Raut, he intervened and instructed MSEDCL to restart the subsidy process immediately. “Despite the minister’s instructions, MSEDCL again delayed the process for several months and finally on August 28, 2020, came up with an expression of interest (EOI) to initiate the empanelment process for subsidy disbursement. This tender was published half-heartedly. It was such a clear cut copy paste job from Gujarat’s tender. MSEDCL even forgot to replace the GST number with its own. The copy paste conditions mentioned in the original tender were for a MW level tender & beyond MNRE guidelines. MSEDCL was made aware of its mistakes by Team MASMA by mail & also in its pre-bid meetings. MSEDCL corrected a few of these mistakes twice and twice the tender terms were corrected. Even the third version of the tender is deliberately full of mistakes to discourage the solar industry from participating in it and still the pin code of MSEDCL is of Gujarat,” said Suri. Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA) which started phase 1 of the subsidy almost two years ago has more than 700 registered vendors. Currently, the solar fraternity of the state has more than 6000 integrators. Only 316 purchased the MSEDCL tender and just 81 of them could submit it. Only 50% are estimated to qualify or accept MSEDCL terms and hardly 40 integrators will be empanelled. These 40 will soon realize that they cannot comply with the terms of the tender and their performance bank guarantees will be forfeited putting the entire subsidy scheme in jeopardy. Already, several people have moved the court against this tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-scuttling-solar-roof-top-sector-though-negative-policies/articleshow/78725437.cms||Ashish Roy
October 18, 2020||Mumbai||In Navratri treat, Maharashtra allows gyms to open from Dussehra||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday finally allowed gymnasiums and fitness centres to let people in from Dussehra, October 25, if certain conditions to keep Covid out were met. In the draft standard operating procedure (SOP), there is a bar on group exercises like zumba, aerobics and yoga. Services like showers, steam and sauna are also out of bounds. The number of people allowed entry at one time is to be restricted. Also, 6 feet distance must be maintained between equipment, matswater bottles are to be carried from home and frequently touched surfaces disinfected hourly. Gym owners had knocked on several doors to get their businesses going again after the Centre came out with norms for fitness centres to reopen. The state government kept resisting their entreaties as it feared indoor exercising areas would be poorly ventilated and have surfaces touched by many people. Thackeray and gym owners met on Saturday, and it was decided that gyms could open with implementation of the SOP drawn up to prevent Covid spread. Gyms must exercise caution: 6-ft distance, no water filtersCM Uddhav Thackeray, after allowing gymnasiums to reopen from Dussehra, October 25, asked them to exercise due caution in a meeting on Saturday. “Gymnasiums and fitness centres work towards improving health, but it is essential to ensure that these facilities themselves do not end up aiding the spread of the virus,” Thackeray said. “And for that, all the SOPs have to be followed thoroughly.” He said the number of Covid-19 cases was dropping but that should not make anybody careless. He gave the example of the European countries which had to go in for another lockdown after a rise in cases. Some of the conditions in the draft SOP include maintaining a distance of six feet between equipment. Mats and water bottles are to be brought from home. Common drinking water filters will be discontinued. A strict sanitisation protocol is to be followed, where disinfection of frequently touched surfaces will happen hourly and of the full studio every evening. The final SOP will be released soon, said officials. Gyms should ensure that every user gets 50 square feet in a bid to ensure social distancing, said Dr Shashank Joshi, member, state Covid task force. “Screening of gym employees should also be carried out,” the doctor said. The Aarogya Setu app will be compulsory for all gym members. People with a history of cold and fever would have to do without a visit to the gym. “The gym owners have a week’s time to prepare, so most of the gym owners are actually sitting with their teams right now and preparing all the necessary adjustments in the gym that they need to make, like social distancing,” Shalini Bhargava, director of JG’S Fitness Centre, said. ( Inputs by Gaurav Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-navratri-treat-maharashtra-allows-gyms-to-open-from-dussehra/articleshow/78727320.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 18, 2020||Navi-mumbai||In Navratri treat, Maharashtra allows gyms to open from Dussehra||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday finally allowed gymnasiums and fitness centres to let people in from Dussehra, October 25, if certain conditions to keep Covid out were met. In the draft standard operating procedure (SOP), there is a bar on group exercises like zumba, aerobics and yoga. Services like showers, steam and sauna are also out of bounds. The number of people allowed entry at one time is to be restricted. Also, 6 feet distance must be maintained between equipment, matswater bottles are to be carried from home and frequently touched surfaces disinfected hourly. Gym owners had knocked on several doors to get their businesses going again after the Centre came out with norms for fitness centres to reopen. The state government kept resisting their entreaties as it feared indoor exercising areas would be poorly ventilated and have surfaces touched by many people. Thackeray and gym owners met on Saturday, and it was decided that gyms could open with implementation of the SOP drawn up to prevent Covid spread. Gyms must exercise caution: 6-ft distance, no water filtersCM Uddhav Thackeray, after allowing gymnasiums to reopen from Dussehra, October 25, asked them to exercise due caution in a meeting on Saturday. “Gymnasiums and fitness centres work towards improving health, but it is essential to ensure that these facilities themselves do not end up aiding the spread of the virus,” Thackeray said. “And for that, all the SOPs have to be followed thoroughly.” He said the number of Covid-19 cases was dropping but that should not make anybody careless. He gave the example of the European countries which had to go in for another lockdown after a rise in cases. Some of the conditions in the draft SOP include maintaining a distance of six feet between equipment. Mats and water bottles are to be brought from home. Common drinking water filters will be discontinued. A strict sanitisation protocol is to be followed, where disinfection of frequently touched surfaces will happen hourly and of the full studio every evening. The final SOP will be released soon, said officials. Gyms should ensure that every user gets 50 square feet in a bid to ensure social distancing, said Dr Shashank Joshi, member, state Covid task force. “Screening of gym employees should also be carried out,” the doctor said. The Aarogya Setu app will be compulsory for all gym members. People with a history of cold and fever would have to do without a visit to the gym. “The gym owners have a week’s time to prepare, so most of the gym owners are actually sitting with their teams right now and preparing all the necessary adjustments in the gym that they need to make, like social distancing,” Shalini Bhargava, director of JG’S Fitness Centre, said. ( Inputs by Gaurav Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/in-navratri-treat-maharashtra-allows-gyms-to-open-from-dussehra/articleshow/78727389.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Suspected poisoning: Three of family dead in Chennai||CHENNAI: A woman, her two children and their pet were found dead in their Thiru Vi Ka Nagar residence on Saturday in a suspected case of poisoning. The woman's husband was rescued from the second floor of the building with deep wounds to the wrists. The deceased were identified as Bhavani, 40, daughter Devadharshini, 17, and son Pragadish, 17. Bhavani's husband Palani, 46, is a plumber. His father Shanmugam who lives in the same building went to his son's house at 7am and found their pet dead. "When he knocked on the door, Palani said he would bring material to remove the dog. However, he didn't turn up till 1pm. So Shanmugam went to the house again and found his daughter-in-law and her children unconscious. He went to the second floor where Palani had his office and found him unconscious," an officer said. Palani is said to be critical. Inquiries revealed that Palani was in a lot of debt. "It is not clear if Palani poisoned his family members without their knowledge or whether it was a collective decision to end their lives," said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/suspected-poisoning-three-of-family-dead-in-chennai/articleshow/78727329.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Karur quack on run arrested at Chennai bus terminus||CHENNAI: Police on Friday arrested a 41-year-old man at the mofussil bus terminus in Koyambedu for illegally practising medicine at Karur. The apprehension by a team of the Arumbakkam police was based on a complaint lodged by the Tamil Nadu Medical Council. A court later sent Jayapandi, the accused who had been nabbed while waiting to board a bus for Karur, to the Central Prison at Puzhal. He had come to the city to meet a relative, a police officer said. Preliminary inquiries by police revealed that Jayapandi had submitted his qualification documents to the state medical council in 2018 and sought a licence to practise as a 'doctor'. However, during the verification the documents were found out to have been forged and the medical council authorities lodged a formal complaint with the Arumbakkam police. A case was registered, but Jayapandi, of Vishwanathapuri near Aravakurichi in Karur in central Tamil Nadu, went absconding. Two weeks ago, the Madras high court had sought status report in this particular case, where the man had got forged documents in the name of Annamalai university. During interrogation, Jeyapandi reportedly told police that he had received fake certificates for 25 lakh from three men identified as Selvaraj, Chidambaram Gautam and Martin in Trichy. The Arumbakkam police registered a case under Section 466 (whoever forges a document or electronic record), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record), 474 (whoever has in his possession any document or electronic record), 484 (whoever counterfeits any property mark used by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/karur-quack-on-run-arrested-at-chennai-bus-terminus/articleshow/78727330.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports 3,676 Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,676 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 7,79,146. The toll increased to 6,406 as 24 more people died due to the pandemic virus. This is the lowest single-day casualty count in over three months. As many as 5,529 patients recovered from the pandemic on Saturday. There are currently 37,102 active cases with 7,35,638 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 94.4%. This is the highest among all the states after Bihar’s recovery rate of 94.3%. East Godavari reported 567 new cases on Saturday, followed by West Godavari 531. All other districts reported less than 500 cases. For the first time in months, two districts (Kurnool and Vizianagaram each 91 cases) registered fewer than 100 cases. Despite the drop in daily cases in several districts, East Godavari continued to lead the table on an almost daily basis. The cumulative case load of the district is 1.09 lakh infections, followed by the neighbouring West Godavari with 78,603 cases. Of the 24 deaths reported on Saturday, five are from Chittoor, four each from Guntur and Krishna, three from Visakhapatnam, two each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and one each from Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 69.91 lakh Covid-19 samples, including 70,881 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. Saturday’s case positivity rate stood at 5.1%, whereas the overall positivity rate decreased to 11.1%. The mortality rate is stable at 0.82%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-3676-covid-19-cases-24-deaths/articleshow/78724468.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra reports 3,676 Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,676 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 7,79,146. The toll increased to 6,406 as 24 more people died due to the pandemic virus. This is the lowest single-day casualty count in over three months. As many as 5,529 patients recovered from the pandemic on Saturday. There are currently 37,102 active cases with 7,35,638 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 94.4%. This is the highest among all the states after Bihar’s recovery rate of 94.3%. East Godavari reported 567 new cases on Saturday, followed by West Godavari 531. All other districts reported less than 500 cases. For the first time in months, two districts (Kurnool and Vizianagaram each 91 cases) registered fewer than 100 cases. Despite the drop in daily cases in several districts, East Godavari continued to lead the table on an almost daily basis. The cumulative case load of the district is 1.09 lakh infections, followed by the neighbouring West Godavari with 78,603 cases. Of the 24 deaths reported on Saturday, five are from Chittoor, four each from Guntur and Krishna, three from Visakhapatnam, two each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and one each from Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 69.91 lakh Covid-19 samples, including 70,881 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. Saturday’s case positivity rate stood at 5.1%, whereas the overall positivity rate decreased to 11.1%. The mortality rate is stable at 0.82%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-reports-3676-covid-19-cases-24-deaths/articleshow/78727935.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra reports 3,676 Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,676 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 7,79,146. The toll increased to 6,406 as 24 more people died due to the pandemic virus. This is the lowest single-day casualty count in over three months. As many as 5,529 patients recovered from the pandemic on Saturday. There are currently 37,102 active cases with 7,35,638 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 94.4%. This is the highest among all the states after Bihar’s recovery rate of 94.3%. East Godavari reported 567 new cases on Saturday, followed by West Godavari 531. All other districts reported less than 500 cases. For the first time in months, two districts (Kurnool and Vizianagaram each 91 cases) registered fewer than 100 cases. Despite the drop in daily cases in several districts, East Godavari continued to lead the table on an almost daily basis. The cumulative case load of the district is 1.09 lakh infections, followed by the neighbouring West Godavari with 78,603 cases. Of the 24 deaths reported on Saturday, five are from Chittoor, four each from Guntur and Krishna, three from Visakhapatnam, two each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and one each from Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 69.91 lakh Covid-19 samples, including 70,881 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. Saturday’s case positivity rate stood at 5.1%, whereas the overall positivity rate decreased to 11.1%. The mortality rate is stable at 0.82%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-reports-3676-covid-19-cases-24-deaths/articleshow/78727936.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Thane||Cox & Kings cheating case: CA found dead near tracks in Thane day before date with cops||MUMBAI: A 38-year-old chartered accountant who was to appear before the police as part of their inquiry into a cheating case involving a travel company was recently found dead close to the railway tracks near Titwala. Sagar Deshpande (38) went missing from his Thane home on October 11. His body was found near the tracks the next day. His family identified the body on Saturday. Deshpande was employed with Cox & Kings as general manager till a year ago, when the company ended operations. He had been unemployed since then, said the police. The EOW is investigating multiple cases against the company, including a Rs 172 crore cheating complaint by the Kotak Mahindra Bank. The police had asked Deshpande to appear before them with documents on October 13, as part of their inquiry into a complaint against Cox & Kings lodged by IndusInd Bank. Deshpande was not named an accused in the case, said the police. The police had registered a preliminary inquiry based on the complaint. Senior police inspector of Kalyan GRP Valmik Shardul said hey had initially registered an accidental death report and now we are investigating if it was a murder or suicide. “We are recording statements of family members and will also speak to his colleagues,” Shardul said. Deshpande resided with his parents and sister in Thane. On October 11, he left home saying he was going to Titwala on some business but did not return. Police sources said his father, Suhas, filed a missing complaint at the Naupada police station in Thane. Deshpande’s uncle on October 11 had called up the EOW officers and informed them that Deshpande had not come home. The railway police said the body was found on the railway tracks between Titwala and Khadavli railway station. The police could not identify it and the GRP later learnt about the missing complaint at Naupada police station. Deshpande’s car was parked a kilometre from the spot where his body was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ca-found-dead-near-tracks-in-thane-day-before-date-with-cops/articleshow/78727333.cms||Pradeep Gupta
October 18, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Inconclusive HRCT scans may be hiding numbers, warn docs||VISAKHAPATNAM: The number of Covid-19 positive cases may have been on the decline in the district for a month now but doctors caution that between 25 to 30% of cases are not included in the caseload. The reason, doctors say, is an absence of provisions for keeping a record on HRCT (High Resolution Computed Tomography to check for lung infection) scans in private hospitals and diagnostic centres and subsequent treatment for Covid-19. Further, there is no standardised scale to determine Covid-19 positivity based on the extent of lung infection as reflected in an HRCT scan. The district is testing over 6,000 samples daily through RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests. Speaking to STOI, secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA, Vizag chapter) and civil surgeon at ESI Hospital Dr Phanender Ketha said, “In the initial months, only government hospitals or those regulated by the government were taking up Covid-19 cases and testing.” Dr Ketha added, “Therefore, there was some sort of record of all the new cases and these were registered through Aadhar. But later, testing and treatment commenced in many private clinics and hospitals and there are no records of the number of Covid-19 positive cases of those who had undergone HRCT scans in a private setup, unlike RT-PCR tests, where registration through Aadhar card is mandatory. Most people are now preferring HRCT as it authentically shows the extent of lung infection even though a person may be Covid-19 negative in RT-PCR tests.” Agreeing that the actual number of cases may be around 25 to 30% more, special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) Dr P V Sudhakar, said, “There is technical difficulty in incorporating HRCT scan results as positive or negative because it does not always correlate with the signs and symptoms of Covid-19. It shows the lung involvement or the extent of infection to the lungs, which may or may not be in congruence with the usual Covid-19 symptoms.” “For instance, if the lung is divided into 40 segments and one has 25 of these involved, the person may still not have any symptoms while someone with 13 segments involved may show Covid-19 symptoms. Therefore, it is difficult for radiologists to come to a conclusion about the positive status of a person solely by HRCT method. It is rather more useful for follow-ups to know the progress or decrease in infection rather than for Covid-19 diagnosis,” Dr Sudhakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/inconclusive-hrct-scans-may-be-hiding-numbers-warn-docs/articleshow/78724488.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Railways launch ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative in AP Express||VISAKHAPATNAM: A novel woman safety initiative of the railways— Meri Saheli (My Friend) — was launched in AP Express, train number 02805 Visakhapatnam-New Delhi, at Visakhapatnam railway station on Saturday. The initiative aims to instil a sense of security among women travellers. As part of this initiative, a team of Railway Protection Force (RPF) women sub-inspectors and constables is formed at the origin station. The team then reaches out to all women passengers travelling alone. The police team will provide phone numbers of RPF and security control rooms en route to women passengers and collect their seat and coach numbers. Distress calls will be attended to by senior officers of the respective division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rlys-launch-meri-saheli-initiative-in-ap-express/articleshow/78724512.cms||Siva G
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Gang abandons 25kg gold booty to escape cop net||Howrah/Burdwan: A gang of armed robbers managed to clean out 25kg gold at gunpoint from the vault of a gold finance company’s Howrah office on Saturday, but had to abandon the booty in their escape vehicle in East Burdwan, along NH-2, to dodge arrest at an unscheduled checkpoint. Police, who are glad to have recovered the stolen gold, have launched a manhunt for some half a dozen members of the gang. According to a company employee, at least five armed men barged into their Jagacha office around 2pm after hitting the lone security guard posted there with the butt of a revolver. Some customers who came by after the incident informed police. A team from Howrah city thana reached the spot and freed the employees. Police suspected that the gang hit Kona Expressway and then made way to NH-2. East Burdwan’s additional SP (headquarters) Kalyan Singha Roy said: “On a tip-off from Howrah police, we launched a naka (random checking of vehicles) at Nababghat crossing along NH-2. The robbers stopped ahead of the crossing, abandoned the car and fled.” Howrah police commissioner Kunal Agarwal confirmed that the entire 25kg gold booty was found in the car. “Efforts are on to nab the gang members,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gang-abandons-25kg-gold-booty-to-escape-cop-net/articleshow/78726856.cms||Rupak Banerjee
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata high-rise blaze claims 12-year-old boy, elderly woman||KOLKATA: The late-night fire at a mixed residential building on Ganesh Chandra Avenue left two residents — a 12-year-old boy and a 65-year-old woman — dead and five others injured. The fire raged for over five hours before it could be brought under control in the early hours of Saturday by 14 fire tenders and 150-odd firemen. Around 200 others living in the eight-storey building, called ‘Moon House’, either saved themselves by jumping to the terrace of the adjacent building with the help of locals or were rescued by firemen, cops and disaster management group personnel. Police said 12-year-old Unais Rahman, who lived on the seventh floor, had ensured a safe passage for his father, mother and eight-year-old brother to the terrace of the adjacent building, but he himself slipped and fell through the three-foot gap between the two buildings. He was taken to SSKM Hospital and then to a private nursing home where he succumbed to his injuries. Another resident, Samima Begum of sixth floor, too, could not make it to the terrace even as her son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter moved up the smoke-filled staircase. She locked herself in the washroom of her apartment with the shower running. By the time firemen reached her, she had already choked to death. A joint probe by the fire department, Bowbazar police and forensic experts revealed that the fire started at the meter box tucked away under the staircase on the ground floor and spread rapidly to the upper floors via the staircase and the lift shaft. Since the building has a single entry and exit point, residents couldn’t use the staircase and had to escape to the upper floors and the terrace. “I was in my room when I heard people screaming. I came out and found our floor on fire. There was no way we could move downstairs. We rushed upstairs and then climbed on the water tank and then somehow jumped to the terrace of the adjacent building. It was very scary but that was the only way we could survive,” recounted second-floor resident Rakesh Chowtala. According to initial findings, the fire was accidental but there was no fire-fighting system in place at the building and “several initial symptoms of wires internally weakening” were ignored. “The fire broke out on the ground floor after repeated short circuits weakened the wires and heated them up. At least eight two-wheelers parked near the source of the fire provided the petrol vapour that allowed the fire to become more devastating,” said a forensic expert. Since the second and third floors mainly had shops and trading units, most lights were switched off and the devastation was minimal on these floors. State fire minister Sujit Bose, who supervised the rescue operation till late in the night, lauded the effort of the fire department in rescuing the residents. He also promised a high-level enquiry into the reasons behind the fire. “There is no fire-fighting measure inside the building and the electrical meter box has been installed in such a way that an accident was just waiting to happen. We have written to the CESC to immediately shift the meter boxes. We are waiting for forensic opinion before we decide on lodging a complaint against the building’s owners and managers,” said Jag Mohan, director general of Fire services. Built in the early 1940s, the building has a single entry-exit point with the meter box under the staircase. “As per new building rules, electrical meter boxes are no longer allowed under staircases. There are 100 odd old buildings in the city with similar violations. We will run an inspection in all such buildings shortly,” said state urban development minister Firhad Hakim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-high-rise-blaze-claims-12-yr-old-boy-elderly-woman/articleshow/78726912.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 18, 2020||Kolkata||PM to e-inaugurate 10 Pujas in Bengal||Kolkata/Midnapore: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate online at least 10 Durga Pujas in Bengal — five in and around Kolkata, one in Midnapore town and the rest in north Bengal — on Mahasasthi next week. Modi will also virtually participate in the Puja being organized by the BJP Mahila Morcha and its cultural wing at Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC). “We have been given the responsibility to host Durga Puja at EZCC this year. This is the first time we will be organizing a puja,” said BJP Mahila Morcha’s state president Agnimitra Paul. Sources in the party said this was the first time a PM had taken time out of his busy schedule to bond with Bengalis over Durga Puja. Modi, however, doesn’t have the ‘first mover’ advantage in Bengal because chief minister Mamata Banerjee already inaugurated 69 Pujas across 10 districts on October 14. The inauguration spree by party titans this time could be an indicator of the political barometer in Bengal, where assembly elections are months away. Outside Kolkata, Modi will launch the Barge Town Durga Puja in Midnapore town. BJP’s district president Samit Dash, along with Puja committee secretary Debdatta De Sarkar, supervised preparations at the venue on Saturday. “We received information today. We are following the government’s Covid safety guidelines,” De Sarkar said. The organizers have received Rs 50,000 from the state government to buffer threats posed by the pandemic. The BJP winning 18 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal last year seems to have made all the difference. Party MPs are now in a position to influence some Puja committees in their constituencies although state BJP president Dilip Ghosh ruled out organizing a full-fledged Durga festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pm-to-e-inaugurate-10-pujas-in-bengal/articleshow/78726884.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Step-father rapes girl, who kills self||CHENNAI: Police on Friday arrested a 42-year-old man under the Pocso Act for sexually assaulting his step-daughter under the influence of alcohol at Pallikaranai. The Class X student later ended her life by hanging at her house. The arrested man was identified as Suresh Kumar, 42, of Medavakkam near Pallikaranai, who worked as a daily wage worker and lived with his second wife and her daughter and a son. A few days ago, Suresh Kumar stayed at home, while his wife went to work. The girl was at home attending online class and her brother was playing outside. Suresh Kumar returned home under the influence of alcohol and sexually assaulted his step-daughter and fled. The girl informed her mother about the incident. Following this, the woman lodged a police complaint. Police arrested Suresh Kumar. Meanwhile, the girl's mother returned from work to find her daughter hanging. Police have sent the girl's body to the Chromepet Government Hospital for further investigation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-step-father-rapes-girl-who-kills-self/articleshow/78727341.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mumbai||IndiGo begins charging Rs 100 service fee for airport check-in||MUMBAI: Low-cost carrier IndiGo on Saturday announced that it has introduced a service fee of Rs 100 for check-in at airport counters from October 17. “We encourage all passengers to web check-in as per a government directive, using our website or mobile app. The check-in fee at the airport counters is applicable on all bookings made, starting from today, that is October 17, 2020,” IndiGo said in a press statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indigo-begins-charging-rs-100-service-fee-for-airport-check-in/articleshow/78727346.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chennai||'108' picked up 40,000 Covid patients in September in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The number of times a '108' ambulance ferried a Covid-19 patient or those with symptoms of the viral infection nearly doubled in September to 40,301 compared to 21,343 in May. During the same period, the number of accident victims and those injured by animal attack being rushed to emergency rooms also rose. According to the performance report of 108 Emergency Management Service, the number of picks made by the ambulance for vehicular trauma was 15,638 in March. In April, when there was a complete lockdown, it dropped to 3,387. On May 1, a cohort of 80 hospitals - which treat up to 90% of road accident victims in the state -- reported 127 victims being brought into emergency rooms. On May 8, when Tasmac shops opened it rose to 464 cases. In May, the number of trauma cases due to vehicular accidents was 8,251. But by September, when the number of vehicles on the road increased, 13,725 accident victims were picked by the state-run ambulance service. "The number of Covid cases continued to rise in September. TN was reporting more than 5,000 new cases a day that month compared to less than 1,000 new cases a day in May. But our ambulances still managed to pick up accident victims on time," said Selva Kumar, head of GVK-EMRI. "It was possible because the state added more than 150 ambulances that took the fleet size to 1,113. The health department had set aside 418 exclusive ambulances to ferry Covid-19 patients," he said. Health minister C Vijayabaskar said the state was able to save more lives as the response time (time it takes to reach the person in distress) dropped to 17.33min in rural areas and 8.07min in cities like Chennai. It was between 18 and 10 in 2019. Statistics showed the number of pregnancy-related pickups, however, went down in September compared to May. Between March and April, when there was a complete lockdown, the number of pickups for pregnancy and its complications went up from 25,237 to 29,847. Most women opted to go to government hospitals for delivery. In May, 26,388 women were picked up for pregnancy-related issues. By August, it dropped to 22,877. "This is because some people,preferred to use their own vehicles to reach hospitals," said Selva Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/108-picked-up-40000-covid-patients-in-september-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78727347.cms||Pushpa Narayan
October 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s food and nightlife industry is limping back to normalcy in Unlock 5||With the Telangana government giving the green signal to bars and hotels to reopen in Unlock 5, the Food and Beverage industry, which was badly hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is slowly getting back on track again. Although the bars and restaurants are running at a 50 per cent occupancy, members of the F&B Industry are relieved that their businesses are getting back on track. “In the first one week, the response was a bit lukewarm as people were still unsure about the safety measures that will be taken. However, people are slowly getting used to the new normal and we’re getting in a lot more diners. It’s a big relief to finally resume operations after six months,” shares Bharat Chowdary, one of the partners at Prism Club & Kitchen in Gachibowli. Gopal Thakur, partner at Over The Moon Brew Company, adds, “People are tired of sitting at home for over seven months so the response has been decent. However, a lot of people are conscious about the safety measures being taken and they call in advance and only visit once they’re convinced about our safety measures.” ‘Happy to see that customers coming back without fear’Hyderabadis cannot stay away from their favourite biryani for too long. Many are queuing up outside their favourite biryani joints in Unlock 5. Harun Basha, who runs Biryani House in Madhapur, says, “We’re pleasantly surprised to see the response in the last couple of weeks. Because we are running the restaurant with only 50 per cent occupancy, we now have long waiting lists. In fact, we did not expect such a great response and in the initial days, we ran out of biryani very quickly. It’s good to see the customers trust our safety guidelines and come back for a dining experience.” Amar Kasetty, general manager at Novotel Hyderabad Convention Centre, adds, “As business activities have resumed, we’re happy to see a rise in the number of customers who are coming to dine at our in-house restaurants. The customers are extremely particular about the safety measures that are being taken but once they’re convinced, they feel relaxed and are having a good time. However, there are still people who are not yet comfortable to come out and dine. It will still take some time for us to destigmatise the concept of dining out and for things to return to normal.” Meanwhile, drive-ins in the city are thriving again as people are eating while sitting in their vehicles, without having to worry about stepping out and coming in contact with others. Aamir Rasool, who owns an outlet at One Drive-in at Jubilee Hills, says, “When we had reopened in July, we hardly saw any customers coming in and I was worried that we may have to shut shop. But in the last couple of weeks, the younger crowd has been returning. Although we have a dine-in option, most people prefer to order from their cars as they feel it is much safer. This week, I’ve made as much business as I did in February, so it’s promising.” FOOD DELIVERIES GOING STRONG Irrespective of whether people are comfortable going out to dine or not, food deliveries continue to be in demand. Narayana Murthy, manager at Flying Spaghetti in Banjara Hills, says, “Since May, we have been dependent on our online deliveries for our business. People are still worried about coming out to dine because of social distancing, etc., but food deliveries continue to come in. Hopefully by December, things will improve even further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabads-food-and-nightlife-industry-is-limping-back-to-normalcy-in-unlock-5/articleshow/78727349.cms||Thadhagath Pathi
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai may get more pre-monsoon rain, say weathermen||CHENNAI: The intense midnight spells that lashed many parts of the city and lasted till early Saturday morning may be only a start to a round of pre-monsoon showers. Weathermen have forecast more thunderstorms in the city till Monday and possibly till mid next week if the system brewing over Bay of Bengal moves towards Andhra Pradesh coast. Weather enthusiasts said while a favourable wind pattern could persist at least for the next four days that could bring rain to the city and the neighbouring districts, there seem to be no indication for the entry of easterlies, one of the first signs for the onset of northeast monsoon, till October 26. IMD officials said an atmospheric circulation extending over Tamil Nadu is making it conducive for opposing winds to converge and result in convective activity. The agency has forecast that a low-pressure area is likely to form over east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea on October 19 and will become more marked during subsequent 24 hours. "As of now, the city is likely to receive rainfall till October 19. After that, it depends on the movement of the system. If it intensifies into a depression, it could recurve and move towards Odisha coast, which means we may not receive rainfall. If it does not intensify, it may move to Andhra Pradesh coast and could bring rainfall to parts of north Tamil Nadu," said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD. The rain that lasted from Friday night till early Saturday morning brought 32.5mm to Nungambakkam and 4.5mm in Meenambakkam. Perambur received the highest at 61mm, Manali New Town 55mm, Puzhal 54mm, Sathyabama University 53mm while core localities like Ice House recorded 13mm and Teynampet 10mm. While pre-monsoon showers could bring some cheer to the city, which is seeing a delay in the onset of northeast monsoon, experts said at present the westerlies are strong over the region, as southwest monsoon is still active over Central and Eastern region of India, and that easterlies may not set in before October 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-may-get-more-pre-monsoon-rain-say-weathermen/articleshow/78727372.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Mysuru||CM overrules Mysuru DC, allows Dasara tourism||MYSURU: Overturning the district administration’s bar on visitors to tourist destinations, district minister ST Somashekar on Saturday said all such spots in and around Mysuru would remain open during Dasara. In a move welcomed by the tourism and hospitality industry, Mysuru Palace, KRS dam, Ranganathittu bird sanctuary, Chamundeshwari temple and Shrikanteshwaraswamy temple in Nanjangud will now remain open during the festival. CM BS Yediyurappa stepped in to lift the bar announced by deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, which was opposed by stakeholders in the tourism sector. The Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu district administrations too had banned visits to various tourist spots during Dasara and till November 1, given the rising Covid-19 infections in this part of the state. Late Friday evening, hotel owners and Mysuru Travels Association office-bearers met the CM and requested him to keep tourist spots open, citing huge losses from the Covid lockdown and delayed recovery since movement curbs have been eased. The CM instructed the Mysuru deputy commissioner to reconsider the decision. On Saturday, though, the minister announced the greenlight to tourists. Tourists must follow SoPs: DCOn Saturday morning, Somashekar announced there would be no restrictions at any tourist spot; social-distancing norms must be adhered to and masks and sanitisers are a must. Following the reversal, Mandya DC Dr MV Venkatesh said, “Tourists will be allowed both at KRS Dam and Ranganathittu. They must strictly follow Covid-19 SoPs.” “The decision will help people. Visitors can have a darshan of Goddess Chamundeshwari during Dasara and visit tourist spots. It will protect the livelihood of thousands of families,” said BS Prashanth, president, Mysuru Travels Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-overrules-mysuru-dc-allows-dasara-tourism/articleshow/78727394.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 4 nabbed from Gandhinagar hotel for killing of bar owner||BENGALURU: Four men were arrested on Saturday from a Gandhinagar hotel here in connection with the murder of bar owner Manish Shetty late Thursday night. Soon after, two of them were shot at for allegedly attacking police when they were recovering machetes buried at a cemetery on Hosur Road. Bike-borne assailants shot Shetty outside his bar off Brigade Road and then hacked him with machetes. Cops describe the firearm as a single-barrel breech loading gun. The accused — Shashikiran alias Munna, 44, and Nitya, 29, from Somavarpet; Ganesha, 39, and Akshay, 32 from Bantwal — had been planning the attack for four months, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-nabbed-from-gandhinagar-hotel-for-killing-of-bar-owner/articleshow/78727403.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||NIA cites Stan Swamy ‘letter’ in chargesheet to bolster Elgar case||NEW DELHI: Nation Investigation Agency (NIA), which is facing flak from some quarters for the arrest of Jharkhand-based activist Stan Swamy, is relying on a letter as crucial piece of evidence against the octogenarian Jesuit priest chargesheeted last week for helping the outlawed CPI(Maoist). The communication allegedly written to a fellow CPI(Maoist) comrade by Stan Swamy had called the leakage of letters meant for senior leaders of the outlawed outfit, “extremely worrisome”, blaming it on their limited knowledge of methods of forensic data recovery. In the letter, which was submitted as evidence in the chargesheet filed by NIA in the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar-Parishad case, Stan said such “grave mistakes” come with “heavy costs” of exposing the “secret channels and our open comrades who operate these channels, leading to their prolonged incarceration”. He underlined the need to enhance knowledge among cadres about such forensic data recovery methods “in order to prevent future mistakes”. Meanwhile, another letter from co-accused Rona Wilson to an unidentified fellow comrade, which also forms part of the chargesheet seen by TOI, pitches for formation of an anti-fascist front on the direction of the CPI(Maoist) “by giving traction” to movements of Dalits taking shape in south Tamil Nadu and Gujarat and of Muslim minorities in Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra" and offering activists behind these movements militant training in “revolutionary armed struggle areas”. Such a front, she purportedly says, should confront “fascist” forces on the ground at the village, small town and cities and neighbourhood levels in urban areas. NIA chargesheet also states that lawyer-activist Gautam Navlakha was fixing appointments and meetings between active urban cadres and underground leaders of CPI(Maoist) under the garb of “fact-finding missions”. In the alleged letter by Stan, recovered from an electronic device seized by NIA even though it was delivered by a human courier, he rues how the exposure of secret communications had added to the damage in Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Stan also expressed worry over the absence of Varavara Rao due to his incarceration, saying there was no senior leader of equal experience to guide the Maoists and People’s War cadres in a coordinated fashion. This, he warned, could further split leading comrades working at all-India level and discourage new comrades from joining CPI(Maoist). Stan, as per the letter, also said the arrests in Maharashtra and Delhi (a reference to Elgar-Parishad case) had “severely crippled our legal defence group” handling defence of political prisoners. NIA sources claimed the reference was to co-accused Navlakha. “Ones left are not experienced enough to correctly understand and counter the shrewd, multi-faceted strategy employed by the enemy forces,” he pointed out. Calling the state police “a chronic pain” for continuously disrupting CPI(Maoist) activity in urban and interior areas, he said Hindu ideological forces were seeking to reap electoral benefits, “as we lose base among the poor and middle classes”. “We we must do everything that is possible with the current human and financial resources to disrupt the fake development propaganda disseminated by slander campaign of BJP/RSS corporate-friendly family,” adds Stan, as per the letter perused by TOI. Pointing to “cues from recent events in (West) Bengal”, the Jharkhand-based priest purportedly states that the central committee (CC) of CPI(Maoist) was closely watching BJP political strategy and had vowed not to let it succeed at any level. Stating that the arrest of G N Saibaba and Rona Wilson had disrupted communication with international Maoist forces, he said DU assistant professor and co-accused in Elgar Parishad case Hany Babu had been tasked by CC to assume responsibility of international cooperation. NIA has charged Hany Babu with coordinating visits by foreign mediapersons to Maoist strongholds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nia-cites-stan-swamy-letter-in-chargesheet-to-bolster-elgar-case/articleshow/78727412.cms||Bharti Jain
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: At Marundeeswarar temple, thief prays, loots and leaves||CHENNAI: The famous Marundeeswarar temple at Thiruvanmiyur was found looted on Friday morning, when authorities opened the 'hundials' (boxes of offerings). CCTV cameras at the shrine caught a man offering prayers in the sanctum sanctorum and offering some cash before breaking open the two hundials and fleeing with the offerings between 12.15am and 1am on Friday. A case has been registered and a hunt launched. After opening the temple, the priest noticed the locks on both the hundials in front of the sanctum sanctorum broken and alerted the authorities. The Thiruvanmiyur police were soon informed and a team arrived at the scene and began investigations. Fingerprint experts lifted a few sets of prints from the hundi and from along the temple corridor. A special police team was assigned to examine CCTV camera footage. The footage, an officer said, showed a young man wearing a mask entering the temple, offering prayers to the deity and even donated some cash. The footage then showed him opening the hundials with an iron rod and a wire and escaping with the offerings. He spent about 45 minutes in the shrine, the officer said. When questioned, the authorities told police that the temple which had been closed for a long time to prevent the spread of Covid-19 was recently reopened. Investigators said it would have been difficult to scale the high walls surrounding the temple. "We have been scanning the CCTV camera footage to see how the person sneaked inside. The lights on one side of the temple were not lit. There are a few apartment complexes very close to the temple and the thief could have got on to a wall of the temple from a nearby building," said an officer. According to legend, Lord Marundeeswarar taught sage Agastya about a medicine and since then people with incurable diseases and other illnesses have flocked to the temple. Sage Valmiki, who wrote the Ramayana, is believed to have come to the Marundeeswarar temple to worship. The place was known as Thiruvalmikiyur for a long time before it became Thiruvanmiyur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-at-marundeeswarar-temple-thief-prays-loots-and-leaves/articleshow/78727415.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Chennai||Anna University to incubate 24 startups from alumni, faculty||CHENNAI: The Anna University Incubator with the support of Atal Innovation Mission has selected 24 startups with ideas ranging from electric super bikes to a social network for food enthusiasts to incubate. The incubator received 90 applications from faculty members, students, alumni and the public. Of the 90, the incubator filtered 49 ideas before selecting 24 for pre-incubation. The focus areas are smart society, smart health, smart agriculture, education technology, future of wealth and other areas such as security and space. The 10,000 sqft incubation facility offers sector specific labs, Fablab, pre-incubation space, incubation area, co-working area, a conference centre, spacious break out areas, an administrative office and a reception lounge. Other startup ideas include innovative ideas such as locust smart repellant and artificial intelligence-based drones. Faculty members of an engineering college Jeevitha Prasanna Vignesh and R Vidya are looking to address locust attacks. "Like mosquito repellant, we can use ultrasound to ward off the locusts," Vignesh said. As per the plan, a pole erected in the field will detect locusts, based on image process technology, and generate ultrasonic waves that will chase them away. Dinesh Ramkumar Venkatasamy, an alumnus of Madras Institute of Technology, Chromepet, co-founded electric motor-cycle startup Raptee Energy. "We are building electric motorcycles and control units for electric vehicles," said Venkatasamy, who has also worked with Tesla. M Saravan Krishna, an alumnus of College of Engineering, Guindy, plans to build a social network for food enthusiasts. "Like LinkedIn for employment-oriented service, we are planning to provide a social network for food enthusiasts. There is no platform to discuss food. There is no peer-to-peer interaction. We are trying to build one common platform where people can post questions and reviews. It would be a global platform out of Chennai," he said. "If these startups show progress and commitment, we move them to an incubation programme. It will begin from January 2021. During the incubation period we give them access to our labs, mentorship, help them come up with a prototype, marketing and funding to scale up their products," said Kumar Sachidanandam, chief executive officer, AIC - Anna University Incubation Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-university-to-incubate-24-startups-from-alumni-faculty/articleshow/78727417.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Bandhavgarh tigress & cub dead, possibly poisoned||BHOPAL: A tigress and its cub have died of suspected poisoning inside Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve (BTR), officials said on Saturday. T42, a 10-year-old tigress, had been seen moving around with four cubs. A massive search is on to locate the other three cubs. Sources say one cub was spotted and found to have a sunken stomach, indicating it was starving. “The tigress died three or four days ago. There were maggots on its body. The cub may have died early today morning. Autopsy is over and we are waiting for the reports. Poisoning cannot be ruled out,” said BTR field director Vincent Rahim. The carcass of the tigress was found near Mahaman village by a patrol. The cub was found dead 200 meters away. “All organs were intact. We saw a wound on the cub’s carcass after which we scanned it with metal detectors, but nothing was found,” said the officer. Patrol teams searching for 3 other cubsPatrol teams on elephants are surveilling the area for the three other cubs. “We are worried about them,” Rahim told TOI. “We have collected samples and sent them for detailed investigation to ascertain the actual cause of death. Our teams are alert,” he said. Bandhavgarh has lost more than six of its tigers in just six months. Like T42, tigress T62 and a cub were found dead just hours before the Tiger Estimation Report 2018 were announced. The carcasses were found in Kalwha Range. Its second cub, which had survived, was rescued by forest rangers. Two newborn tiger cubs had died earlier this week, apparently abandoned by their mother as they were weak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bandhavgarh-tigress-cub-dead-possibly-poisoned/articleshow/78727426.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Bhopal||As training begins, cutting flab gained in lockdown biggest challenge for athletes||BHOPAL: Months of Covidlockdown, closed gyms and restriction on stepping out of home have had an adverse effect on the fitness of many athletes. As they resume training during unlock, their biggest challenge currently is not to hone their sporting skills but to reduce the excess weight. Now that the sports department has allowed the training at Tatya Tope stadium, several athletes have started coming back to the ground to shed all those lockdown kilos. Olympian long jumper Ankit Sharma lamented, “I have put on almost 5.5kg. I have to first put extra efforts in getting back to the shape. As an athlete, I was following a strict diet and workout plan. Only after that I could be a part of the London Olympics. But lockdown has undone my body shape to an extent.” About the time he will require to get back to his earlier body shape, Ankit said, “It will take at least 4-5 months. There are still several restrictions in place.” Same is the situation with the athletes of almost every sport. A boxer requesting anonymity, said that many athletes have gained over 10 kilos. “Our boxers who are part of the sports academy did not complain much about weight changes. However, those who could not get proper training have witnessed huge increase in weight as they went back home where proper machines were not available,” said boxing coach Roshan Lal. Deepak Gour, secretary of Bhopal district boxing association, said, “Major problem is with those who went back to their villages as they did not have any facility there.” In-charge, sports medicine centre, Tatya Tope Stadium Dr Jince Thomas said that athletes are being evaluated before the training. “We have designed a schedule and put them under counselling. This is being done as per the data available after screening the athletes. It is the coach who is giving us feedback on how to plan their schedules,” said Dr Thomas. Sports department has also engaged a nutritionist who is likely to join the stadium next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-training-begins-cutting-flab-gained-in-lockdown-biggest-challenge-for-athletes/articleshow/78727470.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||India’s Covid-19 response has been strategic: WHO official||India is in an advantageous position for providing its population with Covid-19 vaccines with manufacturers ramping up capacities, and the highest political leadership leading the response, WHO regional director for south-east Asia Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh tells Sushmi Dey . Excerpts from an interview:In India, active cases are plateauing helped by declining new cases and faster recoveries over past few weeks. What does this indicate?India’s response has been strategic, tailored to the evolving pandemic and should be seen in the context of its unique challenges — demographic, geographic among many others. We need to continue to strengthen implementation of core public health measures — test, detect, isolate and treat — and as individuals practice physical distancing, hand and respiratory hygiene, and wear a mask. Many countries that earlier showed signs of tapering are now showing a rising graph of infections. Can India too witness a second wave?Like the rest of the world, India also remains vulnerable to Covid-19. What is clear is that when you ease off pressure from the virus, the virus bounces back. Do you think that lockdowns are an effective defence from the virus and is there is a need to impose one again in India?Physical distancing measures and movement restrictions can slow Covid-19. Decisions to tighten or loosen or re-institute these measures should be based on scientific evidence and real-world experience and take into account other factors like economic factors, food security etc. How soon are you expecting a safe and effective vaccine in India?Around 200 candidate vaccines are at some stage of development. Considering the time taken for licensure and mass production after trials have been completed, the earliest that vaccine doses could be available is early-to mid-2021. India has proposed to WTO to waive off patent on Covid related drugs, diagnostics and vaccine. Please comment.In the WHO south-east Asia Region, member countries have adopted a ministerial declaration in September 2018 to encourage management of intellectual property and trade rules and full use of TRIPS flexibilities for enhanced accessibility and affordability of new medical products, including new therapies for priority diseases. Also, there are a range of policy options open to the countries to deal with public health issues such as compulsory licensing for a patent under the TRIPS Agreement of WTO. These options were also reiterated by all the countries in the recent 2020 World Health Assembly resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-response-tailored-to-the-evolving-pandemic/articleshow/78727477.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 18, 2020||India||AIMPLB will challenge in HC acquittal of all Babri accused||NEW DELHI: The All India Muslim Personal Law Board on Saturday issued a statement to say that it will challenge in the high court the special CBI court verdict acqutting all accused on the Babri Masjid demolition case. The AIMPLB working committee chaired by the board’s president, Maulana Syed Mohammad Rabey Hasani Nadvi issued a statement saying “members at the meeting expressed their dismay over the decision of the court. The board unanimously decided whether the CBI would challenge this decision or not, the board would challenge this decision in the high court.” The board’s legal committee also presented a detailed note to the working committee on the review of the Sabarimala case saying that “it clearly includes religious freedom, the scope of Article 25 of the Indian Constitution and what is mandatory and important for a religion could be dealt in this ruling. This will affect the religious freedom of the majority, including Muslims and the other minorities. It was thus decided that the board would also be involved in the case as an intervenor.” The Board also decided to hold meetings with religious groups, other minorities and members of civil society other than political parties to discuss the issue of uniform civil code and build awareness among people about “how it can be damaging for a pluralistic society”. The board has decided to set-up a committee to focus on the issue to counter any kind of propaganda around uniform civil code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aimplb-will-challenge-in-hc-acquittal-of-all-babri-accused/articleshow/78727502.cms||---
October 18, 2020||Noida||It’s official. RDC is a vehicle-free zone||GHAZIABAD: After a long wait, the Rajnagar District Centre — the city’s major commercial hub — has been made a vehicle-free zone from Saturday. Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) officials said an 800m stretch outside Gaur Mall will now be out of bounds for traffic and a separate parking bay with a capacity of 1,200 vehicles has also been developed adjacent to the mall. “The idea to make RDC a vehicle-free zone was being worked upon for many years now and due to one reason or the other, the project never took off. But we wrapped up the work in less than a year and was inaugurated on Saturday by the Ghaziabad MP VK Singh,” said Kanchan Verma, vice chairperson, GDA. RDC usually sees a footfall of about 8,000 people on weekdays, which reaches to about 15,000 on weekends, according to pre-Covid estimates. “A fountain in the middle of the centre, 10 kiosks, fancy lighting and seating arrangements for more than 2,000 pedestrians have been made. It is going to be a shoppers delight now where they can spend quality time, we have also installed all boom barriers to deter vehicles from entering except for emergency services,” said Verma. A park for differently abled was also inaugurated in Indirapuram’s Neeti Khand 1. The park has been developed at a cost of Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/its-official-rdc-is-a-vehicle-free-zone/articleshow/78726790.cms||Abhijay Jha
October 18, 2020||World||Chechen teen asked pupils to identify French teacher before beheading him, 9 detained||The teenager who beheaded a teacher outside the school in a Paris suburb where he taught had approached pupils in the street and asked them to point out his victim, anti-terrorism prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard said on Saturday. Police shot dead the 18-year-old attacker, who was born in Russia, minutes after he murdered 47-year-old history teacher Samuel Paty in broad daylight in Conflans-Sainte-Honorine on Friday. A photograph of the teacher’s body, accompanied by a message claiming responsibility posted on Twitter, was discovered on the assailant’s phone, found near his body. Ricard said the Twitter account belonged to the attacker. The post was removed swiftly by Twitter, which said it had suspended the account because it violated the company’s policy. Ricard quoted the message as saying: “In the name of Allah the most gracious, the most merciful, ... to (President) Macron, leader of the infidels, I have executed one of your hell-hounds who dared to belittle (Prophet) Muhammad.” Earlier this month Paty had shown his pupils cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad in a class on freedom of expression, angering a number of Muslim parents. Muslims believe that any depiction of the Prophet is blasphemous. The attacker, of Chechen origin, was not previously known to the intelligence services, Ricard told a news conference. The anti-terrorism prosecutor confirmed police were holding nine people in custody in connection with the attack. The killing shocked the country and carried echoes of an attack five years ago on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. PM Jean Castex said it bore the hallmarks of Islamist terrorism. “Secularism, the backbone of the French Republic, was targeted in this vile act,” Castex said. Four relatives of the attacker were detained soon after the attack. Five more were detained overnight, including the father of a pupil at Paty’s school and an acquaintance of the pupil’s father known to the intelligence services. In the days after the lesson on freedom of expression, the pupil’s father recorded several videos in which he branded the teacher a thug and called for him to be fired. In one, he urged others to “join forces and say ‘stop, don’t touch our kids’”. The half-sister of the pupil’s father had joined Islamic State in Syria in 2014, the prosecutor said. It was not clear if the teen attacker knew either of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/chechen-teen-asked-pupils-to-identify-french-teacher-before-beheading-him-9-detained/articleshow/78727510.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Punjab BJP gen secy quits, Hry neta too resigns over farm laws||CHANDIGARH: The resignation of Punjab BJP general secretary and a former Haryana BJP member, who had quit the party recently, joining INLD on Saturday have jolted the saffron party. Both resigned in protest against the agri-marketing laws passed by the Centre recently. In his resignation letter to Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma, state BJP general secretary Malvinder Singh Kang said he has been requesting both state and central leadership of the party to redress the grievances of the protesting farmers, but no positive steps have been taken. “As general secretary of the state BJP and as a member of the core group of the party, I raised my voice in support of the protesting farmers, arhtiyas, small traders and labourers at the party platform. While supporting the farmers’ agitation, I resign from the post of state general secretary, member of the core group and from the primary membership of the party,” reads Kang’s letter. Last week, more than four dozen BJP leaders from different regions of Punjab had joined SAD. In Haryana, former BJP leader Shyam Singh Rana joined the INLD on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-bjp-gen-secy-quits-hry-neta-too-resigns-over-farm-laws/articleshow/78727516.cms||---
October 18, 2020||India||Seema Mustafa elected head of Editors Guild||NEW DELHI: Senior journalist and editor of The Citizen, Seema Mustafa, has been elected as the new president of the Editors Guild of India. Mustafa takes over from Shekhar Gupta, editor-in-chief of The Print. Following an online election to the Guild on October 16, Sanjay Kapoor, editor of Hardnews, was elected general secretary while Anant Nath, editor of Caravan, was elected unopposed as treasurer of the Guild. The Editors Guild, comprising eminent editors, is tasked with protecting press freedom and raising the standards of editorial leadership of newspapers and magazines. Since its formation in 1978, the Guild has spoken up against threats to press freedom, and worked on improving standards of newspaper editors and introduced a code of ethics of editors, apart from investigating and recommending action to the governments and institutions concerned against instances of harassmentof journalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/seema-mustafa-elected-head-of-editors-guild/articleshow/78727522.cms||---
