October 19, 2020||Business||FDI with even the smallest Chinese holding will need government nod||NEW DELHI: Foreign direct investment (FDI) proposals with even minuscule Chinese holding will need government approval, with the Centre abandoning its earlier plan to set a floor for “significant beneficial ownership”. In April, when the Cabinet approved the plan for screening of FDI proposals from countries bordering India, the government had discussed the option to set the threshold at either 10%, the provision in the Companies Act, or 25%, the prescription in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Read AlsoChina's economy accelerates as virus recovery gains strengthChina's economic growth accelerated to 4.9 per cent over a year earlier in the latest quarter as a shaky recovery from the coronavirus pandemic gathered strength. Figures announced Monday for the three months ending in September were in line with expectations after the ruling Communist PartyBut six months later, after multiple rounds of discussions, the view seems to have changed. “The (Cabinet) decision did not mention a minimum or maximum limit. So, even it is a small fraction, it will be covered,” a government official told TOI. A threshold for “significant beneficial ownership” was meant to ensure that Chinese companies did not enter India via third countries such as Singapore or Mauritius. The move is being closely watched by start-ups, ranging from Paytm to Zomato to BigBasket, which have Chinese investment. Several proposals are also pending government approval. Sources said an inter-ministerial group met this week and started work on preparing guidelines which would be followed by ministries ranging from commerce and industry to power and telecom. “These will be guidelines to guide ministries on proposals, they will not be binding,” an official said. Officials said they are looking to finalise guidelines in the next few days, which will also include FDI flows from Hong Kong, while Taiwanese investments are expected to be exempted from the requirement of mandatory clearance. Read AlsoChinese car company plans to up India investment by Rs 1,000 croreUnfazed by the anti-China sentiment, MG Motor has said that it will approach the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) to make fresh investments into India as the Chinese carmaker plans to get in an additional Rs 1,000 crore to launch new models and expand operations.Separately, the government is toying with the idea of legal changes, which will be discussed at the political level to ensure that the norms are not diluted in future. This may entail amendments to the Companies Act and FEMA, which governs FDI. All FDI changes are notified under FEMA. The move to tighten rules for investment flows from China followed the tension at the Ladakh border and the growing influence of companies such as Tencent and Alibaba in the Indian start-up ecosystem. Over the years, the government had adopted a sectoral view with only sensitive areas requiring approval, irrespective of the source of FDI flow. Watch FDI with even minuscule Chinese holdings to require govt approval||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fdi-with-even-the-smallest-chinese-holding-will-need-govt-nod/articleshow/78738799.cms||Sidhartha
October 19, 2020||India||MP woman alleges gangrape by five cops for 10 days in lock-up||BHOPAL: A 20-year-old woman has alleged that she was kept in a lock-up and raped for 10 days in May this year by five police personnel, including the police station in-charge and sub-divisional police officer, in Mangawan of MP’s Rewa district. The woman is an accused in a murder case and is now in jail custody. She made the allegation before an additional district judge and a team of lawyers when they had gone to inspect the prison on October 10. The district judge then ordered a judicial inquiry and wrote to the Rewa SP Rakesh Singh to take action. The SP said he was yet to get the letter. The woman says she was raped between May 9 and May 21, while police say she was arrested on May 21. The woman alleges she was kept in the lock-up and raped by the SDOP, police station in-charge and three constables. A female constable had protested but was rebuked by her seniors, she told the legal team in prison on October 10. Under Supreme Court orders, legal teams routinely visit female inmates in prison and submit reports. “When we asked why she hadn’t spoken up earlier, she said she had told the warden three months ago,” said advocate Satish Mishra, who was part of the legal team. The warden acknowledged that the detainee had told her about the gangrape. “Her statement was recorded by additional district judge and placed before the chief judicial magistrate, who then submitted it to the district judge. On October 14, the judge ordered a judicial probe and wrote to the SP,” president of Rewa district bar association, Rajendra Pandey, told TOI on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-woman-alleges-gangrape-by-five-cops-for-10-days-in-lock-up/articleshow/78738998.cms||---
October 19, 2020||India||Peaceful LAC bare minimum for stable China ties: India||NEW DELHI: As Indian and Chinese troops continue to maintain their mountain vigil, India has signalled to China repeatedly in the past few days that the minimum requirement for stable relations is a peaceful border. Speaking to former Indian ambassador to China Gautam Bambawale at an online event, foreign minister S Jaishankar said: “It is not our position that we should solve the boundary question. We understand that it is a very complicated and difficult issue. There have been many negotiations at different levels... That is a very high bar for a relationship... I am talking about a much more basic bar which is that there must be peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the border areas and that has been the case since the late 1980s.” The minister’s remarks come even as the two sides remain entrenched in their respective positions on the heights in eastern Ladakh. “Now, if peace and tranquillity is deeply disturbed, then obviously there will be an impact on the relationship and that is what we are seeing,” Jaishankar said. While both sides work on disengagement protocols amid a big trust deficit, there are two views within the Indian national security establishment. One set of opinions is there may be some modest disengagement in November, with the Chinese side returning to the heights next spring. The second believe China will continue to press India on the LAC because China wants to change the ground position, . But both views agree on one thing — the LAC in eastern Ladakh will now be forever manned by Indian troops, making it another Siachen-like situation. At least until a border agreement is reached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/peaceful-lac-bare-minimum-for-stable-china-ties-india/articleshow/78739099.cms||---
October 19, 2020||India||Ujjain hooch toll at 13; one SP suspended and another shunted||BHOPAL: A day after two constables were arrested for the hooch deaths in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday ordered the transfer of Ujjain SP Manoj Singh and ASP Rupesh Dwivedi and the suspension of city SP Rajnish Kashyap. The CM issued the orders during a law-and-order review meeting in which additional chief secretary-home Rajesh Rajora, who is leading an SIT probe into the case, briefed him on the developments. Singh has been replaced by Sathyendra Kumar Shukla, who was Shahdol SP. Awdesh Goswami, SP PTS-Indore, is being moved to Shahdol. Singh’s new posting is AIG police headquarters, Bhopal. The three prime accused — Yunus, Gabbar and Sikandar — were employees of Ujjain Municipal Corporation and have since been sacked. The SIT is probing the tragedy, in which 13 labourers died after drinking a concoction named Jhinjhar. Another person died while being treated at a hospital on Sunday, taking the toll to 14. Police, however, put the number of deaths at 12 on the basis of autopsy reports. Chouhan expressed serious concern at the deaths and ordered a statewide crackdown on the mafia involved in such illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ujjain-hooch-toll-at-13-one-sp-suspended-and-another-shunted/articleshow/78739231.cms||---
October 19, 2020||India||Twitter location tag pins J&K as a part of China||NEW DELHI: Twitter landed in a controversy on Sunday after the location tag in a live broadcast showed Jammu and Kashmir as a part of China. The microblogging site’s lapse was brought to attention by national security analyst, Nitin Gokhale, who went live from Leh’s popular war memorial, Hall of Fame, around 12pm. TOI reached out to Twitter for a comment over phone and email, but did not get a response till the filing ofthis report. “Twitter folks, I just did a live (sic) from Hall of Fame. Giving Hall of Fame as the location and guess what it is saying Jammu & Kashmir, People’s Republic of China! Are you guys nuts?” Gokhale wrote on his verified handle. According to lehladakhindia.com, “Hall of Fame is a museum constructed by the Indian Army in memory of the brave Indian soldiers who laid down their lives defending the motherland in the Indo-Pak wars. The Hall of Fame museum is located on the Leh-Kargil Road, about 4km from the city of Leh.” Following Gokhale’s tweets, other users also tried to go live on the microblogging platform by tagging their location as Leh, and Twitter showed it to be a part of China’s territory. “So @Twitter has decided to reconfigure geography and declare Jammu & Kashmir as part of People’s Republic of #China. If this is not a violation of #India laws, what is? Citizens of India have been punished for far less. But US Big Tech is above the law?” asked Kanchan Gupta of Observer Research Foundation while tagging IT minister @rsprasad. Other users demanded action against Twitter for “disrespecting” the Indian map. Watch Twitter shows Jammu and Kashmir as part of China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-location-tag-pins-jk-as-a-part-of-china/articleshow/78739074.cms||Anam Ajmal
October 19, 2020||India||Covid-19: Certain districts in some states witnessing community transmission, govt says||NEW DELHI: Health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said certain districts in some states are witnessing community transmission but it is “not happening across the country”. “In different pockets across various states, including West Bengal, community transmission of Covid-19 is expected to occur, especially in densely populated areas. However, this is not happening across the country. Community transmission is limited to certain districts, occurring in a limited number of states,” Vardhan said responding to a question during his social media interaction 'Sunday Samvaad'. Read AlsoIndia can check pandemic by Feb-end: Expert panelThe number of active, symptomatic Covid-19 cases in India has already peaked at around 10 lakh on September 17, a government expert committee’s report said on Sunday. The cumulative total cases may reach 1.06 crore, with negligible growth by the end of February, thereby signalling a consistentThe response was with reference to West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s remark that there are instances of community transmission in her state. The participant asked the health minister which are the states that have witnessed community transmission of the viral disease. The Centre has so far maintained that there is only localised community transmission limited to some areas that are reporting clusters of cases as most of the case burden is still limited to certain states and districts. It has said that containment strategies are intended to limit the localised transmission. Around 79% of 61,871 new cases were detected from 10 states on Saturday. Similarly, while the total active caseload in the country has dropped below 8 lakh, only three states —Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala — have more than 50,000 active cases each. Watch Only localised community transmission across country, in certain districts: Health minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-community-transmission-across-country-only-in-certain-districts-health-minister/articleshow/78739725.cms||---
October 19, 2020||World||How Modi would have won in a US-like system||What would have happened if India had a US-like presidential system?Prime Minister Narendra Modi won two consecutive Lok Sabha elections on the back of political campaigns that were largely presidential in nature. In both 2014 and 2019, the BJP ran aggressive campaigns inspired by the US presidential-style of politicking and turned Modi's national popularity into its primary poll plank. But what if Modi were to be elected through a US-like system? Here's a thought experiment... How elections work in India and US Both India and the US follow the first-past-the-post (FPTP) election model. This means that a candidate with the highest number of votes wins the election. However, the process to win the national elections is different in both the democracies. While in India, a party has to win a majority in the Lower House to be able to form the government, the US has separate elections for the presidency and House of Representatives. This means that a US president can stay in power even without a majority in the House of Representatives, which is the case with Donald Trump right now. In comparison, the central government in India would collapse if it doesn't enjoy a majority in the Lok Sabha. However, the Upper House majority does not impact the stability of the government in both the nations. In India, each state is divided into constituencies and each constituency is represented by a member of Parliament. It has a total of 543 Lok Sabha constituencies spread across 28 states and 8 Union Territories. When Indians vote in a general election, they pick an individual from a list of candidates fielded by different parties to represent their respective constituencies. The party which wins the majority of the Lok Sabha constituencies (current majority mark is 272) gets to form the government. In the US presidential system, each of the 50 states is allocated a certain number of electoral votes that is determined largely by the size of its population. Hence, a populous state like California which has close to 39 million people has as many as 55 electors while a smaller state like Alaska which has just around 700,000 residents has three electors. These electors make up the electoral college which comprises a total of 538 members. An absolute majority of at least 270 electoral votes is required to win the election in the US. On election day, the voters cast their ballot in favour of a presidential candidate but are technically voting for an elector who in turn elects the President. The 'winner-takes-all' methodAll the states in the US - except Maine and Nebraska - follow the "winner-takes-all" method where every electoral vote goes to the candidate who has won the majority in that state. So when Donald Trump secured 47.6% of Michigan's total votes compared to Hillary Clinton's 47.3% in 2016, he got all the 16 electoral votes assigned to the state. Indian states, on the other hand, are not treated as a bloc. The 'winner-takes-all' method applies only at the constituency level. In such a system, it is possible for a party to win a fewer number of seats than its rival despite bagging the majority vote share. What if presidential-style elections were held to elect India's leader?Let's assume that India picks its leader through a US-like model where the 'winner-takes-all' formula is applied to the entire state. In this model, the constituency-level contests are invalid. Thus, an individual constituency can simply constitute an electoral vote (EV). The party which ends up winning the majority vote share in a particular state will bag all the electoral votes assigned to that state. Take Uttar Pradesh's 2019 results. In this system, the NDA would have claimed all of UP's 80 seats, or electoral votes in this case, since it had a majority vote share of nearly 50%. Currently, the NDA has 64 seats in the state. The bare minimumWith the US-style system, a party in India can theoretically win the elections by securing majority in just six major states: Uttar Pradesh (80), Maharashtra (48), West Bengal (42), Bihar (40), Tamil Nadu (39), Madhya Pradesh (29). These six states add up to 278 seats (or EVs) in Parliament, which is higher than the majority mark of 272. Such a possibility exists even in the parliamentary system, but it is next-to-impossible to win every seat in all these states as opposed to simply winning the majority of votes in each one of them. Similarly, a political party in the US would have to win a minimum of 11 states to achieve the same feat. California, Texas, New York, Florida, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan, Georgia, North Carolina, and New Jersey add up to exactly 270 electoral votes, which is the majority mark required to win.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); How would Modi have faredIn 2019, Narendra Modi's NDA alliance would have won the elections with the help of just seven states where it had majority of the votes: Uttar Pradesh (80), Maharashtra (48), Bihar (40), Madhya Pradesh (29), Karnataka (28), Gujarat (26), Rajasthan (25). These states add up to 276 seats (or electoral votes under the US format), which would have ensured a comfortable victory in the elections. The only big states where the NDA had trailed vis-a-vis vote share were West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. While Mamata Banerjee-led TMC grabbed the majority vote share in Bengal, the DMK-led UPA claimed most of Tamil Nadu's votes. But despite this, the NDA would have won 359 electoral votes nationally which is, interestingly, not much higher than its current tally of 353 Lok Sabha seats.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); And the same is the case with 2014. Modi could have won the elections with the help of the same seven states as his party secured a majority of the votes in all of them. And if we add up the national numbers, the party would have won a total of 390 votes in 2014. This number is significantly higher compared to 2019 because the saffron party would have claimed all the votes in Punjab and Andhra due to the majority vote share in both the states in 2014. Even though the 2014 Lok Sabha elections were held in undivided Andhra which constituted 42 seats, we are counting the vote shares of Andhra and Telangana separately for this exercise since the BJP-TDP combine won a majority vote share only in the Seemandhra region.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); While one could argue that presidential-style elections in India would be fought differently and will feature a strong opposition contender, it is important to note that the "Modi factor" did play a big role in all the aforementioned states and helped the BJP grab the larger piece of the vote share pie despite challenges from political bigwigs. Thus, it won't be far-fetched to assume that the BJP would hold an advantage in these 7 states even in a presidential-style voting. In fact, there are several other states like Haryana, Delhi and Jharkhand where a presidential-style campaign helped the BJP dominate the polls in both 2014 and 2019. Such states would have given the party a considerable edge in this format.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/how-modi-would-have-won-in-a-us-like-system/articleshow/78739753.cms||Armaan Bhatnagar
October 19, 2020||India||Living standard, not income, key to fixing poverty line: Govt paper||NEW DELHI: The future definition of poverty line cannot be the subsistence level income required by an individual but will have to factor in living standards that encompass facilities like housing, education and sanitation among others, a working paper on poverty released by Union rural development ministry notes. Besides, the paper says that the coronavirus pandemic has “underscored the criticality of certain essentials — access to quality healthcare, education and awareness, water and sanitation facilities, adequate nutrition and the need for living spaces where social distancing can be practiced.” Interestingly, it says that World Bank has classified India as a lower middle-income country with poverty line at the consumption level of Rs 75 per person per day— a figure higher than India’s present marker. “Over time, India will need to adjust to the new reality of the transition to a lower middle-income country in which poverty does not mean living at the edge of hunger but, rather, lack of income to take advantage of the opportunities thrown up by a growing economy,” the paper notes. Written by Seema Gaur and N Srinivasa Rao, principal economic advisor and economic advisor to the department of RD, respectively, the academic paper traces the history of poverty measurement in the country over decades and the controversies that have dogged the process because of its tricky nature. A row had erupted over the Tendulkar poverty line which was said to be pegged too low. However, the paper concludes that a “poverty line” is essential for the policy makers to have an objective number around which to work as also to measure the progress in combating deprivation. It says that notching an average annual GDP growth rate of 8% is critical to the strategy of attacking poverty by creating jobs. The RD ministry plays a key role in measuring and combatting poverty, being the authority on socio-economic caste census, which is the present barometer for identifying deprived households as also the executor of major poverty alleviation programmes. While underlining that global reports have asserted that India was moving the fastest in fighting poverty, the paper says “Progress in poverty reduction and improvement in the socioeconomic indicators in India has been marked by substantial inequalities. Poverty is concentrated both spatially and among social and economic groups.” Watch Living standard is key to fixing India’s poverty line||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-just-income-use-edu-housing-to-define-poverty-minister/articleshow/78739787.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 19, 2020||India||Newspapers ‘completely safe’ during Covid: Vardhan||NEW DELHI: Health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said reading newspapers was “completely safe” during the Covid-19 pandemic. Rekindling the joy of having morning tea with the daily newspaper, Vardhan said there was no scientific evidence to prove that novel coronavirus transmission could happen via newspapers. “Reading newspapers is completely safe even during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Vardhan said during his weekly social media interaction. Health experts and researchers have also dismissed rumours that coronavirus infection could spread through newspaper delivery and said it was highly unlikely. Recently, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said distribution of newspapers should not be curbed or restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/newspapers-completely-safe-during-covid-vardhan/articleshow/78739842.cms||---
October 19, 2020||India||Modi to come face-to-face with Xi & Imran during SCO summit on Nov 10||NEW DELHI: At a time relations with China and Pakistan remain in a freefall, PM Narendra Modi will square off with both President Xi Jinping and PM Imran Khan at the SCO summit which Russia will host virtually, as Indian officials confirmed, on November 10. As has been reported earlier, Modi and Xi will also come face to face at the BRICS virtual summit on November 17. Because of the vastness and complexity of the SCO agenda, Russia was keen to have a physical summit of the Eurasian group but, like with BRICS, that proposal too was scuttled by the Covid-19 threat. With its focus on security and other political issues, SCO is a lot more important forum for India to underscore its concerns on issues like terrorism and the need for all to respect sovereignty and regional integrity in any connectivity initiative. The November 10 summit will also for the first time see Modi and Xi together since the ongoing India-China military standoff was first reported in May. The 2 countries are expected to hold another round of military talks for border disengagement and de-escalation this week, although there's been no sign of a breakthrough despite 7 such meetings in the past few months. While strongly denying that it is looking to mediate in the Sino-Indian dispute, Russia has maintained that the SCO forum can always be used by member-states to build mutual trust and confidence. However, the fact that the summit this year has been reduced to a virtual meeting precludes the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Modi and Xi. The SCO summit last year in Bishkek saw the 2 leaders asking the Special Representatives in a "substantive" bilateral meet to expedite the border talks for achieving a "fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution". With Khan also present, sources said Modi is likely to again forcefully spell out India's concerns over cross-border terrorism. The Bishkek summit saw Modi calling upon all "humanist forces" to get out of their narrow realms and work together against terrorism. Modi is again likely to call for holding accountable countries which aid, support and provide financial assistance to terrorists. Significantly, India itself has to host a meeting of the SCO heads of government in late November. While the government has already said it will invite Khan for the meeting, the government is yet to decide if the meeting will be held physically. In the November 10 summit, Modi will also underline India's support to the ongoing peace process in Afghanistan, the first ever direct engagement between the Taliban and the government in Kabul. India sees a peaceful Afghanistan as an important factor for the stability and security in the SCO region and, as Modi said in Bishkek, India's aim is to support the efforts of the government and the people of Afghanistan for an "Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled inclusive peace process".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-to-come-face-to-face-with-xi-imran-during-sco-summit-on-nov-10/articleshow/78739847.cms||Sachin Parashar
October 19, 2020||India||Phones fail to show Arunachal weather, Xiaomi calls it glitch||NEW DELHI: Chinese phone major Xiaomi was caught in a controversy after users reported on social media that the company’s smartphones were not displaying weather for Arunachal Pradesh. The company blamed “technical error” for the issue, and said “the same has been fixed”. The confusion around Arunachal comes at a time when India and China are engaged in a border dispute. The display of Arunachal on the map has also been a contentious matter. Xiaomi was caught in the cross-fire after its users posted on the social media that the company’s smartphones were not displaying weather for Arunachal Pradesh. The company’s Indian subsidiary Mi India clarified that the issue cropped up owing to a technical error in its app. “At Mi India, we take great pride in the love and trust that our fans and consumers across the country have bestowed on us. We would like to clarify that the weather app on our devices uses data from multiple third-party data sources and we understand that for many locations, the weather-related data is not available on the current app. This is a technical error on our application,” the company said. The statement, that came early in the day before the issue was resolved, also said that Mi India is working on improving the app to get the best experience for our users. “As always, we are committed to India to provide them with the best user experience.” Towards the evening, the company said that the matter has been resolved. “There was a technical issue in our weather app that we had identified. The same has been fixed,” a spokesperson for Mi India said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/phones-fail-to-show-arunachal-weather-xiaomi-calls-it-glitch/articleshow/78739855.cms||---
October 19, 2020||India||BJP’s Jay Panda equates Odisha with Pakistan, faces flak from BJD||BJP’s national vice-president Baijayant ‘Jay’ Panda on Sunday landed himself in a controversy on the internet by allegedly comparing the law and order situation in Odisha with that of Pakistan. The ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) came down heavily on Panda for his remark. “Shameful how Maharashtra & Odisha police simply “pick up” & assault journalists & do custodial interrogation, without following the basic process of law, like in Pakistan. This is real fascism. Please speak up for Ramesh Rath of @otvnews & @pradip103 of @republic,” tweeted Panda. Panda’s tweet came after senior journalist was picked up by the police in Bhubaneswar on Thursday in connection with a viral fake sex video of a female BJD MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-jay-panda-equates-odisha-with-pakistan-faces-flak-from-bjd/articleshow/78739862.cms||---
October 19, 2020||---||Narendra Modi shouldn’t hesitate to attack me: Chirag Paswan||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan continued his attack on JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar on Sunday. He said Nitish should thank his BJP colleagues for following ‘coalition dharma’ despite huge public resentment against him. He also accused Nitish of repeatedly trying to create differences between LJP and BJP. In a series of tweets after performing the ‘dashkarma’ ritual of his father late Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag said even PM Narendra Modi should not find himself in any dilemma and follow coalition dharma in attacking him during his election rallies in Bihar. “I do not want the PM to be in any ‘dharmsankat’ because of me. He should follow his ‘coalition dharma’ and speak against me whatever he thinks fit to satisfy CM Nitish Kumar, who is an ally of the NDA in the state. LJP is not a part of the state government,” Chirag said and added: “I do not need to exhibit my relations with the prime minister. From the time when my father was in the hospital to his last rites, I can never forget what he (PM) has done for me.” Modi is to address 12 election rallies in Bihar from October 23. Nitish is likely to join the PM’s election rallies in the first and last phase of the elections. Chirag, however, advised BJP leaders to ‘use words wisely’. He was referring to the ‘votekatwa’ comments for LJP made by some of the BJP leaders. His reactions came a day after Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP incharge of party affairs in Bihar, Bhupender Yadav, reiterated that Nitish would become CM even if JD(U) got less number of seats compared to BJP in the assembly polls. LJP, which earlier said it would field candidates against JD(U), later pitted nearly half a dozen candidates against BJP as well. It also roped in former Bihar BJP vice-president Rajendra Singh and fielded him from Dinara, besides the saffron party’s former national secretary Rameshwar Chaurasia, who is contesting the polls from Sasaram on LJP ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-shouldnt-hesitate-to-attack-me-chirag/articleshow/78737163.cms||Ramashankar
October 19, 2020||---||If want more development in Bihar vote for NDA: Nitish Kumar||BUXAR/ARA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated his government’s achievements in the last 15 years and promised one veterinary hospital for every 10 panchayats and shelter homes for the old persons for their proper care if people voted the NDA to power again. Nitish, along with his deputy and senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi, addressed meetings at Nawanagar in Dumraon for his party candidate Anjum Ara, at Chausa in Buxar for BJP candidate Parshuram Chaturvedi, at Tarari for BJP candidate Kaushal Kumar Vidyarthi and at Jagdishpur for JD(U) candidate Shushumlata Kushwaha. The JD(U) president targeted RJD and its chief Lalu Prasad. “After sunset, it was difficult for the people to step out of their residences. Roads were in dilapidated condition. Doctors and traders were kidnapped before 2005,” he said while referring to the 15 years’ rule of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Highlighting his party’s slogan “growth with justice”, Nitish said power, sanitation, health, education and road remained his priorities. Nitish said people had given them (Lalu-Rabri) chance for 15 years. “But their rule was known for massacre, kidnappings and lawlessness. Pati andar gaye aur patni ko bitha diya shashan karne ko. For them family means only pati, patni and their children. On the contrary, when people gave us a chance to govern, we considered whole Bihar as our family and worked tirelessly for the development of every section of the society. We never cared about who votes for us and who don’t,” he said. Nitish further said: “Unhone garibon ke kandhe pe rakhkar banduk chalaya, unke liye kuchh kam nahi kiya. “If you want more development, bring back the NDA government,” he said. The CM focused on his party’s support base of women and the extremely backward castes (EBCs) and reminded them of the steps taken by his government for their proper development. He referred to the large-scale women’s representation in the local bodies and panchayats. “The number of women in Bihar police force is perhaps the highest in the country,” he said. While Nitish, without taking the name of Opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, highlighted his “inexperience” and accused him of making illogical statements against him to get publicity, SuMo was severe in his attack on the Lalu’s son. “See a man who failed in Class IX and has no history of any family business is today the owner of 52 properties at an age of 31. Even PM Narendra Modi, who has been Gujarat CM for a long time and the PM for last six years, is no match to him financially,” SuMo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/if-want-more-development-in-state-vote-for-nda-nitish/articleshow/78737152.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||Tambekar Wada’s backyard collapses again||Vadodara: One among the last remaining symbols of Maratha-styled architecture and a prominent heritage structure in the city, the four-storeyed Tambekar Wada, has been threatened by ruins for the past many years now. About three days ago, some parts of the ceiling in the rear part of the dilapidated heritage structure built in mid-19th century came crashing down, threatening the entire structure. This is the second time that a part of the rear portion collapsed in last 10 years. While the front portion of this beautiful building is under Archaeological Survey of India’s (ASI) possession, the rear portion is with Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). The civic body has been accused of neglecting the crumbling structure since years. “We will be sending a team to the spot on Monday to check the damage,” said P Swaroop, municipal commissioner. When asked if the VMC will take up repair of the dilapidated structure under its possession, Swaroop said, “Whatever action we take, we will have to consult the ASI first.” An ASI official said, “We have been asking the VMC to hand us the rear portion of Tambekar Wada for quite sometime but to no avail. We can conserve the entire structure.” The civic body and ASI have been at loggerheads over possession of the rear portion of the exquisite building for the past many years. In 2011 too, some parts of the rear structure collapsed following which heritage lovers in the city raised the issue of conservation. In 2017, they were up in arms against the VMC when it began ‘cleaning work in a portion’ on the dilapidated structure in Tambekar Wada. The ASI had then asked it not to demolish any part of the building as it will have an adverse impact on the portion protected by the ASI. Chandrashekhar Patil, a city-based art conservator, said that he has been writing to the government to protect the entire structure. “There has been a tussle between the VMC and ASI over possession of the rear structure that is in dilapidated state. I had even offered them assistance for restoring the damaged portion. But the VMC isn’t interested much in maintaining and restoring that portion that is in ruins. In fact, VMC wants that the rear portion comes down completely so that it can construct a building there,” Patil claimed. He said that ASI has protected its portion very well but if the rear part isn’t restored, it will affect the entire structure in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tambekar-wadas-backyard-collapses-again/articleshow/78737273.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Police rescue 16 cattle destined for abattoir||Mangaluru: The Dakshina Kannada district police rescued 16 heads of cattle, including seven cows and nine calves, that cattle traffickers were in the process of transporting in vehicles for slaughter, on Sunday. Based on a tip-off that a group of six to seven persons were smuggling cattle, personnel from Punjalkatte police station raided a location and arrested a teenager in this connection, while the rest of the accused fled from the spot. Superintendent of police B M Laxmi Prasad said that the raid was carried out at Kavalamuduru village near NC Road, Janapriya Bazaar, around 3am. Police seized a jeep, a van, a mini tempo, two motorcycles and five mobile phones during the raid. The value of the property seized is Rs 12.5 lakh, and that of the cattle rescued is Rs 31,000. The arrested accused is Mohammad Rahil, 18, of Kavalamooduru village in Bantwal taluk. A case has been registered in Punjalkatte police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/police-rescue-16-cattle-destined-for-abattoir/articleshow/78737232.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Covid pandemic, life during lockdown find expression in pandals across Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 pandemic, the abrupt lockdown and the gradual unlocking have, in different ways, found expression across Puja pandals in the city. From the plight of refugees robbed of livelihood to a city gradually waking up from slumber, theme artists have used various metaphors to portray the surreal that is now the new reality. Lockdown is the theme at Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha in north-east Kolkata. Artist Parimal Pal has used a huge clock that has stopped ticking to depict how time froze when the lockdown was enforced. He has also taken help of a world-famous sculpture — The Thinker by Auguste Rodin — to portray introspection. “For months, we were captive in our homes and lived in uncertainty. It also made us realize that mankind is responsible for what has happened. Once we make amends, we make a fresh start,” explained Pal. Another Puja in the neighbourhood has depicted various phases of unlock. Artist Anirban Das has created a giant tea kettle, milk cans and a cut-out of a cat stretching itself to portray a city walking up from deep slumber. In Behala, theme artist Rintu Das has brought to life the struggle that immigrant workers faced when the lockdown was imposed. In those desperate times, anyone who handed out relief was god. “At Barisha Club, we have depicted Durga as a migrant worker queuing up to seek relief with children in tow,” Das said. The riveting idol of the migrant Durga has been crafted by Krishnagore artisan Pallab Bhowmick. Migrant workers also find a place at the Salt Lake AK Block puja where artist Samrat Bhattacharya has teamed up with artisans Purnendu Pal and Subimal De to recreate scenes of the journey across the country on foot. At Chetla Agrani, Anirban Das has used two metaphors to depict the present that is filled with trepidation. Here, the goddess with an earthen lamp stands resolute before Mahakaal, shielding a large bird in flight. “The bird represents humans, the lamp signifies hope. Durga is shielding us from the destroyer and urging us to carry on the fight against the pandemic,” he explained. Finally, Coronasura, that TOI had written about when artist Indrajit Pal had conceived it a month ago, is complete. The devil lies in the detail — in this case, the spiked virus that infests his hair. Pal has created an intricate asura and said he will be delighted if it becomes the most-despised one ever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-pandemic-life-during-lockdown-find-expression-in-pandals-across-kolkata/articleshow/78738779.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Crowd surge at shopping hubs on last pre-Puja Sunday, but biz down by 50%||KOLKATA: On the last Sunday before Puja, the shopping crowd may have broken records, but overall business was down by nearly 50% compared to that of previous years. However, traders and hawkers said they had expected worse and were happy the footfall translated into sales. “We are grateful to people who came to buy things despite the odds posed by the pandemic,” said Sushil Poddar, president, Confederation of West Bengal Traders’ Associations. At the end of the Puja shopping week, which typically ends on the last Sunday before Puja, traders and hawkers did a quick stock-taking and found that hawkers across three major shopping hubs — Hatibagan, New Market and Gariahat — almost recovered 50% of their business, while shops managed to recover 30%-40%. Most shops at New Market and Gariahat have gone into hybrid selling — online and over-the-counter. “About 20% percent of my sales happened virtually,” said Vinay Manglani, the owner of Bombay Silk Store at New Market. The sales picked up by nearly 45%-50% inside the market and over 60% at the hawkers’ outside New Market. Sunil Aswani of Menka Stores said many of his regulars visited the shop and 60% of his pre-lockdown sales were back. Irfan Khan, a garments shop owner outside New Market, managed to recover only 30% business. “But I am happy to be back in business.” “Don’t go by footfall. The actual business was nearly 60% down. But the Puja shopping has paved the way for good business in the year ahead,” said Manabendra Saha, owner of Traders Assembly. “We were struggling with sales which was never the case during earlier Pujas,” said Sulagna Chakraborty, owner of Kids in Gariahat. At Hatibagan, Shankar Ghosh of Anamika Boutique said, “We have learnt to treat Puja as the beginning of our business year. But this is no usual year — whatever has come is a good way to start afresh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crowd-surge-at-shopping-hubs-on-last-pre-puja-sunday-but-biz-down-by-50/articleshow/78738786.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 19, 2020||Patna||Two held with firearms in Munger district||PATNA: Police arrested two people and recovered 11 country-made illegal firearms from an abandoned house on Peer Hill under the Mufassil police station area in Munger district in the wee hours of Sunday. The arrested people were identified as Rupesh Kumar and Santu Chaudhary. Police said the two had planned to sell these firearms during election at a higher rate for making money. Munger SP Lipi Singh said following a tip-off that the smugglers had hidden firearms in the hill, an order was issued to cordon off the area. “With the help of dog squad and metal detectors, 11 firearms were recovered. The arms were hidden beneath the soil in the abandoned house,” she said. Singh said by 4am, the entire area was cordoned off by security personnel and a raid conducted. “Four long-barrel country-made pistols and seven breechloaders were seized,” he added.SHO of Mufassil police station Brajesh Kumar said Rupesh and Santu had hidden the firearms with the motive to sell to the interested people during the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-held-with-firearms-in-munger-dist/articleshow/78737605.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Hsg complexes finalize plans for a safe festival in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Puja organizing committees at high-rise complexes in the city spent the weekend brainstorming ways to curtail crowding at their pandals. While some made last-minute changes, scaling down the arrangements and cancelling most residents’ involvement, some even called off the entire Puja celebrations. At Saptaparni Co-operative Housing Society in Ballygunge, where a majority of residents are in the senior citizens’ category, the residents’ association has decided to suspend the Puja this year. “We will conduct a small two-hour-long “ghot puja” on one of the festive days, but there will be no pandal or idol worship,” said Indrani Chowdhury, secretary of the board of society at the complex. At Merlin Warden Lakeview in Ultadanga, the puja arrangements are underway, but a decision was taken to outsource all activities on the festive days. “Our committee representatives and residents will limit their engagements with the puja arrangements. Security guards, cooks and helps have been hired to take care of things and outsiders’ entry to the pandal has also been restricted,” said Deepak Jaiswal, president of the residents’ association. Several complexes at Theatre Road, Southern Avenue and Prince Anwar Shah Road are scaling down the celebrations. “Unlike the large pandal with activity zones and food kiosks on previous years, we will have a very small pandal,” said Neeraj Kapoor, the residents’ association secretary at Dimple Court on Theatre Road. Major complexes on and off Bypass, however, said they were going ahead with the arrangements while maintaining all precaution. “No gathering will be allowed at the pandal. As for activities, we will have multiple virtual competitions,” said Ashok Baid, a senior resident of a complex on EM Bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hsg-complexes-finalize-plans-for-a-safe-festival/articleshow/78738782.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 19, 2020||Patna||Over Rs 12 crore seized in Bihar within a month: Poll panel||PATNA: More than Rs 12 crore in cash has so far been seized across the state by different law-enforcing agencies since September 25 when the model code of conduct was enforced in the state, according to a press release issued by the State Election Commission on Sunday. The seized cash was allegedly meant for use in election to influence voters. Besides cash seizure, Rs 17.09 crore has been realised from vehicle-checking drive while there are still 10 days left for the first phase of polling in the state on October 28, the EC said. Altogether 1,644 check-posts are functional across the state where large number of state police and paramilitary personnel are deployed. Police and other law-enforcing agencies have also seized Nepalese currency worth 69.85 lakh. In Darbhanga, Rs 1.11 crore was seized from an SUV on Jatmalpur bridge under the Bishanpur police station area on October 6. Two people were arrested while they trying to flee. SHO of Bishanpur police station Mukesh Kumar said the income tax (IT) department is carrying out investigation into the seizure of cash. The police had also seized Rs 75 lakh from an SUV of one Sanjay Kumar Singh near Biscomaun Tower at Gandhi Maidan in Patna on September 30. Singh was reportedly planning to contest election from Sasaram assembly constituency. More than five days back, Rs 40 lakh was seized from an SUV under Khajanchi Haat police station area in Purnia. SHO Sunil Kumar Singh on Sunday said the cash has not been released and IT authorities were carrying out investigation to find out whether the money was from legitimate source or not. On October 13, Rs 31.99 lakh in cash was seized from the dicky of a bike at Chhapra in Saran district. SHO Bimal Kumar Singh said one Rajeshwar Prasad was carrying the cash. “The IT department is probing the case,” he added. Action taken against 2.65L troublemakers:In a press communiqué, the ECI said on Sunday that more than 2.65 lakh anti-social elements have so far been bound-down in the state on suspicion of creating law and order problem during the polls. “Action against 2,782 people has been taken under Bihar Crime Control Act (CCA). Altogether 1,154 illegal arms have so far been seized and 19,237 licensed firearms deposited at police stations. Also, one tonne ganja and 106kg charas have so far been seized in the state,” the ECI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-rs12cr-in-cash-seized-in-state-so-far-poll-panel/articleshow/78737470.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 19, 2020||Patna||We fulfilled promises in Chhattisgarh: Bhupesh Baghel||PATNA: Chhattisgarh CM and incharge of Congress’s Bihar election affairs Bhupesh Baghel claimed on Sunday that the party will win more than 50 seats in the state and Mahagathbandhan’s CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, will take over the reins of the state. “The Mahagathbandhan is going to form the next government in Bihar. Tejashwi Yadav will be the next CM of the state,” Baghel said. Asked about the possibility of any Mahagathbandhan ally switching side after the declaration of poll results, Baghel said, “It will not happen this time as our coalition is intact. Nitish ji had joined hands with saffron party against people’s mandate the last time.” Baghel said Bihar was pushed back in every sphere, including education, health and employment. “What happened to over 17 lakh migrant workers who had returned home from other states during Covid-induced lockdown? CM Nitish Kumar should speak on the issue,” he said. Baghel added a common manifesto has been released by the constituents of the Mahagathbandhan and it would be implemented if the coalition is voted to power. “We have fulfilled the promises made to the farmers in Chhattisgarh and we will do the same in Bihar also,” he said. Describing the farm Bills recently passed in the Parliament as “anti-farmer”, the Chhattisgarh CM said the main objective behind the move was to make capitalists wealthier. He said the Congress government in Chhattigarh waived off farm loan worth Rs 10,000 crore to benefit around 19 lakh farmers soon after coming to power. “We have also launched Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojna for farmers of Chhattisgarh,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/we-fulfilled-promises-in-chhattisgarh-baghel/articleshow/78737176.cms||Ramashankar
October 19, 2020||Patna||Mired in civic mess, voters vent ire on netas in Patna||PATNA: Political chit-chats can be heard at every nook and corner in Patna where assembly elections will be held in the second phase in eight assembly constituencies – Bankipur, Danapur, Digha, Fatuha, Kumhrar, Maner, Patna Sahib and Phulwari – on November 3. Residents are having long talks on local issues in their constituencies. The talks centre around the civic problems like waterlogging, drainage system, garbage dumping, narrow lanes, dug-up roads and traffic congestion. Vijay Choudhary (46), a resident of Mahendru (Ram Sahay Lane) said there are several local issues in Kumhrar which the common people have to face in their day-to-day life. “Few months back, the road at Mahendru was dug up by the civic body for construction of drainage line. Later, the road was once again dug up for laying of gas pipeline. Now, work on metro rail project is in progress in the area. The condition of the road has gone from bad to worse, but no one is bothered,” he said. Thirty-year-old Aditya Pathak has made up his mind to press NOTA in the assembly elections. “No candidate in the race is capable of solving the perennial problems people face in Saguna Mor locality. The place where I live remains submerged in drain water throughout the year. The roads stink because of the filth as no one collects the garbage,” said Pathak, a resident of New Mainpura Road. Kusum Lata (37), a Danapur assembly constituency voter, said, “I don’t even know the name of the sitting MLA because the person never comes to the locality. Last year, when the residents faced waterlogging, the MLA did not bother to help them.” Lata, a resident of Lekha Nagar, said waterlogging and garbage dumping are the perennial problems for the people living on Khagaul Road. Saket Suman (29), who lives in Fatuha, said when one compares the urban Patna with rural, lack of development would be clearly visible. “We do not even have proper roads and basic infrastructure at several areas in Fatuha,” she said. “Movement of trucks on Digha Road cause traffic congestion. Open construction is also a problem, especially during winter when the pollution level soars,” said Alok Kumar, a resident of Fairfield Colony. Meanwhile, the candidates for the eight seats are busy campaigning for the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-issues-at-the-top-of-voters-minds-in-patna/articleshow/78737188.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Patna||Sainik School Nalanda praised for its annual report||PATNA: The principal of Sainik School Nalanda, Col M I Hussain, presented the annual report of the school at the 20th meeting of the local board of administration (LBA) on Saturday. The meeting was chaired by Major General Rajpal Punia (Yudh Seva Medal), General Officer Commanding, Jharkhand & Bihar Sub-Area and chairman, LBA. Local MP Kaushalendra Kumar also attended the meeting. The annual report not only covered the school’s achievements related to the educational and infrastructural development previous year, but also threw light on the action plan for the next year. Later, Punia expressed happiness over the progress, results and maintenance of the school. He congratulated the teachers for their efforts to give a distinct identity to the school at national level. Col T Chakravarty, principal of Sainik School Gopalganj, Col SC Gupta, SO (Edn) HQ, J&B Sub Area, district education officer Manoj Kumar, vice-principal Wing Commander PS Gujral and administrative officer Major Ajay Chand were also present. Madhusudan De, senior master of the school, proposed a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nalanda-sainik-school-praised/articleshow/78737577.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Agra||Hathras gangrape: Farmer loses crop to preserve proof||AGRA: A farmer in Hathras who owned the field in which the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted last month has demanded compensation for the loss of his millet crop which could not be irrigated or harvested in time for fear of destruction of evidence. “We have lost an entire year of hard work as my family was asked by the authorities not to irrigate, harvest or do anything with the crop in our nine-bigha land so evidence of the crime could be preserved,” said the 24-year-old who works as a labourer in Jaipur. “Now I need help from the government to compensate me for the loss of my millet crop worth Rs 50k,” he told TOI. The man, who returned to his village recently, said the Special Investigation Team (SIT), CBI investigation team and police had conducted visits to the crime spot to gather evidence and in this time, his crop had dried up. While CBI started its field investigation on October 13, the SIT reached the village on October 1 after the victim died in Delhi on September 29. Millet is usually harvested during the Kharif season from September to October. The farmer said he has to feed a family of five from the income his field generates as well as whatever living he can scrape doing odd jobs in Jaipur. “Now that I’m back here, two cows are all that I have left. I also have an outstanding loan of Rs 1.6 lakh which I can’t pay as my crop is ruined.” Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal said he was not aware who had told the farmer to not harvest his field in view of destruction of evidence. A senior official, however, added that no changes in the crime spot had helped in recreation of the crime scene. Meanwhile, on Saturday, CBI visited the girl’s house and questioned her mother for five hours while also taking some of the victim’s clothes with them as evidence. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-farmer-in-whose-field-19-yr-old-girl-was-gang-raped-loses-crop-trying-to-preserve-evidence-seeks-compensation/articleshow/78737235.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 19, 2020||---||No need of ‘arrow’ in missile age: Bihar opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: The opposition’s CM face and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday cautioned people against the BJP’s ‘B’ team and ‘votekatwas’. Without taking the name of any opponent during his election rallies in Mokama, Nawada, Jamui and Sheikhpura, he said, “You have to remain cautious against the designs of the ‘B’ team of BJP, which is playing the role of ‘votekatwa’ (vote splitter) in the assembly election.” Launching a frontal attack on CM Nitish Kumar, the RJD star campaigner said the JD(U) chief often talks about the 15-year (mis) rule of RJD and no need of ‘lantern’ (RJD poll symbol) in the age of electricity. “Instead, I would say in the same manner that there is no need for ‘teer’ (arrow, the JDU poll symbol) in the age of missiles,” he told the gathering. The former deputy CM said Nitish is now unable to handle the state as he is tired. “Wo ab thak gaye hain aur state unse sambhal nahi raha hain,” he added.Tejashwi, who started his election campaign from Mokama in Patna rural on Sunday, however, preferred not to mention the name of RJD candidate and strongman Anant Singh, who is in jail. Anant’s wife Neelam Devi, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 parliamentary election from Munger, shared the stage with Tejashwi. Neelam is campaigning for Anant as she had done in 2015 assembly polls when he had contested the election as an independent candidate. Anant is lodged in Beur central jail in connection with a case lodged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Tejashwi mainly focused his speech on making promises to the people. In one of the rallies, he said, “I promise jobs to 10 lakh people with my first signature after coming to power. We will also implement the ‘equal pay for equal work’ for contractual teachers, ASHAs and Anganwadi sevikas.” He also promised to increase the pension amount of widows from Rs400 to Rs1000 after coming to power. He, however, didn’t forget to tell the gathering about issues like poverty, unemployment, migration of workers and floods plaguing the state for years together. “The Nitish Kumar government has failed on all fronts,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/no-need-of-arrow-in-missile-age-tejas/articleshow/78737428.cms||Ramashankar
October 19, 2020||Business||Festive e-sales get electronics, non-metro push||BENGALURU: Festive sales on e-commerce platforms have made a strong start with the first 48-hour sales trends in line with record number estimates for this year’s season, according to industry executives and analysts at market research firm Forrester. Smartphones and other electronics have driven most volumes so far and categories like appliances, home and groceries too are expected to find a similar trajectory in the next few days. Flipkart and Amazon India saw most new shoppers coming from non-metros and wider adoption of consumer-financing products like EMIs to make these purchases. Amazon India VP Manish Tiwary said the e-tailer disbursed Rs 600-crore credit, including no-cost EMIs, during the 24-hour Prime access sale, which is 2.5 times higher than the previous year. Flipkart has so far a 1.5 times higher spend per customer through financing options. “We are expecting 75% of festive month sales to happen in the first week. Large categories like smartphones, TVs, computers and small electronics are performing well. Grocery sales will pick up closer to festivals. Fashion is doing according to expectation with prices down and not much growth was expected compared to last year,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst, Forrester — which has pegged festive month sales to be $6.5 billion. Another research firm RedSeer has estimated the same to be $7 billion, as TOI reported last month. Read AlsoE-tailers may log record $7 billion festive month salesE-commerce companies are expected to post nearly 50% jump in gross sales to $4 billion this Diwali, a two-year high, during the five-day sale events of Flipkart, Amazon India and others, according to the latest estimates from market research firm Redseer.While e-commerce players have surpassed pre-Covid volumes around July, these platforms continue to see increased adoption from offline users moving to online and new users joining from tier-2 towns and beyond. “First 48-hours, it’s the biggest ever two-day shopping, well ahead of our plan. In terms of customer acquisition, we have seen the highest ever sign-ups in two days, with 91% coming from small towns. Out of over 1 lakh sellers, who have received at least one sale, 66% are from tier-2 and below,” added Tiwary. Both Amazon and Flipkart said they witnessed higher adoption of local languages this time. Watch Festive e-sales have strong start with electronics, non-metro push||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/festive-e-sales-get-electronics-non-metro-push/articleshow/78739516.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 19, 2020||Business||Makeup, skin care business up as people step out||MUMBAI: As people socialise again, discretionary categories in FMCG like makeup and skin care are finally seeing a gradual recovery, according to data provided by Kantar. Supplies of these products were hit during the strict lockdown. According to consultancy Kantar, which tracks monthly FMCG purchases of over 81,000 Indian homes, growth in household care was 6.6% in June-August, up from 4.2% in March-May. But personal care growth was at a little over 14% in June-August, higher than the 10.2% seen in March-May. While hygiene continues to see high demand. But the marked return of grooming and beauty needs helped personal care categories claw back some growth (see graphic). FMCG, as a whole, grew at around 5 % in June-August from 3.6% in March-May. In personal care, skin creams — which contracted 9% during March-May — have grown 2% in June-August. Talcs, which shrank 17% during March-May, registered 3% growth in June-August. In hair colours & dyes, the negative growth has reduced from -19% to -9% over the same period. All the numbers are for all-India volumes. Kantar MD (South Asia, Worldpanel division) K Ramakrishnan said, “The data is for categories that have seen a tough lockdown period (March-May), but had better performance in June-August. Grooming categories like talcs, hair oils, hair colours and even skin creams — all are in this bucket of categories.”  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); A L’Oreal India spokesperson said a combination of improving supply, shops reopening and people resuming socialising and work-from-office resulted in consumption going up. This has also resulted in a greater engagement with discretionary categories like makeup and personal care in the June-August quarter. According to research conducted by L’Oreal, half of the respondents have already invited friends over and gone to meet them. “While still not back to 2019 levels of course, we expect every month to be better than the previous, especially given the upcoming festive season,” said the spokesperson. However, according to Nielsen, the skin care category witnessed a double-digit decline of around 10% for in terms of sales value for the year ending August 2020 (moving annual total, or MAT). Nielsen Global Connect executive director (retail intelligence — South Asia) Sameer Shukla said, “The skin care category was on the non-essential list of consumer goods when the nationwide lockdown was announced in March. Over the last few months, consumers were not going out as much, and even now people have hesitation in stepping out of their homes/workplace — so usage has been low. This has impacted the skin care category severely over the last six months, resulting in a double-digit decline for the category sales value in the year ending August 2020 (MAT).” Shukla said the face care segment within the skin care category suffered more than ‘hand and body care’. “The latter has actually bounced back strongly, clocking a high double-digit growth in June-August,” said Shukla. Commenting on the FMCG business in the last seven months, Nivea India MD Neil George said every category in India has faced very different and unique situations during the crisis. For instance, the movement of a large number of people outside their residence had an impact on purchase and consumption of categories like ice creams, aerated beverages and alcoholic beverages like beer. The classification of a product as essential and non-essential, on the other hand, impacted its availability and sales. The retail footprint of the category also made a difference. “During the lockdown, large retail formats like supermarkets and cash-and-carry outlets got severely impacted as shoppers stayed away from these due to fear of moving out of their homes or due to restrictions placed by the authorities on entry (timings and numbers). As a result, categories with heavy reliance on modern retail were more impacted (larger sized haircare products, for instance) than the ones that had contribution coming from general trade (for example, sachets and smaller sizes of haircare products). The shutdown and credit issues of some large retailers further exacerbated the issues of categories heavily dependent on modern retail,” said George.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/makeup-skin-care-biz-up-as-people-step-out/articleshow/78739508.cms||Namrata Singh
October 19, 2020||Business||Locked-in for 6 months, vacationers fire up leisure tourism||Chennai: Cooped up inside homes for nearly 6 months, WFH strangled Indians are flocking resorts and other leisure properties to unwind, relax and also part work from these destinations—workactions. Resort operators saw a 100% occupancy on the October 2 weekend, bringing some relief to the stressed hospitality sector. “Almost all the properties that are open witnessed full bookings for the October 2 weekend. We are witnessing higher occupancy with every passing week,” said Kavinder Singh, MD & CEO, Mahindra Holidays. “There is a strong need and desire to get out of homes and experience nature.” Mahindra Holidays has 59 resorts of which 45 are open for its timeshare customers. “There has been a steady increase in occupancy ever since we started to reopen our properties since unlock began. Yes, October 2 was full. I remain cautiously optimistic on the season ahead as we don’t want to see a second wave or rising Covid cases which will derail travel plans,” said Ramesh Ramanathan, CMD, Sterling Holidays, India’s oldest timeshare company. In an encouraging sign, Sterling Holidays has started receiving booking for its resort rooms for even January. “It is slowly picking up,” Ramanathan said. “With the holiday season beginning now, we expect October-December to be very good,” Mahindra’s Singh said. Resorts are going to the extra mile. For example Mahindra Holidays has signed up with Bureau Veritas, an inspection and certifying company, to standardise the various processes and protocols. “Our mobile app will make the entire experience contactless,” Singh said. While Sterling has launched ‘Sterling Cares’ – a hygiene and sanitation program in association with Apollo Clinics ensures the highest levels of safety, hygiene and social distancing. Tamara, owned by Shruti Shibulal is witnessing a strong recovery. “Leisure is witnessing a very strong pull. “Our Coorg property is full with travellers from Bengaluru while Kodaikanal property is doing good, considering that there are still travel restrictions like e-pass,” Shibulal said. “We have repeat guests who prefer longer stays and not just tied down to the weekend schedule,” she added. The demand pull and changing dynamics is also altering business plans. For example, with guests staying longer than usual, Mahindra Holidays is planning longer format plans. “Our usual stay before was two nights, but now we see guests staying for 5 nights or more. There are some cases where they have stayed for a couple weeks too. We are contemplating a product which entitles us to longer holidays every year,” Singh said. Tamara which has rolled out offers to woo leisure travellers is thinking of pulling out the offer. “We have an offer where you buy 4 nights, you get 3 room nights free. We don’t know if this offer will last long as the demand pull is strong,” Shibulal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/locked-in-for-6-months-vacationers-fire-up-leisure-tourism/articleshow/78737740.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
October 19, 2020||Goa||Manohar Parrikar vowed IIT in Sanguem, current govt snatched it: MLA||PANAJI: In his first public criticism of the state BJP government, independent Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar on Sunday said that the IIT campus project promised to him by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar at Sanguem was snatched away recently. Gaonkar said the decision was taken without consulting him. “Suddenly the IIT project was taken away within a minute at a cabinet meeting,” said Gaonkar. “Former CM Parrikar had already decided to take the IIT project to Sanguem and he had told me. When youngsters come on the road today, it is not their mistake. If we do not plan well, it will not take us much time to finish off Goa.” The state government has proposed the IIT at Melauli in Sattari taluka, where it is facing objections from locals. Gaonkar, who has never before expressed any criticism against the current government, said that Goa would be destroyed in no time if infrastructural projects are planned randomly without consulting the locals, leading to a phenomenon of citizen-driven protests. Gaonkar, who has never before expressed any criticism against the current government, said that Goa would be destroyed in no time if infrastructural projects are planned randomly without consulting the locals, leading to a phenomenon of citizen-driven protests. “Projects should not come up just because one person feels it should come up at a certain place,” said Gaonkar, speaking at an online citizens’ round-table organized by Parikram Knowledge Terminus. “There should be a detailed study, including its impact on the environment. Protests happen when the government is treading in the wrong direction. The state government should start taking the people along.” He said that the state government decided to declare 96 villages in Goa as eco-sensitive zones without holding any discussions with stakeholders whatsoever. “That is wrong and that is why protests are taking place,” he said. “Our government goes wrong to some extent. I admit that. The government has failed to go to the people to some extent. When we take projects to rural areas, we need to assess how much destruction will take place. The trees are those preserved by our ancestors and if people ask questions, the government should be able to respond.” The discussion was organised to engage some prominent citizens on why Goa is facing a barrage of protests against various infrastructural projects. “Projects cannot come up randomly. When I wanted to take IIT to Sanguem, I held a discussion about it with my constituents. Some opposed it and some supported it, but we have to take projects to the people,” said Gaonkar. Entrepreneur Sangeeta Naik said that the state government cannot just brush off its responsibility by saying the projects like those in Mollem are central government ones. “Can’t we as a state put our foot down and tell them that we have limited resources? Our environmental legislation is very powerful, but we are looking at it as though it is a hurdle,” said Naik. Congress general secretary Yatish Naik said that voters also need to take some responsibility for their bad choices. “It is also dependent on the voters,” he said. “If you watch tiatrs and nataks and vote, this will happen. You cannot curse a public representative. Voters are also responsible for it. When voting, you should vote for those who have a sincerity of purpose. You are ultimately voting for a policymaker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikar-vowed-iit-in-sanguem-current-govt-snatched-it-mla/articleshow/78739136.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Patna||Covid recovery rate crosses 94% in Bihar||PATNA: The state health department on Sunday reported 1,152 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, which took the tally to 2,04,212 so far. Six patients died of coronavirus, including IPS officer Binod Kumar, at AIIMS Patna on Sunday. The Covid death toll has now mounted up to 996 in the state. According to AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the 59-year-old IPS officer was admitted on October 17. The state health department reported two deaths in Patna, taking the district toll to 245. One death each was reported from Aurangabad, Begusarai, Saran and Vaishali, taking their respective district toll to 11, 27, 34 and 36. But the silver ling was that 1,079 patients got cured and discharged across the state on Sunday, taking the count of the recovered cases to 192,594 and leaving only 10,622 active cases. Presently, Bihar’s recovery rate stands at 94.31%, which was almost 8% higher than the national average of 88.03%. A total of 1,19,456 samples were tested in a day. So far, 91,34,927 samples have been tested in the state since March. Unofficially, four deaths at AIIMS-P were reported on Sunday. The deceased included a 52- year-old woman from Nalanda and two men from Gaya and Muzaffarpur. Dr Sanjeev said altogether 24 patients were discharged while 21 new got admitted at AIIMS- Patna on Sunday. Among the new cases was a 56- year-old doctor and associate professor of PMCH’s microbiology department. Gaya MP Vijay Kumar was also admitted to AIIMS-P. According to doctors, the MP’s condition is stable. At NMCH, one 56-year-old man from Madhubani died late Saturday evening. Three Covid patients were admitted while one was discharged on Sunday. Patna reported 316 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the corresponding tally to 32,610. With 29,980 recoveries, the district has 2,385 active cases. Other districts with maximum Covid-19 cases were Araria (72), Purnia (69), Bhagalpur (62), Muzaffarpur (60) and East Champaran (47).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-recovery-rate-crosses-94-in-state/articleshow/78737572.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 19, 2020||Patna||Railways runs two pairs of Patna-Gaya MEMU trains||PATNA: Railways has introduced two pairs of MEMU special trains on the Patna-Gaya section under Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) from Sunday. Railways had suspended train services on this route due to the lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the MEMU special (03211) will leave Patna Junction at 6.30pm and reach Gaya at 9.30pm every day. The train (03212) will leave Gaya at 8.30am in the morning and reach Patna at 11.30am the same day, he said. Similarly, MEMU special train (03353) will leave Patna at 8am and reach Gaya at 11am. On its return journey, it (03354) will leave Gaya at 6.15pm and reach Patna at 9.15pm, he said. According to senior divisional commercial manager (SDCM) of Danapur, Adhar Raj, railways has listed all the clone special trains running from different places of the ECR for issuing local passenger tickets from its PRS counters as well as IRCTC website. Railways is running about 12 pairs of clone special trains on different routes of ECR to cope with passenger rush during festive season, he said, adding RPF men are on duty to ensure that each passenger entering the railway premises must be checked thoroughly at Patna Junction or Rajendra Nagar Terminal either. Meanwhile, railways has made it compulsory for each passenger to wear mask and use sanitiser while entering station premises to board trains during festive season. Railways is at present neither providing catering services in any special train nor supplying blankets and bedsheets in the airconditioned coaches due to coronavirus, Raj said. The Bihar Daily Passengers Association had recently submitted a memorandum to Bihar CM Nitish Kuma and ECR GM L C Trivedi to restore MEMU train services so that local commuters do not face any harassment at a time when all government, semi-government offices and business establishments have been reopened, said association secretary Shoaib Quraishi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-runs-two-pairs-of-patna-gaya-memu-trains/articleshow/78737582.cms||Kumod Verma
October 19, 2020||Patna||Passengers on Patna-Ranchi route badly hit||PATNA: Rail connectivity has been completely disrupted on Patna-Ranchi route for about six months due to Covid-19 pandemic, causing immense hardships to people of both the states. Railways has restored special train services on almost all the important routes, except on Patna-Ranchi, which had a very high traffic flow before the lockdown. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Janshatabdi special train was being run on this route, but railways had to withdraw it as the Jharkhand government prohibited train services from Bihar. According to a senior railway official, each passenger train carries about 1,600 passengers from Patna to Ranchi or vice versa. When buses can ply between Patna and Ranchi, there is no rationale behind stopping train services by the Jharkhand government, he said, adding each train is thus equal to plying 40 buses on the Patna- Ranchi route. Satyendra Kumar and Akhilesh, both residents of Patna, said on Sunday that they were unable to visit Ranchi to see their ailing parents due to non-availability of trains. ‘Even people inclined to visit Bokaro, Dhanbad and other cities from Patna are helpless,” they said. Railways has a direct connectivity for Ranchi via Patna-Jehanabad-Gaya-Koderma route. The Islampur-Natesar new line will be second optional route for reaching Ranchi from Patna while the third route will be Bakhtiarpur-Rajgir-Tilaiya- Koderma, sources said, adding the distance between Patna and Ranchi will thus be shortened by these two new routes. The Fatuha-Islampur-Natesar line, which has the operational capacity to run at least four passenger trains, will also benefit goods trains running on Tilaiya-Koderma route. Besides, railways can easily run Patna-Ranchi Express, Patna- Barkakana passenger and other trains from Bihar to Jharkhand on these two new routes, instead of Jehanabad-Gaya-Koderma route, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passengers-on-patna-ranchi-route-badly-hit/articleshow/78737588.cms||Kumod Verma
October 19, 2020||Patna||Patna: Give us possession rights, say owners of ‘khasmahal’ plots||PATNA: Members of the Khasmahal Citizens’ Welfare Society (KMCWS) announced here on Sunday that they would support the candidates of political parties which will work to declare their ‘khasmahal’ plots as free holdings and give them ownership/possession rights over the plots of land. At a meeting held on the premises of Sahitya Sammelan Bhavan here, the KMCWS members launched a signature campaign in support of their demand. The society’s vice-president, Rajiv Sharma, presided the meeting. General secretary of the society, Shailendra Nath Sinha, also participated in the meeting. BJP’s Bankipore MLA Nitin Navin also joined the meeting and said he would raise the issue in the state assembly and urge the government to look into the matter. The KMCWS functionaries, Sharma and Sinha, said the khasmahal plots of land are located in various towns, where their holders have been facing similar problems. “The British government had acquired land in various towns during 1915-20 and distributed the plots among respectable citizens and prominent people from among professional groups on lease to construct their houses to develop Patna and other towns as urban centres,” they said. They added the ‘khasmahal’ land holders have been demanding that their plots be declared free holdings. “The administration should accept the usual land tax on these plots and also do the mutation to give us right to possess the land,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/give-us-possession-rights-say-owners-of-khasmahal-plots/articleshow/78737530.cms||Abhay Singh
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai man’s own ‘party over’ obituary goes viral||CHENNAI: Ejji K Umamahesh, a businessman, lived on his own terms as a religionless citizen of the world on village earth, and, after death, donated his usable organs and body parts for transplantation and the rest of his body for anatomical demonstration and research — so read the obituary Ejji had written to announce his death. It’s not often that a person writes his/her own obituary but Ejji was able to comprehend the fact that he’d die someday and had made his peace with it. He wanted to leave a message of love, hope, and goodwill after he died and so wrote his obit, handed it to his near and dear ones to be published soon after his death. His family obliged. In his message from beyond (self-written obituary) to “Friends, Enemies and Those In-between,” he wrote, “Thanks for sharing my exciting life. My party is over, and I hope there is no hangover for those I leave behind. Time is running out for everyone. Live well, enjoy your life, and continue the party. As John Lennon said, “Life is what happens to you while you’re busy making other plans”. Cheers, and bye forever, and please, Live, don’t exist! - Ejji” He had another farewell message that he shared on social media, where he compared himself to a vintage automobile. “I regret to inform you that my vintage vehicle that was being restored, in spite of the best mechanics in India with mastery over their craft, modern tools, and expertise at their command, did all they could to revive it, but unfortunately did not succeed. Luckily a few parts that have survived destruction will be donated to other similar vintage vehicle owners who can put them to good use in their own machine.” Ejji was going in for a 12-hour, high-risk heart surgery that came with a 10% chance that he wouldn’t survive. This was his third heart procedure and before he got admitted it, Ejji had readied all paperwork, prepared a will, spoken to his doctor about donating organs and also emailed to his family and colleagues his obituary to be published upon his death. He also asked them to not hold any religious farewell ceremony. “Before the operation, he told us that he didn’t want to be on life support. He wanted to either live well or go. Since he used to discuss death with us, we were also able to view it rationally,” said Sarika Ejji Singh, his daughter. He died a day before he turned 72 on Friday. His daughters Sarika, Rasika and wife Shyamala remember him as a very organised and practical man who lived on his terms with no regrets. “He empowered us to live life to the fullest and not merely exist,” said Sarika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mans-own-party-over-obituary-goes-viral/articleshow/78738256.cms||Aditi R
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Cop attacked during liquor raid||Rajkot: A police constable of Bedi Marine police station in Jamnagar was attacked by a mob in near-by Vibhapar village on Saturday night when he went to conduct a liquor raid .The cop, Sanjaysinh Rathod, had received information that three persons were consuming liquor. On reaching there, he found Mukesh Makwana, Kanti Makwana and an unidentified person having a booze party and started taking their photos and videos on his mobile phone.Seeing Rathod, they lost their cool and manhandled him. Rathod said that Kanti pushed him down and the two others called out other villagers to attack him. A mob of over two dozen men gathered and thrashed Rathod, but he managed to escape from there. The mob even chased him and Rathod hid himself in the house of a priest nearby and locked himself up. The crowd then pelt stones on the house and shattered its windows and damaged the door.Meanwhile, Rathod called police station to seek help. A few minutes later, as additional force arrived, the group dispersed. Later, he lodged a complaint of assault, causing hurt, criminal intimidation and rioting against 25 to 30 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-attacked-during-liquor-raid/articleshow/78737238.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||74% of Chennai cyclists fear being hit by vehicles||CHENNAI: Being run over by a speeding vehicle is the biggest fear a cyclist in Chennai has as per a handlebar survey conducted by the corporation. Of the 1,884 respondents including officials, residents and cyclists so far, about 74% expressed this fear followed by apprehension over traffic congestion, lack of cycle parking space, poor street lighting, unpleasant weather and harassment. Respondents can take this survey for another week online and on Greater Chennai Corporation social media pages, said Raj Cherubal, CEO of Chennai Smart City Limited. “We have completed the 7km ride in which more than 100 cyclists, officials and residents took part. Those who cycled said the major difficulty was fast moving vehicles, difficulty in crossing junctions and the lack of continuous pathways. People not following traffic rules, lack of dedicated lanes and dedicated parking were also raised.” With smart bikes set to be launched, the corporation is planning a host of events to promote cycling. The corporation will study more responses and decide on the major project it plans as part of the cycles4change challenge under the smart city mission. Ashwathy Dilip of ITDP said cycling will be the most preferred mode of transport in a post covid world as per the study. “Chennai has laid plans to promote non-motorised transport and this challenge will help take it further and use other low-cost interventions to make it easier for people to use cycling as a mode of transport,” she said. A senior corporation official said they asked corporates, banks and major companies to come up with incentives such as green credits for those cycling to work and also organise cycling tournaments. “Since unpleasant weather is a major reason, we urged corporates to look at providing showers and change rooms at workplaces to promote cycling.” The project is set to come up in nine months after October 28 using Rs 1 crore from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/74-of-city-cyclists-fear-being-hit-by-vehicles/articleshow/78738302.cms||Komal Gautham
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: ‘Insecure’ woman arrested for killing 11-year-old stepson||RAJKOT: A woman in Halvad town of Morbi district was arrested for allegedly killing her 11-year-old step-son, whose decomposed body was fished out from a canal nearly 13 days after the murder. The woman, Bhavisha Prajapati, confessed that she killed him after giving birth to her son from her marriage to Jayesh, who works as a driver in a packaging company, said inspector P A Dethavadiya of Halvad police station. “Bhavisha said that everything was fine till she bore a son from Jayesh. Dhruv was Jayesh’s son from his first wife and Bhavisha started becoming insecure. She had difficulties while dealing with Dhruv,” said Dethavadiya. The boy, Dhruv Prajapati, had gone missing from his house on October 6. When the family members could not find him, Jayesh registered a missing person report at Halvad police station. A day later an offence of abduction was registered as the boy had neither returned nor found. After searching him for over 10 days, police started suspecting Bhavisha as she was the last person from the family who had seen him. “She had asked him to go for a bath, so he had gone to the canal and had not returned since. During questioning, she broke down and admitted that she had pushed the boy in the turbulent waters of the canal,” he added. On Sunday, the water inlet of the canal was closed and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team found his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/insecure-woman-arrested-for-killing-11-year-old-stepson/articleshow/78737261.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Builder paid Rs 3 lakh to murder man who questioned his project: Goa cops||PANAJI: Porvorim police said on Sunday that Altaf Yargatti, the builder behind the supari killing of Torda resident Vilas Methar, paid around Rs 3 lakh for the hit. A day after four persons were arrested for the murder, Porvorim police on Sunday arrested Khayad Shaikh. All five have been remanded in eight days police custody. Police said that Yargatti met supari ‘contractors’ Pawan Badigar, Iqbal Nanpuri and Vishwajeet Dabholkar a month ago to discuss the plan to kill Methar. Initially, the plan was to threaten Methar, as he had filed some complaints against Yargatti. The investigation, according to police, was based on Methar’s dying declaration. They called Yargatti to the police station, where he then narrated the plan. On Wednesday, Methar, who was driving, was waylaid near the Torda creek by two persons who poured fuel on him and set him afire. On Thursday, the victim, who sustained severe burn injuries, succumbed at GMC. On Saturday, police had said that the motive behind the murder was that Methar used to file RTI applications and complaints against the builder pertaining to his construction project at Torda. He had approached the panchayat and also filed RERA-related complaints. Police said they identified the accused from CCTV footage and started tracing them. After two of them were traced to Sindhudurg, they alerted Maharashtra police and asked them to detain the duo. A Goa police team then went to Sindhudurg and took custody of the two accused. Police had said that as the inquiry progresses, there is a possibility of more arrests in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/builder-paid-rs-3l-to-murder-man-who-questioned-his-project-cops/articleshow/78739168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC turns down VAO’s plea against punishment||MADURAI: Dismissing a plea moved by a VAO challenging her punishment following disciplinary proceedings, the Madras high court observed that the court cannot reverse the orders passed by the authorities unless the punishment imposed is not proportionate to the gravity of the offence. The court was hearing the petition filed by R Vasantha who was working as VAO of Sethur village in Dindigul district. The petitioner had issued a certificate to a woman to cut down karuvelam trees from her patta land in 2003. Since the power to issue such a certificate is vested with the revenue inspector and she had issued the certificate beyond her powers, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against her. After conducting inquiry, the disciplinary authority had imposed a punishment of stoppage of increment for three years with cumulative effect. When the petitioner moved for appeal, the appellate authorities also confirmed the order. The petitioner moved the court in 2010 challenging the punishment. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that under Article 226 of the Constitution, the high court cannot reverse the decision taken by the competent authorities, but can ascertain whether the process and procedures through which the decision was arrived at by the competent authorities is in accordance with law and legal principles. In the case at hand, there is no perversity as such on the part of the disciplinary authority in accepting the findings of the inquiry report. The petitioner was a senior VAO and performed her duties as village accountant for more than 15 years in the village and considering all those circumstances the punishment was imposed, said the judge. The judge observed that the decision taken by the authorities can be questioned only in exceptional circumstances, where the punishment is not in proportionate with the gravity of the charges and when the decision is shocking to the conscious of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-turns-down-vaos-plea-against-punishment/articleshow/78739820.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man gets advance bail in PM caricature sharing case||MADURAI: Madras high court granted anticipatory bail to a man in a case registered against him for sharing the caricature of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in social media in Kanyakumari district. The court was hearing the petition filed by Sajin alias Shajan who apprehends arrest at the hands of Kadaiyalumoodu police in Kanyakumari district. In his petition, the petitioner stated that he had shared the images accidentally in social media and he had no intention to defame the PM. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the case and that there was no previous case pending against him, Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan granted anticipatory bail to Sajin on several conditions. The petitioner was directed to report before the concerned police every day at 10.30am for two weeks and thereafter as and when required for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-gets-advance-bail-in-pm-caricature-sharing-case/articleshow/78739822.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||No clean sweep for colony roads in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With air quality levels plunging and pollution once again a visible reality, the focus has shifted to determining where pollutants come from. In Delhi, a major pollutant is street dust. In the past few years, the municipal corporations have significantly upgraded their earlier non-existent tools in the fight against pollution, but inner roads in residential areas remain untouched by this modernisation.  Track the pollution level in your cityThe city currently has a fleet of over 59 high-capacity mechanical road sweepers (MRS), which mainly clean the major roads. While MRS operate on around 1,300km of road surfaces every day, over 20,000km of smaller roads in residential and inner colony areas are still swept manually. A South Delhi Municipal Corporation official claimed to be operating 24 such sweepers on 700km of roads every day in addition to the use of 83 water sprinklers on 600km of road a day. But, as he admitted, “They only work on roads wider than 60ft, most of them under PWD’s jurisdiction. The size of these machines makes them unsuitable for use on smaller roads.” Experts said out that a blend of vacuuming and water sprinkling before road sweeping along with change in timings of road cleaning can help in reduction of direct exposure to particulate matter, metals and harmful organic contaminants. Elsewhere in other world cities, with the earliest street sweeping programme started by Benjamin Franklin in Philadelphia in the 1790s, manual cleaning has been largely replaced by mechanised methods. In Delhi, though, a municipal official noted, “Considering the massive length of inner colony roads and the poor state of many stretches along with the high input cost of MRS, it is not yet practical to mechanically sweep colony roads.” In 2018, SDMC started experimenting with the Jatayu vacuum-based litter-picker machines in some markets. The project, however, could not be expanded to other areas. The municipal councillors have repeatedly demanded the procurement of smaller road sweepers using funds given by the Union urban development ministry, but experts opine that such mechanised units are feasible only on well-maintained roads, not on coarse or eroded surfaces. Night sweeping of select roads can be an alternative during pollution season. In 2004, Delhi High Court asked the then unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi to start night sweeping to reduce dust in the morning hours. Municipal officials said this was carried out in 46 colonies for several years, but was hampered by challenges like safety of female workers and logistics. “There is the additional problem of colony roads being occupied by parked cars, obstructing the sweeping programme,” pointed out an EDMC official. Traditional beliefs are also a hindrance. An SDMC official said traders, according to Vaastu recommendations, clean their shops in the mornings, upending all the night cleaning done in markets by the municipal corporations. Night sweeping, therefore, some officials said, can work only in some localities such as those identified as pollution hotspots for a short duration. “A better solution is to deploy water sprinklers with the sweeping units. The areas can be first sprinkled with water and then swept,” suggested a civic official. A Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) 2016 analysis of a busy one-kilometre stretch on Ghazipur road in Mayur Vihar found that on vacuuming the road, the PM2.5 (respirable pollutants smaller than 2.5 microns) level dropped from 562 micrograms per cubic metre to 517 an hour after the cleaning. CSE, however, observed that the overall effectiveness of the measure was impacted by traffic volume. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at CSE, said this meant a multi-pronged approach was required to tackle the dust problem, with mechanised sweepers not the sole solution. Chowdhury pointed out how the lockdown proved reduced traffic brought down dust re-suspension on the roads. “Roads with high traffic are where mechanised sweepers are needed the most. Sure, the traffic will raise the pollution level, but the dust re-suspension is minimised. In the smaller lanes inside colonies, dust re-suspension is not as big an issue,” said Chowdhury, adding that smaller cleaning machines could certainly be operated on such lanes. For this part, Sumit Sharma, director (earth science and climate change division) at The Energy Research Institute, felt MRS were underutilised. “These machines can cover so much more area than they currently do and even mid-category roads can be cleaned by them,” said Sharma. “We also discovered that their machines’ brushes were not being cleaned properly, reducing their effectiveness. Since we have realised that dust is often coming to Delhi from the surrounding towns, sweeping machines need to be deployed across NCR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-clean-sweep-for-colony-roads/articleshow/78738360.cms||Paras Singh
October 19, 2020||Mysuru||Int’l recognition for Kannada science communication||Mysuru: It is a proud movement for the state and international recognition for Kannada science communication, as two Kannadigas, CFTRI scientist Kollegala Sharma and EJNANA founder Srinidhi Thiru Gopal have been selected among the finalists of Germany’s Falling Walls Engage event. Kollegala Sharma and Gopal are among the finalists selected for the Falling Walls Science Breakthrough of the Year event conducted by the Falling Walls Foundation, Germany. The Falling Walls Engage, that is held as part of the popular Berlin Science Festival every year, recognizes the efforts of science communicators and outreach programmes from across the World. The event is held commemorating the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, and recognizes the efforts that break the walls of science communication. A total 10 winners from among the finalists will be selected, and the list will be announced on November 8. Scientists, technologists from various research fields and science communicators from across the world are among the finalists. “During lockdown, I wrote a topic related to the Covid-19 pandemic per day in ‘Vijay Karnataka’, with the help of Kollegala Sharma, which was also made available as a series on a couple of websites. At the end of the series, the content was published as a free eBook,” Gopal said. Both Kollegala Sharma and Srinidhi have been selected under Falling Walls Remote 2020 under Science Engagement category. While Sharma will deliver on ‘Breaking the wall to Language, Geography and Social Separation’, Srindhi will speak on ‘Breaking the wall of Misinformation’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/intl-recognition-for-kannada-science-communication/articleshow/78737269.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Agra||Son of autorickshaw driver cracks NEET||AGRA: For the past two years, 50-year-old Bhikam Singh had been waiting for this day. Finally, his son, Raj Sagar, cracked the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate), his first step towards pursuing higher studies in medicine. Sagar secured 8,509th rank in the NEET, results of which were declared on Friday. It was his second attempt. He is the first in this Dalit family to pass a competitive exam. He aspires to become a cardiologist one day. His father was so happy that he could barely speak but his shining eyes said it all. Encouraged by his father, an autodriver, Sagar took up the challenge to clear the NEET. He studied over 12 hours a day Dolly Singh, Sagar's mother, said, “My son has worked hard with very limited resources. I am very happy. It is like a dream come true for the entire family. Parents should not lose confidence in their kids and always try to motivate them to do better.” Talking with TOI, Sagar said, “My father somehow managed to provide me with coaching to qualify the test. I knew how tough it was for him to arrange money for my studies. I will make him proud by becoming a cardiologist." His parents motivated him to continue the preparation after failing to qualify in the first attempt. Competitive exam aspirants should not lose hope in case of initial failure. Need is to identify the shortcomings and work for improvement. It is very important to enjoy the hard work in course of preparation,” said Sagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/son-cracks-neet-does-father-an-autorickshaw-driver-proud/articleshow/78737268.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Three of a family drown in sea near Bhavnagar||Rajkot: In a tragic incident, three members of a family drowned in the sea near Bhavnagar while performing rituals on Sunday afternoon. According to police, the incident occurred at Nishkalank temple at Koliyak village of Ghogha taluka of Bhavnagar district. The family from Bavla town of Ahmedabad district had come there to perform rituals of their deceased kin at the sea, said cops. During immersion of ashes, Labhubhai Naik, his son Jayesh (13) and daughter Saroj (17) went deep into the sea to take bath and drowned in the rising water. Labhubhai’s wife who was present at the shore cried for help and despite nearby people trying to save them all efforts went in vain. The bodies of the three persons were fished out on Sunday and sent for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-of-a-family-drown-in-sea-near-bhavnagar/articleshow/78737280.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Varanasi||Assaulted 80-yr-old priest succumbs to injuries in Azamgarh||Varanasi: The 80-year-old priest of a temple at Gulaur village in Mubarakpur police station area of Azamgarh district succumbed at the district hospital on Sunday. The priest Ramchandra Das had been attacked by a man of neighbouring Bijarwa village on Friday night when he refused to give him money for liquor. Hundreds of Gulaur natives blocked Azamgarh-Gorakhpur highway and staged massive protest on Sunday afternoon. Police managed to convince them to call off their stir after much pursuasion. The priest was looking after the temple for decades. On Friday evening he was returning from market when one Mrityunjaya of neighbouring village started forcing him to give money to purchase liquor. When Das refused, he attacked him mercilessly with a stick and escaped before the locals could swing into action. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said the priest had suffered head injuries. The killer Mrityunjaya was arrested on Saturday and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/assaulted-80-yr-old-priest-succumbs-to-injuries-in-azamgarh/articleshow/78736511.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Varanasi||Jailed muscleman MLA Vijay Mishra, kin booked in gang rape case||VARANASI: Jailed NISHAD Party MLA from UP’s Gyanpur constituency Vijay Mishra was booked for gang rape along with his son and nephew on Sunday after a 25-year-old woman from Varanasi filed a complaint against the trio at Gopiganj police station in Bhadohi district. The complainant has submitted many video clips and screenshots of her mobile phone along with her complaint as evidence. Bhadohi superintendent of police RB Singh said, “The woman filed a complaint that she was sexually exploited by Mishra and his family members for the past six years. Gopiganj police lodged an FIR under relevant section of IPC against Vijay Mishra, his son Vishnu and nephew Vikas. Investigation has started in this case.” In her complaint, the woman, an artist, alleged that she had been called to perform at the Bhadohi residence of Vijay Mishra in 2014. “When I was changing my clothes before the programme, the MLA entered my room and raped me after threatening me of dire consequences. He then asked Vishnu and Vikas to drop me at my home, but they took me to another building and both raped me. In 2015, I was again called by the MLA to Allahabad and later to a hotel in Varanasi where he raped me,” the woman said in her complaint. She added: “The MLA had made some obscene video clips of mine. He also used to make video calls and force me into virtual sex.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vijay-mishra-kin-booked-for-gang-rape/articleshow/78736500.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Courts must be cautious on disciplinary matters: Madras HC||MADURAI: Observing that courts are expected to be cautious while granting an order to consider the representation or to dispose of disciplinary proceedings, Madras high court has said that such directions should be issued on merit and taking into consideration the legal grounds. Petitioner D Ravindran retired from service on superannuation as deputy collector in 2014. Though he was eligible for promotion as district revenue officer (DRO), he was not included in the panel list in 2011 as two charge memos were pending against him. He filed two separate petitions before the court seeking to conclude the departmental proceedings and subsequently, both the charges against him were dropped. Since the authorities had rejected his promotion on the ground that the punishment of censure was issued to him in 2013, he filed the present petition before HC Madurai bench seeking to promote him to the post of DRO. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that as per the provisions of Tamil Nadu Government Servants (Conditions of Service) Act, 2016, if a member of a service is punished with censure after the date for preparation of panel but before the actual promotion is granted to the individuals included in the panel, it shall be held against such member(s) of service. The punishment of censure will have effect for a year and hence the officer is not entitled to promotion within one year of the date of imposition. The judge noted that in the present case, as far as the 2011 panel is concerned, charge memo was pending and at the time it was dropped, the punishment of censure was in force. The manner in which the petitioner was exonerated from the charges reveals that it is a litigious exoneration and was not by defending the charges by participating in the process of inquiry. He filed writ petition after writ petition and finally the charges were dropped, noted the judge. The judge observed that the courts are expected to be cautious as undue advantage is taken by the litigants in order to escape from the clutches of disciplinary proceedings. “Beyond the pendency of the charges and other aspects, the government has to assess the merits, ability and suitability of the candidates before granting such promotion,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-orders-on-disciplinary-matters-need-caution-says-hc/articleshow/78739821.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 19, 2020||Madurai||No headway in double murder case: Madurai cops||MADURAI: Madurai district police are yet to make any headway into the double murder cases, in which Kunnathur village panchayat president R Krishnarajan and over-head tank operator A Munusamy were hacked to death in the village by unidentified people a week ago. The two were murdered on October 11 at the foothill of a hillock and the incident came to light the next morning. Karuppayurani police had registered a case based on a complaint by Krishnarajan’s elder brother Baskaran. On the instructions of district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar, three teams were formed to crack the murder case. Initially, police suspected the involvement of former village panchayat president Thirupathi and village secretary Palpandi and they were questioned. However, police teams are looking at various other angles with no progress into solving the case. Police sources said various minor issues he had with people have been brought to the notice of police and each one is being checked carefully by the teams. Krishnarajan had the habit of using ganja and had often purchased it from anti-social elements. A team is also checking whether he had any issues with ganja peddlers. He had conducted the marriage of a couple against their parents’ wishes. Police are also probing whether it had created enmity with anybody. There is a suspicion that the murder was the outcome of a dispute in connection with an extra-marital affair. He also said to have earned the wrath of a few people during the recent local body elections, in which he was elected unopposed. Former history-sheeter Varichur Selvam was also summoned by police as part of the inquiry. “The case is more challenging than we initially thought. There were no CCTV footages to check the movements of suspects. There is no clear motive evidence so far. Going by the injuries, the murders could have done by first timers,” an official privy to the inquiry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-headway-in-double-murder-case/articleshow/78739824.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Warmline to lend ear to youth in distress||CHENNAI: The pandemic has taken a psychological toll on everyone and, to provide a listening ear to young people in distress, Scarf has launched a warmline. Y4Y (Youth For Youth) caters to people aged 15 to 25 years who need a peer to talk to, a place to vent or to share their problems. Youngsters can speak anonymously with a trained youth volunteer from Monday to Friday from 1pm to 9pm. “It is not to be confused with a suicide helpline. This is meant for youngsters who feel lonely or dejected and want to reach out and talk to someone,” says Dr Shiva Prakash, consultant child and adolescent psychiatrist, Scarf, who is also in charge of the organisation’s youth outreach programme RYMS (Resource Centre for Youth Mental Health by Scarf). The warmline has been launched as young people are experiencing more stress with the outbreak of Covid-19, lockdown, job loss and economic impact. “Six volunteers have been given extensive training to support individuals in real time,” says Dr Prakash. The warmline, which was launched on World Mental Health Day, is an extension of the work RYMS has been doing for the past one year. “RYMS is a safe space for young people to get together and talk about issues bothering them, which needn’t be necessarily related to mental health,” says Dr Prakash, adding that they started it because they realised that didactic education about mental health doesn’t really work with young people. While earlier young people would meet on weekends from 4pm to 6pm, with Covid-19, all meetings moved online. Sanjana Goutham, programme manager at RYMS, says though Y4Y is not a helpline or suicide prevention hotline, resources and professional help will be provided if needed. Warmline: 9150455736||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/warmline-to-lend-ear-to-youth-in-distress/articleshow/78738338.cms||Priya Menon
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Active Covid-19 cases dip in southern, central districts of TN||MADURAI/TRICHY: Covid-19 active cases in the 10 southern districts of the state have come below 4,000 for the first time since June. The region recorded 387 cases on Sunday, as the number of active cases touched 3,949. Meanwhile, the central region reported 396 cases taking the tally to 61,925, which include 3,378 active cases. The region also recorded five deaths pushing the toll to 816. Madurai’s total number of cases is 18,018. At an average of around 80 cases, the district has been recording the highest number of cases in the region. The district is the first in the south and 7th in the state to record more than 18,000 cases. Among fresh cases, Tenkasi (8) recorded the lowest, followed by Ramanathapuram (13), Sivagangai (25), Dindigul (28), Virudhunagar (31), Theni (35) and Tirunelveli (39). Madurai (79) recorded the highest number of fresh cases, followed by Kanyakumari (69) and Tuticorin (60). Six deaths were recorded in the region that include three in Dindigul and one each in Madurai, Theni and Ramanathapuram. In the central region, Thanjavur on Sunday reported 98 new positive cases, the highest in the region. The total number of positive cases in the district is 14,479, while 13,698 patients have been discharged. Tiruvarur recorded 83 fresh positive cases taking the tally to 9,007. Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts reported one Covid-19 death each. Trichy district reported 63 fresh positive cases on Sunday pushing the tally to 11,850. Nagapattinam district reported 58 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, and two deaths. Covid cases were also reported in Pudukottai (47), Karur (22), Ariyalur (16), and Perambalur (9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/active-covid-19-cases-dip-in-southern-central-districts/articleshow/78739823.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Railways cracks down on illegal vendors at stations in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Division of Northern Railway has launched a special drive against unauthorised food vendors that have sprung up at Delhi’s railway stations and are not only operating without a licence, but may also not be following the sanitisation norms laid out for registered vendors. Railway officials said that since the launch of the drive on October 14, 43 unauthorised vendors have already been apprehended by teams formed by Railways and Section 144 of the Railways Act imposed on them for further action. S C Jain, divisional railway manager, Delhi division, said the drive was launched keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation, due to which on-board catering services were restricted making it more viable for vendors operating on station platforms to sell food and refreshments. “These unauthorised vendors not only cause a financial loss to Railways, but pose a great risk to the health and safety of the passengers, as most of them operate without any guidelines,” said Jain. Railways said during the 10-day drive, arrangements made at each station will be inspected and licences of all the vendors will be examined. “Those who sell tea or food items when the train stops are also under watch. A number of them have sprung up recently owing to the pandemic, but they are now being identified and apprehended,” said a railway official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/railways-cracks-down-on-illegal-vendors-at-stns/articleshow/78738357.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur to be developed as textile hub by govt: Yogi||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday the state government will make Gorakhpur a textile hub and readymade garments will be included under one district one product (ODOP) scheme for the district soon. The CM made the announcement during a discussion with representatives of the Chamber of Industries (COI), chairman Vishnu Prasad Ajitsaria and former chairman S K Agarwal. “Gorakhpur will be developed as a textile hub. Around 12,000 migrant workers associated with the textile industry returned to Gorakhpur and nearby districts during the lockdown. There will be no shortage of employment for them and the industry will get experienced hands. Most of the migrants have already been provided employment and the government is still making serious efforts to employ them near their native places,” Yogi said. The government is also planning to establish a big training centre in order to encourage startups and self-employment, he added. The process of including readymade garments under one district one product (ODOF) of Gorakhpur is in the last phase, the chief minister said. Ajitsaria and Agarwal invited CM Yogi for the inauguration of Udyog Bhawan at sector 13 of GIDA in November and he gave them assurance that he would spare time. Praising the efforts of COI in the construction of Udyog Bhawan building, the chief minister said that initiative will soon be taken on their demand of constructing a flatted factory complex. “Big industrialists should also come forward now as GIDA is working to increase the land bank for setting up industrial units,” the CM said. Earlier in the morning, MMMUT VC Prof. J P Pandey met CM Yogi and gave him updates of ongoing projects in the varsity. Prof. Pandey appealed to him for government support and the CM gave him assurance of all possible help. The general manager of Hindustan Urvarak Evam Rasayan Ltd (HURL) Arun Gupta submitted the status report on the construction of the fertilizer plant. CM Yogi performed puja of Maa Brahmacharini at Shaktipeeth and left for Lucknow around 12 noon after meeting people. On Saturday evening, Yogi had installed Kalash at Shaktipeeth in Gorakhnath temple as per Navaratra puja traditions of Gorakshpeeth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-to-be-developed-as-textile-hub-by-govt-yogi/articleshow/78736526.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Mysuru||Now, yoga training in all PHCs||Mysuru: The pandemic has motivated several people to adopt a healthy lifestyle and boost their immune systems, and yoga is turning out to be one of the most favoured fitness routines. After recovery, Covid patients are also recommended to practice yoga to relieve stress and related complications. With this in mind, a yoga training initiative has been taken up in all Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and sub centres across the state under the National Health Mission (NHM). As per the plan, the yoga teachers will offer yoga education for the locals. In Mysuru, for instance, the funds will be released to the PHCs and sub centres to hire the yoga teachers locally, while in Shivamogga district, the health department is planning to tie up with an organisation engaged in yoga education. In Chikkamagalur district, applications are invited for 89 yoga teachers who will be appointed on a contract basis. “Yoga will help people keep several lifestyle diseases away. It will be launched soon,” said district surveillance officer Dr Shivaprasad. “Our plan is to convert all the PHCs into health and wellness centres,” explained Rajesh Suragihalli, Shivamogga district health officer (DHO). “For the first time, yoga will be taught in the PHCs. We are planning to tie up with an organisation involved in yoga education. This will help people beat kinds of stress. In this hour of crisis, yoga will play a significant role in keeping one physically and mentally strong,” he added. Interestingly, the AYUSH department is offering yoga training free of cost in three of its hospitals located in Mysuru, T Narasipura and T Narasipura taluks. “In these three health centres we have appointed two yoga instructors (male and female). They are paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 8,000,” said district AYUSH officer Dr Sithalakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/now-yoga-training-in-all-phcs/articleshow/78737298.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Parking woes back as tourism resumes in Kodai||MADURAI: Ever since visitors were allowed into Kodaikanal hills after the lockdown, a large number of people have been visiting the hill station after obtaining e-pass, especially on weekends. As tourist inflow has been on the rise, the long pending parking issue has now come to the fore again. Lack of parking space is forcing tourists to park their vehicles on roadsides, affecting traffic on the roads. Following congestion, police personnel have been deployed to regulate smooth traffic movement. Residents as well as the stakeholders in the tourism industry have urged the district administration to create parking facility to meet the increasing demand. Kodaikanal attracts more than 1.5 crore tourists including two lakh foreigners in a year. Most of the people prefer to visit the hill station in their own vehicles. Ravikumar Agatheeswaran, a resident, said that some of the roads have adequate space on at least one side but they are not properly utilized. “For instance, on Kalaiarangam road, shops are set up close to the road leaving a large tract of unusable land behind them. Instead, the shops should have been erected such that the front portion could have been used as parking space,” he said. S Xavier, another resident, said that parking facility can be set up on one side of Observatory Road if it is filled using soil. “There is a suitable land available at Pillaiyar Temple near the lake, which took can be used for parking if the surface is laid out.” Residents also add that dividers have been introduced on roads without widening them, which further results in congestion. Kodaikanal assistant collector Sivaguru Prabakaran said that all possible measures are being taken to address the parking issue so that the issue improves the next summer vacation. “A multi-level car parking each by the transport department and Kodaikanal municipality is in the pipeline at Bus Terminal and Kalaiarangam. We are looking at the possibility of establishing a parking space at Vilpatti,” he said. He added that there is good response by the recent call for private players to set up parking on unused lands with assurance that their required license will be processed in a short time. “A person has come forward to turn his land into park lot. An inspect will be conducted soon before giving nod.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/parking-woes-back-as-tourism-resumes-in-kodai/articleshow/78739826.cms||V Devanathan
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Stalker, 2 others attack girl’s uncle, grandpa||MADURAI: Three people including a teenager attacked a 65-year-old man from Karumbalai in the city using sickle and machete as he questioned one of them for stalking his granddaughter. The injured were identified as M Alagarsamy, 65, from Middle Street, a retired sanitary employee who worked with Madurai corporation, and his son Saravanan. Police sources said that he has two sons and a daughter and stays with one of his sons Saravanan. Another son’s daughter, who studies in Class X, also stays with him. R Karthick Raja, 18, from Rajakoor, was stalking the girl for a while. His family was staying in the same street until a couple of years ago after death of his father, when they shifted to Rajakoor. Alagarsamy and his daughter-in-law Eswari had warned him a couple of times. Karthick and two others barged into their house in the wee hours of Saturday with a sickle and machete and threatened Alagarsamy, following which they attacked him. Saravanan tried to prevent them from attacking his father and suffered a couple of cut injuries. Alagarsamy and Saravanan were treated at Government Rajaji Hospital. A case was registered with the Anna Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalker-2-others-attack-girls-uncle-grandpa/articleshow/78739825.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Depression gives cool break from heat||Rajkot: After days of sweltering heat, rain drenched Rajkot city and several other parts of Saurashtra on Saturday night and Friday evening. India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the wet spell was caused by the depression over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea which was moving away from the Gujarat coast. Residents of Rajkot were pleasantly surprised with the sharp downpour that took many of them unaware. In Amreli district, several villages of Dhari and Bagasra talukas received heavy bout of rainfall for about an hour on Saturday evening. Flash flood was witnessed in a river flowing near Saapar village of Bagasra. Most of these villages are close to Junagadh district. Parts of Khambhaliya taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district too reeled under wet spell for a while. Nearly 400 fishing boats have returned to Jafrabad port after warning by the weather department. IMD bulletin stated that over the next five days light to moderate rain or thunder showers are very likely at a few places in all the districts of Gujarat region, Gir- Somnath, Porbandar, Rajkot, Junagadh and Kutch, Diu, Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Panchmahal, Kheda, Narmada, Chhota Udepur, Surat, Bharuch, Navsari, Valsad. Maximum rainfall was reported in Dhrol taluka which was pounded by 106mm in just few hours on Sunday afternoon. While Rajkot city received 43mm, Dhoraji town got 48mm rain.In Kutch, Rapar was drenched by 42 mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/depression-gives-cool-break-from-heat/articleshow/78737292.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Businessman fires at kin in family dispute, shoots self accidentally||CHENNAI: A businessman fired at a relative using his licensed revolver and also shot himself by mistake in a family dispute in Royapuram late on Saturday. Both have been admitted to separate hospitals where their condition is said to be stable. The incident happened around 11pm at an apartment complex on NRT Road in Royapuram. Police said Syed Ibrahim Shah, 57, who owns a lodge on Angamuthu Street in Mannady and also runs a leather business, was not on good terms with his wife Barakath Unnisa. The two were living separately in the same house and the woman’s nephew Ansarudhin (son of her sister Nasiath Nisha) was helping her financially. Syed Ibrahim was not happy with this and often fought with her, asking her not to take help from him anymore. On Saturday night, a fight broke out when Shah allegedly called Ansarudhin and chided him for intervening in their family issues. Ansarudhin disconnected the call and went to Shah’s house with four of his friends fearing he might harm Barakath. While three of his friends waited outside, Ansarudhin entered the house with one of his friends. After Barakath, 40, told him that her husband was hiding in the bathroom, Ansarudhin spoke to him and asked him to come out of the bathroom. Shah, who had a revolver with him, opened the bathroom door and fired at Ansarudhin, hitting him in a hand. As the younger man tried to overpower him, Shah’s revolver went off again and he was left with an injury to a hand. While Ansarudhin managed to flee the house and got himself admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital, Shah was taken to a private hospital on Greams Road in the Teynampet area. The two men are recovering. On receiving the information, a team of the Royapuram police rushed to the spot and seized the revolver, eight bullets and two empty cases. A case has been registered and further investigation is on. Police found Shah held a valid licence for the revolver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bizman-fires-at-kin-in-family-dispute-shoots-self-accidentally/articleshow/78738355.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Hundreds of trees cut near Madurai temple||MADURAI: As part of the Smart City mission, which is underway in Madurai, many trees, old and yound, are being cut and residents fear that the city is going to turn into a concrete jungle after the development project. The number of trees around the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, which have been axed till date under the smart city mission, is about 550, said Thilagar Raj, coordinator of Vaagai Sooda Vaa Trust, a NGO that had planted over 500 saplings along the city roads seven years ago and nurtured them. Coordinator of Mannin Marangalai Pathukakum Iyakkam, Sridhar Neduchezhian said that parts of the city like the West Masi Street, where the work is almost complete, is proof of how green the smart city would look. “Most of the trees we planted had grown up to about four feet, but now they have all been cut and when we confront the contractor, he tells us that he has permission to cut the trees, but never shows us an order,” Thilagar Raj said. Most of the trees that they planted were endangered species such as Marutham, Vaagai and Kadamba. The contractors have pruned most of the tall trees to about eight feet to make it easy for them carry out construction works. “A Vaagai tree was removed in North Masi Street on Sunday and water poured out of the trunk, the contractor wanted to see if a pipeline had been broken unaware of the fact that trees hold water in their trunk,” said Thilagar Raj. “The contractors tell us that they are replanting the trees in Vellaikkal, but I have seen them throwing the smaller trees on the river banks and maybe, they sell the bigger ones which could bring them not less than Rs 50,000 per tree,” he said. “Boulevards, lined with trees, are the major attraction of heritage walks in foreign nations like Paris, but that is surely not going to be the case in Madurai, as it would be one hot walk from the look of things,” said B Priya, travel enthusiast. City engineer, S Arasu said that they were replanting the bigger trees in Vellaikkal, the corporation dumpyard. “We will ensure that trees are planted in places near the spots from they are removed without any hindrance to the temple car, which goes on the Masi Streets during the festival,” he said. The Madurai Corporation commissioner, S Visakan said that they had translocated many of the trees in Vellaikkal and the corporaiton parks. “We have now grown 3,000 new trees to a height of over five feet, and the Vaigai river front, once completed, would have a rich canopy, “ he said and added that trees in the city were a problem due to traffic congestion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hundreds-of-trees-cut-near-madurai-temple/articleshow/78739827.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||Man falls off 5th floor of closed hotel, dies||Vadodara: An unidentified man died after falling off a closed hotel on RC Dutt Road on Sunday afternoon. Police, while investigating if it is a case of suicide or accident or if he was pushed by somebody, said that primarily it is suspected that he may have fallen off from the fifth floor of Sudarshan Palace hotel and died immediately. “His identity was yet to be ascertained as there were no identity cards on him. We have sent the body to SSG Hospital for post-mortem,” said an official. The accident seems mysterious as the hotel is currently not operational and the man somehow not only managed to gain entry but reach up to the fifth floor. A case of accidental death was registered at Gotri police station. This is the second incident within a fortnight wherein death took place in a hotel. On October 6, Alpesh Patel, a man from Bopal in Ahmedabad, had ended his life due to his business dealings at Hotel Amity in Sayajigunj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-falls-off-5th-floor-of-closed-hotel-dies/articleshow/78737523.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kanpur||Illegal firecrackers seized, 3 arrested||Kanpur: Three people were arrested and 91 cartons of illegal firecrackers worth Rs 50 lakh were seized in a raid at a house in Kanghi Mohal locality behind Gulab Ghosi Masjid under the limits of Bajaria police station on late Sunday evening. A police team raided house of one Rizwan Habeeb, at Kanghi Mohal area. “We had received specific inputs that a house in Kanghi Mohal locality is being used for hoarding firecrackers following, which it was raided. We seized five loaders laden with 91 cartons of firecrackers,” said SSP Dr Preetinder Singh. SSP further said, three people were arrested. “They have been identified as Rizwan Habeeb, Hafeez Ahmed and Mohd Javed,” he further said and added, “We have booked them under section 5/9 B explosive act.” The raid was part of police’s drive against illegal firecrackers in the wake of a blast in one such factory in Agra on Sundayt that killed three people, said official. “As per the rule, even if, one has obtained sale/purchase licence of firecrackers, one cannot hoard it in residential area,” said, a district official adding that in this case, the hoarder had flouted the rule both ways. “He had not only obtained firecrackers without a licence, but also hoarded it in a residential pocket which could be hazardous for locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/illegal-firecrackers-seized-3-arrested/articleshow/78737718.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kanpur||9 injured in cylinder blast||Kanpur: At least nine people were injured after an LPG cylinder caught fire and exploded in a house in Sargaon Khurd village in Derapur area of Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday morning. Several fire tenders were rushed to the spot after the incident was reported, police said. Police further said a cooking gas cylinder had exploded and the injured, have been admitted to community health centre. The incident took place following a leak in LPG cylinder in the house of one Jagdeo in Sargaon Khurd village in Derapur police area. Three fire tenders rushed to the site. “Injured were admitted to a nearby CHC,” inspector Derapur Sameer Kumar Singh. Jagdeo’s wife Suraj Kumari was preparing breakfast on LPG stove in her house when the cylinder following a leakage caught fire. She, along with eight others suffered burn wounds after the fire followed by explosion, Singh said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/9-injured-in-cylinder-blast/articleshow/78737735.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Farmhand arrested for killing Vadtal youth||RAJKOT: A farm labourer working in Kutch was arrested on Sunday for killing a 23-year-old man from Vadtal near Faradi village in Mandvi taluka on October 16. Meet Patel, who worked at a store in Swaminarayan Temple in Vadtal, was killed by Shankar Rathwa as the former had been threatening him over the phone. Shankar’s son Hasmukh had fled with Patel’s fiancé Renuka which had irked Patel. Not being able to locate the couple, the deceased managed to get Shankar’s phone number and started making threat calls to him. Patel went to Haripura village in Mandvi taluka on October 16 on his bike when he found out that Shankar works there and asked him to meet him. On meeting, Shankar told him that he knows where Renuka and Hasmukh are and will take him to them. As they were going on Patel’s bike, Shankar, who was sitting pillion, slit Patel’s throat with a knife near Faradi village and left from there. Patel’s body was found by locals but his identity was not known as he did not have any identity cards on him. Police could track down his brother Sagar in Vadodara based on the registration details of his bike found nearby. On Saturday, Sagar went to Mandvi and identified Patel. “The mystery was what the deceased was doing so far in Mandvi so we checked his family details,” said inspector S J Rana of local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmhand-arrested-for-killing-vadtal-youth/articleshow/78737354.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Fishermen allege attack by SL Navy||MADURAI: The fishermen from Rameswaram, who went fishing in mechanized boats, alleged that they were attacked by the Sri Lankan Navy near the international maritime boundary line (IMBL) when they tried to sail to the Gulf of Kutch for fishing on Saturday. The affected fishermen said that the navy personnel attacked them with stones and bottles and also cut their fishing nets. The fishermen had not been able to go fishing for two weeks, till Friday, due to the warning following depression in the Bay of Bengal. Around 2,500 fishermen went fishing in 500 mechanized boats on Saturday. The affected fishermen said that the navy personnel came in 10 patrol boats, threatened them and hurled stones and bottles at them. One of the affected fishermen, Emerit said that the Lankan Navy personnel also cut off the nets of few boats. Fearing attack, many boats cut off their nets and fled the scene while some abandoned their nets. According to sources, the Navy personnel did not arrest the fishermen and chased them fearing Covid-19 spread. They have also asked Lankan fishermen not to cross the IMBL and enter Indian waters or have any contact with fishermen from India, fearing the virus spread. PMK leader S Ramdoss has condemned the attack on the Indian fishermen. Attacks on Indian fishermen by the Sri Lankan Navy had decreased considerably in the past few months, but now it is a matter of concern again as they chased the fishermen by pointing guns at them, he said in a statement issued on Sunday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishermen-allege-attack-by-sl-navy/articleshow/78739829.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||‘Heritage’ building demolished in anti-encroachment drive||Dehradun: The joint team of Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) and district administration demolished a portion of a residential building of heritage importance near Paltan Bazaar during the anti-encroachment drive on Sunday. The present owner of the building Manish Nayal, a businessman by profession, said, “The teams do not have any idea about what exactly should be considered encroachment. I had not extended the part of my property on the road but they demolished a building which was there since 1910. I requested the officials, who came to demolish the building, to reconsider but they demolished a portion nonetheless. The building, which is also my residence, will get damaged severely if any further is taken.” The building was constructed in 1910 and a completion certificate was issued by the British administration in 1939. In 1992, Nayal and his late father had repurchased the building. However, the officials have claimed that everything was being done in accordance with the orders from the high court and on the basis of encroachments identified by the teams before the drive was initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heritage-building-demolished-in-anti-encroachment-drive/articleshow/78737314.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara corona cases touch 13,808||Vadodara: The total number of Covid cases in Vadodara on Sunday touched 13,808 with 106 more found to be infected out of the 3,928 samples tested since Saturday evening. The death toll in the city and district touched 209 with Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) declaring one more death on Sunday. The number of active cases or patients under treatment in Vadodara city and district currently stands at 1.595. Of these, condition of 1,376 patients is said to be stable. A total of 159 patients are on oxygen support while 60 patients are under ventilator support or BI-PAP machine. The daily discharges, which were on rise over the last two days, dropped on Sunday. With 78 patients including 12 from government hospitals, 13 from private hospitals and 53 from home isolation getting discharged, the total number of discharges stand at 12,004. The number of individuals under quarantine now stands at 3,291.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-corona-cases-touch-13808/articleshow/78737324.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Surat||Egg hurled during BJP’s poll meeting||Surat: Anxious moments were witnessed during a by-poll campaign meeting in Surat’s Yogi Chowk area when someone hurled an egg after senior BJP leaders including state president CR Paatil had left the venue on Sunday evening. The meeting was organized for campaigning of Congress turncoat JV Kakadia, who is contesting as BJP candidate for the Dhari constituency. However, the incident did not create any disturbance but it is believed that someone vented frustration at not being able to celebrate Navratri. Around 500 people had gathered in the event in Anand Farm of Yogi Chowk. Along with Paatil, Surat BJP MP Darshana Jardosh, mayor Jagdish Patel and others were present. “I had left the meeting before the incident. People did not react to it and the meeting continued peacefully for over an hour,” said Paatil. Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) leader Dharmik Malaviya said, “People are forced to live indoors due irresponsible behaviour by BJP leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/egg-hurled-during-bjps-poll-meeting/articleshow/78737657.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: With eye on festive & office crowds, cops plan dual traffic management||KOLKATA: About 8,000 cops will hit the streets from 4 pm on Monday as Durga Puja festivities start on Tritiya amid the pandemic. The state had urged committees for a Tritiya opening to space out the Puja over the next eight days till Dashami to ensure physical distancing. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday inaugurated 12 south Kolkata pujas. With offices open till Thursday, the cops will be hard-pressed to keep evening traffic moving, along with the people visiting pandals. On Sunday, some local police stations had to move in reinforcements to control visitors at pandals. Abhishek Bhattacharya, general secretary of Tala Barowari, said the rush was such that they had to put up extra barricades and request people to come back on Monday. At Mudiali in south Kolkata, one of the key organizers, Ashok Dey, said people have been coming since Saturday itself. “We will appeal to everyone to follow rules set by Kolkata Police.” “We had to send reinforcements from local police stations in the evening. This was after reports that revellers had come in front of popular pujas in Gariahat and Kasba,” said an officer. Police, though, said the pressure on evening traffic will not be like earlier years when Kolkata came to a grinding halt — courtesy, three factors. “Office-goers are less in numbers. VIP movements, including Puja judging by celebrities, have been mostly cancelled. And finally, suburban crowd will not be in Kolkata in absence of trains,” an officer said. Special arrangements have been made for “choke points” like Rashbehari Avenue, Hatibagan and Tollygunge Circular Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-eye-on-festive-office-crowds-cops-plan-dual-traffic-management/articleshow/78738367.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Special festive trains for southern districts||MADURAI: The following festival season special trains to Madurai and Tirunelveli will be operated by Southern Railway. Train No 06053 will leave Madurai at 11.55am on October 22 and 29 and November 5, 12, 19 and 26 (Thursdays) and reach Bikaner on Saturdays at 5.45pm. In the return direction, Train No 06054 will leave Bikaner on at 3pm on October 25 and November 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 (Sundays) and reach Madurai at 6.40pm on Tuesdays. The trains will have one 1AC coach, four 2AC coaches and 14 3AC coaches. Train No 09578 will leave Jamnagar at 9pm on Fridays and Saturdays and reach Tirunelveli at 10.10pm on Sundays and Mondays. In the return direction, Train No 09577 will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45am on Mondays and Tuesdays and reach Jamnagar at 5.15am on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The train will have one 2AC coaches, five 3AC coaches, 11 sleeper class coaches, four general second sitting coaches, one guard van cum second sitting coach and one guard van cum differently-abled coach. The first service will commence from Jamnagar on November 6 and Tirunelveli on November 9. These trains will run till further advice. Train No 08496 will leave Bhubaneswar at 12 noon on October 23 and 30 and November 6, 13, 20 and 27 (Fridays) and reach Rameswaram at 11 pm on Saturdays. In the return direction Train No 08495 will leave Rameswaram at 8.40am on October 25 and November 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 (Sundays) and reach Bhubaneswar at 6.55pm on Mondays. The trains will have one 2AC coach, four 3AC coaches, 11 sleeper class coaches and two second class coaches. They will halt at Ramanathapuram, Paramakudi, Manamadurai, Sivagangai, Devakottai Road, Karaikudi, Pudukottai, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuturai, SirkazhI, Chidambaram, Tirupadiripuliyur, Villupuram, Chennai Egmore, Gudur, Nellore, Vijayawada, Duvvada, Vishakapatnam, Vizianagaram, Berhambur and Khurda Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/special-festive-trains-to-southern-districts/articleshow/78739828.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mysuru||Govt will build houses for flood-hit families: BS Yediyurappa||SHIVAMOGGA: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said the government will build new houses to help families that are affected due to floods in North Karnataka. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured him of help to assist the families hit by floods. Speaking to reporters in Shikaripura, he said the state government will build new houses to extend help to the families which have lost their houses due to rain and floods. “Rainfall is good across the state, mainly in Malnad this year, and waterbodies and dams have reached maximum limits. Unlike in North Karnataka, there was not much damage in Malnad due to heavy rainfall. The PM spoke to me on Friday and assured of financial assistance,” he stated. Yediyurappa will inaugurate several development works, mainly irrigation projects, in Shikaripura. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will conduct an aerial survey of the flood-hit districts of Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur and Bagalkot on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bsy-govt-will-build-houses-for-flood-hit-families/articleshow/78737326.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Madurai||Eight trains to be upgraded to express and superfast||MADURAI: The Railway Board has given approval for conversion of three pairs of trains operated by Southern Railway from passenger to express trains. Similarly, the board has given approval for conversion of an express to to superfast train. This has been given as reply by the public information officer of Southern Railway to a RTI petition filed by R Pandiaraja. The passenger trains that will be converted to express trains are Train No 56319 Nagercoil Junction to Coimbatore Junction and its pairing Train No 56320 Coimbatore Junction to Nagercoil, Train No 56323 Coimbatore junction to Mangalore central and its pairing Train No 56324 from Coimbatore junction to Mangalore central and Train No 56700 Madurai to Punalur and its pairing Train No 56701 Punalur to Madurai Junction. Train No 16864/16863 Mannargudi – Bhagatkikothi – Mannargudi weekly express will be converted into superfast express. On the criteria to upgrade passenger trains into express and express into superfast trains, SR replied that trains running for more than 200km are identified by the Railway Board for conversion into express trains. Express trains on reaching a speed of 55 kmph end-to-end are converted to superfast trains, it added. Stating that there is no information available with regard to elimination of stoppages for these four pairs of trains, in response to another query on proposals or decision taken to remove stoppages in SR zone, the official has replied that there is no such information available in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eight-trains-to-be-upgraded-to-express-and-superfast/articleshow/78739830.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||Two tourists, gone missing during Kedarkantha trek, rescued||Uttarkashi: Two tourists, who went missing in a forest area during the Kedarkantha trekking expedition on October 15, were rescued by local police on Saturday. Subsequently, they were admitted to a hospital and their condition is now told to be stable. According to TOI sources, a group of five tourists, all from Vikasnagar area of Dehradun, started the Kedarkantha expedition on October 14. On their way back, two of the trekkers — identified as 23-year-old Shubham Gairola and 24-year-old Mahendra Tomar — got separated from the group and lost in the forest. On October 16, the group members informed Mori police. Thereafter, a search and rescue operation was launched. After a nearly 48-hour-long operation, police teams found both the missing tourists in the forest on Saturday evening and admitted them to the community health centre at Naugaon. Inspector Kedar Singh Chauhan, in-charge of Mori police station, said, “Both the rescued youths were dehydrated and sick as they didn't have food, water, sleeping bag, or any other essential supply. However, their condition became better after primary treatment.” Meanwhile, superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Bhatt has announced a reward of Rs 1,000 for the police team. The villagers, who helped in the search and rescue operation, will also be felicitated, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-tourists-gone-missing-during-kedarkantha-trek-rescued/articleshow/78737340.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||Two lekhpals suspended for taking bribe to allow farmers burn stubble||Bareilly: Two lekhpals were suspended for allegedly taking a bribe to allow farmers to burn stubble in Mitauli tehsil of Lakhimpur Kheri district. Divulging details, Mitauli SDM Digvijay Singh said, “After receiving a satellite image of stubble burning, two lekhpals — Devesh Giri and Vikram Singh — were sent to the village where they allegedly accepted money from the farmers on the pretext avoiding an FIR against them. After an FIR was registered against two farmers for burning stubble, they complained that they had bribed the lekhpals. The charges against the lekhpals were found to be correct, and we suspended them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-lekhpals-suspended-for-taking-bribe-to-allow-farmers-burn-stubble/articleshow/78735820.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Migrating Indian pittas crashland in Chennai||CHENNAI: Bird lovers in Chennai were in for a rude shock when they recovered 27 Indian pittas that had crash-landed in houses across the city. Of the 27, two birds died, the remaining were handed over to conservationists. K Shravan of Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary said in the past one week, they have received nearly 20 such birds. The Indian pitta is a small passerine bird and migrates to southern India from the Central and Himalayan regions covering thousands of kilometres. Ornithologist V Santharam, member of the Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS), said these birds fall into houses because of tiredness. "They normally migrate in the last week of September and when they fly during the rainy days, they get tired and fall," he said. "The birds are normally found under the wild growth of a tree in the city. Nowadays, it is difficult to find trees and wild undergrowth in Chennai. These birds are chased by crows and they fall on the balconies," he said, adding the MNS members had recorded such incidents in the late 80s. Deputy director of Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), S Balachandran, said the Indian pitta come in large numbers during September and October. "They pass through Chennai to the south of Tamil Nadu and stay in the Western Ghats. Some birds fly till Sri Lanka also. The reverse migration occurs during March or April." "There are records of people trapping these birds and selling them as pets. They often fly into window panes and fall," he said. Santharam, who is ringing migrant birds in Kodiakkarai in Nagapattinam district, said Indian pitta is a local migrant and has not been ringed by ornithologists in the state. Bird ringing is the fixing of a numbered tag on the leg of a wild bird for individual identification. (Residents rescuing Indian pitta can contact wildlife authorities on 044-22200335 or provide the bird with water and earthworms for a couple of days. It will fly to its destination after that.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/migrating-indian-pittas-crashland-in-city/articleshow/78738387.cms||P Oppili
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||No verification of docus raises blocked-seat fear||KOLKATA: Candidates, who have taken admission in several prominent city colleges, where seats are considered coveted, have hardly migrated to other prestigious institutes even after the publication of Jadavpur University and Presidency University merit lists and the ongoing JEE counselling. This has raised alarm among principals that thousands of students, who have taken admission in these institutes, are now blocking the seats. They fear that after the classes start in the UG first semester on December 1, many candidates may withdraw and seek refund, leaving the seats vacant. The problem has become acute this year since there has been no physical verification of documents and the admission process is entirely online. Principal of Lady Brabourne College, Siuli Sarkar, said, “It has come as a surprise. Usually, when students decide to take admissions in a particular college, during the document verification, we seal their marksheets. This makes the process simple. They did not have the option to remain admitted in multiple colleges, as has happened this year, in the absence of any physical checking of documents.” She added that it might result in many seats falling vacant as and when the new academic session starts. Calcutta University, as directed by the higher education department and the University Grants Commission, has decided to close admission process on October 30. Registration of candidates will be done by November 30 and the new academic session will begin from December 1. A senior college official added that this year, 10 students on an average have cancelled their admissions so far — the number was higher last year. An official at Bethune College said there is an option to cancel admissions that can be opted by the candidates. “But, we will understand the exact number of students who may have blocked the seats only during document verification and registration process. If then the need arises, we will inform Calcutta University about the vacancies,” he added. Tapan Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College, said that till now, 206 candidates have applied for cancellation and 152 refunds have been made. “As per UGC rules, the colleges have to refund almost the entire admission amount to students who decide to withdraw or cancel, even later. Moreover, how many students will have the financial capacity to take admissions in multiple colleges?” he questioned, adding, “We will find out the exact situation only during the document-verification process.” Sources in education department said they were yet to fix any date for physical verification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-verification-of-docus-raises-blocked-seat-fear/articleshow/78738388.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||1,644 bikers booked in night-long pre-Puja raids in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Police launched a major drive on Saturday evening that lasted well into midnight against two-wheelers that have been a menace during the festive season. As part of the ongoing block-chain raids that has been going on every weekend before the Puja, as many as 1,644 bikers were booked for breaking motor vehicle rules in a four-hour operation that started around 8pm. The local cops, though, had launched their own pre-Puja drives even earlier — from 4 pm on Saturday afternoon. Among the 64 booked for rash driving by local cops, at least half are two-wheeler riders. In all, 17 vehicles were seized. The drive, though, did not end without an incident. A sub-inspector and a sergeant on duty at the Chaulpatty Road in Beliaghata were allegedly assaulted by some youths from Tangra after the police team stopped a 20-year-old biker for not wearing a helmet. According to police, SI Pratap Kundu, along with sergeant Arka Das and other cops, were carrying out raids on Chaulpatty Road near the crossing of Rashmoni Bazar. One Utsab Mukherjee (20), a resident of Kulia who was riding a bike without a helmet, was intercepted by the duo. “An altercation took place. Mukherjee then suddenly called up some people from his locality over phone. They came to the Rashmoni Bazar area and attacked the cops. A case was later registered against Mukherjee and others on the basis of a complaint by SI Kundu. The accused was arrested and charged under IPC section pertaining to voluntarily causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty,” said an officer. . “Rogue biking complaints from added areas post lockdown is the new normal. Reports of rash driving at night leading to accidents and the tendency to undermine basic rules at night led us to carry out raids,” said a police officer. A total of 1,055 persons were also booked for disorderly conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1644-bikers-booked-in-night-long-pre-puja-raids/articleshow/78738397.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 19, 2020||Indore||Jyotiraditya Scindia drums up support for Silwat in Sanwer rally||INDORE: BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Sunday accused PCC chief Kamal Nath and former chief minister Digvijaya Singh of turning Vallabh Bhawan into a centre of corrupt activities during Congress rule. “What a pair we have seen for the last 40 years. On the front face is younger brother ( Nath) and behind the curtain is elder brother (Digvijaya),” said Scindia, while addressing a public gathering in Kampel area of Sanwer assembly constituency. The senior politician was addressing a gathering in support of BJP Sanwer bypoll candidate Tulsi Silawat. Accusing Nath of running a syndicate for transfer of government officials, Scindia said, “I always thought Nath being an industrialist would bring investments in Madhya Pradesh. But something else happened in the state in his 15- month tenure as chief minister. Not a single industry was set up in the state during and he started a trade of transferring officials instead”, he said. “There used to be auction for transfers. There were police officials, who were transferred four times in a week,” said Scindia, adding that trades related to liquor and illegal mining were at its peak in the erstwhile Congress government. “His own cabinet minister wrote a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi claiming that Digvijaya was running a syndicate of transfer and corruption,” said Scindia, adding that the Congress government cheated on people of the state.  Befor reaching Indore, Scindia also visited Khandwa and Burhanpur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/scindia-drums-up-support-for-silwat-in-sanwer-rally/articleshow/78738399.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hubballi||Some normalcy in Vijayapura, Bagalkot||Vijayapura/Bagalkot: After nearly a week, heavy showers during which resulted in the flooding level of the Krishna, Doni and Bheema rivers and threw life out of gear in Vijayapura and Bagalkot, a semblance of normalcy returned to the two districts on Sunday. However, thousands of people displaced from their homes continue to stay either at the rehabilitation centres or in the homes of friends and relatives. They are gripped by the fear of health hazards they may be facing at the rehabilitation centres. Villages on the banks of Ghattaprabha, Krishna, Doni and Bheema rivers, are now waiting for the residents to return home. Meanwhile, the Almatti Dam in Vijayapura registered an inflow of 1.7 lakh cusecs, while 1.5 lakh cusecs were released from the reservoir. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will be conducting an aerial survey of the flood-hit districts of Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur and Bagalkot on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/some-normalcy-in-vijayapura-bagalkot/articleshow/78737378.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||NMC teachers reach out to students, bridge digital gap||NAGPUR: Sumati Parihar keeps looking for a suitable spot to teach. Sometimes it’s just a shady patch besides the road near WCL Headquarters or a courtyard a little further. She is a teacher in one of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) schools now closed due to Covid. Parihar and others have been taking out time from the door-to-door Covid surveys assigned to them to teach their students living in low-income pockets across the city. Like the private schools, even NMC has begun online classes but many students are either not able to grasp what is being taught in virtual mode or just don’t have an Android phone at home. The teachers are bridging the digital gap by personally reaching out to the students and conducting offline classes. TOI caught up with Parihar taking classes near a shack near WCL Headquarters. One of the students lived in a makeshift home and it was close by for others too. “I teach student of class eight. Even if some have mobile phones they are not able to understand tough subjects like math in online classes. Many did not even bother to open the files I had sent them. It’s maybe because of lack of education among the parents. Mainly daily-wagers, both the parents remain out for work and do not monitor their wards’ studies,” she said. Parihar said she could have easily washed off her hands by just giving the online material, “but I could not leave my students like that”. “This has also benefited some of the students who don’t have smartphones,” said Parihar. The classes began a fortnight ago and held thrice a week. Now, students are able to grasp subjects like maths and science, though other subjects can be easily taught online. Parihar also conducts classes in a courtyard of a home near Law College and another house close by. Along with Parihar, Umamaheshiwari Mudaliar was teaching a group of younger students. “I teach to classes 3 to 5. Their parents don’t have Android phone. So, we gather at any convenient location and teach,” she said. “It was not easy to find a spot. Earlier, we gathered near the road in front of the Mother Dairy plant and NCC offices. I requested the officials if they could accommodate us in the NCC office but they said there is no permission. Later, a family allowed us to teach on their house’s terrace. The walls were low and I was scared that the kids may fall off. Finally, we shifted to the current location,” she said. After teaching thrice a week, Mudaliar also worked on Sunday conducting door-to-door Covid survey. There are other teachers who take up classes in such manner too, she said. NMC’s education officer Priti Mishrikotkar said the teachers including those engaged in Covid surveys are ensuring students are not deprived of education. “They are conducting classes at different spots and ensuring that the students finish their work,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-teachers-reach-out-to-students-bridge-digital-gap/articleshow/78738416.cms||Shishir Arya
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||Former CM Harish Rawat, two Congress MLAs booked for violating Covid-19 guidelines||Haridwar: Former chief minister Harish Rawat and two Congress MLAs - Mamta Rakesh and Furkan Ali – were booked by Haridwar police on Sunday on charges of violating Covid-19 guidelines. The leaders, led by Rawat, had participated in an event organised by a local unit of the party in SIDCUL area of Haridwar on Saturday, where the veteran Congress leader met workers of industrial units. SIDCUL station house officer (SHO) LS Butola told TOI, “A case has been registered against 300 people under section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 50 (B) of disaster management act, the former CM and MLAs Rakesh and Ali among them. We also booked a Congress worker Sumit Chaudhary under the Arms Act, as he had two armed personal guards with him. We will check licenses of the firearms before taking further action.” At Saturday’s event, industry workers had gathered to protest against the government’s failure to deliver on its promise of providing jobs to 70% youths in SIDCUL area. Two days ago, Haridwar police had booked three local representatives of a traders’ body for allegedly staging protests without permission and violating Covid-19 norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-cm-harish-rawat-two-congress-mlas-booked-for-violating-covid-19-guidelines/articleshow/78737375.cms||MS Nawaz
October 19, 2020||Patna||Purnia IG dies of Covid-19 at AIIMS||PATNA: IG (Purnia range) Binod Kumar died of Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna on Sunday. He is the first IPS officer in state to fall prey to the virus. AIIMS-P authorities said Kumar was admitted there on Saturday. He hailed from Nalanda in Bihar. He was originally from state police service cadre, but got promoted by the UPSC in 2011. The IG was 59 years’ old and was scheduled to superannuate on October 31 next year. Though several IPS and IAS officers got infected with Covid-19 in state, but they had recovered. Sources close to Kumar said he was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes, which proved to be fatal. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said Binod was earlier treated at Purnia. CM Nitish Kumar has condoled his demise. “Binod Kumar was a sincere and sensitive police officer. He held several posts and sincerely worked for the police service,” Nitish said in his condolence message. DGP SK Singhal said the way Binod discharged his duty with ease and success would be always remembered. Singhal said the entire state police were with the bereaved family at this tough time. “He was tested Covid-19 positive and his oxygen level had dipped. Doctors stabilized him in Purnia. When his oxygen level improved, he was rushed to AIIMS-Patna for proper treatment in an advanced life support ambulance,” sources said. Bihar chief electoral officer HR Srinivasa, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar and a few other senior officers reached Bans Ghat and placed wreath on his body while maintaining Covid-19 protocol. More than 4500 police personnel in state have got infected with Covid-19 and at least 14 of them have succumbed to the virus attack so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/purnia-ig-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/78738400.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Dance teacher who went missing three days ago found dead in a public park||BAREILLY: The body of a man — a dance teacher at a private school — who had been missing for three days, was found in a public park in Moradabad on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Akash Kumar (25), resident of Preet Vihar colony under Majhola police station. His elder brother Vikas Kumar had lodged a complaint at Majhola police station on October 15, after his brother, who had left home on the morning of October 14 after receiving a phone call, did not return. After locals informed police, senior police officials including SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary and ASP Kuldeep Singh Gunawat reached the spot to take stock of the situation. Soon afterwards, Moradabad police arrested three people — all friends of Akash — in this connection and registered a case. Majhola SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “Three people who are identified as friends of the deceased, have been arrested and an FIR has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 201 (disappearance of evidence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (common intention) of IPC. During interrogation, the accused — Rajiv, Ajay Bharadwaj and Varun — said they had contacted Akash on October 14 for a party in Sector 10 in new Moradabad. They later fought over a petty argument, following which they opened fire at Akash and fled from the spot.” The deceased was the youngest of five siblings and worked as a dance teacher at a private school in Kashiram Nagar. The SHO added, “The weapon has been recovered and the body has been sent for postmortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dance-teacher-who-went-missing-three-days-ago-found-dead-in-a-public-park/articleshow/78735847.cms||Maria Khan
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||CM inaugurates ‘Corona Warrior to Corona Winner’ initiative||Dehradun: In a bid to create awareness over Covid-19 and raise the morale of people who have recovered from the infection, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday inaugurated the ‘Corona Warrior to Corona Winner’ initiative. The initiative entails different sports events that will be organised by the sports department. In this, the people who have defeated coronavirus will participate. CM Rawat flagged off a walkathon and also inaugurated a badminton tournament on the day. CM Rawat, on the occasion, said that the program is aimed at increasing the fighting spirit against coronavirus in the society. “These sports events, organised for coronavirus winners, will definitely bring more awareness about Covid-19 in the society. And we all have to remain alert till a vaccine isn’t available,” said CM Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-corona-warrior-to-corona-winner-initiative/articleshow/78737392.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal seeks daily report from colleges on UG admission||KOLKATA: The higher education department is now taking daily report on the status of admission in undergraduate courses from colleges. The detailed report that the principals have to upload on the department’s website includes a break-up of vacant seats in different categories and total rounds of admissions held to fill up the seats. Colleges have been uploading several call-lists on their websites inviting students from the merit list to take admission. The report with daily admission figures by individual colleges is uploaded on the department’s website every evening. The last date to wrap up the admission for undergraduate courses is October 30. “Principals of all colleges have to upload the daily report with all details, including the number of vacant seats and total rounds of admissions conducted by the colleges,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University committee of the All Bengal Principals’ Council. Several colleges and universities are grappling with the issue of vacant seats in undergraduate courses. Even more than two months after the admission process started, seats in many colleges and universities are yet to fill up. Last month the government instructed the colleges to reopen their admission portals and invite fresh applications. “The details that we have to submit include the total rounds of admissions conducted by the college and how many students enrol on a daily basis,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college. This year the entire admission process is being conducted online owing to the pandemic. Principals feel that due to the high marks in board examinations, many students applied for subjects that they were not interested in studying. The department has also sought the break-up of reserved category seats and the status of admission. Colleges reserve a certain percentage of seats for SC/ST/OBC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-seeks-daily-report-from-colleges-on-ug-admission/articleshow/78738421.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 19, 2020||India||Govt spreading economic anarchy, stifling voice of oppressed: Sonia||NEW DELHI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday accused the Modi government of demolishing the economy built by previous Congress dispensations as she slammed the Centre for spreading “economic anarchy” by shunning its responsibility towards states during the Covid-19 pandemic. She also accused BJP of attacking institutions and for a spike in atrocities against Dalits. Addressing the first meeting of AICC’s state in-charges after the organisational reshuffle, Sonia said while 14 crore jobs were lost in recent months, MSMEs and small businesses were shutting at a rapid pace and the Centre was not honouring its constitutional responsibilities like GST compensation to states. “This must be a first example of economic anarchy being spread by the central government,” she said. “Atrocities on Dalits have reached a new zenith. Instead of honouring the law and granting adequate protection to India’s daughters, BJP governments are siding with criminals. The voice of oppressed families is being suppressed by agencies of the state. Is this the new ‘raj dharma’?” she asked. Congress also decided to hold a nationwide dharna against “anti-farmer” labour laws on October 31, the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel. On November 5, the party will protest against “oppression of Dalits’ and farmers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-spreading-economic-anarchy-stifling-voice-of-oppressed-sonia/articleshow/78739898.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||One-year-old girl run over by car in Pilibhit district; case settled for Rs 1.5 lakh||Pilibhit: The driver of a speeding car allegedly ran over a one-year-old girl when she was playing outside her home in Dhankuna village under Neuria police station of Pilibhit district on Saturday evening. Family members rushed the girl to the district hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries. The villagers, meanwhile, caught the car driver and handed him over to police, who impounded the car and sent the body for autopsy. SHO Jagat Singh said police released the accused — Mohammad Shafiq of Charubata in Uttarakhand's Udhamsingh Nagar district — as a compromised was reached between the families of the accused and the victim and the dispute was settled for Rs 1.5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-year-old-girl-run-over-by-car-in-pilibhit-district-case-settled-for-rs-1-5-lakh/articleshow/78735859.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||10 state univ to be included in national index from next yr||Dehradun: The state higher education department has kept a target of including at least 10 state universities in the next year’s national university rankings released by the Centre. In order to achieve this target, the state has sent directions to both the government and the private universities. The decision was taken in a meeting with the vice-chancellors of various Uttarakhand universities. It was mutually decided that the state needs to improve its national ranking in context of higher education standards. During the meeting, the higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat also appealed to the owners of the state’s private universities to adopt one village each in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, the feasibility of reopening the colleges and universities in the state from November was also discussed. It has been learnt that the department will come up with a decision on the reopening in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/10-state-univ-to-be-included-in-national-index-from-next-yr/articleshow/78737400.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Lifeguards rescue three tourists at Panambur||Mangaluru: Lifeguards saved the lives of three tourists over the weekend, including two on Sunday, at Panambur Beach. Those rescued on Sunday are Sharanappa, 35, from Itagi in Vijayapura district and Nagaraja H S, 18, from Jokatte near Mangaluru. They were among tourists who had come to the beach for the weekend. The duo rescued were part of a group of 10 people who had come to the beach after having their lunch. Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project (PBTDP) authorities had as a precautionary measure posted lifeguards at the beach, keeping in view the safety of the weekend crowd. Incidentally, PBTDP on Friday had bid adieu to safety and management of the beach after their term ended. Sharanappa and Nagaraja like Ajit, 42, from Ballari on Saturday, were swept away in by the rip current. The lifeguards had rescued Ajit from a watery grave as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lifeguards-rescue-three-tourists-at-panambur/articleshow/78737403.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Surat||22 people cheat bank with fake gold as mortgage for loans||Surat: The detection of crime branch (DCB) sleuths arrested four of the 22 persons who are accused of defrauding several branches of ICICI Bank in the city by borrowing 41 loans total worth Rs 2.55 crore by mortgaging fake gold.Police had booked these 22 on Thursday following a complaint lodged by Sandip Antala, manager of the bank, after an internal investigation of the bank revealed that the deposited gold was not genuine and merely plated.The loans were borrowed between August 10 to October 15 this year.Police arrested Jagdish Babariya (34) of Dindoli, Prashant Joshi (27) of Sarthana, Manoj Bhanderi (35) of Mota Varachha and Nalin Pansuriya (49), a resident of Ghod Dod Road, and booked them under various sections ofIPC including 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and others. Babariya is a property broker and real estate developer, while Joshi is employed in his firm. Bhanderi and Pansuriya are also property brokers. “They were already undergoing financial crisis which only aggravated during the lockdown. As they couldn’t pay their debts, they plotted cheating the bank,” said a DCB official. The mastermind of the racket is yet to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/22-people-cheat-bank-with-fake-gold-as-mortgage-for-loans/articleshow/78737661.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||1,230 farm fires in a day, share in Delhi’s bad air at 17%||NEW DELHI: This season’s highest single-day fire count was recorded on Saturday with 1,230 incidents of stubble burning taking place in the neighbouring states. However, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s air reduced to 17% on Sunday compared with 19% the day before, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) data showed. Delhi’s air quality remained in the “poor” category on Sunday with a reading of 254 on CPCB’s Air Quality Index (AQI). However, this was an improvement from Saturday’s 287 (poor). SAFAR said while farm fires had increased, an increase in wind speed was helping in dispersal of pollutants and maintaining the concentration of stubble burning in the same range.  Track the pollution level in your city“The overall AQI was at the upper end of the poor category on Sunday morning, which marginally improved during the day, mainly due to slight increase in surface winds. Wind speed is forecast to marginally improve for the next two days leading to relatively better dispersion,” said SAFAR. The forecast body added that synergised fire counts in Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions had increased and stood at 1,230. Though fire emission had increased, an increase in transport-level wind speed and Delhi’s local surface winds was likely to maintain the contribution of stubble burning in PM2.5 around the same level. The stubble burning share in PM2.5 was 17% for Sunday. The early warning system for Delhi, meanwhile, forecast the share of hourly stubble burning to touch a peak of 27% at 2am on Monday before dropping once again. This system developed by Union ministry of earth sciences shows the impact of stubble burning on Delhi’s air each hour and also forecasts the impact over the next few days based on meteorological conditions. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said wind speed reached 15-16 kmph on Sunday during the day, but calm conditions would continue at night. “We are seeing a drop in wind speed at night, which is generally when pollution rises. During the day, wind speed is touching 15 kmph and allowing dispersal of pollutants,” he added. Delhi had recorded this season’s worst AQI on October 15, when it touched 312 in the “very poor” category. Before that, it had touched the 300 mark on October 13. However, an increase in wind speed, particularly during the day, had brought the air quality back in the “poor” range. Watch Worsening AQI: As winter approaches, Delhi begins tough battle with air pollution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1230-farm-fires-in-a-day-share-in-bad-air-at-17/articleshow/78738446.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Differently-abled modifies car, lends it to needy too||NAGPUR: Having himself endured difficulties to become independent and mobile, a 76-year-old physically challenged man from city has converted his car into a unique transportation vehicle for those like him and is now lending it to others. All his life, Prakash Narayan Andhare struggled to move around as he was tied down to a wheelchair. “The city never had a utility by which a wheelchair-bound person could himself climb on to an ambulance or any other vehicle. The person had to be helped into it,” he says. In December 2018, he decided to do something for his ilk. He bought a WagonR and took it to Mumbai to get it retrofitted to make it handicap-friendly. “I got the rear seat removed to create space for a wheelchair,” he says. But the challenge was to enable the user to climb on to the car, without having the need to lift him from the wheelchair. “To overcome this, I got made a portable ramp which can be folded and kept on the car floor. A wheelchair user aligns himself to the ramp and slowly rolls into the rear portion of the vehicle. Once inside, the ramp can be folded again,” he says. Since the ramp is portable, it also helps the user climb stairs at places where ramp is not available. “Since last two years, many handicapped people and senior citizens across Nagpur have been using my car to go to hospitals, offices or other places. I don’t charge them for the vehicle, but if required, they pay minimal charges for the driver. We have hired a well-trained driver,” says Andhare. At the time of elections, citizens also used his car for going to the voting centre. “In most of the cities, there is no efficient transportation facility for wheelchair-bound people. Even at the time of Covid-19 pandemic, they are facing extreme hardship to go to hospitals or testing centres,” he says. Recently, Times of India’s Nagpur Heroes winner Khushroo Poacha took to social media to appreciate Andhare’s efforts which are drawing a huge response. “This car is the first-of-its-kind in Nagpur and Andhare has spent around Rs8 lakh from his own pockets to help the needy,” he said. Those who want to use the car can call Andhare on 9167208570 in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/differently-abled-modifies-car-lends-it-to-needy-too/articleshow/78738430.cms||Manka Behl
October 19, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Illegal house owned by Atiq Ahmed’s aide razed||PRAYAGRAJ: A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district officials and police demolished a three-storey house allegedly constructed and owned by gangster Zulfikar alias Tota, an aide of jailed don Atiq Ahmed, in Kasari Masari area of the city on Sunday. Zulifikar is a sharpshooter associated with Atiq’s gang and his name had surfaced in connection with the Beli double murder case. He has over a dozen criminal cases registered against him at different police stations of the city. Police have also slapped the Gangsters Act on him. The demolition drive was conducted by a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority, administrative officials and the police. Though the team had arrived with heavy police force, they couldn’t start the demolition due to a protest by a group of women outside the house. However, police took the protesters away from the spot. PDA official Alok Pandey said, “The house was constructed without getting a map sanctioned by the civic agency. The house is valued around Rs 2 crore and is constructed on an 450 square metre.” He said the occupants of the house did not have any sanctioned map to show. District police have also compiled details about other illegal properties owned by Zulfikar. Earlier during the day, police restricted movement of local residents towards the house. Two storeys of the house had been demolished till the time this story went to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-house-owned-by-atiqs-aide-razed/articleshow/78736554.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||BJP MLA blames Anand MP for defeat in Amul polls||Vadodara/ Anand: Ahead of by-polls to eight assembly seats, fissures emerged in Anand unit of BJP with Umreth MLA Govind Parmar on Sunday threatening to resign as legislator. Parmar accused Anand’s BJP MP Mitesh Patel alias Bakabhai for his defeat in the recently concluded Amul Dairy’s polls wherein he contested against Congress’ Anand MLA Kanti Sodha Parmar. Alleging that Patel indulged in caste politics, the BJP MLA said that he has made representation against the MP to the top party brass and the state government including chief minister Vijay Rupani and state BJP chief CR Paatil. “There were 20 votes of Patels in Amul Dairy elections but Anand MP ensured that I don’t get them,” said Parmar, adding that even after the polls, his name was not considered as state government’s nominee to Amul Dairy’s board. “I was not called for the sankalan samiti meeting in which names were discussed. In fact, he recommended name of one Bharat Patel from Kunjrav. Similarly, when names of candidates for Amul Dairy’s polls were being discussed, I was not taken into confidence,” he said. He said that he has received a call from BJP chief whip Pankaj Desai to resolve the dispute. Parmar, however, insisted said that he is neither resigning from BJP nor joining any other party. Reacting to the allegations levelled against him, Patel said that neither he or BJP believes in caste-based or community-based politics. “These allegations are completely baseless. With regards to Amul Dairy’s polls, all of us had made efforts to ensure his victory but he got defeated by a couple of votes,” Patel told reporters. Umreth MLA had bagged 37 out of 104 votes when he was contesting to represent Anand block in Amul Dairy’s board while his rival Kanti Sodha Parmar had bagged 41 votes on August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-mla-blames-anand-mp-for-defeat-in-amul-polls/articleshow/78737461.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||Health dept to act against hosps treating Covid patients without informing district||Dehradun: The state health department is mulling to issue notices to all the hospitals/doctors, which are treating Covid-19 patients without informing the district surveillance team, warning them not to treat patients of the virus without informing the agencies concerned. This comes a day after the public and the private hospitals in Uttarakhand notified the state government about the death of 89 Covid-19 patients that went unreported over the course of three months. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, confirmed that the notice was sent to 23 hospitals. Many of these had reported Covid-19 deaths in bulk. According to sources, city-based Kailash Hospital didn’t report 28 deaths and Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital reported 24 deaths collectively only after receiving a notice from the health department. Not just the private hospitals but even the Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) failed to report 21 Covid-19-related deaths on time. “There were a total of nine hospitals which reported Covid-19 deaths in bulk after our notice. We are mulling to send out another notice to these hospitals,” says a senior health department official who doesn’t wish to be named. Secretary (health) Amit Negi, maintained that delay in the reporting of deaths has happened from the hospital's end. “When sought explanation, the hospitals told us that they were not sure of the guidelines for reporting of deaths if the patient came positive in some other district or state. This, they say, delayed their reporting. We have made it clear that hospitals must send death reports regularly and other issues can be figured out later as per the guidelines of Indian Council Of Medical Research (ICMR),” he added. Meanwhile, 376 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday. With this, the state’s coronavirus tally reached 58,024. Among the new cases, the maximum of 128 were from Dehradun. The capital city, at present, has the maximum of 1,813 active cases in the Himalyan state. “Dehradun also accounts for the maximum number of deaths with 532 casualties, followed by 133 deaths in Nainital, 116 in Haridwar, and 84 in Udham Singh Nagar,” added Tripathi. Apart from the fresh cases, 162 people recovered from Covid-19 infection. On Sunday, the total cured cases reached 50,982 cases and the recovery rate shot up to 87.8% in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-dept-to-act-against-hosps-treating-covid-patients-without-informing-district/articleshow/78737427.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 19, 2020||Agra||Agra jail superintendent, wife test Covid positive||Agra: After jailor, deputy jailor and four prisoners, now superintendent of Agra Central Jail and his wife have tested Covid-19 positive. The officer and his wife were sent to home isolation. At least 56 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 6,733. These included two staffers of Bah community health centre, five patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, four patents of influenza-like illness, three patients of severe acute respiratory infection, three patients of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Moreover, 67 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 6,733 cases reported in the district, 90.7% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has reduced from 497 on Saturday, to 485 on Sunday. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 6,112 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-jail-superintendent-wife-test-covid-positive/articleshow/78736573.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Con call kingpins to be booked under PASA||AHMEDABAD: With the number of cases of con call centres continuing to rise, Ahmedabad city police have decided to apply Prevention of Anti-social Activities Act (PASA) to send these cybercrooks behind the bars. Until now, the highest number of victims of these crooks are US citizens. The practice of slapping PASA on con call centre key accused will be first implemented in Ahmedabad, where at least 10 cases have been reported this year only, and it may be implemented in other parts of the state later on, said a senior police officer in Ahmedabad. City police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava said that PASA will be slapped only in those cases where there is substantial evidence of the accused running a cartel. Senior officers of the city police said that in an earlier case in 2017 cops had booked certain con call centre accused under PASA, but after reprimand from the Gujarat high court, the idea of imposing PASA on them was dropped. Now, it has been decided to conduct a thorough investigation into call centre scams, which is expected to expose the involvement of key accused in other scams too, and thus PASA can be invoked against them. “The data of US citizens are mainly obtained from Mumbai- based persons and the cartels which are involved in this illegal activity comprise the same accused. So, a key accused in one scam would almost certainly be involved in other scams in one role or another. Thus, just a thorough investigation is needed to establish that most key accused are involved in multiple con call centre scams,” said a police officer. The officer said that recently two persons were caught running a con call centre in the Sabarmati riverfront by the city police. “These two will also be booked under the PASA,” said the officer. Earlier, con call centre accused could easily get bail as they were booked under charges of information technology act and cheating charges under IPC. Now, the charge of criminal conspiracy will be added to substantiate application of PASA, said the officer. Booking these accused under PASA will help in curbing the cybercrooks. “If they remain in jail for for long, then their cartel will be broken and the illegal activity can be prevented,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/con-call-kingpins-to-be-booked-under-pasa/articleshow/78738433.cms||Ashish Chauhan
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||Rise in leopard population worries Amaria farmers||Pilibhit: The 400-square kilometre agricultural belt of Amaria in Pilibhit district, which is already home to around 12 tigers, is now witnessing a rise in leopard population, who seem to be settling down amid the cane, wheat and paddy fields. Last year, one leopard had strayed out of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR). 18 km away. Now, three more have moved into Amaria. The presence of so many big cats is worrying farmers on how to manage agricultural work without any man-animal conflict. Acknowledging the sudden rise in leopard population in Amaria, Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer, forest and wildlife division, said, "A pair of leopards, about three years old, has been spotted near Tanda Bijesi village while the movement of another leopard of has been reported from Tondarpur village." The presence of wild animals has never been reported in these areas, he said. The DFO attributed this to "increase in number of tigers in PTR core forest zones and the innate process of the formation of new territories by the new grown up tigers beyond core areas into forest fringes, hitherto leopard area. This has compelled the leopards to move out of the forest to find a home amid the cane fields which are saturated with a good prey base and provide safe hideouts”. As in the jungle, leopards have steered clear of tiger territory -- around Deuni dam in Amaria -- and chosen to live near human habitats. For the past one year, residents of half a dozen villages -- Surajpur, Bishanpur, Gajraula, Rasoola, Jagat and Katmati -- have lost pedigreed pets and small livestock to the lone leopard. Now, they forsee more problems. Chaudhary Veer Pal Singh, a dairy farmer of Tanda Bijesi said the forest authorities must trap or tranquilize the stray leopards and translocate them elsewhere before they grow in numbers to make a leopard zone amid the agricultural belt. He feared for the safety of his cows. Paramaveer Singh, a farmer of Surajpur village warned the forest authorities "not to test our tolerance which is now zero for the leopards"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rise-in-leopard-population-worries-amaria-farmers/articleshow/78735882.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Auto driver stalks, threatens woman||Ahmedabad: A 24-year-old woman from Kalupur on Saturday filed a complaint of stalking, criminal intimidation, and attack against an autorickshaw driver. She said the man stalked her and attacked her family members when they tried to protect her. The woman filed an FIR with Kalupur police. She said she works in a private firm in the area and that Aarif Mansuri, 40, a Saudagar ni Pol resident, has been stalking her for about a fortnight. On Saturday morning, he approached her and blew cigarette smoke on her face. He grabbed her hand and said he will throw acid on her face if she does not have an affair with him. The terrified woman told her family members about Mansuri. Her mother along with other relatives came to her workplace on Saturday evening. When Mansuri again came to harass the woman, her mother told him to stay away. But Mansuri thrashed her mother in public view in Tankshal locality. Mansuri also bragged that he was the brother of a local goon, Saleem Chand, and had links with Kalupur police. He told the woman that cops will not take any action against him. The woman then called the police control room and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/auto-driver-stalks-threatens-woman/articleshow/78738437.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Pre-festive surge fills up ‘Puja special’ Covid beds in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Covid ICU beds added by some private hospitals, after a prod from the state government last week, were taken up within hours of them being set up. At some facilities along the EM Bypass, the waiting list has got longer after the extension of Covid units, prompting the hospital authorities to plead that they have reached a saturation point and can no longer stretch their resources to accommodate more beds. If the number of Covid positives continue to spiral at the existing rate, Kolkata could be heading for a major crisis by the end of the pujas, warned doctors. All the 10 ICU beds added by Fortis Hospital last week were occupied in 12 hours. While the waiting list continues to grow, the hospital now has 20 ICU beds apart from 65 general beds for Covid patients. “Despite our best efforts, we won’t possibly be able to add more. Our resources are stretched to the limit but the demand for beds keeps rising. Apart from space which is limited, you need additional medical equipment and healthcare personnel to have more beds. It’s more difficult to extend critical care units since they require round-the-clock monitoring. Attending to more patients would require additional healthcare staff which is difficult to arrange now,” said Fortis pulmonologist Raja Dhar. AMRI Hospitals had added 55 beds across its three units on Thursday, including 20 critical care beds, taking the total Covid bed count to 265. All the new beds were filled up in a day. “We had been preparing for this extension for quite some time now. Additional monitors and ventilators had been ordered months ago, which allowed us to go ahead with the extension. But our resources are now exhausted and this is probably the limit to which we can stretch ourselves,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. The augmentation of Covid units, however, has led more to queue up for admission at hospitals. Belle Vue Clinic added 30 beds to its Covid unit last week, taking the total bed count to 160. The new beds were filled up in half-a-day, according to CEO P Tondon. “Eight patients were discharged on Sunday and we had 11 queued up for the vacancies. The list is growing fast and we have been forced to prioritize between the serious patients and the rest,” said Tondon. “Unless we rope in nursing homes and set up more satellite centres, catering to this patient load would be difficult,” said Barua. Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra agreed. The hospital is gearing up to add eight Covid ITU beds to its existing strength of 21. It has eight Covid patients queued up for the new beds. “The added beds would be taken up in no time and considering that we have more than a dozen added to the waiting list every day, the extension won’t make a huge difference. We have stretched all our physical resources to accommodate the new beds. But our healthcare staff are overworked and can’t be asked to handle further pressure,” said Mitra. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) would be commissioning an additional 25 beds by October 22. “A lot of infrastructural work needs to be done to add these extra beds. Our current strength of 105 Covid beds remains fully occupied,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. Adding a few beds will now be like a drop in the ocean, said Dhar. “We are at a critical juncture now since cases are rising with the festival round the corner. Resources have been stretched and healthworkers are exhausted. So, the stress should now be on prevention and stricter compliance of safety norms. Or else, we could be heading for an unmanageable situation,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pre-festive-surge-fills-up-puja-special-covid-beds-in-kolkata/articleshow/78739481.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 19, 2020||---||Patna: JD(U) candidate gives birth to baby girl ahead of Nitish Kumar’s rally||PATNA: Hours before CM Nitish Kumar’s election rally on Sunday, his JD(U) candidate from Jagdishpur, Sushumlata Kushwaha, gave birth to a baby girl at a private hospital in Patna. Both mother and the infant are stated to be hale and hearty. The announcement was made by none else but party president and CM Nitish while addressing the meeting at Jagdishpur Quila Maidan in Bhojpur district. “Our candidate has been blessed with a baby girl ahead of the polling. This is a manifestation of women empowerment,” Nitish said. Sushumlata, who is the mukhiya of Dawa panchayat, was supposed to attend the election meeting. However, she was rushed to Patna late on Saturday night. Sushumlata is pitted against RJD’s sitting MLA Ram Vishun Singh Lohia and former minister Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha of LJP. She is the only woman candidate among the 18 contestants in the fray from the constituency, which will go to the polls on October 28. Sushumlata’s husband and JD(U)’s Jagdishpur block president, Manji Choudhary, said, “She campaigned in the constituency even on Saturday.” Sushumlata was married to Manji in 2012. The couple has a six-year-old daughter. Manji, however, said her absence for the time being would not affect the poll prospects. “She has done lots of development works in Dawa panchayat as the mukhiya. It was her performance that she was given a ticket for the state assembly election,” he added. Sushumlata could not be contacted over the phone. However, her staunch supporter Mantu Choudhary said, “Dawa panchayat was selected for Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Empowerment Award by the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj last year.”Another supporter, Gorakh Singh, said the panchayat has already gone hi-tech with documents and details of works online. The credit goes to the mukhiya, who took keen interest in execution of welfare schemes of the government, he said. Sushumlata has set up a self-help group of women, which supplies sanitary pads to young girls and women across the state. Her endeavours towards women empowerment were widely appreciated by the people’s representatives as well as senior officials of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/jdu-candidate-gives-birth-to-baby-girl-ahead-of-nitishs-rally/articleshow/78737443.cms||Ramashankar
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Plea in SC seeking protection to foresters against attacks||NAGPUR: Kishor Rithe, member, Nature Conservation Society, Amravati (NCSA), has moved the Supreme Court against brutal attacks on foresters. Most of these assaults have been as reaction for removal of encroachments action under Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. According to the application filed by Rithe through his lawyer PK Manohar, from 1987 to June 2020, in Maharashtra alone 656 foresters have been attacked causing at least 19 deaths. The situation in other states like Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan is even worse. According to the International Rangers Federation (IRF), 162 foresters lost their life in India while on duty from 2012 to 2017. This is the highest in the world and accounts for as high as 31% of the total ranger (frontline) deaths across the world in that period. Concerned over these attacks, Rithe has prayed to the apex court to direct the Central government to issue appropriate directions to the respondent states to ensure protection of the officers and staff of the forest department and to provide social security, ex-gratia payments, medical treatment costs to the injured personnel, legal support and such other benefits. Rithe has also urged to stay all the proceedings initiated against the forest officers and staff pursuant to FIRs under The Scheduled Tribes & Scheduled Caste (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Besides, the director-general police (DGPs) of respondent states, – Rajasthan, Maharashtra, and MP – have been asked to submit a status report on the investigations and action taken report (ATR) in assault cases on officials. The petition stated the involvement of a large number of people, mostly encroachers and timber mafia armed with deadly weapons, has led to serious injuries to the forest personnel on duty. “These attacks have had a chilling impact on the morale of the forest department and it has become increasingly difficult to protect the forests in the absence of proper police protection and administrative support. The law and order in forest areas seem to have completely broken down and the worsening situation is leading to anarchy, which is a matter of grave concern,” Rithe said. The petition states the forest mafia took advantage of the lockdown and encroached upon fresh areas by resorting to violence. In MP, there has been an unprecedented increase in violent incidents. The chief minister himself warned of strict action against the district administration and the forest department if pattas under FRA are not granted to applicants whose applications were rejected earlier. These warnings by the chief minister have emboldened the forest and timber mafia to take law into their own hands and indulge in brutal violence against forest officials obstructing their attempt to clear forest and encroach upon forest lands. On September 2, 2020, the Indian Forest Service’s Officers Association (IFSOA) represented MoEFCC minister seeking better protection and social security to more than 50,000 forest staff working in remote areas. The said letter stated that the forest department officials not only protect our nation’s natural resources from encroachers, timber smugglers, mining mafias, and organized poachers but are also helping in dealing with man-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plea-in-sc-seeking-protection-to-foresters-against-attacks/articleshow/78738449.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Parents’ body holds rally over school fee row in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Following state education minister Bacchu Kadu holding a meeting with private school principals, education officials and parents on school fees issue, the aggrieved parents held an awareness rally at Samvidhan Square on Sunday. Over 300 parents from several schools reportedly took part in the drive organized by Jagrut Palak Parishad (JPP) to make everyone aware of Kadu’s assurances. Last week, Kadu had warned of action against erring schools and education officals, in case they increased the fee. Pay cuts, job loss and crashed businesses have wreaked havoc for parents sending their wards to private schools which traditionally have been increasing the fee by around 10 to 20% annually. This year, parents are seeking full or partial waiver. Many parents are alleging schools are stopping online classes over non-payment of fee. JPP president Girish Pande, who said he was present in the meeting with the minister, said parents were ready to pay 50% tuition fee. “But the schools are demanding full fees,” he said. Pande said parents were informed about all these issues and the promises made by the minister. “Only a few parents were present so we decided to call everyone and inform them. During the meeting, the schools admitted they had increased the fee. The minister asked schools to allow all students in online classes. Pande said parents were under pressure to pay fee. “Many parents said they are unable to pay the fee in lockdown as they had suffered losses, lost jobs and were facing pay cuts. Yet, we are willing to pay 50% of tuition fee. This is exploitation and depriving students of basic rights,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-body-holds-rally-over-school-fee-row/articleshow/78738493.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Harmful glyphosate rampantly used as weedicide, says report||Kochi: Pesticide watch NGOs, Pesticide Action Network India and PAN Asia Pacific in its latest report on ‘State of Glyphosate Use in India’, on Saturday stated that the use of this herbicide is rampant and its ramifications on the environment and human health are not being discussed. Despite attempts by some states to control its use, the herbicide is being used widely, right from gardens to huge plantations. This herbicide is used as weedicide. Though Kerala had temporarily banned its use, it has not been effective. A field study of Andhra Pradesh Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and West Bengal was collected through a questionnaire survey from a total of 300 respondents. While glyphosate-based herbicides are registered and approved in India for weed control in tea gardens and their non-crop areas, the study reports glyphosate use for weed control in more than 20 crop fields (16 of them are food crops) as well as non-crop areas. The study found glyphosate-based herbicide products are sold in areas where the crop for which it has been approved is not grown. Exposure to glyphosate was reported by a considerable percent of respondents due to spillage and wind drift. Burning sensation, eye irritation, nausea, vomiting, dysentery, headache, fever, skin fissures, increased heart rate, eye irritation, urinary infections, body pain, general weakness are the ill effects reported in this study. The unintended use of glyphosate reported in this study raises serious concerns over residues in food commodities, food safety, agriculture trade, and environmental contamination, as well as the consequent short- and long-term health and environmental impacts. Monitoring of pesticide residues in India does not analyze for glyphosate residues in agriculture produce, hence the level and extent of contamination in food commodities remains unknown. Generally, herbicide usage has increased in India. The rise in farm labour wages has contributed to increased consumption of herbicides. “It’s being used as weedicide even in gardens. Use of this leads to complete annihilation of all the weeds and green shrubs in the area. The residue remains in the soil,” said Dilip Kumar, assistant director, PAN India-Thrissur. He said some states including Kerala, AP, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Punjab and Telangana had tried to introduce strict regulations. Kerala agriculture department cancelled licences for distribution and sales of glyphosate in the state. The department issued an order on May 24, 2019. Earlier in February 2019, Kerala had temporarily banned distribution, sales, and use of glyphosate in the state. The agriculture department responded to cancel licences in Kerala over concerns of public health and environmental pollution. The agricultural university of Kerala had submitted a report to the agriculture department demanding immediate action to control and regulate the use of herbicides containing glyphosate as it can cause harmful effects to humans, animals, and soil organisms as well as the development of herbicide-resistant weeds. Following this, the government of Kerala submitted a report to the agriculture ministry demanding strict regulation of glyphosate-based herbicides. The Kerala government earlier, in 2015, restricted the use of glyphosate, making a prescription from an agriculture officer mandatory for its purchase. Kumar said that the Kerala high court had issued a stay on the GO following a petition filed by some farmers groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/harmful-glyphosate-rampantly-used-as-weedicide-says-report/articleshow/78738453.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Alcohol intake up as people stare at uncertainty||Hyderabad: With the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown leading to a rise in mental health issues among people, the pattern of alcohol consumption has also seen fast upward progression. According to experts, occasional drinkers have now turned to regular drinkers while those drinking regularly are knocking the doors of alcoholism. The number of problem drinkers (8% to 9% earlier) has increased and many new members are also joining the club. Mental health experts have said that the impending sense of doom, triggered by the uncertainty of the pandemic, has led to many people taking to “reckless living” as they believe the “world is coming to an end”. The anxiety of contracting the virus is also an added factor. Earlier, the fear of death or failing health ensured that people kept their alcohol consumption in check. However, many have now thrown that caution to wind. “Since most people are either working from home or not working, they are left with much free time. The fear of future, fear of uncertainty, fear of failure and the fear of death are all deteriorating factors. This has led to increased use of alcohol among people who were already introduced to it,” explained Krishna, a member of Alcoholics’ Anonymous (Andhra Pradesh and Telangana). He estimated a 50% increase in people getting introduced to alcohol in the recent months. The helplines are seeing nearly 8,000 calls each month as against to 4,000 received before the pandemic hit. Due to increased consumption of alcohol, the number of problem drinkers is also set to increase, which is a cause of worry, experts have pointed out. Explaining the progression in consumption and such behaviour, Dr M Uma Shankar, superintendent of Institute of Mental Health, Erragadda, said: “With more free time, alcohol use generally increases. Over time, people’s tolerance also builds up.” “As alcohol was not available in lockdown, regular consumers flocked the shops immediately after unlock came into effect. Its availability after a long while also led to many people going into an overdrive. Alcoholism can sometimes lead to mental illnesses, depressive tendencies and vice versa. We are currently seeing two to three cases of alcoholism and mental illnesses or a mental illness as a comorbidity in alcoholics,” Shankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-alcohol-intake-up-as-people-stare-at-uncertainty/articleshow/78738451.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 19, 2020||Pune||Mantra Properties relies on flash sales to sell 500 homes||PUNE: City-based Mantra Properties has become the latest realtor to rely on flash sales to sell 500 units across its various under-construction projects in just two days to generate a rolling cash cycle. Developers often take different routes to flash sales, including handsome return on investment, freebies or attractive unit prices declared upfront to entice the potential buyers. It comes with advertising blitzkrieg. Mantra Properties relied on giving its customers a fixed rate of interest of 8% to get customers to commit in the 10 under-construction projects. The total saleable value of these properties, the company said, was Rs 250 crore. “For most projects, the construction stage is around the plinth or the early floor stage. In couple of projects, we have inventory that are nearing possession. The possession in rest of the projects is between 2-4 years from now, depending on the project,” the firm told in an email response to TOI. The realtor said that the payments made by customers were all construction-linked and as per the RERA guidelines. “The payments happen post-completion of the stage of construction. The response to the campaign with such number makes the project sustainable,” said Rohit Gupta, CEO, Mantra Properties. Last year, Mahindra Lifespaces had managed to sell over 300 units in just three days in the Rs 220-crore project in its launch stage in Pimpri Chinchwad. In mid-2018, Mumbai-based Peninsula Land had roped in Anarock Property Consultants and sold 650 apartments in a matter of days with a total saleable value of Rs 150 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mantra-properties-relies-on-flash-sales-to-sell-500-homes/articleshow/78738454.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nizamuddin waiting for the crowds||NEW DELHI: It was the 806th yaum-e-wiladat(birthday) of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya last week. While the dargah would be jam-packed with people from far and wide in normal times on this day, the footfall was a bare minimum this year owing to the abnormal times created by Covid-19. In the one month since it has reopened, the dargah has been fighting the pandemic as well as the stigma that got stuck to it due to its false association with Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid, where a religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in March had resulted in several Covid-positive cases. Following the order of Delhi government, the dargah was closed and the entire locality was quarantined as it was declared a hotspot. But even after the restrictions were lifted, the dargah management continued to keep it shut. “We didn’t want to give anyone an opportunity to vilify the community (Muslims). This is a place of love and devotion; it has always been so. We didn’t want anyone to blame us for not taking care,” said Peerzada Altamash Nizami, a direct descendant of the Sufi saint and a custodian of the dargah. Nizami elaborated that after the dargah reopened a month ago, they fenced the cenotaph of the saint and only few people were allowed to circumambulate it. “We have also stopped the wuzu khana (ablution facility) as people sharing the same water source could spread the virus. Even offerings are no longer allowed to be taken inside,” he added. Asked about the emotional hurt caused by an unkind commentariat that created hateful terms like “corona jihad”, implying that the spread of the infection was a deliberate act of terror, Nizami quoted a Quranic phrase, “Watu izzu mantasha-o watu zillu mantasha (God alone has the power to bestow fame or shame). Even the Mongol scourge couldn’t touch Delhi due to the saint. Do you think this kind of propaganda would rip us apart? The saint protects us.” But not everyone thinks that way. “A disease sees no religion. India today has over 70 lakh cases. Whom are they blaming now for that?” asked AAP MLA Shoaib Iqbal, who had come for ziyarat at the dargah.  Iqbal said not enough was done to change perceptions. “For over a thousand years, Hindus and Muslims have lived together. We are all wearing masks and using sanitisers at home. What difference do we have there? Aman chashni, pyaar-mohabbat ka gehwara hai Nizamuddin (It’s a melting pot of love and peace). Hindus and Muslims are together here,” added the Matia Mahal MLA and former deputy speaker of Delhi assembly. Objectivity is one thing, but survival is a different ball game altogether. The local economy that’s dependent on the dargah has collapsed. “The footfall is down by 90%. As a result, our incomes have fallen,” Nizami said. It’s not just the dargah, but also those whose businesses depend on visitors who have been majorly affected. Muhammad Kamil from Bihar, who lives on rent in Nizamuddin Basti, sells flowers right outside the dargah. “There are no buyers. My daily income has fallen to just about Rs 200-300. You can’t survive on this,” he said. He had gone home during the lockdown, but had to return due to lack of work options. A few shops away was a tiny pan cubicle run by Shamim. “Mine is among the smallest shops here. Before the lockdown, I was able to save Rs 500 daily after spending on food. Now, I feel lucky if I make Rs 100 a day. My profit margin is thin. I get just Rs 8 for every Rs 100 earned. The rest I have to pay the shop owner,” he said. Shamim, a native of Bihar, had also gone back like many other migrant workers. But he was forced to come back as there were no jobs there. But didn’t the virus scare him? “I cannot afford to be scared as I’m the only earning member in a family of six. They are dependent on whatever scrap I can send them,” he said.  “My family in Bihar was worried when they saw all that was on TV. Allah ne kisi ko nishaaniyan nahin di hain, who hum insaanon ne di hai. Mazhab alag ho sakte hai, par mulk toh hum sabka hai na? (God didn’t provide religious identities, we humans did that to us. Our faiths may be different, but this is our country too, right?” said Shamim with a tinge of sadness. The lack of visitors had reduced even people identifying themselves as khidmatgars (servants) of the dargah into penury. They approached the TOI team many times, seeking monetary help — a highly unusual sight. Outside, things were more desperate. The team was tailed by people of all ages — men, women and children — begging for alms. The competition was pretty nasty as every rupee of charity had many claimants. Those more concerned about their dignity, especially at the eateries outside, had turned to aggressive hawking. They stood with coupons, asking you to pay a certain amount to feed the poor. The basic offer was to feed three people for Rs 100. This wasn’t new, but was being practised rather aggressively now. A man in his 50s who runs one such eatery said he had a staff of 14 before the lockdown. “When we were forced to close down, they went home. Only six returned when we reopened on June 8. But we are still struggling. I was paying them Rs 400 per day. Now, I struggle to pay them Rs 300. Hume virus ne nahin, hume toh lockdown ne maara hai (Not the virus, the lockdown destroyed us),” said the man, refusing to be identified. He added that the only good thing was that because of the forced quarantine, the virus didn’t spread in the area. Making one square meal a day was a major worry for most people. “Our langar service has been on. We didn’t stop that during the lockdown. We are providing free food. Rest is up to Allah,” Nizami said. Saying that the Sufi concept was to keep both hands open to give, Nizami exclaimed in the form of a couplet, “Sikandar khush nahin hai loot kar daulat zamaney ki, qalandar donon hathon se luta kar raqs karte hain (Alexander seized the world’s wealth, but couldn’t find happiness. Sufis give up everything with both hands and dance with joy).” Watch Delhi's Nizamuddin waiting for the crowds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nizamuddin-waiting-for-the-crowds/articleshow/78738499.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||After music, now ‘story therapy’ for Soumitra Chatterjee||Kolkata: Stories will be read out to actor Soumitra Chatterjee — now under treatment at Belle Vue Clinic — to provide “psychological stimulation” and hasten his recovery. The 85-year-old, who had tested positive to Covid but has since recovered, continues to remain drowsy. He is already being given music therapy to improve his response that remains weak and slow. Listening to stories will aid his cerebral functioning, said doctors. “We are planning to read out stories to him from Monday. His daughter will be asked to do it and also to share good memories. These will help his brain functioning,” said Arindam Kar, critical care head at Belle Vue. He added that the veteran actor’s condition has improved considerably and he is being able to breathe without oxygen support. Chatterjee was made to sit on his bed on Sunday and could start walking with assistance in a couple of days. “We have just completed a high dose course of steroids that has yielded good results. His response has improved and he has no fever. We have also finished a course of intravenous immunoglobulin. His vital parameters are slowly changing for the better,” said Kar. He added his physiotherapy has been escalated to ‘rigorous levels’ and the actor is being given frequent chest and limb massages. “He is trying to speak and has been opening his eyes more frequently. We plan to make him walk in a few days,” added Kar. Chatterjee remains on a liquid diet which is being infused through a riles tube. Menawhile, Tagore songs are being played as part of his music therapy. “We have received a number of his favourite Tagore song albums from a film-maker which are being played,” said Kar. Music has a soothing effect on the nerves and acts as a relaxant. “Chatterjee loves Rabindrasangeet, so we have started playing a few of them since last Wednesday,” said a member of Soumitra’s medical board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-music-now-story-therapy-for-soumitra/articleshow/78739499.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Smaller cities got only 14% of realty pie||AHMEDABAD: Smaller and medium cities in Gujarat account for only 14% of the real estate projects registered with the Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (GujRERA). Their share in the real estate sector investment is just 6%, shows a data analysis by the state regulator. At 86%, most of the registered projects are located in districts with bigger cities such as Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Vadodara, Gandhinagar and Surat. These districts account for 94% of the investment made in the state’s real estate projects. These districts house 36% of the state’s population. Despite having 64% of the population, the districts with smaller cities such as Kutch, Banaskatha, Sabarkatha, Panchmahal, Bharuch and Valsad hardly have any projects. The population in these areas witnessed a growth of more than 50% during the census period of 2001-11, the regulator further adds. As many as 6,905 real estate projects were registered in Gujarat by the end of fiscal 2019-20. These projects had an investment potential of about Rs 2 lakh crore. One of the major reasons for lesser number of projects in small cities is availability of sufficient land at low prices, which prompts residents to self-build houses on individual plots. This results in low demand of highrise development and therefore developers do not get expected profits on projects, which has resulted in fewer projects in smaller townships. “We need to find ways and means to promote investment in these regions,” GujRERA states in its annual report for 2019-20. “Because of the concentration of population in major and mega cities, there is a huge strain on basic physical and social infrastructure facilities, more population living unhealthy lives in the slums, hindering the overall development. Therefore, we will have to focus on the tier two and three cities. This would require appropriate changes on the government policy for these areas,” the regulator further adds. Gujarat RERA also suggests that the policy makers will have to scale up investments in basic infrastructure services, transport connectivity, seamless mobility and all-weather roads among others in medium-size cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/smaller-cities-got-only-14-of-realty-pie/articleshow/78738459.cms||Kalpesh Damor
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad experiences change of weather||AHMEDABAD: After a couple of days of clo udy weather in the city, the sky is expected to clear up from Monday, mentioned the forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD). While several areas in the city experienced lightning on Saturday night, some areas on Sunday reported light drizzle. The weather had an impact on the temperatures – the maximum temperature in Ahmedabad went down by 1.2 degrees at 34.5°C, the minimum temperature rose by 6.2 degrees at 26.4°C, resulting in hotter night hours. ‘Depression over east-central and adjoining north-east Arabian Sea moved westwards at about 590km west-southwest of Veraval. It is very likely to move westwards during next 24 hours and weaken gradually thereafter,’ mentioned IMD bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-experiences-change-of-weather/articleshow/78738470.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||K’taka dy CM’s son airlifted to Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Karnataka deputy chief minister Govind Karjol son’s Gopal Karjol, who has been on ventilator for the past 24 days after testing positive for Covid-19, was airlifted on Sunday evening to Hyderabad. Dr Gopal, 43, is Karjol’s eldest son. He had tried his hand at politics by contesting the assembly elections from Nagathan constituency in Vijayapura in 2018, but lost. “Many family members, including my son-in-law, are doctors,” the minister said. “We decided to airlift him to Hyderabad and take him to Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences. We consulted a prominent pulmonologist who runs the hospital.” Karjol said that if his son’s condition does not improve, he may have to undergo a lung transplant. Manipal hospitals, Bengaluru where Gopal was undergoing treatment, refused to comment on the matter. Karjol himself had tested positive for the virus in the last week of September. Karjol defended the decision saying, “Me and my entire family have been affected by the pandemic. Moreover, I am 70 years old and I find it difficult to travel 600 to 700 km in a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktaka-dy-cms-son-airlifted-to-hyderabad/articleshow/78738462.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||T records 1.4k new cases, 6 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 1,436 new cases of Covid-19 and six deaths, raising the caseload in the state to 2,22,111, while the death toll reached 1,271. As many as 1,98,790 patients have recovered so far in the state and 22,050 remain under medication. Ahead of the festive season, the state health authorities launched an awareness campaign to apprise people of the precautions that are needed to be taken to keep the virus at bay. On Sunday, 41,043 samples were tested in the state, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 38.3 lakh and raising the samples tested per 10 lakh population to 1,02,915. Of the samples tested on Sunday, 44 per cent were primary contacts and 12 per cent were secondary contacts of patients, while the remaining were new suspected patients. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1-4k-new-cases-6-deaths/articleshow/78738455.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Cybage, Quick Heal embark on appraisals after 6 months||PUNE: Cybage Software and Quick Heal have embarked on appraisals, which were deferred in April, of all their eligible employees from October. Cybage employs as many as 6,500 people, while Quick Heal has about 1,000 employees, most of them in Pune. “When your employees stay loyal and committed to your organization’s growth during times of success, it is your duty to stand by them when the picture is not as rosy,” Arun Nathani, managing director and chief executive officer Cybage Software, said. Not only will eligible employees get their appraisals now, Cybage Software said the employees would also be eligible for the next round of appraisals that follows in April 2021. The company said it did not shed a single job due to the pandemic-induced challenges. “Unlike some in the Indian IT sector, the topic of job losses, retraction of offers and salary cuts was not open for discussion in Cybage’s boardroom, despite the prevalent global economic situation,” Nathani said. Quick Heal, on the other hand, said there was no better time than this to continue to invest in talented employees. “The challenges posed by the pandemic and uncertainty that followed made several firms, including us, delay the annual increments. However, we had informed our employees in April that we have pushed our annual increments to October,” said Reetu Raina — Chief Human REsources Officer at Quick Heal Technologies. Analysts said, the announcement of appraisals points to a faster-than-expected recovery and comes at an opportune time right before the ensuing festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cybage-quick-heal-embark-on-appraisals-after-6-months/articleshow/78738461.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 19, 2020||Pune||Repos Energy to deploy 1,000 mobile pumps by year-end||PUNE: City-based Repos Energy is set to sell 1,024 Repos Mobile Petrol Pumps (RMPP) by December this year. Overall, by March next year, the company hopes to sell and monetize 3,500 mobile pumps. During the lockdown alone, the company recruited 150 new employees. After the announcement of the new government policy, which allows anyone to become a fuel entrepreneur and sell high-speed diesel directly from the OMCs (Oil Marketing Companies), the company said it has registered 150 such fuel startups in less than a month, with plans to increase it to 500 by December-end. Repos Energy counts Ratan Tata as its marquee investor. “We have a well-targeted plan of boosting our production and so far we have been successful,” said Chetan Walunj, co-founder, Repos Energy. The company said it was looking to close its Series A funding of $30 million by December-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/repos-energy-to-deploy-1k-mobile-pumps-by-year-end/articleshow/78738463.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Disinfection service providers hope to make hay in Unlock 5.0||KOCHI: With the Covid unlock going on and the central government having given permission to open educational institutions, agencies offering disinfection and sanitation services are aiming at a huge increase in work order. Though the state government is yet to give nod for reopening, many schools and colleges have started booking the services of such firms to prepare for the reopening. Apart from sanitation, these firms provide training to the institution’s cleaning staff about the protocols they have to follow once students are back. These agencies are now approaching institutes with customized packages of their services. “All the schools and colleges need to be sanitized before opening. Moreover, there should be regular sanitation and disinfection more than two times a week. As it will be a tedious process for school authorities, agencies offering such services are of high demand now. We are now upgrading our machines and technologies,” said P A Abhilash, working partner of CAN Cleaning Services, Aluva. As the demand for sanitation and disinfection services has risen over the past two months due to the unlock and surging Covid cases, many new agencies offering these services has started mushrooming in the city. “We started our business three months ago and have been getting so many work orders from commercial spaces. As schools will be reopening now, we are preparing an action plan to approach managements to get the contract,” said Anish Kumar, owner of Smartplus House Cleaners, Elamakkara. Besides the local players, established companies have now entered Kerala market deploying their security and sanitization services to institutes. Tenon Prime, a subgroup of Tenon Group of Companies, has signed deals with three leading institutions — Asian School of Business, Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology, TKM International Centre for Training and Placement — in Kerala to provide a mechanized sanitation process for institutes on a biweekly basis. They are now approaching institutes in all cities, including Ernakulam. “Another aspect of the facility provided by these agencies is training of in-house staff to follow proper protocol for sanitization and to manually clean all the tangible items of the premises on a daily basis. A disinfectant tunnel will be placed at the entrance followed by a temperature check by the security guard. A facial recognition attendance monitoring system will be there post which the bags of the students will be disinfected by the in-house staff,” said Major Manjit Rajain, global chairman of Tenon Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/disinfection-service-providers-hope-to-make-hay-in-unlock-5-0/articleshow/78738482.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Air India ‘direct’ flights on IXE-BOM sector go ‘round-robin’||Mangaluru: Air India has restarted direct flights from Mumbai to Mangaluru. However, due to operational reasons in view of the pandemic, the flights that operate four days a week — Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday — are in some cases operating as a ‘round robin’ trip. Since the direct flights were reintroduced around a week ago, the Mumbai-Mangaluru flight has operated via Chennai, Goa and even Coimbatore as well. The state owned airline, due to restrictions on arrival and departure of flights from Mumbai due to Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra, had gone slow in reintroducing the direct flight between India’s commercial capital and this coastal city. The initial round of direct flight from Mumbai saw Air India touch Kochi on the return leg to Mumbai even while the flight arrived directly in to Mangaluru International Airport from Mumbai. Sources in the airline, seeking anonymity, said that there are issues with crew, aircraft availability and even strict health protocols that crew have to follow due to Covid-19. “The airline is making the best possible use of resources with it, to operate as many pre-Covid-19 routes as possible. We have flown to some hitherto new sector necessitated by the situation in the unlock phase,” the sources said. Direct flight to Mysuru on hold This is one of the primary reasons for the airline to temporarily shelve its plans to start a flight between Mangaluru and Mysuru that was initially scheduled for October 25. “We did open bookings for this sector but have since suspended it for operational reasons,” the source said. “The flight to Mysuru will be introduced as soon as ground conditions become favourable and there is assured demand from flying passengers,” the sources said. This has however not deterred @mlrairportusers, a dedicated Twitter page for those who use MIA for their travel from exhorting Air India and its wholly owned subsidiary Alliance Air from starting operations from MIA to Belagavi, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Mysuru and even Bengaluru. About 94.7% respondents to a Twitter poll said these airlines need to start operations to these sectors from MIA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/air-india-direct-flights-on-ixe-bom-sector-go-round-robin/articleshow/78737293.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||50-year-old ASI 12th KP cop to die of Covid||KOLKATA: A 50-year-old assistant sub inspector, Siddhanta Shekhar De (50), became the 12th Kolkata Police personnel to lose his life after battling Covid for the past one week. De became the first cop in the fifth battalion to have lost his life due to Covid. The officer had been serious and was hospitalized on October 11 when he tested positive. According to Lalbazar, after testing Covid positive on October 11, De was first admitted to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. When his condition worsened, he was shifted to a private facility in the Barrackpore. “He was shifted on October 17. He passed away around 9.50am on Saturday morning. With his death, we have lost a colleague,” said an officer at Lalbazar. De, sources said, had been on duty till October first week. He didn’t have any known serious medical history but doctors say his condition deteriorated rapidly impacting some of his vital organs, which required advanced medical intervention. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she was deeply saddened to hear about the death. “Even today, we have lost a Covid warrior. Even during these festivities, we should not forget the departed souls, our Covid warriors,” she said, urging everyone to use N-95 masks and sanitizers. Speaking at the Alipore Bodyguard Lines, she told police personnel: “Even during duty hours, try and maintain distance,” adding the government will stand with the Covid warriors, which includes arranging a job for the kin and Rs 10-lakh as compensation. Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma said: “Lost our colleague ASI Siddhanta Shekhar De to Covid. We stand by his family members in this time of grief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-year-old-asi-12th-kp-cop-to-die-of-covid/articleshow/78739500.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists attempt to regain lost ground in Telangana||Hyderabad: Maoists have killed four civilians, including two members of the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) party, since 2018. Recently, a local cadre of the TRS was allegedly murdered by Maoists in Mulugu district. Several encounters involving Maoists since the last three months in various border districts of Telangana show that Maoists are showing resistance and trying hard to make their presence felt. They have clandestinely managed to develop a network to collect the money obtained through extortion, share intelligence inputs and arrange logistics. A week before the murder of TRS activist M Bheemeshwara Rao in Mulugu, a high-level meeting took place between senior state police officers and officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in order to intensify efforts to crack down on Maoists, indicating that the Maoists are actively attempting to revive their activities. “They used the porous border with Chhattisgarh to enter Telangana and committed the murder. Our forces are constantly conducting combing operations. To create terror, they slipped into Mulugu in the guise of civilians and killed Bheemeshwara Rao. Our constant vigil and intelligence gathering is our strength. It is true that Maoists are attempting to enter the state. Constant combing operations, especially based on intelligence inputs, will continue and we hope it will give results,” a senior state police officer told TOI. The Maoists behind the killing have been identified as Dinesh, who masterminded the murder, Pujari, Samaiah and Lakshmaiah. Compared to 2019, the number of incidents of police encounter with naxalites has increased this year and the death toll has been the highest in the last three years, with the killing of eight naxals and a civilian. Following Bheemeshwara Rao’s killing, police are now taking measures to protect their informers, who are being targeted by the Maoists. Many officials feel that cracking down on the key members of the Telangana State Maoists Committee— Hari Bhushan, Damodar and Bhaskar, would be crucial for the state police in defeating the Maoists’ fresh attempts to regain lost ground in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-attempt-to-regain-lost-ground-in-telangana/articleshow/78738487.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Maoists gunned down, combing operations in Telangana's Mulugu||HYDERABAD: Telangana police on Sunday gunned down two Maoists in Mulugu district, a week after the insurgents shot dead a Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) activist there. Stepping up a combing operation against the rebels, police said a hunt is on for few more Maoists hiding in the area, not far from where TRS activist M Bheemeshwara Rao was killed. Mulugu district superintendent of police Sangram Singh Patil Ganapatrao confirmed that during an exchange of fire, two naxalites were killed. Officials said that based on a tip-off, a combing operation was being conducted in Eturnagaram, Mangapet. After coming across Maoists, they opened fire on police and in retaliation, antinaxal Greyhound commandoes and special police parties opened fire and killed the duo. “We do not know the identities of the persons who died. The encounter took place at an interior area, which is a hillock. We are also waiting for more information to come. The bodies are being shifted to send it for a post mortem examination,’’ superintendent of police said. A police teams recovered weapons, communication gadget kitbags and others. Police said several action teams of Maoists were sent from Chhattisgarh to Telangana-Chhattisgarh border to attack police inside Telangana. “The Maoists plan to target police and damage government properties. It was with this information, a combing operation was taken up in Eturnagaram and Mangapet,’’ a police officer said. Police said patrol teams are combing Tadwai, Pasara, Mangapet and other surrounding areas, since they have information that there are few more Maoists who were at the spot, at the time of encounter. An officer clarified that members of the Maoist action team that killed Bheemeshwara Rao are still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-maoist-insurgents-shot-dead-by-t-police/articleshow/78738466.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 19, 2020||Goa||Overgrowth along Goa's Opem road dangerous: Locals||POINGUINIM: Overgrowth of shrubs and creepers along the Opem road, leading to Sadolxem and Talpona in Canacona, via Ardhofond, is hindering visibility. Several ‘accidents have also already occurred there. “Since August at least five accidents have occurred as oncoming vehicles cannot be seen at some spots where the road bends,” social worker and former sarpanch Tulsidas Naik said. Locals have demanded that the authorities concerned clear the overgrowth immediately. That’s not all. A Sadolxem resident, Antonette D’Sa said, “The risk is doubled due to the presence of stray cattle”. “Riding along this road is scary. Stray cattle and other domesticated animals tend to run across and often can’t be noticed due to the overgrowth, particularly at sharp turns. If it is not cleared soon, it could lead to fatal accidents,” Maria Barretto, an Ardhofond resident, said. PWD assistant engineer, Euclides D’Souza, who is in-charge of interior roads, told TOI that all the labourers are at work in the jurisdiction of the Gaondongrim panchayat. He said that a few of them would be diverted to clear the overgrowth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overgrowth-along-opem-road-dangerous-locals/articleshow/78739509.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||Irked over Priyanka’s tweet, UP BJP MLA offers to quit if found guilty||Bareilly: After Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi tweeted about an incident where BJP supporters allegedly freed a detained party worker from inside a police station in Uttar Pradesh, party’s local MLA Lokendra Pratap Singh said on Sunday that he is willing to resign if the allegations were found to be true. The party worker was detained for misbehaving with a police team, including a woman constable, in Mohammadi town of Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday. Tagging a media report of the incident, Priyanka in a tweet, on Sunday, wrote, "Will the UP CM tell that this is happening under which 'mission'? 'Beti bachao' or 'apradhi bachao'?” Reacting to the tweet, the MLA released a statement, maintaining that Priyanka and Rahul are “inappropriately politicizing the issue as a crime against women committed by a party worker but there was nothing like this. I would immediately resign if any allegations were found to be true”. However, police have registered an FIR against five people including Shibu Singh, 29, the party worker who was allegedly freed from the police station on Friday night, for violating pandemic guidelines and misbehaving with policemen on duty. All five were arrested on Sunday and they would be produced before a magistrate. Mohammadi station house officer Brijesh Tripathi told TOI, “We have registered an FIR against Shibu Singh and four of his aides and they have all been arrested. The accused didn’t sexually harass the woman constable and any other woman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/irked-over-priyankas-tweet-up-bjp-mla-offers-to-quit-if-found-guilty/articleshow/78735934.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 19, 2020||Bhopal||BJP seeks action against Nath for ‘remarks’ against Imarti||Bhopal: The verbal spat between the BJP and Congress ahead of the by-polls to 28 assembly seats took a new turn with former chief minister Kamal Nath allegedly mocking the BJP candidate from Dabra, Imarti Devi, and referring to her an ‘item’ at a poll rally.Nath's reference angered the BJP that lodged a complaint with the Election Commission alleging that the former chief minister has used derogatory remarks against a Scheduled Caste candidate and demanded a ban on his campaigning during the by-polls. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also reacted sharply saying the remarks have exposed the feudalistic mentality of the Congress leader."Hamare ummidwar saral sade swabhav ke hain...ye uske jaise nahin hain...kya hai uska naam?...(crowd says aloud...Imarti Devi)....Kya uska naam lun...Aap to usko mere se jyada pehchantey hain...Aap ko to mujhe pehle hi satark kar dena chahiye tha..Ye kya item hai...kya item hai..(Our candidate is simple in nature. He is not like her...What is her name....Why should I call her name. You all should have warned me…What an item she is....What an item!),”said Kamal Nath amid loud noise of the crowd.The BJP leaders took no time to condemn Nath's remarks. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that Nath's statement exposed his feudalistic mentality. He should withdraw his remarks and apologise to Imarti Devi. "Kamal Nath! Imrati Devi is the name of the daughter of a poor farmer who is supporting the nation building. The Congress called me 'hungry and naked' and labelled a woman 'item'. This exposes your feudal mentality," tweeted Chouhan.The CM further attacked, "A person who is calling himself "Maryada Purushottam" (Supreme man who practiced righteousness), is using such indecent language? On the auspicious occasion of Navratri, when the country is worshiping women, the Congress leader is using derogatory words against a woman. Your remark reflects your poor mentality. It is better that you take back your words and apologise to every daughter of the state, including Imrati Devi." BJP state president VD Sharma condemned Nath's statement and termed it as shameful. "We are shameful that a person who insults women was made the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh. Kamal Nath should apologise," said Sharma. The BJP has also reported the matter to the ECI demanding action against Nath. A BJP delegation led by state general secretary Bhagwandas Sabnani demanded ban on Nath's political campaign during the by-poll. "We have lodged a complaint against Congress leader Kamal Nath for insulting Imarti Devi. We have demanded a ban on Nath's political rallies and will also approach the National Women Commission and Nation Commission for Scheduled Castes to lodge a case and take appropriate action," said Sabnani. "Kamal Nath ji did not refer to anybody while using the word `item' during his poll rally in Dabra. He not even name Imarti Devi in his speech as claimed by the BJP. It is the BJP that is naming and dragging Imarti Devi in the matter. The party should desist from creating controversy during the polls," said Congress state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-seeks-action-against-nath-for-remarks-against-imarti/articleshow/78738468.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Actor’s girlfriend’s brother held in Sushant Singh Rajput drugs case||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials probing the drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death said that Agisilaos Demetriades, who is a South African national, was on their radar since they arrested Dharma Production manager Kshitij Prasad, but they were waiting to nab him with evidence. “He is closely associated with almost all the big names in our case,” said an official. “On Friday, we got a specific tip-off that Demetriades was staying in a suite in a Lonavla adventure resort and had drugs on him. So, we decided to take action.” Late on Saturday, a team, led by zonal director Sameer Wankhede, carried out a search of the suite and seized 0.8gm of hashish and 15 strips of Alprazolam, which is used to treat anxiety disorders, panic disorders, and anxiety caused by depression. Alprazolam is a psychotropic substance notified under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act; possession of a large quantity of the drug attracts punishment. Simultaneously, NCB officials in Mumbai searched Demetriades’s Khar residence in the presence of witnesses and his fiancee and recovered one strip of Alprazolam. He was arrested early on Sunday. A fortnight ago, when the NCB had recorded Demetriades’s statement in the drugs case, he had allegedly admitted to consuming cannabis leaves/ ganja on occasion, but said he was not into drug peddling. However, during investigation, officials stumbled upon the call detail reports and chats between him and Sandeep Gupta, one of the accused in the drugs case. “Electronic evidence showed that he was dealing in a variety of drugs, which needed detailed investigation. It is clear that Demetriades had purchased contraband from co-accused Kaizan Ibrahim and Gupta and hence, is part of the conspiracy for drug procurement. Demetriades also has links with Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, Rajput’s staffer Dipesh Sawant, and Anuj Keshwani and Dwayne Fernandes who used to procure drugs for Rajput,” the NCB remand stated. Booked under the relevant sections of the NDPS Act, Demetriades was produced before a special NDPS court which remanded him in police custody till Monday. Advocate Kushal Mor represented Demetriades. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the money-laundering angle in Rajput case had found chat messages pertaining to drugs on Rhea’s phone and had passed on the details to the NCB. The ED had cloned her phone and found her involvement in purchase, consumption, transportation and usage of contraband, the NCB had claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actors-gfs-brother-held-in-ssr-drugs-case/articleshow/78739501.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Man falls from high-rise in Paikpara, dies||KOLKATA: A wanted criminal from Hooghly died after falling from the third floor of a posh complex in Paikpara in the Chitpore police station area while trying to flee cops. He had come to visit a youth leader of political party. The incident took place around 10pm on Saturday. The leader is presently in Ajmer and told cops he had no idea of what transpired at his house. Cops have so far ruled out any links of the leader with the incident. Police said the cook and the driver of the house had brought the victim, Abdul Hussein, along with them to the flat located on the third floor on Saturday morning. Two women had also accompanied them. “Preliminary investigation has revealed the three men, who were joined by a few other friends, were heavily drunk. Late in the evening, the victim, Hussein, got into an altercation and started fighting with the others present there,” said an officer. Someone informed local police after Hussein broke an alcohol bottle and attacked the cook nicknamed Motu with it. Motu began bleeding from his hands as the glass shreds pierced his skin. There was so much noise that neighbours rushed in and dialed the Chitpore police for help. As soon as Hussein realized that he might get caught, he tried to run from police. He picked up two curtains, tied them up and jumped along with his bags from the third floor of the tower. “He was under the influence of alcohol and lost his balance. He fell — chest first — 37 feet below. He was declared brought dead at the hospital. “However, investigation is still going on about what exactly happened and whether this is a case of murder. Several people have been detained in this regard,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-falls-from-high-rise-in-paikpara-dies/articleshow/78739503.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 19, 2020||Bhopal||No contacts tracing yet for half of Bhopal’s 22,000 Covid cases||BHOPAL: Contact tracing of Covid-19 cases has been a tough task for the health department. With increase in cases, the tracing has become more difficult. With over 22,000 cases, the contact tracing factsheet reveals some lessons for the state capital. Half of the positive cases have not been thoroughly contact traced. Contact tracing takes place when once someone is confirmed as infected with the virus. Contacts are identified by asking about the patient’s activities. Isolation and testing of these contacts is crucial to curtailing the spread of infection, according to health experts. For those who got infection, contact tracing has been linked to various places. It includes getting the infection on a visit to a shop, hospital, office, work, family member, contact or even a simple visit to a vegetable market. A 28-year-old was infected on essential duty, while delivering a gas cylinder to a family in need. As many as 103 positive cases were related to an on-duty policeman. These Covid-19 warriors are amongst the worst impacted by the infection. 62 infected people were linked to the health department. Overall in Bhopal, there are 21,000 plus cases which have been contact traced by the health department. These are people who tested positive for Covid-19. Contact tracing details provided by the health department reveals that around 11,000 people or more than half who got infected with Covid-19 are tagged as ‘fever clinic’ with no more description. No matching for these people has been made available. In 3,533 contact traced cases, reason of infection is categorised as ‘other’. 153 people were infected, ‘during purchasing of daily needs products’. These people are said to have ventured into market places and got infected. 183 people contracted the infection during hospitalisation. Many of these cases are said to be admitted for hospitalisation and were later diagnosed with the infection. 176 were infected after coming in contact with identified Covid-19 patient. 150 people, linked to Gas Rahat hospital, were diagnosed with the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-contacts-tracing-yet-for-half-of-citys-22k-covid-cases/articleshow/78738496.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Patients die of negligence, says nurse’s voice message||Kochi: In a voice message from a nursing officer at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, to her staff, ‘several deaths’ of Covid patients have happened due to medical negligence at the hospital. In the message, apparently meant to keep the staff on their toes ahead of a central government expert team’s visit to the hospital, the nursing officer can be heard saying that doctors have identified several incidents of negligence on the part of nursing staff during supervision rounds and that they should be extra careful not to repeat them. “Many patients have lost their lives due to minor negligences on the part of staff. Doctors have reported about such cases. But they haven’t taken disciplinary action against the staff as they are working very hard,” she says. In the voice clip, she goes on to add that a Covid patient who was on ventilator support died after it was displaced. “His condition had improved, and he was about to be shifted from the ICU when the mishap occurred. Such issues should not happen,” she says. The doctors at the medical college, however, did not report the incidents for saving the nursing staff, she says. The medical college authorities, however, said no such incident has occurred at the hospital. “No such deaths have occurred at the medical college. I haven’t heard the voice message. But I had talked to the nursing officer. She said she exaggerated the negligence so as to make the staff more vigilant,” said Dr Pater Vazhayil, medical superintendent, Government Medical College, Ernakulam. “We are providing best care to the patients. Death rate here is much less compared to that of other hospitals. All the staff work with complete dedication,” he said.  Hibi Eden MP has lodged a complaint to the chief minister based on the voice message. A comprehensive inquiry into the incident should be conducted, Eden said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/patients-die-of-negligence-says-nurses-voice-message/articleshow/78738502.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt issues guidelines for sada bainama regularisation||Hyderabad: The state government has issued latest guidelines for submission of applications and regularisation of sada bainama category of agricultural lands located in rural areas. The scheme is not applicable for agricultural land transactions using sada bainama in Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority, Kakatiya Urban Development Authority, municipal corporations and municipalities except for specified notified mandals. The government has issued separate orders listing out the mandals and villages in the above urban UDAs and municipal bodies in which sada bainamas are permitted to be regularised. The latest guidelines issued on Sunday stipulate that all the sada bainama applications for regularisation should be submitted through Mee Seva centres only in the prescribed format. These guidelines are in addition to the government orders issued on October 12 which gave authority to all the district collectors to accept Form-X claims up to October 31 for regularization of sada bainama as a last opportunity and issue of pattadar passbooks. Applicants should scan and upload copies of Aadhaar card, sada bainama document, pattadar passbook number of the buyer and the seller (if available) and other documentary proof pertaining to the land. The applicants will be given an acknowledgement for online application submission from Mee Seva centre after payment of application fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-issues-guidelines-for-sada-bainama-regularisation/articleshow/78738505.cms||Roushan Ali
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders accused of forgery and land-grabbing||Ahmedabad: A woman,82, from Borivali in Mumbai, filed a complaint of cheating and forgery on Saturday against Popular Builders’ promoter Raman Patel and his eight family members for allegedly capturing two land pieces measuring 4,452 square metres and 6,070 square metres in Thaltej by forging a power of attorney.Apart from Raman, his brother Dashrath Patel and wife Mayurika Patel have also been made accused in the case.In her FIR with Vastrapur police, Chanchal Brahmbhatt, resident of Samarpan Wing in Borivali (east), states that her father’s ancestral property was transferred to four members of her family including her two sisters and her mother in 1986. As Brhambhatt stayed in Mumbai and she had rarely come to enquire about her ancestral property in Thaltej area, which was agricultural land, Raman and other allegedly conspired and grabbed the property. She said that Raman had floated a cooperative group called Saraswati Smruti Kheti Sahkari Mandali which they got registered with district registrar using his links and later grabbed the agricultural land owned by Brahmbhatt in June 2016. Later, Raman floated Saranga Cooperative Housing Society Limited in Thaltej and the same land was transferred to that society. She alleged that Raman, who was never a farmer, first grabbed her agricultural land and then used it for construction by fraudulent practice. She said that she had come to know about the forgery two years ago and she had sent her sister to inquire about it and she came to know that Raman and his family members grabbed the land by criminal conspiracy. Brahmbhatt said that she had never given any power of attorney to anyone including Raman. She also stated that if Raman can grab the land of an elderly woman like her, he might have grabbed the lands of other helpless persons also. Vastrapur police registered a case of cheating and forgery along with other relevant charges under IPC against Raman and eight others and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-accused-of-forgery-and-land-grabbing/articleshow/78738510.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||In a first, CSL offers online internship||Kochi: At a time when the students of various courses, especially professional courses, struggle to avail the mandatory internships as most companies are yet to open up the training vacancies in the wake of pandemic restrictions, the Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) has decided to offer online internship for the first time. As the initial phase, CSL has started offering online internship to the students of department of ship technology at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat). The students of fourth and sixth semester BTech naval architecture & shipbuilding course are currently undergoing the 10-day online internship programme.  The programme is held under the supervision of CSL general manager (training) V Suresh Kumar. “The training is given by the officers of CSL through online platforms but there are limitations in offering usual internship activities like workshop visit as videography and photography are prohibited due to security reasons. The internship includes mainly theory sessions but we try to inculcate presentations on workshop sessions too,” said CSL assistant general manager (training) P Kolandaivelu. CSL will offer a virtual tour of the shipyard to the second semester BTech students in naval architecture and shipbuilding as they cannot conduct the usual Industrial Visit (IV) this year. CSL also plans to avail the online internship to students from other colleges too. “Usually around 1,000 students of various courses from colleges across south India do internships at CSL every year. But this year none of them could come due to the pandemic. So we are planning to offer online internship to selected students,” said Kolandaivelu. Head, department of ship technology, Cusat, A Mathi Azhagan said that the department is also availing online internships from other companies. “The effectiveness of the online internship will not be the same like offline ones but it has to be conducted as part of the curriculum,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-a-first-csl-offers-online-internship/articleshow/78738511.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Shepherd fends off tiger attack||CHANDRAPUR: A shepherd grazing his cattle in the forests of buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) was mauled by a tiger on Sunday afternoon. He survived the attack with minor injuries after managing to thwart the tiger with his axe. Resident of village Wasera in buffer zone, shepherd Tejram Nagpure had taken his cattle for grazing in the forests under Shivni (buffer) range of TATR. While the cattle were grazing in compartment no. 580, a tiger lurking in the area attacked Tejram. He suffered claw injuries from the tiger, but managed to swing his axe to threaten away the tiger. Hearing his cries, other shepherds in the area rushed to his rescue. They saw the tiger and Tejram facing each other and raised a din to distract the beast. Startled by the arrival of others, the tiger fled into the jungle. On getting information forest officials rushed to the spot and took an injured Tejram to the rural hospital at Sindewahi. Later, he was shifted to Chandrapur, where his condition is reported stable. Foresters have given ex gratia aid of Rs3,000 to the injured shepherd, sources in forest department said. Man-animal conflict is at its peak in Chandrapur district and so far 27 people have been killed in predator attacks this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shepherd-fends-off-tiger-attack/articleshow/78738506.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Owner-tenant clash kills one in Tangra||KOLKATA: A long-standing dispute between the owners and tenants in Tangra’s DC Dey Road led to the murder of a 31-year-old man and seriously injure two others. The incident was reported around 11.30pm on Saturday. While the victim has been identified as Manoj Ram, the injured were Sunil Das and Goutam Das. All three are tenants of the property. Ram had stepped forward to protest when he saw Sunil being attacked. The Tangra police has so far arrested seven persons in this case. According to police and locals, the owner Ashok Das had been having a long-standing dispute with his tenant Sunil Das. “While Ashok wanted Sunil and other tenants to leave so he can develop his property, Sunil was resisting. On Saturday night, Ashok’s son Anil got involved in an argument with Sunil. As the argument intensified, Anil hit Sunil with a brick . Sunil fell down and started bleeding profusely from his head. Seeing this, another tenant Manoj intervened,” said an investigating officer. “Manoj stepped out of his room and protested. Within minutes, Ashok — flanked by his family members — came out and started assaulting Manoj. Suddenly, Anil started stabbed Manoj with a scissor below his chest. Seeing this, a third resident, Goutam Das, stepped in and sought help to remove Manoj and Sunil to hospital,”said a sleuth. “In the mean time Ashok’s nephew Rabi hit Manoj with a wooden stick on his head and he fell down unconscious,” said DC (Eastern suburban) Ajoy Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/owner-tenant-clash-kills-one-in-tangra/articleshow/78739504.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Helpline for senior citizens in New Delhi||NEW DELHI: The New Delhi district administration has started a unique initiative — Hasgulla Helpline — to help senior citizens living in the area. “We are going to operate a hasgulla helpline at the DM’s office to act as a single point of contact. The helpline is being linked to psychologists, legal experts, doctors, etc, to provide support needed by senior citizens,” a district official said. New Delhi District has also come up with a Hasgulla Club, which will provide entertainment and re-skilling day-care facilities for the elderly people. The helpline was inaugurated on Friday at the New Delhi disaster control room, located at Khan Market by the city’s additional chief secretary Satya Gopal. Another unique initiative of the district administration — Swasthyadoot volunteers — will be acting as the community contact for the senior citizens. “There are Hasgulla WhatsApp groups and a Hasgulla van will help in reaching them and keep them motivated,” the official explained. The primary motive behind Swasthyadoot volunteers was to create foot soldiers to provide healthcare to local residents of their area as the number of doctors and nurses remained limited. Anyone between the age of 18 and 60 can become a Swasthyadoot, provided they are literate and don’t have any co-morbidity. The volunteers are provided disposable safety kits and are given basic medical training. “They are trained to monitor respiratory rate, blood pressure, oxygen levels, etc, so that they can take care of patients in the family or society. Apart from vital monitoring, they have also been trained about the number of times they have to monitor vitals,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/helpline-for-senior-citizens-in-new-delhi/articleshow/78738513.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP to seek CBI probe into irrigation projects||Hyderabad: The BJP national vice-president DK Aruna on Sunday said she will urge the Centre to order a CBI probe into the irregularities in irrigation projects in the state. Addressing a press conference here, Aruna alleged that the TRS government is ignoring Palmuru-Rangareddy project and swindling funds of irrigation projects in the name of design changes. She attributed the submergence of Yellur pump house under Kalwakurthy project to the negligence of the government, and expressed displeasure over the police preventing BJP leaders from visiting the flooded pump house. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-seek-cbi-probe-into-irrigation-projects/articleshow/78738517.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Traffic management in Kochi goes hi-tech||KOCHI: The first Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) in the state will be launched in Kochi on Monday. The Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML), which implements the project, aims to utilize technology for improving urban traffic by measuring the traffic flow in real time, and optimising data to avoid traffic congestion. CSML officials said ITMS, a Rs 30-crore project being put in place by Keltron, has two broad elements — traffic management and enforcement. “Traffic management pertains to flow detection and optimisation of signal controls. Traffic enforcement includes violation detection capabilities like red light jumping, speeding,” said CSML spokesperson. Various components of ITMS include vehicle actuated signals and area traffic control system, pelican signals, traffic surveillance cameras, red light violation detection system, all-vehicle automatic number plate recognition system, automated e-challan system, variable message signage and integrated traffic control centre. The project is being implemented in 35 junctions which includes 21 actuated traffic control signal locations. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch ITMS through a videoconference on Monday. CSML will launch its logo and official video at the same event. The motor vehicles department cell in integrated control centre will also be opened on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/traffic-mgmt-in-city-goes-hi-tech/articleshow/78738525.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong seeks CBI probe into pump house sink||Hyderabad: All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former Kalwakurthy MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy on Sunday blamed the TRS government for the submergence of the stage-I of the pump house of the Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme (KLIS) project and demanded a CBI probe into the incident. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao Rao-led TRS government went ahead with the redesigning of the pump house of the Palamuru -Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme on the basis of the report submitted by a departmental committee while ignoring three other expert committee reports,” Vamshi Chand alleged during a conference. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-seeks-cbi-probe-into-pump-house-sink/articleshow/78738518.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Computer science is again the first choice for JEE toppers||MUMBAI: Rank 1 may have chosen an American college over the premier Indian Institutes of Technology, but all India rank 2 opted for the most popular desi option: computer science at IIT Bombay. Seats at this engineering mecca went thick and fast and the CS stream closed at rank 63, reflecting the choice of most toppers. Of the top 100, 58 will go on to join IITB, fewer than last year’s 64. At IIT Delhi, computer science opened at rank 31 to close at 104 and at Madras, Jai Murhekar, who secured rank 49 joined CS and admissions closed at rank 157. A number of factors have been responsible for the choice that students make, from geography to gastronomy and placement records to what coaching classes preach students. “We know the toppers opt for IIT Bombay because of the quality of education they get here. This is a melting pot, attracting students from across the country; the academic ambience, the rigour and the research make academic life here competitive and we see that since the last 8-10 years similar number of toppers come to our campus,” said IITB director Subhasis Chaudhari. Interestingly, rank 25 opted for electrical engineering over CS in Powai, with the programme closing admissions at 288. And of the top 100, rank 68 opted for aerospace engineering. The reordering of preferences, said another director, is reflective of previous years trends too, apart from students’ keen desire to pursue a certain branch. But some IITs have lost sheen over the years. Once, getting past the gates of IIT Kanpur gave candidates a demi god status. This year, CS at IIT Kanpur opened at rank 111 to closed at 231, but among the younger institutes, rank 179 opted for IIT Hyderabad with CS closing there at 564. Interestingly, at IIT Kharagpur and Roorkee, the preferred choice of computer science opened at 180 (closing rank 284) and rank 255 at Roorkee to close at 421. A new course BTech (Artificial Intelligence) at IIT Hyderabad was also among the popular choice with the programme opening at rank 434 and closing at 623. At IIT Delhi, mathematics and computing opened at rank 156, closed at 310. Candidates who have been allotted seats and want to confirm their choices have to pay their fees by Monday 5pm. Seat allocation for round 2 will start by Wednesday. (With inputs from Manash Gohain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/computer-science-is-again-the-first-choice-for-jee-toppers/articleshow/78739517.cms||Hemali Chhapia
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Around 900 kids get access to online classes||Kochi: The TV Challenge initiated by the Ernakulam district scheduled caste (SC) development office to provide electronic gadgets to SC students in the district for attending online classes has been completed successfully. The project implemented with the fund collected through the contribution of office staff and various corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities managed to give 276 televisions, 49 tablets and 18 smartphones thus helping around 900 students over the past four months. A survey was conducted among the SC students in the district to identify those who have no access to the online education. While most of the TVs were given in such a way that each of them will benefit three or more children, smartphones and tablets were given to individuals. The fund was collected with the help of CSR activities, individual sponsorships, financial aid by elected representatives in all the panchayats, municipalities and Kochi corporation. Scheduled caste district development officer, Ernakulam, M S Sunil said even though the programme has been concluded they will continue it if any needy student approaches. “The challenge was begun under the guidance of former district development officer Joseph John, currently deputy director in the department, in June. Over the past three months our resources for the financial aid to the challenge were depleted but we are still taking requests,” he said. Acknowledging the efforts taken through the challenge, the 100th TV was sponsored by the office of minister for welfare of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes & backward classes A K Balan. TV challenge was conducted by many other district SC development offices under the department. S Sreenath, a staff at the Ernakulam district office, managed to get the sponsorship of 22 TVs setting a model to other officers. By distributing 12 TVs and 11 tablets to the students coming under its jurisdiction, Vazhakulam SC development office came highest in the challenge. As many as 114 students there received access to online education through the challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/around-900-kids-get-access-to-online-classes/articleshow/78738578.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Footfall gradually increases in Walled City markets||Jaipur: With the arrival of festival season, footfall in the Walled City markets is gradually increasing. People have started shopping for necessary items with the start of Navratri.Although footfall is not what it used to be last year, since the lockdown relaxations, there has been a rise in the number of people coming to the market."People have started coming to the market, although they are purchasing small and necessary items. Expensive clothes are not in demand yet. People are purchasing kurti or juti for the Navratri, but the sale is still low," said Sunil Joshi, a shopkeeper in Bapu Bazaar.Shops selling religious items were crowded. "This is not the crowd that used to come to Tripolia Bazaar. At any time 50,000 people used to be there in the market during the festival season. Although, people have started coming and are shopping. Necessary items in need are being purchased," said Sanjay Jain, a shopkeeper in Tripolia Bazaar.Sunita Mittal, a customer shopping in Tripolia Bazaar, said her priority is to purchase religious items. "My husband’s shop didn’t work for three months and still the business is low. People do not have enough money to purchase a lot this time, but some items are important," Sunita said.Subhash Goyal, president of Jaipur Vyapaar Mandal, said that compared to a month ago, crowd has started coming to the market as the fear of pandemic is receding. He said it will take time to get back to the same level, but at least shops are getting customers and the sale is expected to rise till Diwali.Fancy items like artificial jewellery, decorative pieces, planters and bangles are not in demand.Vox PopYogendra Aggarwal – People have started coming to the market, although it is not the same as last year. We are hoping that things will improve till Diwali.Surendra Gupta – Fancy items are not a necessity for people now. Customers will first purchase what is required, so decorative items are not in demand yet.Sumit Kumar – People are purchasing clothes, but limited to cheaper rates. They are not willing to purchase expensive clothing, although I expect that situation will become better on Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footfall-gradually-increases-in-walled-city-markets/articleshow/78738531.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||PU scores 4.5 rating in IIC rankings||Vadodara: City-based Parul University (PU) has received 4.5 star rating in nationwide rankings of higher education institutes from the Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC). IIC is an initiative of the ministry of education and was established in collaboration with the All India Council for Technical Education. It aims to promote and advance innovative practices amongst higher educational institutions in the country. For its innovation-oriented policies, PU received a score of 93.33 out of 100, awarding it a mark of excellence. “We are honoured that union minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank declared our position amongst top Institutions across India at IIC 2.0,” said PU president Dr Devanshu Patel. PU is part of IIC’s central regional office, which includes universities and institutions from Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh – the three states from which a total of 13 institutions received ratings more than or equal to 4.5 out of 5. To earn the ranking, PU satisfied a three-type scoring system developed by IIC. It had to follow the prescribed calendar of activities of the innovation cell of the ministry. “Through our solution-oriented approach to education, we have been continuously making strides to provide our students and faculties with an ecosystem where they can express their entrepreneurship abilities,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pu-scores-4-5-rating-in-iic-rankings/articleshow/78737484.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Complaint over hospital choice||Ahmedabad: The medical officer of the Thakkarnagar Urban Health Centre, Deepak Mishra, has lodged a complaint against Ronak Patel of Krishnanagar alleging that Patel quarrelled over the choice of Covid hospital for his relative. The complaint was filed on Saturday at the Krishnanagar police station. Patel’s relative had tested Covid positive on October 14 and Patel wanted him moved to the hospital he had picked. GCS Hospital had been originally assigned to the patient. According to Mishra, Patel became aggressive and said that he is the one paying salaries to Mishra and his colleagues. Mishra said Patel even threw his visiting card at him. Based on the complaint, Krishnanagar police have registered an offence under Section 186 of the Indian Penal Code for causing hindrance in a government servant’s work. Patel’s relative, Ghanshyam Gondaliya, was getting treated at home through the Thakkarnagar Urban Health Centre, but Patel had chosen Kothiya hospital. “The man screamed at the medical officer. We are probing the complaint,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complaint-over-hospital-choice/articleshow/78738532.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Canacona municipality to soon get new building||Poinguinim: A new building for the Canacona Municipal Council (CMC) will be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 11 crore by the Goa State Urban Development Agency (GSUDA) under the Integrated Development of Small and Medium Towns (IDMST) Scheme. “The construction work will be completed in two years,” CMC chairperson Nitu Sameer Desai said, adding that urban development minister Milind Naik will lay the foundation stone for the reconstruction and extension of the administrative complex on Tuesday. “The project to reconstruct the existing Portuguese era building was planned two decades back and will soon see the light of day,” Desai said. The funds have been alloted from the municipality’s golden jubilee fund, she added. Desai said that other development projects worth Rs 25.6 crore that will be taken up include a bio-digester for the Dumanem garbage treatment plant, a new fish market, a toilet and changing block at Palolem, two garbage rickshaws, a JCB machine, a open garbage compactor and a septic tank at Chaudi fish market. She said that Rs 2.5 crore have also been approved for door-to-door garbage collection. Desai said that other development projects worth Rs 25.6 crore that will be taken up soon and that Rs 2.5 crore have also been approved for door-to-door garbage collection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-municipality-to-soon-get-new-building/articleshow/78739540.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||4-year-old lion dies at Nahargarh park||Jaipur: Nahargarh Biological Park, which has earned the name of ‘death zoo,’ lost another lion on Sunday because of health complications. Five wild cats have died in the park in the last five months because of the keeper’s apathy.Four-year-old Kailash died under mysterious circumstances, though the zoo administration claimed that it had developed health issues after having food on Saturday evening. A forest official said, “The reason of the death has not been ascertained yet. Prima facia it appears that animal had a cardiac arrest. An injection was administered on Saturday after it vomited. It was kept under observation but died around 6am on Sunday.” Last year, the zoo administration had brought Kailash from Jodhpur in an exchange programme. Official said the post-mortem was conducted by a medical board comprising three veterinarians and the viscera samples have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly. Preliminary investigation has ruled out leptospirosis, a bacterial infection, which was one of the reasons for deaths of other big cats in the park. On August 4, the last surviving white tiger at the zoo died. Similarly, on September 27, 2019, another white tigress had died. On September 19, ten-year-old Asiatic lioness Suzanne, which was brought to the park from Gujarat, died. Two days later, nine-month-old tiger cub Ridhi, born to tigress Rambha, died before the vets could attend to it. At present, there are 10 big cats in the park, including three tigers, five leopards and two Asiatic lions.“If deaths continue to occur, it would jeopardise the Rs 4-crore safari project at the biological park, which was started with much fanfare two years ago,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-year-old-lion-dies-at-nahargarh-park/articleshow/78738522.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 10,000 fine for holding gatherings sans permission in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In a fresh notification under Rajasthan Epidemics Diseases Act, 2020, the state’s home department has decided to impose a penalty of Rs 10,000 to those who organise social, religious, political gatherings or any other kind of public or general function without seeking prior permission from the authorities concerned. It is worth mentioning that Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti, led by Kirori Singh Bainsla, had organised a Mahapanchayat in Bayana, Bharatpur, on Saturday. The notification issued by the home department’s joined secretary Nalini Kathotia, stated, “In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 11 of the Rajasthan Epidemics Diseases Act, 2020, the state government hereby authorises all executive magistrates, chief executive officers of Zila Parishad and block development officers, within their respective jurisdiction, to compound the offences committed under section 4 of the said Act, by violating the order or regulation prohibiting the action specified for the amount specified against them.” It stated that a penalty of Rs 10,000 will be imposed for “organising any social, religious, political or any other kind of public or general function or gathering, other than marriage or funeral/last rites, without prior permission in writing of the district collector and district magistrate (DM) or in such function or gathering organised with permission of the district collector and DM, social distancing not maintained, face mask not worn or not worn properly by the participants, arrangements of screening and hygiene not made or number of participants are more than 100.” Making amendments in the regulations issued by the department, the notification stated, “No person shall organise any social, religious, social, religious, political or any other kind of public or general function or gathering other than marriage or funeral/last rites, without prior permission in writing of the district collector and district magistrate. In such function or gathering organised with prior permission of the district collector and DM, the organiser shall ensure that - social distancing should be maintained, every participant shall wear face masks properly, screening of every participant shall be done and proper hygiene shall be maintained and total number of participants should not be more than 100.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-10k-fine-for-holding-gatherings-sans-permission/articleshow/78738538.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||New car sales rise 7% in Rajasthan, dealers expect festive bounty||JAIPUR: New vehicle registrations in Rajasthan fell by 18% in September this year compared to the same month last year (year-on-year) even as sales of passenger cars and tractors entered the positive territory. The rise in passenger car sales by 7% in September and turbocharged growth of 131% in tractor sales generated optimism in the state’s auto market with dealers pinning hopes on the festive demand and a positive trend in subsequent months. However, two-wheeler sales declined by 29% and three-wheelers by 49% while commercial vehicles witnessed a sharp plunge of 36% in September compared to the same month in 2019. As against all India decline of 10% in new vehicle registrations, Rajasthan market fared poorly, but dealers in the state said there is not much difference in the numbers and they are confident of better festive demand this time. “The demand for passenger cars is strong and we don’t have as many supplies to deliver all the bookings. That’s why we think this is expected to be a good festival season for car market in the state,” said Sai Girdhar, treasurer of Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA), and a leading car dealer in Jaipur. He said that there is a clear visibility that the demand will sustain till the end of December. “After December, a lot will depend on the government policy and how the pandemic plays out. If the government implements the vehicle scrappage policy, which has been on the works for quite some time, it will lend a fillip to the market,” added Girdhar. The policy is expected to offer incentives to consumers to sell their vehicles which are above 15 year of life. But Girdhar said that the policy has to be made mandatory and the incentives have to be lucrative for people to opt for the scheme. With regard to the festive demand, Girdhar said he expects high growth during these two months because people have been deprived of a better life in the last six months and they would like to bring in some shine to their lives. “Buying a new car certainly brings happiness which has been on the short supply because of the pandemic,” added Girdhar. With banks and NBFCs also gearing up with various festival offers to woo retail customers, auto sales is expected to witness a renewed growth and may close at par with last year, as per FADA. Passenger vehicles and two wheelers are anticipated to lead the way, the association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-car-registrations-in-raj-rise-7-dealers-expect-a-good-festival-season/articleshow/78738568.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid recovery cases breach 1.5 lakh mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid cumulative recovered cases breached the 1.5lakh mark as 2,088 more persons beat the virus taking the overall tally of recoveries to 1,50,379. Though the number of recovered cases are increasing in the state, infections are doubling in 55 days, the fastest among bigger states. In Maharashtra, cases have doubled in 120 days, while India’s average of doubling is 79 days. Mortality rate in the state is lowest among the bigger states. While it is slighty more than 1% in Rajasthan, in Maharasthtra it is 2.64%. India’s average mortality rate is more than 1.5%. According to health department figures as on October 14, the country’s recovery rate is more than 86%, while state’s recovery rate was slightly below the national average. The recovery rate in Delhi is more than 91%. More persons recovered on Sunday in comparion to new infections. While the state reported 1,985 new infections, 2,088 recovered from the virus. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,748. The overall case tally currently stands at 1,73,266. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (382), Jodhpur (303), Bikaner (278), Bharatpur (110), Sriganganagar (100), Ajmer (93), Nagaur (76), Churu (75), Jalore (70), Kota (64), Udaipur (60), Pali (56), Sikar (54), Dausa (44), Alwar (35), Bhilwara (26), Barmer (24), Dungarpur (24), Chittorgarh (22), Hanumangarh (18), Dholpur (10), Jaisalmer (9), Sawai Madhopur (8), Karauli (7), Rajsamand (6), Sirohi (6), Banswara (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Jhalawar (3), Pratapgarh (3), Tonk (3), Baran (2) and Bundi (2). Jaipur reported two Covid deaths taking its toll to 350, Jodhpur’s fatalities rose to 166 with two more deaths, Ajmer reported two deaths taking its casualities to 127, Bikaner 129th, Kota 112th, Barmer 31st, Chittorgarh 25th, Jhunjhunu 24th, and Sriganaganagar reported its 22nd Covid-19 death and one person died who belonged to other state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-recovery-cases-breach-1-5-lakh-mark/articleshow/78738575.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Transport dept undertakes study on number of rickshaws||PUNE: The transport department has initiated a study to find out the number of autorickshaws in the state so that the open permit system, which had been introduced in 2017, can be closed. Registrations of three-wheelers were at an all-time high until last year at Pune and PCMC regional transport offices (RTO). The numbers have crashed drastically between April and September this year. State transport minister Anil Parab said that the report is expected in the next fortnight. “We intend to close down the open permit system for autorickshaws. A study is underway to find out if there are enough autorickshaws in the state. If it is found that the number is surplus, the open permit system will be closed. The state government’s permission will be taken for the same,” Parab told TOI. While the Pune RTO has seen a drop of over 86% in registrations of autorickshaws between April and September this year as compared to the same period last year, the PCMC RTO has seen a drop of just over 80%. According to the open permit system, a person can get a commercial three-wheeler license and a month later s/he is liable to get a badge from the RTO following which s/he gets a permit to drive an autorickshaw. Before 2017, the state government had placed a restriction on the number of autorickshaws and cabs plying in the state with permits not being issued at all. “Given the Covid-19 condition, the drop in registration was expected. However, the state government doesn’t seem to understand that the open permit system now needs to close down. In the past few months, a number of autorickshaw drivers have been serving very few passengers. During a meeting on October 5 of the regional transport authority, we raised this point yet again. According to our information, the same has been forwarded to the transport department,” said Nitin Pawar, convener of the Rickshaw Panchayat, which is the largest union of autorickshaws in Pune district. A senior official with the state transport department said that there was a need to re-look at the open permit system. “While the decision has to be taken by the state government, we feel that the issue now needs to be re-looked. The open permit system has become a problem of plenty. Many autorickshaw drivers are not getting enough passengers,” said an official from the department. Close to 1 lakh rickshaws are registered in the area under the Pune and PCMC RTO. At a recent meeting of the state transport department, it was decided that the age limit of rickshaws plying on the roads will be limited to 15 years in a phased manger by 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transport-dept-undertakes-study-on-number-of-rickshaws/articleshow/78738573.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cosmic stone Mahadeva that hit Bihar village decoded at Physical Research Laboratory||AHMEDABAD: A space rock weighing 15kg sped through the skies crackling and by sheer cosmic chance, on July 22, 2019 afternoon, tore into a water-laden paddy field near Mahadeva village, 6km east of the Laukahi police station, in Madhubani district of Bihar. The meteorite was named Mahadeva. Scientists at Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) in Ahmedabad have been conducting studies on the meteorite for over a year now and in their latest report has classified it as an H5/6 chondrite — a type of stony meteorite responsible for 31 per cent of Earth's impacts. Chondrites are some of the most primitive and pristine rocks in the solar system and have never been melted. “Mahadeva is highly equilibrated chondrite and resembles petrologic type H5/6, a few relict chondrules still can be recognised,” claim Anil Shukla, Dwijesh Ray and Dipak Panda of the PRL in their recently published work in the October edition of Planetary and Space Science journal. Chondrites, generally speaking, have a distinctive appearance, made from droplets of silicate minerals mixed with small grains of sulphides and iron-nickel metal. Their millimetre-sized granules give chondrites their name, from the Greek ‘chondres' meaning sand grains. In Mahadeva most chondrules are in the 250-600 micrometre in size range, and are porphyritic — a rock structure with distinct crystals with the fusion crust. As far as Mahadeva’s composition, the scientists found an abundance of minerals like olivine, low-calcium pyroxene, feldspar (makelynite/plagioclase glass), high-calcium pyroxene, metal, troilite and other minerals like chromite and merrillite. A 100 gram piece of the meteorite was brought to the PRL for tests while the rest is in being displayed at the Bihar Museum in Patna. The Bihar farmers who witnessed the meteorite fall were Rajkumar Prasad, Bihari Yadav and Rajkumar Khatwe of Mahadeva village. The meteorite’s fusion crust — a thin melted surface layer of thermally transformed components of a meteorite — is described as a relatively smooth, dull brown, with small rounded indentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cosmic-stone-mahadeva-that-hit-bihar-village-decoded-at-prl/articleshow/78738612.cms||Paul John
October 19, 2020||Shimla||Candidate caught leaking bus conductor question paper from exam centre||SHIMLA: The bus conductor recruitment examination held on Sunday across Himachal Pradesh has come under scanner, as pictures of question paper were leaked by a candidate from a centre in Shimla within an hour of starting the examination. Himachal Pradesh Staff Selection Commission (HPSSC) has asked the police to register an FIR to probe the incident while a detailed report has also been sought from the centre superintendent. How the candidate managed to take mobile inside the examination hall has now become subject of investigation. To fill up the 568 posts of conductors on contractual basis in Himachal Roads Transport Corporation, HPSSC had issued 60,000 roll numbers and, to conduct examination, 304 centres were set up across the state. Examination was held on Sunday from 10am to 12am and candidates had to report at respective examination centres at 9am. HPSSC had made it clear that electronic gadgets will not be allowed inside the examination centres. One of the candidates who sat for examination at APG University Shimla centre managed to take his mobile phone inside the examination centre and click the photograph of some pages of question paper and soon it was found circulated on the social media, sources said. They said photo was clicked by the candidate around 10.22am and it was shared after 10.30am. Around 7-8 pages of question papers were said to be shared with the hope to get answers from the internet but before that matter came to the notice of the centre superintendent and he immediately informed the assistant coordinator of examination centres. Assistant coordinator further brought the matter to the notice of HPSSC authorities who immediately asked to seize the answer sheet and mobile phone of the candidate and register a police case. When the optical mark recognition (OMR) answer sheet of candidate was checked it was found that he had not marked any answer and had also not received any answers to questions from the shared pages. Sources said incident has also brought to fore the negligence on the part of staff deployed at the examination centre as they failed to detect the mobile phone being carried by the candidate. HPSSC secretary Jitender Kanwar said directions have been issued to the centre superintendent to register a police complaint and to submit a detailed report. He said after receiving the report, HPSSC will take further decision on Monday. In Solan, another candidate had also managed to enter the examination centre with his mobile phone but before the start of examination, his mobile phone was detected and seized. Assistant coordinator of Solan informed the HPSSC that in Solan candidate had not used the mobile phone. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has directed probe to look into the incident. He said that guilty persons would not be spared at any cost and strong legal action would be taken against them. He said that government would ensure complete transparency in the written examinations so that such incidents did not happen in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/candidate-caught-leaking-bus-conductor-question-paper-from-exam-centre/articleshow/78739519.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ajmer||Covid recovery cases breach 1.5 lakh mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid cumulative recovered cases breached the 1.5lakh mark as 2,088 more persons beat the virus taking the overall tally of recoveries to 1,50,379. Though the number of recovered cases are increasing in the state, infections are doubling in 55 days, the fastest among bigger states. In Maharashtra, cases have doubled in 120 days, while India’s average of doubling is 79 days. Mortality rate in the state is lowest among the bigger states. While it is slighty more than 1% in Rajasthan, in Maharasthtra it is 2.64%. India’s average mortality rate is more than 1.5%. According to health department figures as on October 14, the country’s recovery rate is more than 86%, while state’s recovery rate was slightly below the national average. The recovery rate in Delhi is more than 91%. More persons recovered on Sunday in comparion to new infections. While the state reported 1,985 new infections, 2,088 recovered from the virus. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,748. The overall case tally currently stands at 1,73,266. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (382), Jodhpur (303), Bikaner (278), Bharatpur (110), Sriganganagar (100), Ajmer (93), Nagaur (76), Churu (75), Jalore (70), Kota (64), Udaipur (60), Pali (56), Sikar (54), Dausa (44), Alwar (35), Bhilwara (26), Barmer (24), Dungarpur (24), Chittorgarh (22), Hanumangarh (18), Dholpur (10), Jaisalmer (9), Sawai Madhopur (8), Karauli (7), Rajsamand (6), Sirohi (6), Banswara (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Jhalawar (3), Pratapgarh (3), Tonk (3), Baran (2) and Bundi (2). Jaipur reported two Covid deaths taking its toll to 350, Jodhpur’s fatalities rose to 166 with two more deaths, Ajmer reported two deaths taking its casualities to 127, Bikaner 129th, Kota 112th, Barmer 31st, Chittorgarh 25th, Jhunjhunu 24th, and Sriganaganagar reported its 22nd Covid-19 death and one person died who belonged to other state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-recovery-cases-breach-1-5-lakh-mark/articleshow/78740023.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Udaipur||Covid recovery cases breach 1.5 lakh mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid cumulative recovered cases breached the 1.5lakh mark as 2,088 more persons beat the virus taking the overall tally of recoveries to 1,50,379. Though the number of recovered cases are increasing in the state, infections are doubling in 55 days, the fastest among bigger states. In Maharashtra, cases have doubled in 120 days, while India’s average of doubling is 79 days. Mortality rate in the state is lowest among the bigger states. While it is slighty more than 1% in Rajasthan, in Maharasthtra it is 2.64%. India’s average mortality rate is more than 1.5%. According to health department figures as on October 14, the country’s recovery rate is more than 86%, while state’s recovery rate was slightly below the national average. The recovery rate in Delhi is more than 91%. More persons recovered on Sunday in comparion to new infections. While the state reported 1,985 new infections, 2,088 recovered from the virus. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,748. The overall case tally currently stands at 1,73,266. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (382), Jodhpur (303), Bikaner (278), Bharatpur (110), Sriganganagar (100), Ajmer (93), Nagaur (76), Churu (75), Jalore (70), Kota (64), Udaipur (60), Pali (56), Sikar (54), Dausa (44), Alwar (35), Bhilwara (26), Barmer (24), Dungarpur (24), Chittorgarh (22), Hanumangarh (18), Dholpur (10), Jaisalmer (9), Sawai Madhopur (8), Karauli (7), Rajsamand (6), Sirohi (6), Banswara (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Jhalawar (3), Pratapgarh (3), Tonk (3), Baran (2) and Bundi (2). Jaipur reported two Covid deaths taking its toll to 350, Jodhpur’s fatalities rose to 166 with two more deaths, Ajmer reported two deaths taking its casualities to 127, Bikaner 129th, Kota 112th, Barmer 31st, Chittorgarh 25th, Jhunjhunu 24th, and Sriganaganagar reported its 22nd Covid-19 death and one person died who belonged to other state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-recovery-cases-breach-1-5-lakh-mark/articleshow/78740021.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid recovery cases breach 1.5 lakh mark in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid cumulative recovered cases breached the 1.5lakh mark as 2,088 more persons beat the virus taking the overall tally of recoveries to 1,50,379. Though the number of recovered cases are increasing in the state, infections are doubling in 55 days, the fastest among bigger states. In Maharashtra, cases have doubled in 120 days, while India’s average of doubling is 79 days. Mortality rate in the state is lowest among the bigger states. While it is slighty more than 1% in Rajasthan, in Maharasthtra it is 2.64%. India’s average mortality rate is more than 1.5%. According to health department figures as on October 14, the country’s recovery rate is more than 86%, while state’s recovery rate was slightly below the national average. The recovery rate in Delhi is more than 91%. More persons recovered on Sunday in comparion to new infections. While the state reported 1,985 new infections, 2,088 recovered from the virus. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons lost their lives to the virus, which took the casualty count to 1,748. The overall case tally currently stands at 1,73,266. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (382), Jodhpur (303), Bikaner (278), Bharatpur (110), Sriganganagar (100), Ajmer (93), Nagaur (76), Churu (75), Jalore (70), Kota (64), Udaipur (60), Pali (56), Sikar (54), Dausa (44), Alwar (35), Bhilwara (26), Barmer (24), Dungarpur (24), Chittorgarh (22), Hanumangarh (18), Dholpur (10), Jaisalmer (9), Sawai Madhopur (8), Karauli (7), Rajsamand (6), Sirohi (6), Banswara (6), Jhunjhunu (6), Jhalawar (3), Pratapgarh (3), Tonk (3), Baran (2) and Bundi (2). Jaipur reported two Covid deaths taking its toll to 350, Jodhpur’s fatalities rose to 166 with two more deaths, Ajmer reported two deaths taking its casualities to 127, Bikaner 129th, Kota 112th, Barmer 31st, Chittorgarh 25th, Jhunjhunu 24th, and Sriganaganagar reported its 22nd Covid-19 death and one person died who belonged to other state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-recovery-cases-breach-1-5-lakh-mark/articleshow/78740022.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Patna||Cosmic stone Mahadeva that hit Bihar village decoded at Physical Research Laboratory||AHMEDABAD: A space rock weighing 15kg sped through the skies crackling and by sheer cosmic chance, on July 22, 2019 afternoon, tore into a water-laden paddy field near Mahadeva village, 6km east of the Laukahi police station, in Madhubani district of Bihar. The meteorite was named Mahadeva. Scientists at Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) in Ahmedabad have been conducting studies on the meteorite for over a year now and in their latest report has classified it as an H5/6 chondrite — a type of stony meteorite responsible for 31 per cent of Earth's impacts. Chondrites are some of the most primitive and pristine rocks in the solar system and have never been melted. “Mahadeva is highly equilibrated chondrite and resembles petrologic type H5/6, a few relict chondrules still can be recognised,” claim Anil Shukla, Dwijesh Ray and Dipak Panda of the PRL in their recently published work in the October edition of Planetary and Space Science journal. Chondrites, generally speaking, have a distinctive appearance, made from droplets of silicate minerals mixed with small grains of sulphides and iron-nickel metal. Their millimetre-sized granules give chondrites their name, from the Greek ‘chondres' meaning sand grains. In Mahadeva most chondrules are in the 250-600 micrometre in size range, and are porphyritic — a rock structure with distinct crystals with the fusion crust. As far as Mahadeva’s composition, the scientists found an abundance of minerals like olivine, low-calcium pyroxene, feldspar (makelynite/plagioclase glass), high-calcium pyroxene, metal, troilite and other minerals like chromite and merrillite. A 100 gram piece of the meteorite was brought to the PRL for tests while the rest is in being displayed at the Bihar Museum in Patna. The Bihar farmers who witnessed the meteorite fall were Rajkumar Prasad, Bihari Yadav and Rajkumar Khatwe of Mahadeva village. The meteorite’s fusion crust — a thin melted surface layer of thermally transformed components of a meteorite — is described as a relatively smooth, dull brown, with small rounded indentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cosmic-stone-mahadeva-that-hit-bihar-village-decoded-at-prl/articleshow/78740830.cms||Paul John
October 19, 2020||Pune||PMPML to get Rs 180 crore for lockdown losses||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay Rs 180 crore to cover the losses of the city public transport utility. The money will be paid in instalments to meet the operational losses of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). The first tranche of Rs 30 crore will be given soon. The standing committee has approved the payment. According to civic officials, the funds will be given as per the annual commitment of the civic bodies to the public transport utility. The PCMC and PMC share the burden of losses incurred by PMPML. “The request from the PMPML has reached us. This year, the public transport body has suffered much more losses. The civic body will give its due share to them,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, told TOI. According to PMPML, the company could not operate its services because of the lockdown as all transport was shut for around three months. Only people in the essential services could use the services which has caused huge income losses for the PMPML. “The revenue from the monthly passes and the daily ticket sale was as good as zero. Expenses has gone up due to increased maintenance. Since the vehicles were kept parked, the maintenance costs went up. So, it was a double whammy,” a senior PMPML official said. The transport body has rarely been a profit-making venture. Its ageing fleet, riddled with maintenance issues, has struggled to provide a stable and dependable transport within the city for those who want to travel by a public transport. The utility needs a plan that will make it sustain itself and provide service , experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-get-rs-180cr-for-lockdown-losses/articleshow/78738630.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Cured Covid patients can donate kidneys, say experts||JAIPUR: Thirty-year-old Durga Devi Bairwa, whose creatinine level was at alarmingly high level of 17 mg/dL, was advised by doctors to go for a kidney transplant. But with Covid cases peaking at that time, health authorities were busy containing the pandemic. Kota-based Durga, who was rushed to a private hospital in Jaipur for treatment, was lucky as her brother-in-law decided to donate his kidney. “It was a tense moment for us but my brother-in-law Dhanna Lal Bairwa decided to donate his kidney. We reached Jaipur on June 17 when doctors admitted us for kidney transplant. But, we were all shocked when Dhanna tested positive for Covid-19, a day before the surgery. The transplant got postponed. Dhanna tested negative after 14 days. Finally the transplant took place on August 14,” said Durga’s husband Ratan Lal Bairwa, who runs an automobile business. Durga is fine now and her creatine level has returned to almost normal, which is 0.84 mg/dL. Mohammad Arif (44), who belongs to Sikar, had similar tale to tell. He was diagnosed with kidney failure. His donor wife, 35-year-old Firdaus, tested positive on June 29 before testing negative on July 3. “Doctors performed the transplant two months after recovery from Covid. We met the treating doctor today (Sunday) and all the parameters are almost normal,” said Mahammad Sharif, Arif’s brother. The doctors who per formed kidney transplant say Covidis not a hindrance in organ transplant. “Once the donor is recovered and tests negative, it is safe for conducting transplant. In both the cases, the recipients have recovered well and both the recipients are fine now. Since Covid is still a cause of concern, we have asked the patients to remain indoors and to ward off any risk of getting infected from the virus,” said Dr Suraj Godara, consultant nephrologist and transplant physician of a private hospital. Two persons, who recovered from Covid recently, donated their kidneys to family members. In Sikar, a woman donated a kidney to her husband after recovering from Covid. Similarly, a man in Dausa donated a kidney to his younger brother’s wife after recovering from Covid. The organ recipients are on the path of recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cured-covid-patients-can-donate-kidneys-say-experts/articleshow/78738620.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Intern docs’ stir continues for fourth day||JAIPUR: Intern doctors of government medical colleges staged protests in Ajmer, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner and Jhalawar besides the state capital.different parts of the state on Sunday demanding an increase in stipend. In Jaipur, they staged a march from Sawai Man Singh Medical College to Trimurti Circle. The hunger strike of the intern doctors entered the fourth day on Sunday. They said they were yet to be invited for talks by the medical education department or the state government. They said they were getting just Rs7,000 per month as stipend, which is almost half of what intern doctors get in other states. “SMS Hospital doctors are coming to examine those who are on hunger strike,” said an intern doctor. He said that they will not end the agitation till the government gives them in written assurance of increasing the stipend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intern-docs-stir-continues-for-fourth-day/articleshow/78738622.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Eye on bypoll, Khattar holds ‘Samvad’ with Baroda youth||CHANDIGARH: In a unique move to reach out to the young electorate, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday held an online dialogue—Samvad—with the state’s youth, especially those from Baroda assembly constituency, as part of his campaigning for BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt. Choosing his words carefully, CM Khattar criticised deceased MLA Krishan Murti Hooda in a decent manner and also targeted leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda. Khattar urged the youth to be cautious against misleading statements by the leaders of opposition parties over farmers’ issues as well caste polarisation during the by-election. During his nearly 45-minutes address, Khattar elaborated upon the achievements of the government over the past six years and referred to the corrective measures taken for improvement in the system. “We have been in power for the past six years. MLA from this area was a very nice and sober person. I don’t know whether he approached me for any development work in the previous five years, but he certainly did not in this tenure. He was a very simple person, but unfortunately he was elected due to the mercy of someone else. Hence, he could not take care of the constituency the way he should have,’’ said Khattar. “But, after his death, I have been visiting this constituency and being the chief minister, I took upon myself the responsibility for its development. Lots of things have been done and a lot more is in the pipeline. We have fielded Yogeshwar pehalwan ji. Please ensure his victory and he will ensure his presence everywhere and with everybody,” he said. Notably, Khattar interacted with a pre-decided list of youths from over a dozen villages of Baroda constituency, including a recently appointed PTI teacher, a clerk and some other beneficiaries of government jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/eye-on-bypoll-khattar-holds-samvad-with-baroda-youth/articleshow/78739523.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi-based startup launches student banking platform||KOCHI: Millennial teenagers become consumers and earners at a much younger age but as the economy becomes increasingly cashless, ironically, their ability to participate in it is reduced. It is this gap that Kochi-based startup Paysack wants to address with their product Funq, a neo-banking platform for students, parents and educational institutions, slowly transforming into out-and-out digital campuses. Founded by brothers Ricky Jacob and Nicky Jacob in 2015, Paysack began as a mobile wallet enterprise ahead of its time, but moved on to a card-based platform as the ecosystem evolved. “When you say student banking, it can be multiple things, anything revolving around students where there is money movement, we wanted to be that channel,” says Ricky, a former Google employee who worked on maps data. For students, Funq will give a feeling of financial independence and ease of use. The card, since it’s linked to parent’s KYC, can be locked or unlocked by parents. “They can also look at the spent data in almost real time,” says Ricky. For educational institutions, it provides the advantage of a closed loop system. Both banks and educational institutions would be able to save on digital costs otherwise involved,” says Ricky, who holds a doctorate in computer science from Maynooth University in Ireland. For the banks, Funq can act as a technology layer, providing solutions for institutions, students and parents through their API platform. For fintech startups, Funq provides end-to-end support to build and launch financial products, taking care of every aspect from consulting to bank integration, vendor partnership and infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-based-startup-launches-student-banking-platform/articleshow/78738635.cms||Binu Karunakaran
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||No one will be charged with murder over deaths of three Sikh builders in London||London: Not one person is going to be charged with the murder of three British Sikh builders from Punjab who were stabbed to death in an East London alleyway in January, it has emerged. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police confirmed to TOI on Sunday: “There is no further investigation at this time in respect of this matter.” Narinder Singh Lubhaya, 29, from Hoshiarpur, Malkit Singh Dhillon (known as Baljinder Singh), 37, from Sultanpur Lodhi and Harinder Kumar, 30, known as Honey, from Patiala, all illegal Punjabi immigrants working in the building trade and living in Ilford, were all pronounced dead at the scene of the brawl near Seven Kings station on 19 January. Gurjeet Singh, aged 30, from Ilford, killed the three men on 19 January using a knife in an act of self-defence, Snaresbrook Crown Court had heard on 5 August. Gurjeet had originally been arrested on 20 January on suspicion of murder. But on 21 January he was instead charged with possessing an offensive weapon in a public place and no murder or manslaughter charges were pursued. He appeared at Snaresbrook Crown Court on 19 February, where he pleaded not guilty. He appeared for trial on 19 August where the jury found him not guilty of the offensive weapon offence. Gurjeet was left with a number of lacerations and crush injuries on his head and a wound on his hand. He was taken to hospital where he was treated for his injuries under police custody. He too was an overstayer who was served with a notice to leave in May 2015. He had been in the UK on a student visa which had expired in November 2013 and made a failed application to remain under the Human Rights Act. The court that the three dead men, together with fellow builders Harpreet and Sandeep Singh, from Romford, had plotted to attack Gurjeet with hammers and knives in revenge for a row that had taken place at celebration of the birth of a Sikh baby the night before, at which there had been a brawl between Narinder and Gurjeet leading to Narinder’s earring being pulled off leaving him with a bleeding ear. CCTV was shown to the court which showed Gurjeet leaving the gurudwara at 7.30pm and being set upon by the Narinder Balkinder and Sandeep in a dark alleyway. He ran in the opposite direction and was confronted with Harinder. Gurjeet produced a knife to defend himself the court was told, then fled. Gurjeet and Sandeep were the only two to survive the brawl. Sandeep, 29, an overstayer, was sentenced to four years in prison on 5 August after pleading guilty to wounding Gurjeet with intent to cause him grievous bodily harm. He will be deported to India once he has served his sentence. His brother Harpreet, 27, was sentenced to 12 months in jail after pleading guilty to conspiracy with others to assault Gurjeet. Harpreet had driven Harinder to the scene but did not participate in the violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-one-will-be-charged-with-murder-over-deaths-of-three-sikh-builders-in-london/articleshow/78739521.cms||NAOMI CANTON
October 19, 2020||Bhopal||MP’s Covid count crosses 1.6 lakh even as new cases drop to 1,000||Bhopal: A total of 1030 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Sunday the count of positive patients in the state crossed 1.6 lakh and reached 160188. Sunday was also the 18th consecutive day when the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. While 1427 people recovered on Saturday, only 1030 new cases were reported. With these new people recovering the count of total people who had recovered from the disease reached 144134. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients as on October 18, stood at 89.97 % which has improved as it was 76% on August 31. Apart from the new cases, 20 deaths were reported in the state, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has reached 2773. On Sunday, fresh cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of state. It was only Agar-Malwa district where no fresh cases were reported. Of the total 24782 samples that were tested on Sunday a total of 1030 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate for Sunday stood at 4.1%. The overall positivity rate as on October 18, in the state was 6.19%. This has increased in past months as it was only 4.6% on August 31. As on October 18, there were a total of 13281 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-covid-count-crosses-1-6l-even-as-new-cases-drop-to-1k/articleshow/78738619.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nashik||No violation by mandals on Dasara||Nashik: The city police did not come across any violations by the Navaratra mandals with regards to Dasara immersion procession. Police bandobast was in place across the city to keep an eye on the same. Senior police officials said citizens gave an overwhelming response to their call of celebrating Navaratra in a low-key manner. Since processions were banned, the Navaratra mandals either immersed the idols without going to the river or decided to do the immersion on Monday. Sajan Sonawane, senior inspector of the Bhadrakali police station, said all mandals were told to celebrate the festival in a low-key affair due to the outbreak of Covid. Mandals donated six idols to the NMC in the Panchavati area. Ravan Dahan also did not take place on the river banks and at Gandhi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-violation-by-mandals-on-dasara/articleshow/78861750.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 19, 2020||Kochi||This govt office goes the extra mile to feed the needy||Kochi: Once every week, employees of the Ernakulam office of the Kerala Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board would pack an additional lunch as they set out from their homes for work. The home-packed meal is not for their colleagues but for people living on the street in Kochi, who were having a tough time when most hotels were closed or partially functioning because of Covid-19 restrictions. “We asked the co-workers if they could pack an additional lunch once a week and most of them readily agreed,” says district executive officer for the board Unnikrishnan R. The packed meals are taken by employees themselves and distributed in various parts of the city. “Right now we are doing this only four times a month. We would have loved to do this every day but the delivery is a challenge,” says Unnikrishnan. The office has 30 employees and around 15 meal packets are distributed on an average. At around 12.45pm the packets collected from employees are taken in scooters or personal vehicles and distributed to needy. The board constituted by the state government under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Act, 1996 manages pension and other benefits of construction workers, who pay a monthly subscription. In July-August, 2020, the office distributed around Rs 5 crore to 50,000 workers in the district, who were mostly out of work because of the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-govt-office-goes-the-extra-mile-to-feed-the-needy/articleshow/78738637.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana opts for gender parity in teacher transfers for spouses of paramilitary personnel||CHANDIGARH: After the Punjab and Haryana high court asked the Haryana government to “expeditiously” decide the issue whether the husband of a woman working in a paramilitary force was entitled to get priority marks like wives of military or paramilitary personnel get for transfer of teachers in the state, the Khattar government amended its policy to give gender parity to the spouses of military or paramilitary personnel. The Haryana government approved of the change in the Teachers Transfer Policy-2016 in the cabinet meeting held on Friday evening. With the change, husbands of serving military or paramilitary personnel, who are working or posted outside of the state, would also be entitled to priority marks during teacher transfer drive in Haryana. Till now, these priority marks were given only to wives of military or paramilitary personnel. In the matter that had come up before the Punjab and Haryana high court recently, a resident of Rewari district, working as PGT (biology) in state education department had approached the court seeking modification in the Haryana Teachers Transfer Police 2016. His wife, a sub-inspector in Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), was posted in Bihar at time and their two minor children were staying with him. His grouse was that during the online transfer of Haryana teachers weightage of 10 marks is granted by the school education department to wives of serving military or paramilitary personnel by considering them as a special category. The petitioner submitted that even teachers who are widows of military or paramilitary personnel with one or more minor children and have not remarried get five marks. “However, no provision has been made for a male teacher whose minor children are staying with him and whose wife is serving outside in military or paramilitary forces. Moreover, a great discrimination has been made between female and male teachers in case of special categories. Therefore, the Teachers Transfer Policy is liable to be quashed to that extent,” the petitioner had contended. Hearing his plea, a division bench of the high court in August this year, had directed the Haryana government to “consider and decide the issue expeditiously, preferably before starting the transfer drive.” In another amendment in the online transfer policy of teachers, the state cabinet has also approved preference to ‘newly-married’ or ‘recently-divorced’ female employees. After the transfer drive, the 'newly-married' or 'recently-divorced' female employees shall be given preferred place of posting against vacancy upon request. However, they shall have to participate in the next transfer and they shall be adjusted at any of their three choices against available vacant posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-opts-for-gender-parity-in-teacher-transfers-for-spouses-of-paramilitary-personnel/articleshow/78739535.cms||Ajay Sura
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||Death toll in Pilibhit road accident rises to 11, five others critical||Pilibhit: With two more deaths, the toll of Saturday’s road accident in Pilibhit has risen to 11. Five people are also in a critical condition, doctors said. A UP roadways bus had turned turtle after a collision with an SUV. Seven seriously injured individuals were referred to a higher centre in Lucknow after their condition worsened. Two of them - Midhai Lal and Chotte Lal - died on the way on Sunday. Both were residents of Bahraich district and had sustained head injuries. Seven passengers of the ill-fated bus had died on the spot on Saturday while four died during treatment. A police constable who was carrying out the rescue work couldn’t bear the trauma of the accident sight and suffered a brain stroke. He died during treatment at a hospital in Bareilly. The deceased cop was given a guard of honour at Reserve Police Lines in Bareilly. Puranpur circle officer Pramod Yadav said, “In total, 11 people have died in the accident. Their families have arrived in Pilibhit to collect the bodies. We will submit our report once the technical inspection of the accident spot is complete.” Earlier, UP CM Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to provide Rs 5 lakh each as financial assistance to the family of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/death-toll-in-pilibhit-road-accident-rises-to-11-five-others-critical/articleshow/78735993.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Festival special trains get good response||JAIPUR: Rail commuters awaiting the restoration of trains have shown overwhelming response for the trains getting restored from Tuesday onwards. In most of the restored trains as festival specials, people have started booking their berths. Trains like Puja Express connecting people of Ajmer, Jaipur, Dausa and Alwar to Jammu Tawi for the Vaishno Devi pilgrimage starting Tuesday, too, is getting good response. NWR had announced festival special trains which would start operating from Tuesday onwards and will run upto November 30 till further orders. On Sunday, a good number of passengers seeking reservation in various trains thronged the reservation counters. "By and large, a majority of the trains running prior Covid-19 have been restored and we are hopeful to get some more trains," said an officer. "The running trains are already packed and I am sure most of the trains originating from Jaipur or passing through Jaipur to various destinations will get good booking. Passengers have been awaiting the restoration for a long time. With following of Covid protocols, passengers are feeling safe," said Mukesh Saini, senior divisional commercial manager of Jaipur division. Major trains which are starting from Tuesday include Ajmer-Jammutawi-Ajmer, Delhi Sarairohilla-Jodhpur-Delhi Sarairohilla, Bandra Terminal-Jaisalmer-Bandra Terminal, Barmer-Rishkesh-Barmer, Sriganganagar-Delhi-Sriganganagar, Ajmer-Amritsar-Ajmer, Porbandar-Delhi, Jaipur-Indore-Jaipur, Jodhpur-Varanasi-Jodhpur. Authorities said that for Durga Puja and Diwali, trains to Mumbai and Kolkata will be fully packed. "Now, we have trains to various states including Madhya Pradesh, Maharastra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana and Telangana. Some of the trains to the southern parts of India are still awaited," said a senior officer of NWR. On the other hand, trains announced last week, including Jaipur-Delhi double decker, are showing good business. "Initially, there were lesser passengers, but now this train too has started getting its passengers. It will certainly maintain its trend to remain fully packed on the weekends when it arrives to Jaipur from Delhi," said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/festival-spl-trains-get-good-response/articleshow/78738631.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Cops return stolen gold ornaments to woman||Pune: Gold ornaments worth Rs 2.6 lakh, that were stolen by a 17-year-old from a resident of Wagholi, were returned to the owner. The Wagholi resident, who works as an HR manager with a company, lodged an FIR. Assistant sub-inspector of the Wagholi police Sadashiv Gaikwad told TOI that the girl’s mother has been working as a domestic help at the complainant’s house. On August 6, her daughter left home after some altercations with her parents. “The woman had filed a missing person’s complaint with us. As the girl was a minor, we had registered a case of kidnapping and began the probe to locate her at the earliest,” Gaikwad said. Meanwhile, the Wagholi resident lodged an FIR alleging that, the girl had stole gold ornaments worth Rs 2.6 lakh from her house. “The woman also told us that two days before she went missing, the girl had come to her flat for a glass of water. While leaving, the woman noticed that the girl was carrying a bag on her person, but she did not suspect her,” Gaikwad said. The girl was untraceable for a while. “After about a month, we traced her in Wagholi. She was living in a house, where the owner had given her shelter,” he added . The police found all the ornaments intact with the girl. “She had given some ornaments to the house owner which we have recovered,” Gaikwad said. The girl told the police that she did not want to live with her parents. “So she decided to leave the house. As she did not have the money, she stole the ornaments from the complainant’s flat,” he added. The girl had now been sent to her parents’ house. “After completing the necessary formalities as per guidelines, we returned the ornaments to the owner,” Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-return-stolen-gold-ornaments-to-woman/articleshow/78738644.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Four detained after 30-yr-old friend dies in brutal assault||Pune: The Haveli police on Sunday detained four men for questioning relating to the death of a 30-year-old man from Nanded Phata, off Sinhagad Road, early on Saturday.Inspector Ashok Shelke of the Haveli police said, “A police team found Yash Milind Kamble, an employee with a private company, lying motionless in a small lane at Nanded Phata off Sinhagad Road. Initially, we suspected that he may have fallen from the terrace of a building close to the spot, but a preliminary postmortem report revealed that the victim was assaulted with a blunt object.”The police then filed a murder case. “On Sunday morning, we detained four men for questioning in the case. The four men were ‘good friends’ of the deceased man. But they had fallen out over them teasing him over some personal issues. The deceased did not like their comments and objected to them. We believe that the four men then assaulted him with wooden sticks or planks,” Shelke said. “A clearer picture will emerge once the questioning is over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-detained-after-30-yr-old-friend-dies-in-brutal-assault/articleshow/78738651.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll: Congress, INLD release lists of star campaigners||CHANDIGARH: As the campaigning picks up for the Baroda by-election, both Congress and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Sunday released the lists of their star campaigners. Baroda goes to polls on November 3. BJP, which has fielded Olympic medallist wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt from the assembly seat, has already released the list of its 53 star campaigners for Baroda bypolls. Besides Congress general secretary Vivek Bansal, prominent among those who have been named as campaigners for the party include leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, his son and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja and Congress communication wing in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala. Former speakers Raghubir Singh Kadian and Kuldeep Sharma, former Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry, current MLAs and former ministers associated with Baroda are all among the 30 leaders identified by the party for campaigning. INLD supremo Om Parkash Chautala, Ellenabad MLA Abhay Chautala and their family members and party’s former ministers and former MPs are among the 30 leaders listed for campaigning in Baroda. Prominent among the INLD campaigners include Arjun Chautala and Karan Chautala, sons of Abhay, who hold positions in ISO — the party’s student outfit, and Sunaina Chautala, wife of Abhay. Other campaigners include R S Chaudhary, Satbir Singh Saini and former MLA Dr Ram Kumar Saini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/baroda-bypoll-cong-inld-release-lists-of-star-campaigners/articleshow/78739539.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Working population records rise in stress||Ahmedabad: Abhinav Sharma (name changed), 40, a mid-level executive in a city-based firm, consulted a psychiatrist when he realized that he was getting angry at every small thing that annoyed him. The consultation revealed that it was a cocktail of issues – he was battling anxiety on workfront, had difficulty in settling down in work from home routine, had to constantly face his family members and missed spending time with close friends to vent out his frustration. Dr Hansal Bhachech, a city-based psychiatrist, said that Covid-19 has not spared any age group in impact. “Right from toddlers who have attention deficit to screen addiction on one side of the spectrum to the elderly living alone and having jitters about going out and catching the infection on the other, we see a large range of patients. But in terms of rise, the working age population (roughly defined as 25 to 50 years) has showed it the most,” he said, adding that anxiety and depression are most reported traits with which the patients are flocking the consulting rooms. “The working population has to go out to run the family, run the enterprises and prove their self-worth even in the time of the pandemic,” said Dr Jinesh Shah, a city-based psychiatrist. “They are also one of the most affected in terms of infection – so the fear of contacting Covid-19 is real for many. We have seen approximately 30-40% rise in the cases reported from this age group, which is clearly tip of the iceberg.” He added that the most prominent characteristic in the working age group is neuroticism. “Their small traits get magnified – if there’s small sleep disturbance, it gets developed into insomnia. If there’s anxiety, it becomes disorder and so on. We have also seen cases where people devote a long time in prayers compared to pre-Covid time,” said Dr Shah. Dr Gopal Bhatia, a city-based psychiatrist, said that several medical professionals also required help due to the fear that they would contact the viral infection or they would become the carriers for their near and dear ones. “There is disruption in lifestyle, fear of going out, several are facing economic issues, family-related issues and disruption of working pattern. Majority of these issues are faced by the working age population and thus, reporting is naturally higher in this age group,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/working-population-records-rise-in-stress/articleshow/78738655.cms||Parth Shastri
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Social distancing goes for a toss in Nashik city markets||Nashik: Officials may have appealed for low-key Navaratra celebrations this year given the Covid-19 crisis, but people out shopping for the festival have been paying little heed to important safety protocols, including the maintenance of social distancing. People can be seen crowding in shops and vegetable markets as if there is no pandemic. Though many are wearing masks, social distancing is often neglected. While the police are taking action against people who are not maintaining social distance, the number of people out on the streets is just too large. Therefore, even if a person wants to take precautions, he or she is unable to avoid the rush in the market places. Deepak Ajbe, a resident of Nashik Road, said, “Saturday was a perfect example of how people have thrown caution to the winds. The markets in the Nashik Road area were full of people who came to purchase articles related to Navaratra and it was nearly impossible to make way through the crowded markets without brushing shoulders with others.” The situation was the same all across the city, which could only increase the number of Covid-19 cases. The only consolation is that many people are wearing masks, to avoid the disapproving stares of other people and to avoid getting caught by the cops, said another citizen. A senior police officer said, “We have been taking action against people regularly for not wearing masks, crowding shops, not maintaining social distancing and spitting in a public place. However, it is also upon the people to understand the seriousness of the issue and follow the protocols.” Bhausaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said the police and all six divisions of NMC are taking action against people not following the safety protocols. However, the teams of the police and NMC are too less in numbers compared to the public. There was a spike in Covid cases after the Ganpati festival. he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-nashik-city-markets/articleshow/78736757.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 19, 2020||Pune||Rising temperature to bring more thunderstorms for Pune||PUNE: The Shivajinagar observatory on Sunday recorded 3mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm while Lohegaon observatory recorded 16mm rainfall in this period. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast light rainfall between October 19-22 with thunderstorms over Pune. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather division at IMD, Pune, said, “A low pressure system will develop in the Bay of Bengal on October 19. Because of this atmospheric condition, the moisture level over the state would increase. High day temperatures and the moisture level would lead to formation of cumulonimbus clouds. This condition will bring rainfall over the city in the afternoon hours in the next three days along with thunder and lightning.” On Sunday, the Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded the maximum and minimum temperature 30.7 degree celsius and 31.5 degree celsius, respectively. The weather condition on Sunday mostly remained overcast since morning. As a result, the day temperature at Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories were below normal by 1 degree celsius and 0.5 degree celsius respectively. Met officials said rainy conditions are expected to prevail over parts of Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan and Marathwada for the next few days. Heavy rain lashed the city last week causing waterlogging on several roads. Many nullahs rose dangerously after just three hours of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rising-temperature-to-bring-more-thunderstorms-for-city/articleshow/78738659.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Meerut||Six injured as truck rams into bus||Bijnor: At least six persons were injured after a bus rammed into a stationary truck in Bijnor’s Seohara on Sunday.The incident occurred at Chanchalpur village on Sunday morning when a roadways bus rammed into a stationary truck filled with molasses. Superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “Six passengers who sustained serious injuries were taken to the community hospital of Dhampur. Their condition is stated to be stable now.” Driver of the bus escaped from the scene leaving the vehicle behind, he added.Meanwhile, a 30-year-old woman was killed while three others were injured when a truck hit the rickshaw in which they were travelling. The incident occurred in Barhapur area. The deceased has been identified as Jaitun. Police have registered a case against the truck driver who fled the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/six-injured-as-truck-rams-into-bus/articleshow/78738657.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||BJP announces 250 names for Jaipur civic polls, drops 57 sitting councillors||JAIPUR: The BJP on Sunday released the names of 250 candidates for Jaipur civic polls to be held in two phases on October 29 and November 1. Out of the 64 councillors, the party has decided to drop 57 from the list. The party will field 100 and 150 contestants from Jaipur Heritage and Jaipur, respectively. The list includes 88 women candidates in both the corporations. The party has fielded 16 Muslim candidates in Jaipur Heritage and two in Greater Jaipur. In a surprise move, the party has given ticket to the first woman mayor of the city, Sheel Dhabhai, from Ward No. 60, falling under Jaipur Greater. This indicated that she could be the face for mayoral post in Jaipur Greater as the seat is reserved for other backward caste (OBC), women category. Former deputy mayor Manish Pareek, who has been sitting in the stands for last six years, has been given opportunity to contest from Ward No. 58 of Jaipur Heritage. In a first, the BJP has also given ticket to a former university president Jitendra Shrimali from Ward No. 150, Greater Jaipur. Many seasoned councillors, who held positions of committee chairman or members, have also been given tickets. The list includes Rakhi Rathore, Dinesh Kanwat, Mahesh Kalwani, Kaushal Sharma, Bhanwar Singh Rathore, among others. Councillor Man Pandit, who was accused of cross voting during mid-term mayor elections against BJP, has been given ticket from Ward No. 64 of Jaipur Greater. Massive protest was staged at the BJP office after the party denied tickets to many candidates. Supporters of Kusum Yadav, front runner for mayor’s post in Jaipur heritage, gathered in large numbers to express anger and disappointment. Sources at BJP party office said, “The RSS played major role in distributing the tickets. Majority of names given by the MLAs were not included in the list.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-announces-250-names-for-civic-polls-drops-57-sitting-councillors/articleshow/78738661.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Trekking activities resume amid low turnout||PUNE: With trekking activities having resumed near Pune, Giripremi, a mountaineering club, has come up with standard operating procedures for trekkers, guides, and tourists. According to Umesh Zirpe, a veteran mountaineer of the club, there are many villages which want to keep out outsiders, fearing infection, while there are some which want trekking activities to resume at the earliest to recover lost business. He said that though trekking and tourism have started resuming across the region slowly, the safety of the places to be visited and as well as their residents should remain paramount. “Reckless behaviour or loitering cannot be afforded in the current situation. It can affect the local community very badly,” he said. Darshan Gugle, founder, Trekfit Adventures, a professional trekking group in Pune, said that they have started climbing nearby treks and are limiting the number of people per batch to less than 10. “We know the severity of the situation and are making preparation for treks accordingly. Compulsory wearing of masks, screening of temperature, among others, are a must before carrying out any activity,” he said. Praful Narwade, a solo trekker, said that people have started crowding tourist attractions without paying any heed to safety protocols. “When I visited Rajgad fort in the last week of September, there were over 300 people present around 8am,” he said. Pune’s resident deputy collector (RDC), Jayashree Katare has already warned that if crowding persists at popular destinations, the administration might impose a weekend ban on visits to these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trekking-activities-resume-amid-low-turnout/articleshow/78738654.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Man, nephew found murdered in Karnal||KARNAL: A 50-year-old man and his nephew (25) were found murdered at Anand Vihar colony of Karnal city on Sunday morning. The bodies had multiple injuries inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. The deceased have been identified as Joginder and his nephew Arun, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. On Sunday morning, Joginder’s son, Sanjay, who was sleeping in another room of the house, spotted their bodies in a pool of blood and informed the police. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia, along with a CIA unit and FSL experts, rushed to the crime scene. Police said the man had been living in Karnal with his son Sanjay for the past several years, while Arun came to Karnal a few days back. Joginder worked as a labourer at a factory in Karnal. Police said it was learnt that they had alcohol together before the incident. SP Punia said an FIR has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC against the unknown accused. The body has been sent to Kalpana Chawla Chawla Medical and Hospital for postmortem. “While details of the weapon used by the assailants would be clarified after receipt of the postmortem report, prima facie, it seemed that the miscreants used sharp-edged weapons. Other facts are also being verified,” the SP said. Police are examining footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-nephew-found-murdered-in-karnal/articleshow/78739541.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Surat||Man with Rs 3L in fake notes held in Bharuch||Surat: The special operation group (SOG) of Bharuch police nabbed one person from Ankleshwar town of Bharuch district on Sunday with fake currency notes. According to Bharuch police, Jignesh Raninga, a resident of Morthana village of Kamrej taluka of Surat district was carnying 5,644 notes of Rs 50 denomination of Rs 2.82 lakh value. “We laid a trap on National Highway 58 on Sunday after being tipped off about the accused coming from Surat to Ankleshwar’s Ansari Market with fake notes. Upon checking we found the fake currency notes in his possession,” said P N Patel, inspector, SOG, Bharuch. Police said that accused Raninga is native of Nandanvan Society in Kaliyabid area of Bhavnagar city. Cops also seized his mobile number to dig out more links in the FICN racket. An FIR has been lodged against accused in Ankleshwar Rural police station under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 489 (a) ( counterfeiting currency-notes or bank-notes) and 489(b) ( using as genuine, forged or counterfeit currency-notes or bank-notes) among other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-with-rs-3l-in-fake-notes-held-in-bharuch/articleshow/78737714.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Salem||Disowned by families, man gets help from Salem police to cremate wife||SALEM: A 28-year-old man had to spend the whole night with the body of his wife in an ambulance in Salem district as he didn’t get help from either from his family or his wife’s family to cremate her on Friday. Finally, police and officials helped to cremate the body after conducting postmortem on Saturday morning. According to police, S Palani of Seeranganur near Nangavalli married Manimekalai two years ago against the wishes of both the families. However, Manimekalai’s relatives convinced her and made her to separate from Palani. But Manimekalai reunited with Palani after a few days. “We went to Coimbatore and started our new life but both parents of both of us disowned us,” he said. The couple later settled at Ariyampatty in Salem district. Manimekalai is a diabetic. On Friday night, Manimekalai swooned on the floor after her dinner. Palani rushed her to the nearby private hospital at Nangavalli. The doctors who examined him confirmed that she was brought dead. When Palani contacted both parents, they told him not to bring her body to their houses. “But, I tried my best to show my wife’s face to her parents, but they refused to see her face,” Palani said. Nowhere to go, Palani was stranded with his wife’s body kept in an ambulance for the whole night. On Sunday morning, Mettur sub-collector Saravanan, DSP Somasundaram initiated an inquiry. During postmortem it was confirmed that Manimekalai died of health-related ailments. They later helped Palani to cremate Manimekalai's body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/disowned-by-families-man-gets-help-from-police-to-cremate-wife/articleshow/78738684.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Shimla||Marked improvement in region, zero deaths in Haryana||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Reflecting a marked improvement in Covid-19 situation in the region, Haryana on Sunday reported zero deaths, Himachal Pradesh three and Punjab a relatively low fatality count of 13, while their combined total of day’s positive cases was 1,598. Punjab recorded 476 new cases, taking the tally of cases so far to 127,630, of which 5,735 are active cases, and 4,012 patients have died so far. With another 958 patients discharged on Sunday, the recovery count now stands 117,883. Ludhiana registered highest 67 new cases, Hoshiarpur (64), Jalandhar (54), Patiala (52) and Bathinda (47). Maximum three deaths occurred in Mohali district, followed by two each in Patiala, Jalandhar and Ropar. One Covid patient each died in Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Pathankot. In Haryana, apart from no deaths, the number of recoveries also exceeded that of new cases on Sunday. The state reported 952 fresh cases, while 1,175 patients were declared cured. The latest figures took the state’s overall case count to 150,033 and the number of cured patients to 138,351, pushing the recovery rate to 92.21%. Now, there are total 10,265 active cases in the state. Gurgaon and Faridabad reported 249 and 177 new cases, respectively, followed by 131 in Hisar. Eighteen other districts reported below 50 cases. Expressing happiness over zero death on Sunday, Haryana ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said it is heartening to note that after four months and 12 days, no fatality has been reported. However, they would not lower the guard until there is a lasting solution to the infectious disease, he added. Even in Himachal, recoveries exceeded fresh cases on Sunday, with 217 discharged after treatment and 170 testing positive. With three more deaths, the Covid toll has gone up to 263, overall case tally to 18,967—of which 2,630 are active—and the cured count to 16,040. Of the new cases, Mandi recorded 40, Kangra 23, Shimla 30, Hamirpur 17, Kullu 14, Bilaspur and Una 12 each, Chamba eight, and Sirmaur and Solan seven each. Recoveries were reported from Shimla (39), Bilaspur (30), Kullu (28), Mandi (25), Sirmaur (24), Solan (21), Una (17), Kangra (11), Chamba (11), Kinnaur (07), Hamirpur (03) and Lahaul-Spiti (01).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/marked-improvement-in-region-zero-deaths-in-hry/articleshow/78742884.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Marked improvement in region, zero deaths in Haryana||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Reflecting a marked improvement in Covid-19 situation in the region, Haryana on Sunday reported zero deaths, Himachal Pradesh three and Punjab a relatively low fatality count of 13, while their combined total of day’s positive cases was 1,598. Punjab recorded 476 new cases, taking the tally of cases so far to 127,630, of which 5,735 are active cases, and 4,012 patients have died so far. With another 958 patients discharged on Sunday, the recovery count now stands 117,883. Ludhiana registered highest 67 new cases, Hoshiarpur (64), Jalandhar (54), Patiala (52) and Bathinda (47). Maximum three deaths occurred in Mohali district, followed by two each in Patiala, Jalandhar and Ropar. One Covid patient each died in Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Pathankot. In Haryana, apart from no deaths, the number of recoveries also exceeded that of new cases on Sunday. The state reported 952 fresh cases, while 1,175 patients were declared cured. The latest figures took the state’s overall case count to 150,033 and the number of cured patients to 138,351, pushing the recovery rate to 92.21%. Now, there are total 10,265 active cases in the state. Gurgaon and Faridabad reported 249 and 177 new cases, respectively, followed by 131 in Hisar. Eighteen other districts reported below 50 cases. Expressing happiness over zero death on Sunday, Haryana ACS (health) Rajeev Arora said it is heartening to note that after four months and 12 days, no fatality has been reported. However, they would not lower the guard until there is a lasting solution to the infectious disease, he added. Even in Himachal, recoveries exceeded fresh cases on Sunday, with 217 discharged after treatment and 170 testing positive. With three more deaths, the Covid toll has gone up to 263, overall case tally to 18,967—of which 2,630 are active—and the cured count to 16,040. Of the new cases, Mandi recorded 40, Kangra 23, Shimla 30, Hamirpur 17, Kullu 14, Bilaspur and Una 12 each, Chamba eight, and Sirmaur and Solan seven each. Recoveries were reported from Shimla (39), Bilaspur (30), Kullu (28), Mandi (25), Sirmaur (24), Solan (21), Una (17), Kangra (11), Chamba (11), Kinnaur (07), Hamirpur (03) and Lahaul-Spiti (01).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/marked-improvement-in-region-zero-deaths-in-hry/articleshow/78739556.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic elections: Lease deed, no sewerage line major poll issues in Civil Lines||JAIPUR: Like any other assembly constituency, Civil Lines is no different when it comes to civic problems faced by the people. With municipal elections round the corner, people will ‘grill’ candidates about two major problems like issuing of lease deeds and non-availability of sewerage network. In Civil Lines, Majdoor Nagar, Kacchi Basti and other areas were approved by the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). However, people are yet to get copy of lease deed despite submitting the entire amount for it. Lal Chand Meghwal, a resident of Majdoor Nagar, said, “It has been two years since I have submitted the money, but the JDA is yet to give me the lease deed. We have been to the office many times, but the process is very slow to get the copy. We have told this to all the leaders in the area, including the councillors but everyone just ignores and remembers public during election time.” Another major issue people are facing is the non-availability of sewerage lines. In many wards, there are no sewerage lines just septic tanks. “Tanks are cleared every four months when they become full, but usually it is delayed. Due to this the dirt would start overflowing on roads. We have raised this issue many times, but no political party cares,” said Nasir Qureshi. Apart from this, roads, irregular garbage disposal and street lights are some other civic issues people have been complaining. In Ward 44, people want public toilets and open urination is a menace. In 2014, out of 10 wards (as per old map), seven were won by the BJP councillors. It is considered to be a stronghold of BJP, though the MLA belongs to Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lease-deed-no-sewerage-line-major-poll-issues-in-civil-lines/articleshow/78738664.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||FIR lodged against Bainsla, 33 others for violation of epidemic diseases act||Jaipur: An FIR has been lodged against Gujjar leader and convener of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti Kirori Singh Bainsla and 33 others at Bayana police station in Bharatpur for organising a Mahapanchayat on Saturday, in violation of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, and Disaster Management Act 2005. The FIR has been lodged under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 270 of the IPC (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). According to the FIR, Section 51 (punishment for obstruction) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 4 (organising social, religious, political gatherings or any other public or general function/gathering without prior permission) of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, have also been registered.Gujjar leaders Vijay Singh Bainsla and Himmat Singh came down heavily on the state government for registering an FIR against Kirori Singh Bainsla."Under ‘equal offense, equal penalty’ rule, FIRs must be lodged against Ashok Gehlot (chief minister) and Govind Singh Dotasra (PCC chief) and Gujjar community should be informed about it by the Rajasthan government. One-sided action is injustice. The deal should be on par," tweeted Vijay Singh Bainsla, attaching pictures of legislature party meeting at CM residence, MLAs protesting at Governor’s house and Dotasra addressing public meeting.Himmat Singh said, "The government is trying to supress the voice of the MBC community. During Covid pandemic, all political parties have staged demonstrations several times, but why FIR has not been registered even once? Why FIR has been lodged against Col Bainsla and other Gujjar leaders? This will lead to resentment among the Gujjars."The Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti, led by Kirori Singh Bainsla, during a Mahapanchayat at Bharatpur’s Bayana (Adda) on Saturday gave an ultimatum to the state government till November 1 to fulfill all their demands related to 4% reservation to the most backward class (MBC). They threatened to hold a statewide agitation from November 1 if their demands are not fulfilled by then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-lodged-against-bainsla-33-others-for-violation-of-epidemic-diseases-act/articleshow/78738669.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Shimla||Deities not invited to Kullu Dussehra this year||MANALI: For the first time, no deity has been invited to the 360-year-old Kullu Dussehra. Last year, the Kullu administration had invited 331 deities week-long event. The famous rath yatra of Lord Raghunath will held in presence of just seven deities and maximum 100 persons. The festivity will be organised without deities, shopping markets and cultural events for the first time due to Covid-19 pandemic. Palanquins of over 250 deities take part in rath yatra on the first day of the Dussehra festivities. This year, only seven deities, whose presence is mandatory to perform the rituals, will be present. The Dussehra committee and the district administration still have to decide whether palanquins of deities would come or they would invite only holy signs of the deity. The administration will hold a meeting on Monday and take a final decision on outline of the festivity. “Cultural programmes including international folk dance festivity have been cancelled. None of the deities have been invited officially. Following the government orders, only 100 persons will be allowed to take part in the rath yatra. All of them will have to undergo Covid-19 test and will need to wear face mask and maintain social distancing,” Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said. Kullu Dussehra is the largest cultural event of Himachal where lakhs of people, including tourists, throng to witness the unique culture of Kullu. The palanquins of over 250 deities, along with thousands of musicians and followers, arrive to pay obeisance to Lord Raghunath, the presiding deity of the festivity. The deities camp at Dhalpur ground of Kullu for seven days. The state government takes care of all the arrangements. “The pandemic has created such situation that we have to celebrate our major cultural, historical and religious event in a micro form,” education minister Govind Singh Thakur, who is also chairperson of Dussehra Committee said. Meanwhile, people in Kullu are not happy with celebration of the festivity in presence of only seven deities and a limited number of people. They have taken their resentment to social media and demanded presence of all the deities of the valley. Some even said that there were some political rallies where hundreds of people were present and now the government was imposing restriction on number of people in largest religious event of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/deities-not-invited-to-kullu-dussehra-this-year/articleshow/78739555.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Special inter-city train ride turns uneconomical||PUNE: The railway authorities have made it mandatory for passengers to reserve seats on the two special inter-city trains between Pune and Mumbai. For passengers used to travelling on the route on seasonal monthly passes, this is turning into an expensive affair. “I have a seasonal monthly pass, worth Rs3,360, for the chair car in the Deccan Queen but it is now plying as a special train number 02123. I have always buy the monthly pass for the train. Once the train service resumed earlier this month, I travelled by it for two days to find out that it is an expensive affair for me. Until pass holders are allowed to travel, I have decided to use other modes of transport,” said Kiran Gokhale, a regular passenger from Shivajinagar. The ticket price for a reserved one-way chair car seat in the special trains is Rs385. The cost of a second class seat is Rs105. As per the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) website, the reservation fare for the other special train that is presently running on the timing of Indrayani Express was also the same. “If I take an ordinary MSRTC bus from Pune to Mumbai, the fare is around Rs270. It is cheaper compared to the train fare. There are also shared cabs available for anything between Rs170 and Rs200, per person. Right now, a friend and I travel to Navi Mumbai everyday in his car and we split the fuel cost,” said Siddharth Nane, who works in Navi Mumbai. Since services resumed, the two special trains have been witnessing very few passengers, which has been a shock for the railway authorities. The special train running at the time of the Deccan Queen has 429 seats available in the second class on Monday. From Tuesday until Saturday, the number of seats available each day, is anything between 800 to 1,000. In total, the train has got 1,492 seats. “It is a fact that the reservation-only regulation is a factor for passengers. It is among the major reasons why the service is not picking up. But the rules have come from the higher ups and we cannot do anything for now,” said an official with the Pune rail division. Chairman of the Railway Pravasi Group Harsha Shah demanded that pass holders be allowed to board the special trains. “They should be allowed and more trains should start between the two cities. Once the pass holders are allowed, one will automatically see an increase in the number of passengers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spl-inter-city-train-ride-turns-uneconomical/articleshow/78738668.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||‘NRI groom’ dupes woman of Rs 35 lakh, gives triple talaq||NAGPUR: A woman and her family were cheated of Rs35 lakh by an NRI groom who tied the nuptial knot by furnishing false details on a matrimonial site. The woman also became the latest victim of triple talaq. The 32-year-old fashion designer from Zingabai Takli married Hussain Kakhandki at a resort in Mumbai in February this year after coming across his ‘impressive bio-data’. On the website, Kakhandki mentioned 32 as his age. He even projected himself as an engineer based in the Middle-East. During the initial introduction, Kakhandki claimed that he was attached to a state-owned petroleum company of Qatar. He had also furnished a driving licence and Aadhaar card where his date of birth was mentioned as May 27, 1985. In reality, it came to the fore, much to the horror of the victim, that he was a man aged around 47 years whose passport and some documents had the birth year as 1975. He was found to be an accountant and was already married with two children in Australia. After their marriage, the city-based woman learnt that Kakhandki’s first wife is in Australia where he was declared bankrupt. He fled Australia and settled in Qatar. “Even after marriage, my sister caught him trying to look for more women to befriend and marry on matrimonial sites which seemed to be his favourite hunting ground for gullible women looking for a suitable match,” said the relative of the victim. After having spent almost Rs50-70 lakh for a lavish wedding at a picturesque resort on Mumbai-Pune highway, the family had also given valuables worth Rs35 lakh as dowry. Another Rs10 lakh was given to the groom for his purchases apart from gifts and other items demanded by him. The woman, who approached Mankapur police, stated in her complaint that her valuables were retained by Kakhandki’s mother Rasheeda, sister Rehana and her husband Aziz Adwakar. An offence has been registered against the four at Mankapur police station. Senior inspector Ganesh Thakre of Mankapur police station said Kakhandki and his family duped the family by forging documents and furnishing wrong information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nri-groom-dupes-woman-of-rs35-lakh-gives-triple-talaq/articleshow/78738683.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 19, 2020||Pune||Two from VKE rank 10th and 11th in essay competition||Pune: Two city students have stood 10th and 11th in the national essay writing competition conducted online by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro). Both the students are studying at the victorious Kidss Educares, an IB World School. Class XI student Saloni Maniar stood 10th in the country, while Simran Pashankar stood 11th. A statement issued by the school said that out of over two lakh entries about 500 were recognised and the two city girls were also ranked.Saloni said, “I was always drawn towards the night sky and the beauty of how mysterious the world outside our planet is. As time passed, I developed immense interest in the field of physics. I find theoretical physics, and astrophysics quite fascinating and have always tried to gain more knowledge in these areas.” For the Isro ‘Cyberspace competition 2020’, Saloni chose to author an essay on ‘challenges and possibilities in frontier research area of space science & technology’.Simran Pashankar wrote on space environment and its challenges. “I was a little nervous at the beginning, but I believed in the Vedanta system that was taught to me in my school and give the competition my best.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-from-vke-rank-10th-and-11th-in-essay-competition/articleshow/78738665.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nashik||MVA govt failed to perform because of instability: Athawale||Nashik: The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra has failed to perform because of its unstable alliance and this is the reason why the government does not have funds to help farmers, said Ramdas Athawale, the social justice and empowerment minister of state.Athawale was in Nashik to review the Covid-19 situation and spoke to the media later.“It may be noted that there are three different parties at the helm of the state. As a result, The entire government has not been able to perform. The state government had assumed office saying that farmers will have a clean ‘right of records’, which means, there will be no loans against them. But the government was unable to perform and now the farmers are in deep trouble,” Athawale said appealing to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to join hands with the BJP for good governance.The minister added that Maharashtra has had a dubious distinction of being number one in Covid-19 infection and it was because of the failure of the state government which never paid heed to the advice from the Centre. It also did not take people into confidence.The minister of state also took a dig to a dig at the Shiv Sena saying the party had failed to stand alongside woman facing injustice.“It was very bad that the Shiv Sena failed to provide support to women fighting injustice in Mumbai. Had he been alive, found of Shiv Sena Balasaheb Thackeray wouldn’t have liked the current state of affairs,” Athawale stated.Athawale also pointed out that he would not allow the relocation of Bollywood out of Mumbai and his party members would ensure such moves were foiled by taking appropriate steps as and when required.Explaining his stand on the film industry and drugs, Athawale said the party believed in providing no support to any drug-tainted actor.“We don’t want any actor tainted in the drugs case to be given films. If that is done, then members of the party would spread across the state and country to ensure that the particular film is not be allowed to perform,” Athawale warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mva-govt-failed-to-perform-because-of-instability-athawale/articleshow/78736790.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Residents of Ward 123 in Bagru to boycott polls||Jaipur: The residents of Ward 123 in Bagru assembly segment have decided to boycott municipal election due to lack of basic amenities in the area. They alleged that no development work has taken place in the last decade.“What is the use? Politicians will come for vote, they will make promises that will not be fulfilled and once elections are over, they will not care about the public,” said Mohmad Rizwan, president of the development committee of the colony.Rizwan said the condition of roads is pathetic and become slippery during monsoon. Due to no proper roads, drains, street lights, the area is quite unhygienic. Similarly, residents are till now either dependent of government water tankers or have to purchase water from private suppliers as there is no pipeline in the area, he said.Hanuman Sharma, another resident of the area, said that they have been to all the officials and local MLA, but received just false assurances.“There are no sewerage lines as well. Our area is completely neglected by the politicians and we want final solutions of our problems,” said Sharma.Residents of the area have decided that any candidate who will give it to us in writing that development work will be conducted in the area, they will vote for that person. Until then, no one will go for vote on October 29 and 30.An UDH official on condition of anonymity said that this area is covered under Master Plan 2025 and development work will soon start.“Bisalpur pipeline is already sanctioned in the area and work is undergoing. Boycotting voting is not a solution and will be not be beneficial for them. So, it is better for them to vote and still keep their demands on the table,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-of-ward-123-in-bagru-to-boycott-polls/articleshow/78738666.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Study says Pune may need 30% more water by 2025||PUNE: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations will soon have to start looking for alternative sources of water as the daily requirement is likely to rise considerably by 2025, a joint water sustainability assessment by The Energy Resources Institute (TERI) and Mahindra Lifespaces found. Estimating that the total built-up area in both PMC and PCMC limits is bound to rise by 2025, the report stated that while PMC limits will require 853.5 million litres per day (MLD) — 15% more than what is required now — the PCMC limits will require 577 MLD per day in 2025, which is at least 30% higher. “The identification and assessment of potential alternative water sources would help combat water scarcity,” the report stated. Even the wastewater generation in PMC and PCMC limits will outweigh the current installed capacities, the authors of the report said, adding, “The cities face a significant risk of pollution to their natural waterways.” According to the study, against the current installed treatment capacity of 567 MLD in PMC and 317 MLD in PCMC limits, projected wastewater generation in 2025 is expected to be at 682 MLD and 462 MLD respectively. The report recommended that the civic bodies will have no choice but to have “zero discharge of untreated wastewater from the city into natural water bodies”. Towards this end, the report recommended the provision of citywide networks to ensure complete collection of sewage. “The treated water from sewage treatment plants (STPs) can serve as an effective alternative to freshwater extraction from natural water bodies and be reused for non-domestic purposes. The use of rainwater harvesting systems for storage and reuse should be promoted. This could be done by promoting the installation of localized rainwater storage systems in new buildings for domestic purposes. This will also lead to a reduction in water bills,” the report said. Sanjay Seth, senior director, TERI, said this was the first-of-its-kind macro-level analysis of water management at a city-level, along with the micro-level analysis of water use in residential housing townships. “As an outcome of the study, guidelines for water use at the demand-level, for residential townships, would be further developed for the benefit of consumers,” he added. The study was confined only to PMC and PCMC limits of the Pune district due to a relative lack of data in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-could-need-up-to-30-more-water-by-2025-study/articleshow/78738678.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 19, 2020||Pune||Duo on bike snatch Army officer’s cellphone in Camp||PUNE: Two men riding a motorcycle snatched a cellphone worth Rs 21,200 from an Army officer, who was out on a post-dinner stroll in Camp on Friday night. Police said the 47-year-old officer resides in a bungalows in the area, was walking in a nearby dimly lit and deserted patch. Around this time, the duo rode up behind the officer and the man riding pillion snatched his cellphone. The officer tried raising alarm as they sped away, but the road was deserted. He then approached the Cantonment police station. A robbery case has been registered. Assistant inspector Manmit Raut, who investigating the case, said the area doesn’t have any CTV coverage. “It happened so fast that the officer was not able to even notice the make of the two-wheeler. All he was able to tell us was that the duo were wearing jackets and riding a dark-coloured motorcycle,” Raut said. A police officer said this stretch is deserted even during the day. At night, motorists prefer using an alternative road. Army jawans guard a small junction located near the racecourse, while another team of jawans has a checkpoint near a Gurdwara in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-on-bike-snatch-army-officers-cellphone-in-camp/articleshow/78738687.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Chinese dating apps used free porn flicks to attract Indian customers||Hyderabad: Chinese dating apps (applications) lured Indians by playing nude and semi-nude videos before forcing them to go in for subscription or re-charge fee. Ironically, none of the persons, who lost money and enticed to watch live porn, came forward to lodge a complaint, according to Hyderabad police. After downloading the app, a user could watch promo videos. Later, the user has to re-charge by paying for the live streaming service, where in the woman at the other end will entertain requests of the subscribers. Officials are yet to ascertain whether it is a software-generated content or a live person. “Though it is a dating app, it will not facilitate the user to hook up with someone on a date. It is about sharing porn content. Many Indians paid thousands to watch live streaming and these Chinese companies made crores of rupees,’’ sources in Hyderabad police told TOI. Since watching adult porn is not a crime, the Hyderabad police had only mentioned about it in the charge sheet filed in the Nampally court recently on the charge of online gambling organised by Chinese firms operated by Beijing T Power Company. These companies were also involved in operating different dating apps through which they earned easy money by luring people. The online gambling, organised by these Chinese companies, lured people, especially during the lockdown. The most popular of them are teen patti, rummy, online satta and colour predictions. Hyderabad police said organizing online gambling was banned in Telangana and the Chinese company has been accused of manipulating the result against gamers. These Chinese companies had since late 2019 lured several online users to play online gambling through referral system. A person who introduces new customers was given 15%commission of the bet amount put in by the new gamer. The officials were still in the process of gathering information whether the Chinese companies accessed mobile phone data of users without their permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-dating-apps-used-free-porn-flicks-to-attract-indian-customers/articleshow/78738742.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 19, 2020||Ajmer||Sarpanch’s son shot dead in Kishangarh||AJMER: Three unidentified persons shot dead a man, identified as Bhagchand Chotiya (42), son of Harmada village sarpanch, while he was walking after getting out of his car near Balaji Temple of Kishangarh on Sunday evening. Police confirmed that Bhagchand was a key witness in the sensational murder of Bhanwar Singh Sinodiya, son of Nathuram Sinodiya, a former Congress MLA from Kishangarh, in 2011. The incident happened around 6pm on the main Kishangarh road. Witnesses said Bhagchand, who was identified later, came in a vehicle and stopped opposite the temple on the main road, which was crowded in the front. He came out of the car wearing a Rajasthani white kurta-pyjama with a red turban. Suddenly, the assailants came from behind on a bike and started firing at him. In the chaos that ensued, the car carrying the culprits sped towards Jaipur road. Police rushed to the spot but found Bhagchand dead. His body was sent to the government Yagnarayan Hospital in Kishangarh. Preliminary reports said that he was hit by two bullets in the stomach and one in the head. The FSL team from Ajmer and SP Kunawar Rashtradeep reached the spot. Officials said that all roads from Kishangarh have been sealed and barricades set up on every street to catch the culprits. According to police, Bhagchand was a key witness in the Bhanwar Singh Sinodiya murder case. On March 11, 2011, the body of Bhanwar Singh was found in a remote village of Jaipur district. It was discovered that he was murdered. A land dispute in Sapla village of Roopangarh of Kishangarh block had allegedly led to his murder. Following the trial on April 11, 2014, the Ajmer additional district and sessions court sentenced six of the accused to life imprisonment and acquitted two others in the case. Some 65 witnesses had deposed against the accused with Bhagchand and Abdul providing major evidence during the trial. History-sheeters Balwaram, Sikander, Shahjad, Madan Lal, Heera Lal and Kailash Thakad, who ran criminal gangs in various parts of the state, were involved in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sarpanchs-son-shotdead-in-kishangarh/articleshow/78738689.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Three arrested in Mansarovar bank robbery||JAIPUR: A day after three persons robbed a bank’s cash collection van in Mansarovar, police arrested the the accused who decamped with Rs 31.5 lakh in broad daylight. They were arrested from Jaipur itself. The arrested accused are Gaurav Singh, a resident of Jaipur, Vipin Kashyap and Saugandh Singh, both from Uttar Pradesh. Cops are yet to disclose the name of another person who was seen on CCTV camera changing his clothes after the robbery. They had done recce of other banks as well in the last one week. Gaurav, who planned the robbery, apparently had a lot of debt to repay. However, presently no previous criminal cases have been found against the accused, but cops are looking into it Officials had vital clues which led them to the accused robbers. The security guard who was shot in the abdomen is still hospitalised, but is in a stable condition. The three robbers who intimidated a jewellery store owner on gunpoint at a shop situated at Naadi Ka Phatak area in Murlipura locality and decamped with valuables worth nearly Rs 80 lakh are also yet to be found, though cops claimed that they were very close to arrest the accused in the case. Three armed robbers in an SUV, who might have been following the van, came out of the vehicle and overpowered the bank guards and the van’s staff. When guard Bhim Singh resisted, one of the robbers fired at him. A staff of the van, who also tried to stop the robbers, sustained injuries. The robbers then snatched the cash bag containing Rs 31.50 lakh. ACP, crime, Ajay Pal Lamba told TOI, “We have uncovered important clues in the cases and arrested the accused based on those. We have recovered the entire amount of money as well as three weapons which were used by the accused. We have also increased the patrolling in the city as festival season has started and will ensure that the criminals see heavy police presence in Jaipur.” While picketing has been done in Jaipur, more cops have been equipped with weapons. Murlipura SHO Ram Avtar said, “We are following a few leads in the robbery, but it is not possible to divulge the details as it would hamper the investigation.” Stating that officials have not found any evidence in both the cases to indicate that the robberies were an inside job Lamba added, “At present it appears to be the work of a local gang, but it does not seem that the same gang was involved in both the robberies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-arrested-in-bank-robbery-case/articleshow/78738680.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||123 vehicles stolen in Pimpri Chinchwad in September||PUNE: In September around 123 vehicles were been stolen from Pimpri Chinchwad of which the police have managed to recover only 16. Of the 123 stolen vehicles, 108 were two-wheelers, 14 were cars and one was a three-wheeler. Not a single stolen four-wheeler has been traced so far. The number of vehicle thefts in September was significantly higher than the 90 registered in August. Between January and September this year 627 vehicles have been stolen from Pimpri Chinchwad. “There has been a decrease in vehicles thefts this year as the number was 1,020 during the same period last year,” an officer from the crime branch said. He said people should take extra precautions while parking by the road and use good quality locks to avert thefts. “Thieves can easily break poor quality handle locks and steal motorcycles, our investigations suggest,” the officer said. He said all units of the crime branch have been told to keep an eye out for vehicle thefts apart from normal duties. “In the last month we arrested a thief from Nashik known as ‘Bullet Raja’ and recovered 14 high-end motorcycles from him,” the officer said. “All police stations in the commissionerate too have been told to keep vigil on the parking lots in their areas for suspicious individuals,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/123-vehicles-stolen-in-pimpri-chinchwad-in-september/articleshow/78738682.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 19, 2020||Nashik||MMC calls for security at Girna dam||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) has sought security at the Girna dam where dead fish and lobsters were found floating at the spot from where water is lifted for supplying to the city. The sources from MMC said the corporation drew raw water from the premises of Water Resources Department (WRD) and the same was treated and provided to the residents across the city.  “Since the dam is not our property, we cannot put up security in the region. Hence we will ask the WRD to step up vigil in order to prevent any such incident in the future,” sources from MMC said. On Thursday night a large volume of dead lobsters and other fish chocked the jackwell. As a result, the pumping of water for Malegaon city was stopped immediately and resumed on Saturday after checking the water potability. According to a corporation official, MMC lifts 55 million litre of water per day (MLD) from Girna dam . This happens to play with the lives of 6 lakh population so WRD should set up security on the dam. The WRD sources on the other hand said the dam was too huge to be manned at all the points of its submergence. “Unless senior officials decide we are in no position to provide any kind of security across the length and breadth of the dam,” said souces The important point, as far as security is concerned, is the wall of the dam which is under continuous surveillance, said an officer from WRD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mmc-calls-for-security-at-girna-dam/articleshow/78736792.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Pune||Trio held, 8 bikes worth Rs 7.5L recovered||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Sunday solved eight recent cases of high-end motorcycle thefts with the arrest of three youths. A police team led by senior inspector Uttam Tangade recovered the eight motorcycles worth Rs7.5 lakh from Raichur district in Karnataka. The police probe revealed that the arrested trio — Amaresh Chavan (19) of Moshi, Kiran Rathod (20) and Karan Kurhade (19), both from Vadgaon Maval — had stolen these motorcycles with the help of two accomplices from Karnataka. “They had kept the stolen vehicles in Raichur district so that they could sell it off there,” Tangade said. Tangade said on October 3 that two Royal Enfield motorcycles were stolen from the Chikhali area. While probing the case, the team checked several units of CCTV footage and traced Chavan to Moshi. “The suspects Kurhade and Rathod were later taken into custody from Talegaon Dabhade,” Tangade said. During questioning the trio admitted that they had stolen the motorcycles from Chikhali, Hinjewadi, Pimpri and Talegaon Dabhade with the help of two more accomplices. “Their accomplices used to come to Pimpri Chinchwad from Karnataka. Kurhade used to show them the vulnerable spots,” Tangade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-held-8-bikes-worth-rs-7-5l-recovered/articleshow/78738674.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Loudspeaker to be allowed in one vehicle for campaigning from 8am to 8pm||Jaipur: The state election commission, in an order, restricted the use of loudspeaker if rally/election meeting is not organised in a particular place for the municipal corporation polls. It stated, loudspeaker will be allowed in one vehicle from 8am to 8pm with one extra person along with the driver.It also stated that use of only one vehicle will be permitted for election campaigning. The vehicle will not be allowed to carry people beyond its capacity. The permission for the use of both the vehicles will be given by the district election officers and other officers who are authorised to give permission. Meanwhile, only five people will be allowed for door-to-door campaigning. The state election commission has written to the district collectors and district election officers to make all preliminary preparations for the elections to Zila Parishads, panchayat samitis and polls to the remaining 129 civic bodies.The preparations include appointment of returning/assistant returning officers, setting up of poll teams and their training, appointment of election officials, arrangements at the polling stations (700 voters in each station instead of 1,400), randomisation, distribution of EVMs etc.It has also been directed that employees above 55 years, employees with comorbid conditions, pregnant women and lactating mothers should not be appointed in poll duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/loudspeaker-to-be-allowed-in-one-vehicle-for-campaigning-from-8am-to-8pm/articleshow/78738676.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Updated pharmacy syllabus more patient-centric with job-ready skills||PUNE: Patient counseling, a drug regime for chronic and acute diseases, and a patient-centric syllabus are now part of pharmacy courses. The syllabus was updated after 30 years. The changed syllabus now focuses on employability skills, practical skills and blended learning that would improve the standard of pharmacy education in India. Principals of city-based colleges followed up the syllabus change with the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) which issued a gazette notification on October 16 for diploma courses. Principal of the Institute of Pharmacy, Azam Campus, V N Jagtap, a member of the panel that recommended the changes, said the old syllabus lacked demonstration of industrial equipment and their evaluation, novel drug delivery systems, pharmacy operation software and soft skills required for patient counseling. These have now been incorporated in the new syllabus. The council released the education regulations 2020 for diploma course in pharmacy, (made under section 10 of the Pharmacy Act 1948), and published in the gazette of India, Extraordinary, part III Section 4, on October 16. Jagtap said, “ An upgrade of the curriculum was necessary as students should be aware about new medicines and technologies which have come up in the healthcare sector. There is an increase in the number of multispecialty hospitals and medicine centres in the country. We need people who are aware about modern techniques of medicines, logistics, patient counseling, drug regimen given for chronic as well as acute diseases. The old syllabus for the diploma in pharmacy is not patient-centric. It was business centric.” Many faculty members and students of diploma colleges across the country had sought an urgent revision in the syllabus. They said several chapters are outdated affecting the quality of graduates in the job market. The course work continued to impart techniques and medication lessons no longer practised in the medical field. Atmaram Pawar, principal of Bharati Vidyapeeth University's Poona College of Pharmacy, said, “This change in the syllabus will give the correct direction for diploma pharmacy students.” P A Inamdar, president of Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society, said, “We followed up with the council regularly on the syllabus upgrade. Students should be aware about new medicines and technologies which have come up in the healthcare sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/updated-pharmacy-syllabus-more-patient-centric-with-job-ready-skills/articleshow/78738692.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 19, 2020||Salem||Two chain snatchers held in Salem, 16 sovereigns gold recovered||SALEM: The Salem city police have arrested two chain snatchers and recovered gold chains weighing 16 sovereigns from them. Police have also seized a bike from the duo. Police identified the accused as Franklin Kumar, 33, and his friend K Maheswaran, 29, both natives of Trichy city. Salem city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar had earlier formed a special team under the supervision of assistant commissioner (crime-South) Yasmin to nab the chain snatchers, who targeted two women in Kondalampatti and Annadhanapatty police station limits in September. The special team started their investigation by collecting CCTV footage from in and around the crime scene. It, meanwhile, got a tip that the chain snatchers were in Trichy. The team subsequently went to Trichy and nabbed the duo from a hideout at Thiruvanaikaval. They have been lodged in the Salem Central Prison under judicial custody. “After snatching chains, they reached Trichy via Jedarpalayam, Mohanur and Kattuputhur on a bike. We worked for nearly 21 days to nab them,” the assistant police commissioner said. Another source said Franklin Kumar was facing eight chain snatching cases in Trichy city police stations. Franklin and Maheswaran became friends when they were lodged in the Trichy Central Prison. The city police commissioner appreciated the special team for nabbing the accused in a short time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-chain-snatchers-held-16-sovereigns-gold-recovered/articleshow/78738693.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||Bodies of 2 missing youths found in Mutha river||Pune: The bodies of two youths swept away by strong water current after falling into the Mutha river from Vateshwar ghat near Baba Bhide bridge on Friday evening were traced and recovered on Sunday morning. The bodies of the duo — Omkar Tupdhar (17) and Saurabh Kamble (20) — were shifted to the Sassoon general hospital for post mortem, an officer from the Shivajinagar police station said. “A case of accidental death case will be registered in this regard,” the officer added. Teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and city fire brigade personnel were able to locate the bodies after the water level had reduced considerably on Sunday morning. Kamble’s body was found in the river near Nana Nani Park in Shaniwar Peth while Tupdhar’s body was found near the Sangam Bridge. The two young men from Tadiwala road were swept away by strong water current after falling into the Mutha river from Vateshwar ghat near Baba Bhide bridge around 6pm on Friday. An elaborate effort by the Pune Municipal Corporation and fire brigade divers was on for the past two days to trace the two men along the river channel that flows up to the Sangam bridge to merge with the Mula river that comes from Pimpri. Police had said that Tupdhar and Kamble, along with their friend Chetan, were on way back to their home from Dandekar bridge area on a couple of two-wheelers when they took a halt at Vateshwar ghat along the riverbed road near Sadashiv Peth, to witness the flow of water and take some photos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bodies-of-2-missing-youths-found-in-mutha-river/articleshow/78738699.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Mortality high among heart patients under 30, says study||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A study conducted by the cardiology department of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology (SCTIMST) among cardiology patients below 30 years of age found that 64% were smokers and 21% were habituated to alcohol. The most worrying factor is that 48% who had heart attacks below 30 years of age are dying in the next 20 years. Only 4.4% did not have any of the major potentially modifiable risk factors at presentation, viz. smoking, systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidaemia, alcohol abuse or obesity. The study also found that 34% of the smokers who had heart attacks started smoking again and 26% started consuming alcohol again. A majority of them were physically inactive. “We identified that potentially modifiable risk factors, including smoking, high blood cholesterol, hypertension, alcohol abuse, obesity and diabetes mellitus, account for 95% of cases of symptomatic coronary artery disease in people below 30 years of life. The vast majority of patients were males (92%). 64% of patients with symptomatic coronary artery disease in this age group were smokers and 88% had high blood cholesterol,” said Dr S Harikrishnan, professor of cardiology, SCTIMST. The seriousness of the issue is that among those (below 30) who have been identified with cardiac problems, 48% of them are dying in the next 20 years. The main reason is that they are either not taking medicines or having periodic reviews or continue to have the risk factors since they restart smoking and drinking, said Dr Arun Gopalakrishnan, assistant professor, cardiology, SCTIMST. It found that 41% of patients were non-compliant to medications. Absence of symptoms was the most common cited reason for discontinuation of medicines. While nearly half of the medically-managed patients had discontinued medicines, non-adherence was less than one-third in those who underwent angioplasty. Dr Hariskrishnan said a 10-year mortality of 30% and 48% at 20-year follow-up is a serious cause of concern in patients below 30 years of life. The study was conducted on patients who took treatment at the institute from January 1978 and December 2017. The study group comprised 159 patients. The youngest patient was a 10-year-old and the youngest who underwent bypass was a 15-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mortality-of-heart-patients-under-30-at-48-in-next-20yrs/articleshow/78736816.cms||Rajiv G
October 19, 2020||Pune||Amphitheatre for cultural events on BORI campus nears completion||PUNE: The Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI) has been putting final touches on an amphitheatre for cultural programmes at its campus. The amphitheatre was conceived nearly two years ago. The architecture and surroundings of the space, named Samavsharan, uses sub-continental designs for common public spaces. The design of the space by architect Nachiket Patwardhan also borrows from the title of the space itself, an important facet in Jain philosophy. Samavsharan, implying a refuge or all to sit in, were divine spaces where the Tirthankaras would preach. The stage, to be used for cultural performances, is dominated by a large Banyan tree, planted in the early 1940s, as well as some other large trees that have now been tended to. “The large trees are very important to the space and to our campus. An ecology report about our campus, commissioned a few years ago, showed that there are dozens of indigenous trees here. Not a single tree has been cut for the new space, and 70 plants, all of indigenous variety, have been replanted,” said Bhupal Patwardhan, executive chairman of BORI. Much of the funding and ideas for the amphitheatre, expected to be open by January 2021, have come from city-based industrialist Arun Firodia. Patwardhan added that issues that had cropped up with the heritage department of the Pune Municipal Corporation have also been sorted out. “For all of these years, we have been an institution for research. The time has come for us to take that research to the larger public. This space is one of the interfaces for that. The amphitheatre can seat up to 1,800 people. With physical distancing measures, 300 people can be accommodated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/amphitheatre-at-bori-nears-completion/articleshow/78738696.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 19, 2020||India||Hathras case: Farmer loses crop trying to save evidence||AGRA: A farmer in Hathras who owned the field in which the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted last month has demanded compensation for the loss of his millet crop which could not be irrigated or harvested in time for fear of destruction of evidence. “We have lost an entire year of hard work as my family was asked not to irrigate, harvest or do anything with the crop in our nine-bigha land so evidence of the crime could be preserved,” said the 24-year-old who works as a labourer in Jaipur. “Now I need help from the government to compensate me for the loss of my millet crop worth Rs 50k,” he told TOI. The man, who returned to his village recently, said the SIT, CBI investigation team and police had conducted visits to the crime spot to gather evidence and in this time, his crop had dried up. A senior official, however, added that no changes in the crime spot had helped in recreation of the crime scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-case-farmer-loses-crop-trying-to-save-evidence/articleshow/78739903.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Family ties internet router to tree for son’s online classes||PANAJI: In yet another instance of parents going to great lengths to ensure that their children can attend online classes, a family in a remote village of Sattari has purchased an industrial grade wireless router and fixed it on a tree in a field. The village, approximately 10km from Guleli, has no internet connectivity, but with classes going online, the parents had no option but to try all means to ensure that their son can continue second year classes, said Amogh Desai, a systems administrator who setup the router. “The device is a 4G-3G router usually used for industrial use to connect remote location CCTV cameras to their main offices. It has a SIM card slot and a LAN port. In an open area it can give wifi access for a radius of 50-100m,” Desai further said. The village is situated on a small hillock on the fringe of a forest area. Desai laid a power line from the house till the tree, whose branches were cut so that there is no disruption in signal. The family of the student did not wish to come on record given the political tussle over the IIT-Goa campus and protests in the Shel Melauli village. After walking around their house, the family found a spot in their farm where 3G signal strength is available. “That tree where the device is mounted, is the only place where the family gets signal. If you go a meter higher, you don’t get range and if you go a meter lower, there is no range,” Desai said. Prior to this, the family had purchased a mobile network booster and installed it on their home, but the device, which costs Rs 10,000, failed to improve the situation. Three months earlier, a video had gone viral after a person in Sattari dangled a Jio portable wifi router from a tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/family-ties-internet-router-to-tree-for-sons-online-classes/articleshow/78739598.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Facing deluge again, Karnataka braces for another financial blow||BENGALURU: Barely two months after the state government submitted a memorandum seeking Rs 4,800 crore for the loss caused by the July-August floods in North Karnataka and Kodagu, it’s bracing for another major financial jolt with fresh floods in Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Raichur. That the government has already received its share of around Rs 750 crore from the Centre under the state disaster relief fund (SDRF) and sought additional funds under NDRF will put added pressure on the Yediyurappa government to divert more money from development works towards flood relief and rehabilitation in the four affected districts. The recent deluge has been attributed to breach of a tank between Solapur in Maharashtra and Karnataka. “The actual quantity of water released from Ujjani dam is about 1 to 1.5 tmc ft. What added to the unexpected flooding is breach of the tank and the heavy rain in the basin, which increased the flow of water along small nalas and rivers,” said a revenue department official. According to the government, the worst-hit district is Kalaburagi. The revenue department is hopeful of things improving in next 72 to 96 hours after the water passes through Raichur and meets Krishna river from Bhima. But assessing the flood damage will be a bigger challenge. According to senior revenue department officials, 50 villages have been completely evacuated, while another 100 have been partially inundated. “If you do a preliminary assessment, the biggest financial loss the state will incur is from damage to houses. Due to the poor quality of houses in interior parts of North Karnataka — they are mostly made of soil, bricks and loose stones — very little of the homes will be left when the residents return,” said the official. However, revenue minister R Ashoka said the government is committed to giving Rs 5 lakh compensation for complete loss of houses, Rs 50,000 for damaged ones and Rs 10,000 as immediate relief per family. “The government is committed to providing compensation for property loss as crop losses will be covered under SDRF and NDRF norms, apart from crop insurance. The commitment will be met with the Rs 33,000 crore loan been freshly sought by the government,” he said. “Our challenge will be to rebuild the roads and bridges that have been washed away as the government has to compensate the public works department (PWD) for restoring them,” the minister added. As per government data, the previous floods alone resulted in a loss of at least Rs 4,851 crore in terms of damage to public infrastructure across the state. But revenue department officials say there is enough and more money for immediate relief. “There are no financial constraints for DCs to carry out rescue and relief measures in the affected districts. They had sought additional manpower and the government has mobilised staff from neighbouring districts as well,” said revenue department (disaster management) principal secretary Anjum Parvez.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/facing-deluge-again-ktaka-braces-for-another-financial-blow/articleshow/78738428.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||NGO Uyir to maintain 51 traffic signals in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The road safety committee has handed over 51 traffic signals to NGO Uyir, which has been maintaining 11 traffic signals in the city. Private firms were maintaining 14 traffic signals on Avinashi Road, 10 on Mettupalayam Road, four each on the stretch from Trichy Road to Sathy Road. The city police had given the firms the right to display advertisements on the signals. The firms had taken electricity connection in their names and had been paying the bills every month for the signals. After the Madras high court directed the state government not to renew or give fresh licences to erect such hoardings, the firms stopped to maintain the signals and did not pay the electricity bills. Tangedco officials were planning to disconnect power to the signals when the city municipal corporation agreed to pay the amount. As the city traffic police lacked funds to maintain the signals, the issue was discussed at a recent road safety meeting held at the collectorate and the members of Uyir agreed to maintain 51 signals. The NGO requested the committee chairman, Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, to let them display the name of the NGO on the signals. The road safety committee gave consent to do so two days ago, sources said. The corporation has promised to bear the electricity expenses for the signals. “As the NGO has a team to maintain traffic signals, they will be able to ensure round-the-clock operation of the signals,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngo-uyir-to-maintain-51-traffic-signals-in-city/articleshow/78738721.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh in flood recovery, IMD says fresh low pressure likely||VISAKHAPATNAM: A fresh low pressure is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday. An upper air cyclonic circulation has already formed over the west-central Bay of Bengal, close to the Andhra Pradesh coast, with a height of 1.5 km above mean sea level. There has been a similar cyclonic circulation over the east-central region of the bay. Under the influence of these weather conditions, chances for the formation of a fresh low pressure in another 24 hours from Sunday are high and the system will further intensify into well-marked low pressure in the subsequent 24 hours, said S Stella, director, IMD, Andhra Pradesh chapter. “It is very early to predict the further development of the yet-to-develop low pressure system. We will have a clear picture of the system once is it formed on Monday,” Stella told TOI. Under the influence of the present weather conditions, light to moderate rains associated with thunderstorms is likely at isolated places over coastal Andhra Pradesh for the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rainfall at isolated places in Rayalaseema is also expected. Officials from AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) said the deep depression last week wreaked havoc, particularly in East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts, and disrupted power supply to 1.8 lakh domestic electricity connections and 3,336 agriculture electricity connections in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts. “The discoms suffered damages worth Rs 186 lakh and 776 villages were affected due to the landfall of the deep depression near Kakinada coast on October 15. We successfully restored power by deploying 46 special teams,” said APEPDCL CMD Nagalakshmi S. Of the 776 villages, 350 come under Visakhapatnam district while 240 are in Vizianagaram and 144 in East Godavari. Damages worth Rs 125 lakh have been reported from East Godavari district alone. “If another low pressure forms and that becomes another fury, then it would be another challenge we have to face,” said a senior official from the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-in-flood-recovery-imd-says-fresh-low-pressure-likely/articleshow/78736995.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ammonium nitrate stored in ship’s hatch a threat: Experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: The district administration and city police’s decision to halt offloading of ammonium nitrate at Visakhapatnam port might invite other threats, experts have claimed, pointing out that ships loaded with the chemical and standing at anchorage points for days can lead to a severe disaster. “The hatches of the ships generate extreme heats. It is not conducive to keep tonnes of ammonium nitrate inside it for days. It might lead to a severe disaster,” a senior port official told TOI. Despite repeated attempts, port chairman K Rama Mohana Rao was not available for comment. However, a senior official told TOI that port authorities had brought attention to possible threats at different levels from district revenue officials to the top brass of the city police. Sources familiar with the development said the problem started after city police put an embargo on unloading the explosive chemical at Visakhapatnam port under CrPC section 144, following an order from revenue officials under section 133 of the CrPC . Under Ammonium Nitrate Rules, 2012, city police also cancelled the licence of the sole warehouse in Visakhapatnam that was handling and storing ammonium nitrate. Meanwhile, importers and port authorities have tried to find an alternative way to clear the chemical off the ship. A shipping company, Focus Trans-Tech Shipping Private Limited, was roped in to directly transfer the load to importers’ warehouses instead of stocking it in the port area or within the city. “However, the permission was not granted,” another port official added. Soon after the Beirut incident on August 4, MV Kraszewski reached Visakhapatnam port from Russia carrying 20,041 MT of ammonium nitrate. Four other ships with another 60,000 MT ammonium nitrate are also waiting at port for berthing permission. City police, however, have said clearance will only be given once they are satisfied that it would not disturb tranquility in the Visakhapatnam port area. “The licence of the sole stevedoring company that was handling and storing ammonium nitrate was cancelled following alleged non-compliance with norms specified under Ammonium Nitrate Rules, 2012. They are applying for a fresh licence and the issue would be sorted out shortly,” city police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ammonium-nitrate-stored-in-ships-hatch-a-threat-experts/articleshow/78737057.cms||Arpit Basu
October 19, 2020||Hubballi||HDSCL’s smart pole project hangs in balance||Hubballi: Although Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) is very keen to implement the ambitious project of installing smart poles in the city, the project is hanging on balance. HDSCL was to set up around 200 smart or intelligent poles with some interesting features and it was touted as one of the best projects with additional 200 surveillance cameras, public addressal system, panic button and emergency call box. However, due to non-feasible demand from bidders, the project did not take off, said HDSCL special officer SH Naregal. The project was to be executed on a public private partnership and Build–Own–Operate–Transfer (BOOT) model, but the bidders placed some demands that were unacceptable to HDSCL, he said. HDSCL deputy general manager Channabasavaraj told TOI that concessionaire for implementation of the project did not work out, the bidders asked HDMC to not levy road cutting charges for laying cables. “They also wanted advertisement revenue and other things which were not acceptable for us. Three companies came forward but nothing worked out,” he added. HDSCL intended to appoint a concessionaire for implementing intelligent poles in Hubballi-Dharwad for a specified Period i.e. implementation period of 12 months, operation and maintenance period of 14 years (after going live) comprising a total of 15 years, but the bidders wanted maintenance period for 30 years, he said. The smart components in the project include smart LEDs, public wi-fi, digital bill boards, environmental sensors, panic button, emergency call box, public addressal system, integration with command and control centre, he added. When asked if HDSCL has dropped the smart poles project, Channabasavaraj said the company is ready to implement if they find suitable bidders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdscls-smart-pole-project-hangs-in-balance/articleshow/78737154.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Wildlife researchers & enthusiasts form conservation group||Visakhapatnam: Researchers and wildlife enthusiasts from the city have teamed up to form the Wildlife Conservation through Research and Education (WCTRE) in order to increase awareness on wildlife and its conservation. The group has been working on various aspects of conservation and management of wildlife and environment using a multi-disciplinary approach to solve biodiversity issues. Some of the projects the team is associated with include preparing a checklist of birds found in the Eastern Ghats, migratory birds at Meghadrigedda reservoir, fauna in Simhachalam Hills, habitats of species like white bellied sea eagle that nests on cell phone towers, mitigating human-elephant conflict, making documentaries on wildlife, rescuing snakes and endangered species, organising nature walks for public among others. Currently, the team consists of seven researchers and wildlife enthusiasts with experience in varying fields. The team also also has four snake rescuers – Vivek Rathod, Ch Avinash, Vidya Chetan, and K Sanjay who actively rescue snakes from residential and commercial areas in the city. “ Apart from individual projects on wildlife conservation, we also work on environmental education, which holds a more important role in safeguarding the resources and habitats,” said Vivek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/wildlife-researchers-enthusiasts-form-conservation-group/articleshow/78737079.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 19, 2020||Pune||Large Pune metropolitan region hospitals report high non-Covid occupancy||PUNE: There has been a welcome shift in Covid-19 bed occupancy patterns across the Pune Metropolitan Region. Most large hospitals are now reporting a higher number of non-Covid patients. Doctors said those who had deferred non-emergency elective surgeries during the pandemic's peak have finally started to approach hospitals. This growing list of patients includes those who had postponed ENT, bone and gynaec procedures. Specialists added that with many parts of the city unlocked - and roads open to motorists - they are also seeing a number of trauma cases that have needed hospitalisation. "Current hospitalisation trends are definitely showing consistent dips in Covid admissions. Over the last two weeks, there has been a 30% to 35% drop in such cases," said Sanjay Pathare, the medical director of the Ruby Hall Clinic. Senior surgeon Dhananjay Kelkar, the medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, said, "Covid bed occupancy has now come down to 50%." Patients who've suffered heart attacks, stroke and trauma, who were conspicuously absent during the early lockdown days, have also started occupying hospital beds. "Our Covid beds now have 50% vacancy. And our non-Covid beds are full with patients who've suffered heart problems, neurological complications or trauma," said Bharati hospital's deputy medical director, Jitendra Oswal. Experts said easing of inter-district travel and reduced anxiety around the pandemic caused admissions to stabilise. "The percentage of both - Covid as well as non-Covid beds - is equal across our units," said medical expert Ketan Apte, head of Sahyadri hospital, Deccan branch. Patients with the coronavirus are also treated in separate hospital wings. "This separation has also instilled some confidence in people who have been deferring procedures. We clocked 5,500 successful surgeries between April and September this year," Apte said. But some doctors said city hospitals are still seeing quite a few numbers of new Covid admissions from rural Pune and neighbouring districts. Senior physician Vilas Gundecha, of Inlaks and Budharani hospital, said, "There has been a significant drop in Covid cases from Pune. But our ICU is still busy treating critically ill patients. And severely ill patients from neighbouring districts and talukas continue to be referred for further management." At the Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre, which has also registered a drop in Covid admissions, doctors said they have noticed an increase people coming in with trauma. "With more people on the roads, trauma has definitely increased," said the hospital's chief intensivist Urvi Shukla who added that the overall increase in non-virus patients was because many were now willing to seek care of problems other than Covid-19. But Shukla added a word of caution, "With more areas unlocking, doctors are keeping an eye out for surges. It's just too early to believe we have seen the worst."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-non-covid-patients-occupying-beds-than-covid-patients-in-pune/articleshow/78738733.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 19, 2020||Pune||Enjoy Durga Puja delicacies at home without stepping out of doors||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Pandal-hopping is an integral part of the Durga Puja festivities but it is nothing without the lavish variety of mouth-watering food that one has access to at stalls set up in and around the premises of a pandal. But this year, neither will pandals be set up in Pune nor will there be any grand public celebration. The only consolation seems to be that Puneites will still be able to enjoy a wide range of festive Bengali treats within the comfort of their homes. A host of Durga Puja specials like fish chops, sweets, un-blessed bhog and more will be available for a limited duration during the festival. Banalata Sen, who runs a catering service called Breaking Basmati with her brother Abhimanyu, said, “As Kolkata-bred Bengalis our special menu is heavily inspired by the nostalgia around the festival. Our menu features old forgotten recipes from undivided Bengal as well as popular favourites from contemporary Kolkata. Since my brother handles the kitchen alone, we are taking only a limited number of orders. On Ashthami we will be serving barowari khichudi, labra bhaja and chatni — this meal is called bhog after it has been blessed by the goddess at the pandals. On all days of the festival we will be offering favourites like fowl cutlet, maach’er chop and so on. We have received many inquiries from Puneites apart from Bengalis.” Chef Piyush Menon will be hosting the Pujor bhuri bhoj pop up on Navami and Dashami (October 24 and 25). “I ran a restaurant in Kolkata for a few years before coming to Pune, so we want to recreate that taste here during the main days of the festival to lift the spirits of people. Our festive menu features items such as egg devil, vegetable chop, aloo dum and luchi, Kolkata chicken biryani.” Rahul Abhishek, owner, home-run speciality catering service called The Royal Champaran, shared that they are running a discounted campaign for their special festive thalis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/enjoy-durga-puja-delicacies-at-home-without-stepping-out-of-doors/articleshow/78738720.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Navsari kesar mango growers pin hope on new Atmanirbhar scheme||SURAT: The central government’s ‘one district, one product’ scheme will provide a shot in the arm of mango growers in Navsari who are seeking global recognition for their locally grown ‘Navsari kesar’ mangoes. Gujarat is already famous for its kesar mangoes from Junagadh. In recent times, mango growers in Navsari have launched campaigns to promote ‘Navsari kesar’ hoping that it will create a special identity for its kesar in the market. As part of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign, the centre has prepared guideline to implement “formalization of micro food processing enterprises” so that unorganized food processing sector can be promoted. The government has identified one product per district which is unique to that particular district in the state. In South Gujarat, kesar mango has been selected for Navsari while banana has been selected for neighbouring Surat and Bharuch districts. “The scheme will provide a framework for value chain development and alignment of support infrastructure. The crop could be a perishable agri-produce, cereal-based product or a food product widely produced in a district,” said Dinesha Padaliya, deputy director (horticulture) Surat. “This will encourage kesar mango growers in Navsari district in their market linkages, value addition and branding which they need most to create special identity for ‘Navsari kesar’,” Vinod Desai, a chartered Accountant and a consultant for agri export told TOI. Darshan Desai, secretary of Navsari APMC, told TOI, “Navsari APMC this year had prepared a video song to promote ‘Navsari kesar’ and launched a promotional song as well. Moreover, we have recently designed special packing boxes for Navsari kesar for the next season. We have focused on branding and marketing of Navsari kesar and it will create its place among mango lovers across the state and the country. The geographical Indication (GI) tag for Navsari kesar is under process,’‘ Sources said kesar variety accounts for over half of the total area under mango cultivation in seven districts of South Gujarat. Of the total 97,646 ha land under mango cultivation, kesar accounts for nearly 55%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/navsari-kesar-mango-growers-pin-hope-on-new-atmanirbhar-scheme/articleshow/78737672.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Defaced wall paintings may upset Trichy’s Swachh hopes||TRICHY: In the Swachh Survekshan cleanliness survey, Trichy city had slipped from the third rank in 2016 to 102th position in the latest survey. This will continue to go down further as the key focus area of Swachh Survekshan 2021 was ignored. Bridges and walls that were once beautified in citizen engagement drives with the involvement of students and volunteers were persistently spammed by wall posters. The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has released the Swachh Survekshan 2021 toolkit that has a set of parameters for ranking cities. It has given weightage to the city’s beautification drive and sustainability. Under the direct observation category, MoHUA has allotted 200 marks for wall paintings drawn on flyovers, public walls with the involvement of citizens. Such paintings will be directly inspected by the ministry. But in Trichy, such paintings done earlier with the contribution of citizens were spammed or have faded away. Awareness graffiti on agriculture, afforestation and water conservation was painted by more than 30 college students on Palakkarai flyover in July 2018 is one among the artwork spammed by advertisers. The awareness graffiti done by students spending several hours by using paints sponsored by Trichy Corporation were defaced by wall posters. Losing even five marks was a costly affair for Trichy city that failed to enter the list of top 100 clean cities last years. “People spoil the hard work of volunteers in minutes by spamming with wall posters. Volunteers took a lot of efforts to paint the flyovers with awareness graffiti,” K Shyam Sundar, a resident of Thiruverumbur, said. The status of awareness graffiti painted on the walls of the Central bus stand to prevent open urination is no different either. As the observers will inspect the status of graffiti in public places, Trichy Corporation acknowledged the possibility of losing marks, thus further climbing down in cleanliness ranking. The assessors will inspect at least four locations in the city to ascertain the status of awareness graffiti that was painted earlier. “We will focus on such aspects to avoid losing marks in the Swachh ranking. People have to cooperate with us in keeping the city clean,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/defaced-wall-paintings-may-upset-trichys-swachh-hopes/articleshow/78738726.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Driver arrested in Thadagam for transporting soil||COIMBATORE: A tipper truck driver has been arrested for transporting red soil to a brick kiln unit at Thadagam without permit. Police have also seized the vehicle. The Thadagam police identified the accused as M Paranthaman, 27, of Madathur near Chinnathadagam. A police source said it was a team led by M Prasath, assistant geologist, department of geology and mining, Coimbatore, and Ramesh Bose, revenue inspector (mines), that caught Paranthaman red-handed transporting the red soil to the brick kiln unit. “They got a tip and stopped the tipper truck at Nanjundapuram Junction at Thadagam. They checked if the driver had a permit to transport the soil. When they found he didn’t have any, they alerted police as it was an offence equal to smuggling minerals,” the source said. Prasath lodged a complaint with the Thadagam police, who registered a case under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 21 (1) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 1957 read with 36 (A) of Mines and Minerals Concessions Act 1959. Circle inspector S Balamuralisundaram arrested the truck driver and produced him before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody. Further investigation is on. The department of geology and mining has been working on curbing legal transportation of red soil to Thadagam area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/driver-arrested-for-transporting-soil/articleshow/78738724.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Sira bypoll: BJP in a spot after attempt to placate Golla community||BENGALURU: The ruling BJP has unwittingly ruffled the feathers of the Golla community (cattle herders) while wooing its voters in the upcoming Sira assembly bypoll. The government’s move to notify the Kadu Golla Development Corporation just before the polls were announced has left them fuming as many sub-castes from the community have been left out. The community is the second largest votebank (about 25,000 votes) after Vokkaligas in the assembly segment. The calculation is that Vokkaliga votes that account for about 20% of the total Sira electorate (2.15 lakh voters) would be split among three major parties with all fielding candidates from the community. The move to create the board was designed to help consolidate Golla votes, However, it turned out to be counterproductive with benefits confined to only the Kadu Golla sub-caste that’s seen as a minuscule part. “The Golla community comprise about 98 sub-castes and all are considered to be economically and socially backward. These sub-castes have been deprived because they have been kept out of the ambit of the development corporation,” said K Srinivasulu, joint secretary, Karnataka Golla-Yadava Sanga. A section of Gollas is also upset since the BJP leadership had earlier promised to field DT Srinivas, community leader and husband of Hiriyur MLA Poornima Srinivas. The ticket finally went to Rajesh Gowda, a Vokkaliga candidate who joined BJP recently. Srinivas filed his nomination as a rebel candidate. This is a cause of concern in the BJP. The party, which has never won the Sira seat, hopes to reprise last year’s bypolls wherein it wrested Vokkaliga-dominant KR Pete assembly constituency from Janata Dal (Secular) thanks to chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s team led by son BY Vijayendra. Srinivasulu said community leaders have brought the issue to the government’s notice and they would take it up after the bypolls. The chief minister has asked officials of the backward classes welfare department to look into the issue. Officials said the plan was to constitute the Golla Development Corporation and changed at the behest of some BJP leaders. “We insisted the board should be confined to Kadu Golla and the change was well thought-out. The Kadu Golla community is the most backward among Gollas and we want welfare schemes to reach them,” said BJP MLC N Ravikumar, who is in the Sira campaign team. Constitution of corporations and boards has political significance since it involves huge amounts of money and funds to carry out welfare schemes for particular communities are released through these bodies. “The government has erred in assessing the socio-economic condition of the community in general and sub-castes in particular. The order was issued hurriedly to reap electoral benefit in Sira. But, the government should rectify this error and consider the demand of including Kadu Gollas into Scheduled Tribes,” said BS Shivanna, president, Ram Manohar Lohia Thinkers Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sira-bypoll-bjp-in-a-spot-after-attempt-to-placate-golla-community/articleshow/78738425.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Efforts on to make Polavaram project operational by June ’21||Amaravati: The irrigation department has readied a plan to make Polavaram project operational by June, 2021. The project contractor, Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL), has met several targets before deadlines. About 70% work has been completed in many packages. “We are confident of completing all major works of the project as per the deadline,” said Angara Satish, general manager, MEIL. He said site engineers and workers were deployed in three shifts and works were going on continuously despite floods. According to the latest schedule readied by the irrigation department, spillway work is likely to be completed by January, 2021 while trunnion beams will be erected by December, 2020. SC bridge work will be completed by May. Divide wall and training wall will be completed by January-February. Works on the guide wall and flank wall would be completed by February. The government is going ahead with the project without waiting for release of funds from Centre. As per revised estimates cleared by Centre, the project cost has been put at Rs 47,725 crore. The Centre has so far released Rs 9000 crore as against the bills submitted by the state government to the tune of Rs 12,500 crore. The state government has estimated that it would require at least Rs 18,000 crore till March, 2021 and channeling all its energy not to miss out the targets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/efforts-on-to-make-polavaram-project-operational-by-june-21/articleshow/78737023.cms||Samdani MN
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Two dead in collision between bike & tractor||Vijayawada: Two persons died in a road accident after a tractor hit their motorbike near Chittinagar tunnel road in Vijayawada on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Tadisetti Radha Krishna (27) and his mother Samrajyam (61). According to Two Town inspector Md Umar, Radha Krishna and Samrajyam were heading home to Vidyadharapuram. A speeding tractor loaded with cement bags in its trolley tried to overtake them and in the process hit the bike from behind. Both Radha Krishna and Samrajyam fell off from the bike and received severe head injuries. While Samrajyam died on the spot, Radha Krishna was rushed to a hospital but died on the way. Police said that speeding, negligence and misjudgement by the tractor driver while overtaking the bike caused the accident. A case has been registered against the driver under section 304-A of IPC and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-dead-in-collision-between-bike-tractor/articleshow/78737030.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Dist admin mulls handing over resort to tourism dept||Idukki: The district administration is considering a proposal to hand over the land and resort it has taken over at Anayirangal near Munnar for tourism purposes. Last week the revenue department took over nearly five acres and Calypso adventure resort and camp tents under the ownership of Jimmy Zakaria of Vellokkunnel family, who had encroached upon the land and illegally constructed the buildings. District collector H Dinesan said, “The district tourism promotion council (DTPC), and the forest department have submitted a proposal for running the resort for tourism purpose. The final decision will be taken within one week.” “Last year, the annual income of the resort was Rs 3 crore. I had informed revenue minister E Chandrasekharan about the proposal and he is considering it. The more properties the family has encroached upon will be acquired soon,” said Dineshan. A revenue team led by Devikulam sub-collector S PremKrishnan attached the property on October 11. A report submitted by the sub-collector stated that Jimmy Zakkaria was listed as one of the main government land encroachers in Munnar. Jimmy Zakkaria had encroached upon the land at Anayirangal and fake documents were created with a tandaper nearly half had a kilometre away from the original land at Anayirangal. The inquiry by revenue department found that title deeds of three plots covering around 3.68 hectares ‘owned’ by Jimmy Zakkaria were forged. Though he approached the high court against the acquisition, the court dismissed his petition. The report by the sub-collector also recommended action against former Chinnakkanal taluk surveyor M S Anoop. The tehsildar was instructed to prepare a sketch of the controversial plot but the official made a survey report excluding the resort from it. “The official is now working in Kasaragod and I will submit a proposal to the survey department to take action against him,” said the collector. A report by former Devikulam sub-collector Renu Raj had pointed out that the Vellookkunnel family had encroached upon over 300 acres of government land in Munnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-admin-mulls-handing-over-resort-to-tourism-dept/articleshow/78736827.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Outsourced sanitation workers take mass holiday||VISAKHAPATNAM: Close to 5,300 Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) outsourced sanitation workers and drivers took a mass holiday on Sunday as a mark of protest against the civic body for not implementing a weekly-off system. The workers also said their wages for the last two months were pending despite them being on the frontline of Covid-19 response. Honorary president of the GVMC Contract Workers Union, P Venkata Reddy that the civic body had decided to provide weekly-offs to outsourced sanitation workers on a rotation basis in 2017 and implemented it for some time. “However for some unknown reasons, GVMC revoked the system for outsourced workers despite regular employees availing several benefits, including abundant leaves,” Reddy said. Venkata Reddy said that various acts had laid down provisions for grant of weekly holidays and conditions for health, safety, welfare and service. “The GVMC should adhere to these norms as workers should not be denied their rightful employment benefits. The workers will continue to take Sunday holidays till the GVMC prepares a weekly-off roster. Moreover, officials have failed to pay wages of outsourced employees which may force them to hungry even during the festive season,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/outsourced-sanitation-workers-take-mass-holiday/articleshow/78737012.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt picks chairpersons for BC welfare corporations||AMARAVATI: The state government on Sunday announced chairpersons and board of directors to the 56 newly constituted corporations for the welfare of Backward Classes communities. Sticking to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s promise, 50% of the posts, including 29 chairpersons, were set aside for women. The government appointed 12 directors in each corporation giving almost equal representation to all the 13 districts. Ch Venugopala Krishna, minister for BC welfare, said the setting up of the corporations for the development of Backward Classes was the brain child of Jagan. He said that the government was committed to the development of the BCs as they wanted to make all sections of the BCs to get their due share in the allocation of the funds through the new corporations. He said that the government had set up the corporations after holding discussions and studies about the development of nearly 139 communities in the state. “The chief minister believes that BCs are the backbone classes and not backward classes. As promised during the elections to provide separate corporations for every community to give equal political prominence, we are setting up new corporations to every community that has more than 30,000 population in the state,” said Venugopala Krishna. He said that reservations for women were provided following the CM’s instructions. Botcha Satyanarayana, minister for municipal administration, said that this is the first-of-its kind initiative taken up by any state in the country, providing equal platform for every BC community. He criticised TDP leaders for drawing controversies over this initiative. Botcha said that the TDP government had failed to deliver the promises made to the BCs. He said former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had never bothered about the welfare of the BCs while in power except for using them as vote bank. “In contrast to the Naidu’s regime, Jagan is very specific about empowerment of the BCs as he had been instructing ministers and officials to give highest priority to the BCs while implementation of all the schemes,” said Botcha. Dharmana Krishnadas, deputy chief minister, said that the government would spare required funds to all the newly constituted corporations and see that they took up innovative programmes for the welfare of the backward classes empowerment. Ministers Anil Kumar Yadav, Shankar Narayana, and MP Mopidevi Venkataramana were also present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-picks-chairpersons-for-bc-welfare-corporations/articleshow/78736973.cms||Samdani MN
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Munirathna: Have strong connect with RR Nagar||BENGALURU: Munirathna, a film producer-turned-politician, was first elected as an MLA from Rajarajeshwari Nagar in 2013 and then again in 2018, both on a Congress ticket. He was one of the 17 MLAs who resigned in July last year to effectively bring down the HD Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)-Congress coalition government that facilitated the installation of the Yediyurappa-led BJP government. He has produced films like Aunty Preethse, Raktha Kanneeru, Anatharu, Katari Veera Surasundarangi and, more recently, Kurukshetra in which former Kumaraswamy's son Nikhil Kumar played Abhimanyu. He says his past work and connection with constituents will help him sail through the third time. Excerpts: The BJP leadership considered your candidature over party loyalist Muniraju Gowda at the last minute...Chief minister BS Yediyurappa and other senior BJP functionaries had assured me the ticket but they were worried about a case pending in the Supreme Court. After it gave the go-ahead, they decided to field me. You’re up against an educated and young woman candidate of the Congress. Is it a challenge?It’s good to see political parties encouraging educated women. I believe I’ll get the full support of women in RR Nagar considering the work I’ve done for the constituency in the past. Also, I don’t believe education really matters in politics if you have the will to do good work. If one goes by history, many people less qualified have done better than those well qualified. The constituency is dominated by Vokkaligas. Congress and JD(S) have fielded candidates from the community. Both KPCC president DK Shivakumar and JD(S) chief HD Kumaraswamy consider it a prestige battle. Do you see it as a threat?I don’t accept that the seat has anything to do with caste or party figures. In the past, the constituency has elected me twice though I’m from a backward community. Voters, especially in Bengaluru, don’t go by caste because they want to see a result-oriented representative. I have so far managed to live up to their expectations. What are the challenges? In the 2018 assembly elections, BJP candidate Muniraju Gowda lost by over 25,000 votes...When the difference between the winner and loser is as large as it was in the last elections, any candidate should contest elections with a lot of responsibility. I have a strong connection with residents of RR Nagar where I’ve always been involved in their joy and sorrow. I feel they just don’t vote for me only on my party affiliation. Several BJP corporators and party workers have reportedly rebelled against you after Muniraju Gowda was denied ticket...This is false information being spread by the opposition. Once the party brass announced my candidature, BJP workers fell in line and started working for me. Our campaign revolves around unity and strength of the party. We (party leaders) will run the campaign unitedly to ensure the victory of BJP, not Munirathna. Why should people vote for you?People know my style of working. If people have come to me with a problem, I’m always available to listen to them. I have a very strong connection with people. All these factors will be a strong force for a victory. What is the main issue in the constituency? Public transport connectivity and traffic congestion. My main goal will be to ensure Metro connectivity in the next two years and ease traffic bottlenecks on Mysuru Road and Gorgunte Palya (Jalahalli) with the construction of a flyover. In the last polls, Kumaraswamy came to your rescue. This time too he seems to be helping your cause...Kumaraswamy and I share a good rapport mainly because we have worked together in the cinema industry. But we don’t share a similar bond in politics. There are several pending cases against you, including those related to the fake bill scam and electoral malpractices. Will that go against you?Not at all. These cases were slapped due to political rivalry and I’ll be cleared in all of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/munirathna-have-strong-connect-with-rr-nagar/articleshow/78738440.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Reduce HSC, SSC syllabus: Academics||NAGPUR: State board affiliated academics say the state government must reduce syllabus further for SSC and HSC, failing which students will suffer in the 2021 exams. Principals, teachers and even school owners say that online attendance is decreasing every week as kids either don’t have smartphones or are running out of funds to recharge their data pack. Madusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters’ Association, said “October is almost ending and we have a situation where more than half of our students have not even started their studies. State board schools mostly cater to children who are not from a sound economic background. They can’t log in to Google classroom or Zoom to attend classes because of lack of devices or funds to pay the bills.” He said the 25% reduction already announced is too less. The government must act immediately, feels Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers’ Association (VJUCTA). “Parents and students are getting anxious and hence, we need a quick decision. They not only need to reduce the syllabus but also push the exam dates ahead. We need both SSC and HSC exams to start at least a month late as it will buy some time for students to prepare,” said Gavhankar, adding that reduction has to be done in chapters, not topics. “No harm in deleting chapters just for this year. Reducing topics is meaningless as anyway the chapter has to be taught and so, in reality, the workload has not decreased,” said Gavhankar. Ashnarayan Tiwari, a senior principal, whose junior college produced all three commerce toppers this year, said the government must even consider a ‘zero session’. “There are many places in the world where they are talking about a zero session. So what is the harm in giving it a thought. There is no way we can risk physical reopening as the infection can spread,” said Tiwari. The academic feels that there could be a middle ground as well reshuffling of the academic calendar. “Just for this year, what is the harm in doing a January to December session? Only for this particular batch. And if they won’t accept any of these solutions then nothing less than 60% reduction in syllabus will work,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reduce-hsc-ssc-syllabus-academics/articleshow/78737699.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Medical tests to be free at family health centres||Thiruvananthapuram: Health minister K K Shailaja on Saturday said that the government has launched an initiative under which medical diagnosis will be free for all individuals at family health centres across the state. Until now, the benefit of free medical diagnosis was enjoyed by people under below poverty line category, scheduled caste and scheduled tribe community members and persons with disability (PWD) category. The minister said that in the first phase, the government plans to make medical diagnosis free at 300 health centres. This includes 282 family health centres and 18 urban primary health centres. Administrative sanction has been given to issue a fund of Rs 18.40 crore for this initiative. The fund will be distributed among the chosen family health centres through Kerala Medical Services Corporation Ltd (KMSCL). All family health centres will be brought under this project in the second phase. Equipment and reagents needed for this project will be provided to the health centres by KMSCL. It will be ensured that the equipment and reagents provided meet the standards stipulated by the state health department. Through this project, the government aims to provide 64 types of medical diagnosis tests free for patients, including costly tests. Tests for haemoglobin count, total leukocyte count, platelet count, blood group, bleeding time and clotting time, urine samples, dengue, Hepatitis B, blood sugar level, uric acid, total cholesterol, serum, diphtheria, TB, C-reactive protein, thyroid stimulating hormone and new born screening are some of the tests that will be free at the health centres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/medical-tests-to-be-free-at-family-health-centres/articleshow/78736838.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||Farmer dies after touching electric fence of a farm||Vadodara: A farmer died of electrocution after he touched electric fencing around a farm in his village when he went to answer nature’s call on Saturday morning.Alpesh Parmar, a resident of Shankarpura village in Waghodiya taluka, went to answer nature’s call in open on the outskirts of the village when he accidentally touched the fence around the farm of Bhavesh Patel. Patel and his farm’s caretaker Govind Parmar were booked for culpable homicide and under Indian Electricity Act at Waghodiya police station.Police said that Parmar’s body was found lying against the fence by villagers. His family members rushed to Patel’s farm on learning about the incident, but they could not take his body immediately as the fence was still live with the current. It was only after the caretaker of the farm was found that the electricity connection was snapped and the body could be taken home. Parmar had suffered burn injuries on his chest and right shoulder.Patel lives at Karachiya near Vadodara city and Govind lives at Jarod. The electric fencing was done to prevent the entry of animals on the farm so that the crop is damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-dies-after-touching-electric-fence-of-a-farm/articleshow/78737552.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Digital hygiene key to beat cyber threats: Expert||Mangaluru: As the state is mulling over a cyber security policy in the wake of rising cyber attacks, industry experts have called upon internet users to follow digital hygiene. Ritesh Chopra, director, sales and field marketing, India and SAARC countries, NortonLifeLock India, told TOI that the pandemic has changed data consumption pattern in the last six months. The cyber crime impact is not only about financial loss. Threats such as deep fakes are getting bigger with the use of artificial intelligence and cases of synthetic identity theft, a combination of fabricated credentials where the implied identity is not associated with a real person is also emerging. “In the wake of rising threats, it is important to start making decisions on how we want to build a basic profile of our digital lives. It is no longer about getting excited about a new app. Mobile security is real, and it is not about virus threats, security software is now a priority. Being aware of the digital profile is the key,” Chopra stressed. On an average, a consumer uses about 30 apps per month. In the future, because of the penetration of app culture and advent of 5G, just like ransomware was affecting individuals, cloud hijacking may hit at an individual level. The time spent on mobile phones has grown by 35% between April-June. On an average Indians are spending more than four hours on a smartphone. A study revealed that the time spent on apps such as video calling has increased by 71.11%, OTT app platforms has increased by 82.63% and there is also a 40% increase in the time spent on weight loss and fitness app downloads. Meanwhile, there is 150% growth in adoption to digital sessions, noted Chopra. Security policy Bengaluru being the hub for tech companies, it naturally becomes the prime target for cyber attacks. “As we welcome the state government’s plan to introduce a robust cyber security policy in a bid to strengthen its digitization efforts, the industry is looking forward to the measures to be implemented in the new cyber security policy. This move will emphasize the adoption of data protection measures and stronger policies that shall protect the privacy and interests of customers, businesses, and the public at large, said Rajesh Kumar, director, cyber security, Netrika Consulting India. Seshadri PS, senior director, office of the CISO, Unisys, stressed on the need for robust approaches towards implementation of cyber security policy including the adoption of zero trust model. Rakesh Kharwal, managing director (India), Cyberbit, said, “We expect the cyber security policy to mitigate surged ransomware, DDoS, and malware attacks, provide awareness on phishing emails, malicious advertisements and work from home policies. The government is expected to initiate a strong WFH policy which includes mandatory use of antivirus, regular updating of systems, 2-factor authentication, strong passwords, encryption of emails and ensuring privacy. It should also include cyber security training for corporates and officials in the government departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/digital-hygiene-key-to-beat-cyber-threats-expert/articleshow/78737541.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Work to construct check dam begins at Mathipalayam||COIMBATORE: Work on construction of a check dam at a cost of Rs 2.1 crore commenced at Mathipalayam in Thenkarai town panchayat across river Noyyal on Sunday. The check dam is expected to store surplus water and irrigate 500 acres in surrounding villages. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani performed the bumi puja for the check dam. After the function, Velumani said the state government had allotted Rs 230 crore for Noyyal river restoration work. “The foundation stone was laid to construct the check dam with 21 metre length and 31 metre width at Mathipalayam. The project would help irrigation of 500 acres,” said Velumani. Velumani also inaugurated various road works at a cost of Rs 40 lakh at Thenkarai town panchayat. Later, he handed over the Covid-19 precautionary kits to the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/work-to-construct-check-dam-begins/articleshow/78738727.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Region’s Covid graph shows declining trend||COIMBATORE: The western region’s Covid-19 graph is on a slow yet steady downward slide over the last couple of weeks, though the spread remains a cause of concern as the incidence of the virus has been higher than the rest of the state. In Coimbatore, which remains in number three among the districts with highest number of cases after Chennai and Chengalpet, the daily case count, which had fallen below 400 for the past few days, saw yet another dip in fresh cases. On Sunday, there were 319 new cases recorded in Coimbatore, increasing the total cases to 39,818 while active cases stood at 3,814. Fresh cases as low as this were last recorded in August, after which there was a gradual increase. Around the same period last month, fresh cases were hovering around 600 per day. In fact, daily Covid numbers have been stable around 360 to 390 for the last one week in a sign that the spread is under control. In Nilgiris and Tirupur also, the numbers are static while in Salem, the incidence is coming down. Salem, which once had the highest Covid cases in the western region, managed to bring down the numbers to 188 on Sunday. Active cases are falling and discharges are increasing in Salem. “Positivity rate has come down to less than 4%. The falling numbers have given us the confidence that we could control the spread of the virus even more,” said Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital dean Dr R Balajinathan. The total cases in the western region comprising eight districts as on Sunday was 11,0639 compared to 64,284 on September 18. However, the rate of increase in fresh cases appears to have slowed down in high incidence districts like Coimbatore and Salem. For instance, in the 18 days from September 1 to 18, there were 8,703 new cases recorded in Coimbatore. During the corresponding period in October, there were only 7,198 new cases. In Salem, there were 2,915 fresh cases reported in the first 18 days of September, though during the same period this month, 2,792 cases were reported. However, in districts like Tirupur and Nilgiris, there is an increase in the number of new cases reported during October compared to September. The death rate, however, is fluctuating. For instance, in Coimbatore, there were 60 deaths reported in the first 18 days of September, which has surged to 79 this month. However, in districts like Tirupur, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri, the number of deaths has come down. The total death in Coimbatore so far remains at 523.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/regions-covid-graph-shows-declining-trend/articleshow/78738723.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Trichy||74 dead in 439 road accidents in 3 months in Trichy district, says data||TRICHY: Even as the Covid-19 lockdowns have significantly cut down public mobility, in the past three months Trichy district reported 439 road accidents of which 74 were fatal. After analysing the causes that lead to road accidents, the state highways department has reactivated the road accident data management system (RADMS) meeting involving the stakeholders to suggest plausible solutions for reducing fatalities. The RADMS coordinated by the state highways department conducts meeting once in every month to discuss about the road accidents reported in the district. Stakeholders from national highways authority of India (NHAI), police department and the consumer organisations analysed the accidents in a virtual meeting last Friday. As per the data shared by the state highways, 23-26 fatal accidents were reported in each month for the past three months. The major reasons for the fatal accidents were speeding, drunken driving and unauthorised crossing. The sudden movement of cattle on roads is also a reason for many accidents. “We had a fruitful discussion to make the roads in Trichy district safe. From now on RADMS meeting will be held every month, and monthly database will be recorded to discuss it with the stakeholders,” P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways, told TOI. Speed control measures such as installation of signages on speed limit and caution signals were suggested on roads. The officials said that follow up will be made for the solutions discussed in the previous meeting. “Such coordination between stakeholders can bring fruitful solutions. Black spots have to be identified based on the data to suggest specific solutions,” M Sekaran, member, Road Safety Council, said. The participants said that city and district police personnel will be requested to take action on tackling drunken driving. The next RADMS meeting in November will discuss the progress made on the suggested solutions, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/74-dead-in-439-road-accidents-in-3-months-in-trichy-dist-says-data/articleshow/78738730.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||10.75 lakh masks intended for free supply rejected in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The district administration has rejected 10.75 lakh face masks, which were meant for the state government’s free mask scheme, as they were of substandard quality. Under the scheme, ration cardholders would be issued two face masks per family member through the public distribution shops. To implement the scheme, the district required 52.83 lakh face masks - 43.45 lakh for urban areas and 9.38 lakh for rural areas. The distribution process had commenced in the district in September. An officer with the office of the district supply officer said they had distributed 33.34 lakh face masks - 31.49 lakh in urban areas and 1.85 lakh in rural areas - so far. “We have been receiving face masks in batches since August. Once they reach us, they would be sent to the handloom department for quality check and the ones that fail to satisfy the government parameters would be rejected. We have rejected 10.75 lakh masks - 9.25 lakh in urban areas and 1.50 lakh in rural areas – so far,” the official said. A source with the district administration said the masks were checked for their quality at the laboratory of the South India Textile Research Association. At the laboratory, fabric count of the mask would be identified to determine its thickness, and fibre content would be analysed to check whether its 100% cotton or not. Both the tests are done separately for the weft and warp yarn - basic components used in weaving to turn yarn into fabric – of the mask. As per the government guidelines, the masks should be made of 100% cotton fabric and the count of both the weft and warp yarn should be 2/40.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-75l-masks-intended-for-free-supply-rejected/articleshow/78738731.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Pandemic fear keeps buyers away from Poompuhar exhibition||COIMBATORE: Poompuhar, the retail arm of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation, has achieved only 60% of the last year’s sales from the exhibition organized here exclusively to sell golu dolls for the Navaratri festival. C Ronal Selvestin, manager of Poompuhar showroom in the city, blamed it on the Covid-19 scare. “People have decided to celebrate the festival, which started on Saturday, in a simple manner due to the pandemic. We managed to make Rs 21 lakh from the exhibition compared to the last year’s revenue of Rs 48 lakh. It was made possible only after taking several initiatives to improve sales and to make customers feel safe,” he said. “After the exhibition began on September 19, we started receiving orders through telephone. We send images of the dolls through WhatsApp and our staff would deliver the dolls at the doorstep of customers. We have been travelling across the city limit,” Selvestin said. “Along with online sales, it contributed 40% of our total sales.” The showroom has also started selling jute bags, purses, perfume, perfumed candles, puja items, toys and jewel bags. “While 70% of the total sales is due to the golu dolls, the remaining is from sales of return gifts because more than half of the customers who are purchasing the dolls are also purchasing gift items,” Selvestin said. Explaining that the footfall at the showroom is just 50% of the previous years, the manager said it went up to 80% last week. Kaushigha Ramkumaar of Saibaba Colony said she has decided to celebrate the festival in a simple manner. “We used to decorate seven rows with dolls. But this year, we have just one row. Instead of purchasing anything new, we managed with what we have. Because of the Covid-19 restrictions, we have decided to invite only close relatives to our house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pandemic-fear-keeps-buyers-away-from-poompuhar-exhibition/articleshow/78738735.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Panthakkal Naduthal held at Srirangam temple||TRICHY: Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam on Sunday conducted the traditional ‘Panthakkal Naduthal’ ceremony, a ritual considered a prelude to the annual Vaikunta Ekadasi festival. For the first time, Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department officials and senior temple priests performed the rituals near the 1,000-pillar mandapam in the absence any gathering of devotees due to restrictions in view of Covid guidelines. The installation of holy Panthakkal (wooden pole) was done amid prayers and music by traditional instruments. HR&CE officials said that this year the 22-day-long festival will commence with Thirunedunthandakam on December 14. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panthakkal-naduthal-held-at-srirangam-temple/articleshow/78738734.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Fee, fear, Covid-19 force TN govt school students drop NEET||COIMBATORE: Only 182 government and aided school students in the district appeared for the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) this year, compared to 509 last year. At 55, the number of students who scored qualifying marks this year was also fewer than previous year (71). Of the 182 students, 79 were from the government schools and 19 of them qualified. The remaining 103 were from aided schools and 36 of them qualified, said a district school education department official. The top scorer among the government school students was N Gnanam Soundharya (361), from SS Kulam government higher secondary school. And it was M Vasuki, from PSGR Krishnammal Higher Secondary School for Girls, who scored the highest mark (571) among the aided school students. Both of them had attended the state government’s online NEET coaching sessions. They had also got help from their schoolteachers. While the minimum qualification mark is 113, that would not alone secure MBBS seats. Students should also have the required cutoff mark in their category to win the competition. Representatives of NEET coaching centres in the city said the cutoff mark was likely to increase this year. Last year, the cutoff mark for scheduled caste was 365, while it was 300 for scheduled caste (Arunthathiyar), 280 for scheduled tribe, 474 for backward classes, 445 for most backward classes, 455 for backward class Muslim and 525 for other backward classes. “This year we expect the cutoff marks to increase by 50 to 60,” said K Sivakumar, representative of a NEET coaching centre. Government schoolteachers, meanwhile, attributed the fall in the number of students who appeared for NEET this year to the Covid-19 pandemic situation and the student’s growing perception that NEET was a tough test to crack. A government school biology teacher said most of students were of the feeling the exam was too difficult for them to crack. “Because of this, both the enrolment for the test and the number of students appeared for it had come down.” A government school chemistry teacher said several medical aspirants could not write NEET as they couldn’t afford the fee. “In our school, six students wanted to write the test, but only two could. Others said they couldn’t afford the fee. Though we teachers promised to sponsor their fee, they dropped the idea of writing the test.” While the fee for general unreserved category is Rs 1,500, for OBC students it is Rs 1,400 and for SC/ST students it is Rs 800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fee-fear-covid-19-force-govt-school-students-drop-neet/articleshow/78738737.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Gym owners pumped up, but users still warming up||NAGPUR: Gymnasium owners and users are happy that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has finally allowed gyms to open from Dussehra falling on October 25. Some users, however, said that they would not go to gyms as they were unsafe. The gyms were closed since March and the owners as well as their employees had a very difficult time financially. Some slammed the government for allowing gyms to open so late, especially after bars and wine shops. Kevin Agrawal of ‘Akhada The Performance Studio’ said that the CM had taken a very good decision by allowing gymnasiums to open. “Our establishments were closed for seven and a half months and the condition of our staffers was pitiable. Trainers, maids, cleaners etc were not getting paid and were finding it difficult to make two ends meet,” he said. Agrawal further said that he would rigorously follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the state government. “We will check the history of our customers and ensure that they do not have any Covid like symptoms. Only the healthy people will be allowed to enter the gymnasium,” he said. Shiv Gorai of ‘Barracks The Gym’ is thrilled by the news. “Our establishment has been closed since March and all the associated people got disturbed due to lack of income. Finally, the government has considered our plea. In our gymnasium every equipment is mechanized and lot of money had to be spent on their maintenance. Starting the gym will also be an uphill task,” he said Jitendra Ramteke, a gym trainer, slammed the government for opening gyms so late. “It allowed the bars to open first. Is drinking liquor more important than doing exercise? People can fight Covid only if they stay fit but the government was not allowing gyms to open. Moreover, the government should have thought about the lakhs of gym employees in the state. We have not been paid salaries for seven months and only we know how we met our household expenses,” he said. Ajit Saini, a businessman, said that closure of gyms had affected his health. “I work till late in the night and get up late. So, morning walk is not an option for me because of traffic. I used to go to a gym before going to office. Instead I had to do brisk walking on the terrace. My weight has increased by two kilograms during this period,” he said. Lawyer Mohan Sudame supported opening of gyms, but said he would not go there. “I am 58 years old and may catch Covid. Young people are mostly asymptomatic and they may spread the infection to others. It is very difficult to maintain Covid distancing in gyms because they are congested. The trainers and other members are very close to you. I would continue with morning walk until a vaccine comes out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gym-owners-pumped-up-but-users-still-warming-up/articleshow/78737744.cms||Ashish Roy
October 19, 2020||Pune||Gyms and fitness centres prepare to reopen in Pune||PUNE: Gyms and fitness centres in the city are gearing up to reopen with new norms after a gap of seven months due to the pandemic. The state government had ordered gyms to close down in mid-March to prevent spread of Covid-19. The establishments finally got a go-ahead on Saturday. “It’s going to be a big task for us. We will have to start from scratch now,” said Nilesh Kale, president of Pune Fitness Club Association (PFCA), who has been pursuing the matter with the government for the last few months. “Right from cleaning the floor, servicing the equipment, providing sanitisers and towels, sanitizing the floor and equipment, and allocating space to maintain social distancing norms have to be done properly to keep coronavirus at bay,” said Kale, who runs a gym at Bibwewadi. Gyms have permitted to offer weights and exercise machines. However, many other group exercise facilities have not yet been given a go-ahead. Indoor pools, Zumba and Yoga classes have not been allowed to reopen due to a high risk factor. Many gym owners are stated they will have to engage more people for floor management. “Earlier, two housekeeping staff members were enough to maintain a 2,000 sq ft area but, with new norms in place, we will have to rope in more employees. With closure of business for over seven months and no new subscribers, it would be financially challenging for most of us,” said an association member. Most gym owners are worried about getting the business back on track. “We will need at least four months to get the business to the normal stage,” said Abdul Ansari, 2012 Mr India champion. “We will have to see how people return to gyms during the pandemic. Since many people work from home nowadays, we hope they will find time for their fitness goals and join us as per their work schedule,” said Ansari, who runs a gym at Dhanori in Vishrantwadi. Many fitness studio owners don’t expect capacity crowds. “A number of people have subscribed to online classes. So, it would be difficult to get a new crowd soon,” said Kale. Owners also said that they do not have enough capital to restart at full swing. Paying the rent, electricity bills, trainers’ salaries, providing high standard housekeeping service, among others, are going to be a very expensive affair. “I have been paying the rent and managing my family expenses without earning a penny for the last seven months. How can I afford to invest more immediately? So I have decided to reopen the gym with limited number of customers so that I can run it smoothly. I am at present not looking for profit. I just want to pass this phase with minimum capital investment,” said Vilas Shinde, gym owner from Dighi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gyms-and-fitness-centres-get-set-to-reopen/articleshow/78738745.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 19, 2020||Trichy||24 will get seats if 7.5% quota takes effect: Trichy CEO||TRICHY: At least 24 students from government schools in Trichy can enter government medical colleges this year if the 7.5% horizontal reservation comes into force, according to the Trichy district chief education officer. CEO S Santhi said government and government aided school students who got free coaching of the state government have showed progress compared to last year with twice the number of students qualifying NEET this time. Roughly, 239 candidates were given residential coaching last year out of which 52 qualified. While none could get a seat in medical colleges, this year a total of 124 have qualified in NEET. In all, 31 of the 124 are from government schools, out of which 24 qualify for the 7.5% horizontal reservation. These students will be ensured a seat if the reservation is approved, Santhi told TOI. “It took a lot of effort this year from both teachers and students as they were engaged even late in the evening hours with the preparation,” she said. When online free training was under way, one mentor teacher for four students was appointed to ensure proper training during the lockdown. “Such efforts have paid off and we could get more students to qualify than last year,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/24-will-get-seats-if-7-5-quota-takes-effect-trichy-ceo/articleshow/78738736.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur collector launches drive to plant 5 crore palm seeds||THANJAVUR: District collector M Govinda Rao has launched a drive to plant five crore palm seeds and tree saplings across the state. Farmers of Valamarkottai village in Thanjavur district created a team called ‘Vithaippu Kuzhu’ (Sowing Team) and launched a drive to plant the palm seeds and tree saplings across the state on the banks of Kayilapuri lake on Saturday. Panchayat presidents from 13 villages including Valamarkottai, Thirupuvanam, Raghavampalpuram and Poondi participated in the event along with the officials from the horticulture department and planted 700 palm seeds. “We have decided to plant palm trees all over the state to create awareness among people in every village about the glory of palm seeds,” Thangaraj said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/collector-launches-drive-to-plant-5-crore-palm-seeds/articleshow/78738746.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Metropolitan Joseph Mar Thoma passes away||Kottayam: The supreme head of Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church Joseph Mar Thoma metropolitan passed away around 2.40am in a private hospital in Thiruvalla near here on Sunday. He was 89. He was under treatment at the hospital for the last few days after cancer of his pancrease worsened. He was the metropolitan of the Mar Thoma Church for the last 13 years. Funeral will be held with state honours in the special cemetery at St Thomas Mar Thoma Church at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla at 3pm on Monday. Joseph Mar Thoma succeed Philipose Mar Chrysosytom as metropolitan of the church after Mar Chrysosytom decided to quit the post on health grounds. He was consecrated as the supreme head of the Church on October 2, 2007. He paved way for many revolutionary changes in the church and also spent his life for the marginalized like the sick, poor, needy, differently-abled, transgender, etc. On the metropolitan’s 80th birthday, the church inaugurated ‘Snehakaram’ project for the critically ill, cancer\kidney and heart patients irrespective of caste and creed. He started Navajeevan organization for taking care of the children in the red light streets of Mumbai. He had lifted the ban on women during night time at the famous Maramon convention. He had invited members of transgender community to deliver talks at the convention. Pratyasa Bhavan and Jyothis, homes for differently-abled in Pathanapuram and Mavelikkara, was started by him. He also undertook an initiative for a project of 100 houses for flood victims. He was born on June 27, 1931, as son of Puthoor Mariamma and Lukochen, who was the son of Palakunnath Kadon Thomachen, elder brother of Titus II, Mar Thoma metropolitan. The childhood was formulated in the context of a very noble tradition. After school education at St Thomas High School, Kozhencherry, he graduated from Union Christian College, Aluva. Having dedicated himself to serving the Church he passed Bachelor of Divinity degree from United Theological College, Bangalore. He was ordained deacon on June 29, 1957 and kasessa on October 18, 1957. He served as vicar of Ranni, Kozhikode, Kundara, Madras and Thiruvananthapuram parishes. As the Church deputed him, he served as the travelling secretary of the Mar Thoma Evangelistic Association for a few years during a crisis in the organization. He got Master of Divinity and Master of Sacred Theology degrees after higher education in Virginia Seminary, Oxford and St Augustine College, Canterbury. In recognition of the distinguished leadership in various fields, the Virginia Seminary of America honoured him with a doctorate. Moreover, a second doctorate was bestowed on him by Serampore University on February 10, 2007, taking into account his activities in the Church and society. A third doctorate to honour him was awarded to him by SHIATS (Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences) Deemed University (formerly Allahabad Agriculture University) in recognition of his total contribution in the social field. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan in his condolence message said that he was deeply aggrieved by the demise of the metropolitan. “His service to humanity, especially to the marginalized, will ever be remembered,” he said. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in his condolence message termed the life of the metropolitan as a “great one” “fighting fearlessly against social evils.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metropolitan-joseph-mar-thoma-passes-away/articleshow/78736862.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nashik||NMC helpline gets 4,300 plaints against pvt hosps||Nashik: The civic body has received almost 4,300 complaints against the hospitals over the past three months on its call centre helpline numbers. Most of the complaints pertain to sanitisation, medicines, overcharging etc. Officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said they have resolved most of the complaints and are in the process of addressing the few remaining complaints. Apart from this, the civic body has received another 2,500 calls from people seeking information on Covid-19. NMC’s Covid helpline numbers are 9607601133 and 9607432233, and they are operational round the clock. The municipal corporation has appealed to people and families of suspected and confirmed patients to approach the NMC on these helplines to lodge their complaints against private hospitals or present their queries related to Covid-19. We launched the helpline around three months back to help city residents or families of patients if they have any issues related to Covid-19 and private hospitals. We have received around 4,300 various complaints against the private hospitals, said NMC officials. There are complaints regarding improper sanitisation at the hospitals, non-availability of medicines, inflated bills etc. We have sorted out most of the grievances of the residents or families of suspected and confirmed patients that we received on the helpline. We are making enquiries on some of the complaints by patients against the private hospitals, which will also be resolved shortly,” said the NMC officials. Apart from the complaints, there were over 2,600 calls seeking guidance on quarantine, isolation, swab tests, admission in private hospitals, availability of beds etc, said officials. The NMC has developed a centralised bed reservation system and also a citizens’ dashboard so that every information related to the availability of beds in private hospitals is available on a real-time basis. Moreover, all the information related to Covid patients, division-wise, and all updates in the city have been made available online on the portal of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-helpline-gets-4300-plaints-against-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78736852.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Lack of storage facility: Paddy stored at DPC for procurement damaged in rain||THANJAVUR: Kuruvai paddy stocked at a direct procurement centre in Thanjavur district was washed away in heavy rain as there is no proper place to safely stock the harvested paddy, farmers said. While welcoming the government’s initiative in procuring paddy, farmers have appealed to the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) to speed up the process before the paddy gets damaged in the incessant rain. The kharif marketing season commenced on October 1, and the TNCSC opened 527 direct procurement centres across the state, which include 227 in Thanjavur, 189 in Tiruvarur, 126 in Nagapattinam and 43 in Cuddalore districts. Now it has been increased by 268 in Thanjavur district. Meanwhile, the delta districts are witnessing moderate to heavy rain during night for the last few days. The paddy grain, which has been stocked at various direct procurement centres, is getting damaged, said the farmers. As there was no shelter at Vannarapettai procurement centre, around three to five bags of paddy were washed away in the rain water in Saturday. “As there is huge volume of paddy waiting for procurement at the centres, we have to wait for our turn. If the government had provided proper shelter, we would not have lost paddy in the rain water. It is a usual affair that every rainy season, we lose a considerable amount of paddy,” a farmer said. Farmers are forced to wait for days for their turn. Farmers stock their paddy bags in and around the procurement centres, N Veerasekaran, state spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Sangam, said. “Earlier, farmers had to bring gunny bags to collect paddy. However, nowadays as harvest is being done using machines, farmers load paddy on a truck and unload it at the procurement centres. Till the paddy is procured, it is lying on the ground exposed to rain,” he said. Meanwhile, after visiting various procurement centres on Saturday, district collector M Govinda Rao said that 70,000 tonnes of paddy have been procured since October 1 through the centres in Thanjavur district. Around 7,000 tonnes have been procured daily and the paddy bags were shifted to the respective warehouses on 500 trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lack-of-storage-facility-paddy-stored-at-dpc-for-procurement-damaged-in-rain/articleshow/78738743.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||In 24 hours, twice as many recoveries as fresh cases in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The steady decline in Covid-19 numbers in Pune Metropolitan Region continued on Sunday, with twice the number of people discharged comparing to fresh positive cases. At 9pm on Sunday, the daily report issued by the district health officer showed that PMR recorded 817 fresh cases, while 1,830 people recovered. This took the progressive tally for the region (overall positive cases recorded since the first one surfaced in March) rose to 3,14,462. Till Sunday, 2,86,737 people had recovered from the contagion. Thirty-one people succumbed to the infection, pushing the regional toll to 9,578. Pune Municipal Corporation limits reported 19 fatalities, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation Limited recorded four deaths. Cantonment limits, municipal council areas and rural parts of the region together reported eight deaths, the official report stated. Of the fresh cases, 366 were from PMC limits. Pimpri Chinchwad, with 195, had the second-highest cases in the 24-hour window, while rural parts (177 cases), municipal council limits (33) and cantonment areas (13) accounted for the rest. The rural parts of Pune district had highest number of recoveries, with as many as 706 patients from these areas getting discharged. Pune municipal limits recorded 698 recoveries, while Pimpri Chinchwad had 263 discharges. The municipal council areas (105) and cantonments (58) too saw their share of recoveries. This brought down the total number of active patients to 20,424. Of these, 10,846 people are being treated in various private and government hospitals in the region, while 9,578 are under home quarantine. As per the data released by PMC on Sunday, 2,276 patients were being treated on beds with oxygen support. The daily report further stated that 821 patients were in a critical condition in hospitals, and that 453 of them were on ventilator support on Sunday. Out of 31 deaths reported in PMR limits on Sunday, Pune municipal areas accounted for 19 deaths. Four people died in Pimpri Chinchwad, while the rural areas recorded six casualties. There was one fatality in the cantonments combined and two deaths in municipal council limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-24-hrs-twice-as-many-recoveries-as-fresh-cases/articleshow/78738755.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Over 450 gyms in Nashik district set to reopen after Dasara||NASHIK: Over 450 gyms and fitness centres in Nashik district are set to resume functioning right after Dasara as per the SOPs issued by the state government. There are 450 gyms and fitness centres in the district, including over 200 in Nashik city. Hundreds of Nashikites use these gyms to maintain their fitness daily. Gyms owners & trainers association of Nashik said many of the fitness centres have been reeling under severe financial crisis and reopening will help improve their financial conditions. The gyms and fitness centres were shut for the past seven months due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Hundreds of people depend on this sector. The state government has taken a good decision on reopening the gyms, said Vinod Gangurde, president of the gyms owners & trainers association of Nashik. “But we have been affected badly financially due to the closure of our gyms and fitness centres for seven months. Those operating gyms on rental properties are yet to pay their rent. We want the state government to provide some relief or soft loan to gyms and fitness centres,” said Gangurde.  Vipur Nerkar, the director of the fitness centre in the city, said, “Apart from taking medicines, increasing self-immunity is also important. The daily exercises are needed to maintain physical and mental fitness.” “We will carry out cleaning activities in a day or two. We will follow all the SOPs issued by the state government. Members are to be allowed as per the space of the fitness centre. We will provide time slots to the members,” said Nerkar. When contacted, Yatindra Dube, a critical care specialist said we need to wait for around three weeks until the number of cases drops further in the city. Many gyms and fitness centres in the city are running in small spaces. The chances of transmission of the virus is more in the gathering, said Dube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-450-gyms-in-nashik-dist-set-to-reopen-after-dasara/articleshow/78736861.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Beds vacant, but hospitals cannot admit non-Covid patients in Nagpur||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 patients has gone down significantly in the first two weeks of October leaving many Covid beds in private hospitals vacant. Till October 17, more than 60% of beds available in private hospitals were vacant in Nagpur. But, bound by government rules, these hospitals cannot admit non-Covid patients. According to NMC and health officials, non-Covid-19 patients cannot be permitted to use Covid beds without a proper administrative order. Hospitals are already facing a financial crisis. They have demanded admission and treatment of non-Covid patients. Patients on the other hand are finding it difficult to get beds in hospitals of their choice or hospitals empanelled by their department or those attached to insurance companies. “We were told to shift my father to a multispeciality hospital as his ailment could not be treated in the railway hospital. But it took almost one and a half days for us to get admission in the hospital of our choice,” said Swapnil Bhagat, a resident of Manewada. Non-Covid illnesses are on the rise. According to records of government medical college and hospital (GMCH), 13,335 patients have already reported to the non-Covid out patient department (OPD) in the first 15 days of October. More than 1200 of them are admitted in the in-patient department (IPD). Leading private hospitals have also reported a rise in visits of non-Covid patients. “Private hospitals developed all the Covid-19 facilities within the deadline given by the NMC and are now serving Covid patients. The number of patients has reduced. So, the authorities should allow hospitals to use these beds for non-Covid patients,” said Dr Anup Marar, convener of Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA). According to Dr Marar, hospitals have to pay increased salaries and incentives to staff working in Covid-19 wards. The daily maintenance expenditure for a 30-bed Covid-19 facility is nearly Rs5 lakh. At least 45 hospitals in the city have 30 or more beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. According to NMC officials, beds in private hospitals must remain reserved for Covid-19 patients as the upcoming festive season may bring in more cases. “Covid-19 has not gone. Reducing Covid-19 beds or closing down Covid hospitals won’t be a wise thing to do at this point in time. We will abide by whatever decision the state government takes,” said assistant municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma. Meanwhile, hospitals are ready to make changes and re-arrange Covid-19 beds whenever the situation arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beds-vacant-but-hospitals-cannot-admit-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78738752.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 19, 2020||Pune||‘My family...’ survey will also check for obesity||PUNE: The task force executing the door-to-door ‘My family, My Responsibility’ survey will now be checking for obesity too, besides health conditions that make a person prone to illnesses like Covid-19. The Union health ministry had already recommended the inclusion of obesity checks in surveys trying to identify citizens at risk of developing serious Covid-19. Pune district officials said they will now ensure the advisory is implemented. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI that (body mass index) BMI over 30-35 will now be made part of the identification criteria. Medical experts have said that Covid-19 has been especially severe in obese patients with BMIs over 30. Previous health surveys had put obesity in the “other” category after regular temperature and pulse oximeter checks. One recent study by a Delhi-based hospital also stated that obesity has emerged as an independent risk factor in Covid-19 cases. Even when there are no other health complications, high BMI can trigger severe complications. “Our door-to-door surveillance will now help us find such cases,” a Pune official said. A city doctor said that many Covid patients over 50 — who are also obese — have needed ICU support. "Patients with BMI of more than 30 are at a higher risk of developing serious Covid fallouts," the doctor added. Laproscopic and bariatric surgeon Shashank Shah said that for obese individuals, critical markers were already elevated. He said if they are identified with Covid and treated in time, recoveries will be faster. “There have been instances of obese people going undetected for diabetes and other co-morbidities. However, due to Covid-19, people have become more cautious," he added. Shah said that lately, insurance companies too have recognised obesity as a disease. The doctor said people have now started to claim medical insurance to address the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/my-family-survey-will-also-check-for-obesity/articleshow/78738749.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Exercise caution amid festivities, say officials||Hyderabad: State health authorities on Sunday asked people to exercise caution in wake of ensuing festivals, citing example of Kerala, which is dealing with a second wave of Covid-19. Stressing that over 70% of Covid-19 cases in Telangana have been asymptomatic, which shows a high percentage of silent carriers of virus, the authorities asked people to avoid crowded placed. Health workers were also directed to test patients with flu-like symptoms for Covid-19. “We are seeing less that 100 to 200 cases in each district. This is because people are taking precautions in addition to health department’s hard work. However, October to December is a time for festivities and people are expected to gather in large numbers while travelling from towns and cities to their native places. People will also go shopping but throughout all of it, we need to remember to be cautious,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. There are countries which are seeing a second and even a third wave. We become susceptible if we do not take take precautions,” he added. Further, alerting people about the water-borne and vector-borne diseases that can spread due to rains, health authorities assured that hospitals are being prepared to tackle the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exercise-caution-amid-festivities-say-officials/articleshow/78738816.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Topper among government-coached students may not get MBBS seat||TRICHY: Scoring 423/720, S Hari Krishnan topped among government school students in the state who were given free coaching by the state government to qualify NEET. However, his decent score may not fetch him a seat in a government medical college as only those candidates who could score above 450 got seats from BC category in government medical colleges last year. As Hari comes under BC category, candidates securing anything less than 500 may not get a government medical college seat this year, say his teachers. Securing 515/600 in class XII state board examination, Hari prepared for NEET and JEE simultaneously, training for about 10-15 hours a day. He was one among the few government school students who were trained by the teaching club of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy called IGNITTE. He was expecting over 600 out of 720 in NEET. “I could have secured more had I focused on NEET alone,” says Hari. He cleared JEE mains too with 80 percentiles, but it wasn’t enough to get a seat in any institution in south India. “Hari can get a government quota seat in a private medical college, but he comes from a humble family. His father works in a grocery shop and may not be able to afford Rs 8 lakh fee,” said M Joan of Arc, coordinator for free NEET coaching in Trichy district. According to Trichy district chief education officer S Santhi, if the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students takes effect, he will get a seat in a top government medical college. Only 19 students from government and government aided schools across the state had secured over 400 in NEET and Hari Krishnan was among them. While Hari says he will have to settle for paramedical courses if not MBBS, as he has developed interest in medicine, Santhi said Trichy district collector S Sivarasu has promised to help if he wanted to attempt NEET again next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/topper-among-govt-coached-students-may-not-get-mbbs-seat/articleshow/78738754.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Puliyancholai to get tourist facilities worth Rs 32 lakh||TRICHY: Puliyancholai waterfall is all set to get a facelift with the tourism department set to spend Rs 32 lakh for creating basic facilities for visitors. Located on Kolli foothills, the lesser-known tourist place will turn more convenient for visitors to bath in the stream after the work is over. The natural spring is about 76 km from Trichy city bordering Namakkal district and the only recreational spot remaining open for the public. Rainfall has increased the pace of the stream in recent weeks thereby attracting visitors from far-off places. While they come with families in vehicles, there hasn’t been much arrangement for parking or changing clothes. Trichy district tourism officer T Jegatheswari said work on the construction of a cloak room, changing room separately for men and women besides drinking water facility will begin soon. “Two-wheeler parking area and paver block road for a stretch of about 2 km will start in the first phase,” she said. The fund was allotted in March, but it got delayed due to the lockdown. “Further, we delayed the work to ensure that the work on hydroelectric power project in Kolli hills is not affected,” she said. A 20-megawatt hydroelectric power project is being set up at a cost of Rs 338crore by Tangedco. Five weirs (small barriers) are planned to be built across the stream to generate hydel power. “Tangedco approached us with request for lighting facilities in Puliyancholai for continuing work even during the night. We will soon be starting the lighting work. Rest of the developmental works would follow,” she said. S Sundararajan, a software engineer and a local, wanted dustbins to be placed at a few places around the stream according to the developmental activities planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/puliyancholai-to-get-tourist-facilities-worth-rs-32-lakh/articleshow/78738763.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||DGs of ITBP & SSB on independent visits to border areas in Uttarakhand||Pithoragarh: Amidst tension on the border with Nepal and China, the director generals (DGs) of Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) as well as Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) undertook independent visits to the border areas adjoining Uttarakhand. While the SSB DG carried out inspection of the border with Nepal, the ITBP DG visited the India-China border adjoining Uttarakhand. Sources said that the purpose of both officers’ visits was to try to get first-hand information about the border areas where their personnel are posted and to gauge their condition especially before the challenging period of winter sets in. According to the sources, ITBP DG SS Deswal undertook inspection from Munsyari to Dung, which is the last outpost on the India-China border adjoining Uttarakhand. “He began his journey from Munsyari on Sunday covering an almost 80 km trek on foot and inspected six posts at Munsyari, Lilam, Bugdiyar, Rilkot, Milam and Dung,” said a source. The sources added that the DG also inspected the Munsyari to Milam road, which is being constructed by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). Meanwhile, DG SSB Jyotirmoy Chakravarty undertook inspection of the 100-km-long Nepal border from Dharchula to Kalapani from Wednesday to Sunday, sources told TOI. “During his visit, the DG went to Dharchula, Gothi, Dobat, Najang, Pangla, Gunji and Kalapani border out posts (BOPs) to boost the morale of his personnel and know the issues they are facing first-hand,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dgs-of-itbp-ssb-on-independent-visits-to-border-areas-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/78736859.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s doubling rate improves to 41.5 days||Nashik: The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Nashik city has improved from 36 days around 10 days ago to 41.5 days now due to the drop in the number of Covid cases. Moreover, the recovery rate among the citizens has also touched 93%, which is the highest so far. The doubling rate of Covid-19 patients was 7.5 days in June and 21 days by August end. The rate improved to 36 days by the first week of October. Now, the doubling rate has improved to 41.5 days. The city had recorded a total of 29,541 cases on September 5 and 30,053 patients on September 6. By Saturday, 59,083 patients cases have been reported. Of which, 55,053 patients have recovered so far. The city had around 6,252 active cases on September 18. Now, the number of active cases has reduced to 3,194 which is also due to the rise in the number of patients recovered. NMC officials said there has been a drop in the number of new cases in October that has led to an improvement in the doubling rate. There was a spike in Covid-19 patients in September. The city had recorded over 850 new cases per day on an average in September. But the number of new cases has dropped in October as Nashik reported 447 new cases per day on an average between October 1 and 17. But the number of cases has dropped further in the last week as 314 new cases were recorded per day on an average in the last week between October 11 and 17. NMC officials said, “We have conducted a health survey of over 17.5 lakh population of the city and detected 578 patients in the first phase that ended last week under the government mission ‘My family my responsibility.’”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-doubling-rate-improves-to-41-5-days/articleshow/78736872.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||‘Chipko Movement’ revived as hundreds gather against felling 10k trees of premier elephant reserve for Doon airport expansion||Dehradun: It was an unusual Sunday outside Doon’s Jolly Grant airport as hundreds of protesters in facemasks stood in the scorching sun holding up placards of “Save Thano”, in an attempt to save the nearby Shivalik Elephant Reserve, where around 10,00 trees on an 215-acre portion face the axe to pave way for a new domestic terminal. The protesters consisted of young children and social activists who tied “raksha sutras” (protective strings) around the trees marked to be cut, saying this was another Chipko movement, referring to the famous movement in the 1970s, when villagers in Chamoli hugged trees to stop contractors from felling them. Sunderlal Bahuguna, who spearheaded the Chipko movement and is now 93 years old, lending support to the protesters, said , “In this time of Covid-19, we need trees more than ever. Trees are sucking poison out of the environment and by cutting them down, we will all be crying for oxygen,” the nonagenarian said. Students of premier environmental institutes like Wildlife Institute of India as well as Forest Research Institute also participated in Sunday’s protest. It gained traction on social media too, as “#savethano” trended on Twitter and the demonstration was streamed live on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube. Aayush Joshi, an environmental engineer from Dehradun, who was instrumental in organising Sunday’s protest, said the government’s move was “nothing short of an ecocide.” “We will not let our trees die due to construction works. We would rather sacrifice our lives for the environment,” Joshi said. Tying a scarlet thread around a sal tree, Mohit Uniyal from Doiwala said, “It’s my promise to this tree that I will not let it die. They plan to fell an entire forest without even taking local villagers in the loop. How insensitive is this?” Doon-based activist Lokesh Ohri, who was also one of the protesters, told TOI, “This is a misconceived airport expansion project, which has not been well thought out. Shivalik Elephant Reserve is a prime biodiversity hub of Uttarakhand, which is home to elephants, leopards and endless other avian and mammals species.” Ohri also contended that even though the government is saying the project is of strategic importance, the airport extension can be avoided. “We already have two air strips very close to the border – one at at Gauchar and another in Pithoragarh. Dehradun is far away from the border. If we do want to strengthen the country’s strategic infrastructure, why not upgrade the airstrips at the border? This proposed expansion is nothing but a smokescreen just like the Char Dham road and the Karnaprayag rail line,” Ohri said. Teen activist Ridhima Pandey, who is among the 16 children (including Greta Thunberg) from around the world to have signed a petition in the UN against polluting countries in the UN last year, was also present at the protest. “Climate change is an emergency. It is harrowing to watch that the Modi government is not ready to accept it and is constantly felling trees and hitting biodiversity at a rapid pace,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chipko-movement-revived-as-hundreds-gather-against-felling-10k-trees-of-premier-elephant-reserve-for-doon-airport-expansion/articleshow/78736867.cms||Shivani Azad
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar traders lose Rs 1 crore to cyber cheats||Rajkot: Two metal traders from Jamnagar were allegedly cheated of over Rs one crore by cyber fraudsters. According to police, the fraudsters created a fake email address of European Metal Recycling Company, a firm with which the two traders – Mitesh Kanakhra and Mehul – used to deal with. The duo used to import scrap material made of brass and sell it locally.Kanakhra had imported scrap in a container by paying 20% amount in advance, but was yet to receive it. Meanwhile, the conman approached him to inform him about the details of a new bank account. Kanakhra was asked to pay the remaining 80% amount to get his consignment released. He paid US$ 83,314 which amounts to over 61.1 lakh in Indian currency. Similarly, Mehul too paid Rs 46.7 lakh.The duo realized that they had been conned when the European company told them that they had never sent any mail regarding the new bank details and they have not received any money sent by the duo.“We have registered the offence and are trying to find out more about the accused based on technical evidence that are available right now,” said inspector K J Bhoi of Cyber Crime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-traders-lose-rs-1-crore-to-cyber-cheats/articleshow/78737721.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Pune||70% infections in PCMC areas among two age groups||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Patients from two age groups — 22 to 39 and 40 to 59 — made up over 70% of all Covid-19 cases in Pimpri Chinchwad, data has shown. The patient data was part of a report released by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s health department. The report said out of a total of 85,000 patients so far, over 60,000 have been from the two age groups. As many as 34,569 cases have been from 22-39 age group; 26,043 patients are from the 40-49 group. The PCMC's additional commissioner Santosh Patil, said, "All these patients fall within the working-age group. It's then not surprising that their numbers are high. Their recovery rate has also been excellent. However, these two groups need to be more responsible because they can pass on infection to elderly at home." Patil added that the number of Covid cases in PCMC limits increased after unlock measures in May, particularly within the 22-40 age bracket. Many of these patients were, however, asymptomatic. One doctor from the region said the 22 to 40 age group includes individuals who've only just started their professional careers. The specialist said despite active social circles and substantially high tendency to travel, better immunity helped them avoid severe Covid complications. The doctor added that numbers rose after restrictions on travel and businesses were eased. "Another major factor was increased testing within PCMC limits, which allowed civic officials to identify more cases within the community here," the medical practitioner said. A civic official said the My Family, My Responsibility survey had also uncovered a substantial number of hidden cases in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-of-total-covid-positive-cases-in-twin-town-were-youth-adults/articleshow/78738762.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Parth, north Maha’s NEET topper, achieves AIIMS aim||NASHIK: City-based Parth Kadam, who ranked 45th in the country and topped the north Maharashtra region in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) conducted recently said he had been dreaming about getting admission to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, all the time, and now his dream has come true. Both his parents are in the medical profession, in the field of gynaecology. Parth has always looked up to them as his idols. He developed a natural liking for biology and decided to have a career in the field. “Biology came to me very naturally as my parents, Chaitali and Sanjay Kadam, are in the field of medicine. Because I developed an interest in the subject, I decided to hold on to it,” Parth said. He dis his schooling in Maharashtra state board and his junior college at Pune University. “My dream was to get admission to the AIIMS in New Delhi. I am very happy that I would be getting a chance to get my graduation done from the country’s premier health Institute,” Parth said. When asked about his desired area specialisation, Parth said he was taking one step at a time and will now focus on his MBBS studies. “When I was in school, I focused on biology. Now I am focusing on MBBS. I’ll take a call on specialisation as I graduate in the next five years,” he said adding that it would give him a better understanding of the subject and help him choose wisely. Parth’s mother, Chaitali Kadam had a special role to play in the achievement. “The past two years have been the most important ones for his NEET preparation. I took out time to be with my son,” she said and credited Parth’s determination for his success. “The password he chose for NEET was ‘Top-Hundred’. Not only did it reminded him of his goal, but it also speaks volumes about his determination,” she said. Parth is self-made as far as his studies are concerned. He did not take up tuitions till Class X. “It was only after he entered junior college that he took admission for coaching classes,” his father Sanjay Kadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parth-north-mahas-neet-topper-achieves-aiims-aim/articleshow/78736879.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 19, 2020||Trichy||Runway work: IndiGo cancels two services from Trichy||TRICHY: With the re-carpeting work of the existing runway at Trichy international airport gaining pace, IndiGo Air will cancel one of its daily Chennai services and a bi-weekly Mumbai service from October 26 to November 30. Air India Express will reschedule its international rescue operations during the period. Since re-carpeting work is nearing completion, airport authorities have decided to take up the work during day time. The work which was being carried out between 11 pm and 8 am will now be done from 10 am to 6 pm, officials said. IndiGo Air said that among the three Trichy-Chennai daily services, the afternoon service will be cancelled, while the morning service will be advanced. The afternoon Hyderabad service has been rescheduled to morning and the afternoon Mumbai bi-weekly service cancelled. Slight changes have also been made in the Bengaluru service. All Air India Express international rescue services have been rescheduled to late night. The flights would depart from Trichy late in the evening to bring back stranded Tamils and arrive at night, sources said. The carrier has also cancelled Dubai-Trichy rescue operations during the period. To maintain the mandated international standards, Airport Authorities of India (AAI) commenced the process of re-carpeting the entire runway during March at an estimated Rs 20 crore. Officials said a total length of 2,423 metres and 45-metre-broad runway is getting re-carpeted with tar. Out of the total length of the runway, 580-metres was constructed by concrete. The entire length is now being replace by tar layer, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/runway-work-indigo-cancels-two-services-from-trichy/articleshow/78738771.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Delay reopening of schools, doctors prescribe||AHMEDABAD: The buzz in academic circles suggests that limited reopening of schools will be allowed in Gujarat after Diwali. But the recent guidelines issued by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) have advised reopening only after the case positivity rate goes below 5% in the district concerned. That translates into fewer than five persons testing positive for Covid-19 of the 100 scanned. Dr Chetan Trivedi, an Ahmedabad paediatrician and executive board member of IAP for 2021, said there shouldn’t be a hurry to go back to the normal that doesn’t exist anymore. “Schools may even try to adapt to the stringent norms of sanitizing and social distancing — but what about informal interactions outside classrooms?” he said. “It’s a quintessential school experience which should not be undermined. It’s difficult for younger students to follow all norms.” Dr Dipesh Pujara, the president of Academy of Paediatrics (AoP), Ahmedabad, said: “Some European countries are witnessing the second wave of Covid-19.” Dr Pujara said that could also be the case in India in a few months as winter is believed to be conducive to viral spread. “If at all we intend to restart, the primary section must not be called to school this academic year,” he said. Dr Nishchal Bhatt, another Ahmedabad paediatrician, said that while the spread of Covid-19 is minimal among kids, their role as silent carriers is not ruled out. “They may not contract it, but can infect the elderly if they come across the infection,” he said. He added that kids must not go to school if they show signs of cold or fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delay-reopening-of-schools-docs-prescribe/articleshow/78738809.cms||Parth Shastri
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Married man blackmails, rapes 18-year-old girl||RAJKOT: A 26-year-old married man was booked for raping an 18-year-old girl under the pretext of marrying her by blackmailing her. The girl told the police that the accused, Mehul Solanki, had promised to marry her two years ago. Since she trusted him, over the two years she used to often visit him at his home in Chamundanagar in Rajkot where they used to get physical with each other. However, Solanki married someone else and when the girl learnt about it, she decided to break-up with him. Police said that Solanki did not want to break-up with her and wanted her to continue the relationship, despite being married. But as the girl was adamant about cutting off all ties, he threatened that he will make the videos of their private moments public. Solanki then called the girl again to his house on October 16 by blackmailing her and raped her. Police said that earlier Solanki had physical relations with the girl with her consent but as she was minor it will be considered as rape and now she was blackmailed and raped. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/married-man-blackmails-rapes-18-year-old-girl/articleshow/78737733.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bareilly||Two women on morning walk run over by speeding vehicle||Bareilly: Two women — both residents of Moradabad — died on the spot after being hit by a speeding car on Haridwar highway near Dadhi Mahmoodpur village under Chajlet police station on Sunday morning.Police identified the victims as Saroj Devi (55) of Rana Nagla village and Rajwati (45) of Mathana village, and sent their bodies for postmortem.The incident took place when the duo had gone out for a morning walk. After spotting the women lying in a pool of blood, locals informed police about the accident.Chajlet police station SHO Sunil Kumar said, “By the time police were informed, the women had died. We impounded the car and arrested the accused, Gurmeen (30), a resident of Rampur. He was booked under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-women-on-morning-walk-run-over-by-speeding-vehicle/articleshow/78734658.cms||Maria Khan
October 19, 2020||India||BARC rebuts Republic’s statement||A statement by Republic Media Network claiming that it was in receipt of an official email from the Broadcast Audience Research Council that “there is not a single complaint or malpractice found against Republic TV or Republic Bharat” triggered a strong rebuttal from the rating agency on Sunday saying it had been misrepresented. BARC said it was “highly disappointed” with the actions of Republic Network and that BARC had not commented on the probe into alleged rigging of TRPs. “BARC India has not commented on the ongoing investigation and it is providing necessary assistance to the law enforcement agency. BARC India is highly disappointed with the actions of Republic Network by disclosing private and confidential communications and misrepresenting the same. BARC India reiterates that it has not commented on the ongoing investigation and without prejudice to BARC India’s rights, it expresses its dismay at the actions of Republic Network,” the council said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barc-rebuts-republics-statement/articleshow/78739927.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||Former GSLDC officer booked in Rs 1 crore DA case||VADODARA: A retired government officer from Dahod having disproportionate assets worth Rs 1 crore was booked by anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Sunday. Laxmikant Parulkar, who retired as the assistant director of Gujarat State Land Development Corporation (GSLDC) in Dahod, came under ACB’s radar following complaints against him. ACB officials said that his assets were 57.7% more than his income earned from legal sources. During investigation, ACB sleuths found out that Parulkar and his family members had received of Rs 1.9 crore, but they spent Rs 2.9 crore. “The accused misused his position and adopted corrupt practices to earn quick money illegally and invested it in different assets in his and his family members’ names,” an ACB official said. In the current year, ACB has registered 12 DA cases against 20 accused and unearthed disproportionate assets worth Rs 26.6 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-gsldc-officer-booked-in-rs-1-crore-da-case/articleshow/78737638.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Outreach without gadgets||Ahmedabad: The state government has devised a plan to reach out to students who are not equipped with either television or smart phones to be able to access education in this Covid-19 pandemic, when schools are shut. According to the education department, there are 57% students studying in government schools who do not have access to smart phones and 48% students do not have a television set at home. Similarly, there are 33% students in grant-in-aid schools who do not have smart phones and 46% do not have access to television. Teaching such students has been a big challenge for the education department even as most private schools in urban areas are getting ahead with online education banking on internet. Sources in the education department said that the government is coming up with seven methods to reach out to such students, who cannot access online education. The initiatives have been under way with providing textbooks to such students. Teachers have been in contact with students through their parents on phone and pass on necessary instructions for education. Teachers have been regularly supplying and collecting question papers and answer sheets for unit tests. There have been methods deployed to reach students who do not enjoy the access to electronic gadgets. There are 9% students in government schools and 3% in grant-in-aid schools who do not have any connectivity, with their families not possessing any phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/outreach-without-gadgets/articleshow/78738805.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University mum on how many appeared for re-exam||NAGPUR: In a baffling development, the Nagpur University (NU) exam section didn’t release any data on number of students appearing in re-exam conducted for the October 9 goof up on Sunday. Board of Examination and Evaluations director Prafulla Sabale didn’t answer TOI’s queries and calls till late in the evening. The unavailability of re-exam data raised doubts among academic circles and activists who asked if any student actually appeared since it was a non-working day. Former management council member Mahendra Nimbarte alleged the exam section was deliberately concealing the data as students failed to login. “Firstly, it is not clear if students were properly informed about the re-examination as it was Sunday. Secondly, there is possibility that some students appeared more than once in the exam. How is the exam section going to decide which paper to consider valid? Students are devoting so much time but unable to login for online exam,” he said. Nimbarte, who is president of Padvidhar Mahasangh, accused the university of holding illegal examinations as the no schedule was being followed. “To achieve a certain success ratio, the university is allowing students to login at any time and appear in the exam. Is it a university exam or mock test,” he asked. The Mahasangh president demanded that students should be given photocopies of answersheets. The NU has issued a circular asking students to apply at their college in case they missed online exams. Meanwhile, a delegation of National Students Congress led by its state chief Sunil Gavhane will stage a demonstration outside NU main building on Ambazari bypass as part of the student body’s statewide campaign against online examininations on Monday. NCP’s student wing has initiated ‘Vidyarathi Agni Pariskha’ over the chancellor BS Koshyari’s move to hold summer examinations for non-agricultural universities in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-mum-on-how-many-appeared-for-re-exam/articleshow/78737755.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 19, 2020||Kanpur||Kin of accused seek narco test of missing boy’s family||KANPUR: The families of the five persons arrested and sent to jail in the case of the alleged kidnapping of the six year old nephew of the Unnao rape victim, who was set ablaze by upper caste men, staged a protest on Sunday terming the allegations baseless and fabricated, demanding CBI inquiry and narco test of the complainants. The families stage dharna near Jhaadi Baba Mazar close to the Collectorate, and demanded justice for their family members accused of kidnapping the rape victim’s nephew. “The male members of our family are being tormented. We are being mentally harassed. No evidence has been presented but they have been labelled as kidnappers and sent to jail,” they said. “We are ready for a lie-detector test of our five family members who have been accused of kidnapping the boy. And we also want a narco test of the complainants and their family members because we want a fair investigation in the case. If our men fail in the lie-detector test and are found guilty, award them capital punishment, but if they have not kidnapped the boy, then release them,” said the family members sitting on dharna. It has been more than 15 days since the boy had gone missing on October 2 evening. Inspector Bihar police station Santosh Kumar Singh, said the boy, who is nephew of the deceased Unnao rape victim, had gone missing under mysterious circumstances from his aunt’s house. An FIR was lodged the same day under relevant sections of the IPC and nearly 14 police teams had been working to recover the missing child. “We are in the process to get the polygraph test done on all the five accused. We will move the court to seek permission to conduct the test on them,” superintendent of police, Unnao, Sureshrao A Kulkarni had stated before the media recently. The family of the child lodged a complaint against five people, Captain Bajpai, Saroj Trivedi, Anita, Sundara Lodh and Harshit Bajpai, all of the same village and related to Shubham and Shivam Trivedi, Harishankar, Umesh and Ramkishore, who had allegedly poured petrol on the rape survivor and set her ablaze to prevent her from going to Baiswara railway station where she was supposed to board a train for Rae Bareli for meeting her advocate in 2019 December. Three police constables deployed for the security of the rape victim’s family were suspended after the boy went missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kin-of-accused-seek-narco-test-of-missing-boys-family/articleshow/78737752.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 19, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19: Gujarat records lowest daily tally in 55 days at 1,091||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Sunday added 1,091 cases, taking the total to 1.6 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally for the state in 55 days as the cases went below 1,100 after 54 days. The new Covid cases in Gujarat include 239 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, 107 from Rajkot, and 84 from Jamnagar. The number of daily cases from Surat and Ahmedabad were exactly the same as on Saturday. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 40,295, 33,843, 14,325 and 11,553 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of nine patients, taking the death toll to 3,638. The deaths included five from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar. It was the highest daily toll for Ahmedabad district in 50 days. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 1,873, 819 and 204 respectively. A total of 1,233 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 1.41 lakh. It was the lowest daily discharges for the state in 21 days. The discharges included 270 from Surat, 190 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Rajkot and 78 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached 14,436. It was the lowest active cases in 58 days – earlier the lowest for the state was 14,320 on August 21. As on Sunday evening, the share of active cases in Gujarat in total Covid-19 positive cases recorded so far was 9%, the lowest ever. The share of discharged and deceased patients was 88.7% and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 52,141 tests, taking the total to 53.74 lakh. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.48 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-state-records-lowest-daily-tally-in-55-days-at-1091/articleshow/78740403.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat records lowest daily tally in 55 days at 1,091||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Sunday added 1,091 cases, taking the total to 1.6 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally for the state in 55 days as the cases went below 1,100 after 54 days. The new Covid cases in Gujarat include 239 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, 107 from Rajkot, and 84 from Jamnagar. The number of daily cases from Surat and Ahmedabad were exactly the same as on Saturday. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 40,295, 33,843, 14,325 and 11,553 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of nine patients, taking the death toll to 3,638. The deaths included five from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar. It was the highest daily toll for Ahmedabad district in 50 days. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 1,873, 819 and 204 respectively. A total of 1,233 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 1.41 lakh. It was the lowest daily discharges for the state in 21 days. The discharges included 270 from Surat, 190 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Rajkot and 78 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached 14,436. It was the lowest active cases in 58 days – earlier the lowest for the state was 14,320 on August 21. As on Sunday evening, the share of active cases in Gujarat in total Covid-19 positive cases recorded so far was 9%, the lowest ever. The share of discharged and deceased patients was 88.7% and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 52,141 tests, taking the total to 53.74 lakh. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.48 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-state-records-lowest-daily-tally-in-55-days-at-1091/articleshow/78738798.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cases down, time for Covid warriors to ‘recharge’ mind & body||NAGPUR: Health officials from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), zilla parishad (ZP), public health department and National Health Mission (NHM) continue to be on their toes despite the city’s Covid graph nosediving. Many doctors and officials have decided not to lower their guard by returning to their routine work, with the possibility of a second wave not ruled out yet. Some are staying put outside their homes to keep their loved ones protected, while many haven’t taken even their regular weekly offs or leaves since March. Experts feel that since the situation is not alarming, health officials must plan for ‘recharge days’ to break the monotony of work and rejuvenate the Covid warriors. Senior psychiatrist at Regional Mental Hospital Dr Praveen Navkhare suggested recharging oneself is as important to prevent a burnout, which is likely to happen in current pandemic. “The recharge focus should be on mind, body and spiritual health. The practical solution would be change of work or reshuffle of desk to avoid monotony. The idea here is not to relax, as pandemic is not over yet, but recharge to overcome burnouts and improve overall efficiency. If breaks are not given in work assignments, then burnouts are more likely to occur,” he said. Dr Navkhare said in-house clusters and group activities among employees can also help. “Ventilation and discharge of pent up feelings through spiritual talk or motivational lectures can work wonders,” he said. Top NMC officials said health care staff engaged by the civic body has now been allowed to take leaves and weekly off as the pressure has eased. “Less workload has allowed them to take offs on rotation basis,” they said. However, doctors and paramedics at Covid care centres said they are not yet aware of any such move. “We are reporting to work like we have been doing since March. Weekly offs started a couple of weeks back but then we have to be on phone all the time even at home,” said a CCC official. Another CCC official said they need a break like in the medical colleges. Doctors and paramedics from Rashtriya Bal Swastha Karyakram said they too are working non-stop on different Covid assignments. “We trained online food delivery agents. Then, assisted in converting quarantine centres into CCCs. Now, we are deployed at testing centres,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-down-time-for-covid-warriors-to-recharge-mind-body/articleshow/78737775.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 19, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19: Gujarat records lowest daily tally in 55 days at 1,091||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Sunday added 1,091 cases, taking the total to 1.6 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally for the state in 55 days as the cases went below 1,100 after 54 days. The new Covid cases in Gujarat include 239 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, 107 from Rajkot, and 84 from Jamnagar. The number of daily cases from Surat and Ahmedabad were exactly the same as on Saturday. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 40,295, 33,843, 14,325 and 11,553 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of nine patients, taking the death toll to 3,638. The deaths included five from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar. It was the highest daily toll for Ahmedabad district in 50 days. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 1,873, 819 and 204 respectively. A total of 1,233 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 1.41 lakh. It was the lowest daily discharges for the state in 21 days. The discharges included 270 from Surat, 190 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Rajkot and 78 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached 14,436. It was the lowest active cases in 58 days – earlier the lowest for the state was 14,320 on August 21. As on Sunday evening, the share of active cases in Gujarat in total Covid-19 positive cases recorded so far was 9%, the lowest ever. The share of discharged and deceased patients was 88.7% and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 52,141 tests, taking the total to 53.74 lakh. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.48 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-state-records-lowest-daily-tally-in-55-days-at-1091/articleshow/78740404.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Gujarat records lowest daily tally in 55 days at 1,091||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending at 5pm on Sunday added 1,091 cases, taking the total to 1.6 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally for the state in 55 days as the cases went below 1,100 after 54 days. The new Covid cases in Gujarat include 239 from Surat, 183 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, 107 from Rajkot, and 84 from Jamnagar. The number of daily cases from Surat and Ahmedabad were exactly the same as on Saturday. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 40,295, 33,843, 14,325 and 11,553 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of nine patients, taking the death toll to 3,638. The deaths included five from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar. It was the highest daily toll for Ahmedabad district in 50 days. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 1,873, 819 and 204 respectively. A total of 1,233 patients got discharged in 24 hours in Gujarat, taking the total to 1.41 lakh. It was the lowest daily discharges for the state in 21 days. The discharges included 270 from Surat, 190 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Rajkot and 78 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached 14,436. It was the lowest active cases in 58 days – earlier the lowest for the state was 14,320 on August 21. As on Sunday evening, the share of active cases in Gujarat in total Covid-19 positive cases recorded so far was 9%, the lowest ever. The share of discharged and deceased patients was 88.7% and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 52,141 tests, taking the total to 53.74 lakh. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.48 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-19-state-records-lowest-daily-tally-in-55-days-at-1091/articleshow/78740405.cms||---
October 19, 2020||India||Houses razed in Assam-Mizoram border flare-up||SILCHAR/GUWAHATI: At least 20 houses and shops along the Assam-Mizoram border in Cachar district were set ablaze and several people were injured as a shower of petrol bombs landed from the other side of the boundary late Saturday following a dispute over a Mizo checkpoint set up the previous night. Lailapur residents alleged that a group of Mizos had illegally set up a checkpoint in Cachar, about 2km from the inter-state border, on Friday. “They were armed and roamed about brandishing their weapons. They did not allow a group of Assam forest officials to cross the checkpoint,” a resident said. Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday called the PMO and home ministry to apprise them about attacks. Cachar DSP Bhargab Goswami, along with a police contingent, had reached Khulicherra, about 5km from Lailapur, on Saturday, and spoken to Mizo police officials about removing the illegal checkpoint. After some hesitation, the checkpoint was dismantled, sources said. In retaliation, groups of Mizos attacked properties, threw petrol bombs and assaulted people on the Assam side. Assam environment and forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya visited the spot on Sunday and assured residents that their demand for a police outpost would be taken up with the higher authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/houses-razed-in-assam-mizoram-border-flare-up/articleshow/78739932.cms||BB Goswami
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Groundwork done on 50 complaints from public, says HM Anil Deshmukh||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh in a first of it’s kind grievances redressal camp at Police Gymkhana is set to meet 50 complainants on Monday who had submitted applications regarding various property related offences, illegal activities and anti-social elements at his office in August this year. He told TOI that the complaints of victims of various anti-social activities would be addressed. The state home minister is also likely to make announcements regarding focused and dedicated probe into property related offences and white-collar crimes. Deshmukh, who was on three-day Vidarbha tour, said 50 complaints of different issues were shortlisted, examined and readied for further probe from among the several received. “The homework has been done on the complaints after I had forwarded them to the police to ascertain whether they had proper documents and supporting evidence,” he said. “At the camp, I would be accompanied by CP (Amitesh Kumar) and his team. The cases would be allotted to senior officers on the spot after I shall hear the complainants,” he said. In the past, Deshmukh had stated that he had been getting complaints about white collar crimes especially property related offences following which the decision to address the issue was taken. Deshmukh also said the present camp was a ‘pilot project’ and would be replicated elsewhere if it succeeded here. “The time spent on the investigations would not be uniform but shall depend upon factual contents of each individual cases,” he said. Regarding the issue of forming special investigation team (SIT), Deshmukh said the cases would be dealt with more focused approach but decision about forming such squads would be shortly taken. “So far, we have around 300 complaints in all to deal with. In our next camp, we would deal with next 50 complainants and so on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/groundwork-done-on-50-complaints-from-public-says-hm-deshmukh/articleshow/78737791.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘ITI students scripting startup success’||Thiruvananthapuram: The government’s training initiatives on entrepreneurship for the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in collaboration with Udhyam Learning Foundation, and NGO, are receiving good results, labour and excise minister T P Ramakrishnan said. Two of the 30 ITI students from Kozhikode trained in the first batch have been able to get their ideas for self-entrepreneurship approved by the Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) and have been granted loans for their initiatives, the minister said. He added that 450 more students from 28 ITIs across the state are currently undergoing the training programme. As many as 30 selected master trainers from the 28 ITIs were provided training by the Udhyam Learning Foundation, who in turn, go back to their institutes and train the selected students. The programme was launched on July 29 this year. The main idea behind the training is to improve the students’ employability skills and equip them to come up with own ventures. The students will also be assisted to market the products developed as project during their training. The minister said financial institutions are looking for good ideas and entrepreneurs, and being technical experts, the ITI students will be able to launch new initiatives and provide jobs to more people. The minister said there are schemes under which the financial institutions will provide loans up to Rs 50 lakh. With an aim to launch 5,000 new ventures in the next five years with 1,000 units per year, the Kerala Financial Corporation has already launched schemes that will provide loans up to Rs 50 lakh for new ventures at the rate of 7% interest. Out of the 4,879 applications received by the KFC, 506 have been qualified, and 356 loans have been sanctioned. Entrepreneurs spur economic growth and with several measures implemented by the government, the state has been able to make great strides in information technology and its allied sectors like the nanotechnology and artificial intelligence, the minister said. By attracting more ITI students to these sectors, the state will be able to ensure great achievements in the sector, he said. The minister also gave away the certificates for the first batch of ITI students who successfully completed their training under the Udhyam Learning Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/iti-students-scripting-startup-success/articleshow/78736928.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana still has 5th-highest cases per lakh in Punjab||Ludhiana: Even as there has been a marked improvement on many parameters of Covid-19 in Ludhiana, the number of cases per lakh population remains at its highest in the district so far. The health department officials though maintain that this is due to the large population of the district.As per the state’s Covid media bulletin containing data till Saturday evening, the number of cases per lakh population in Ludhiana stood at 560.4 on the day. This is the highest value since August 13, when the health department started providing such data.The figures show that cases per lakh population on August 13 were 246.8, which increased to 437 by August 31 and further to 469.8 on September 5 before falling to 339.1 cases per lakh the next day. Thereafter, the graph went on rising to reach 405.2 on September 15, 513.3 at the month-end and was finally at 560.4 on October 17.On this parameter, Ludhiana stands at fifth spot, with SAS Nagar occupying the top position with 707.5 cases per lakh population. Jalandhar, Patiala and Pathankot were at number two, three and four spots with 656.4, 654.3 and 626.1 cases per lakh, respectively. Tarn Taran with only 171.9 cases was first from the bottom in the list.A health department officer said this high number of cases per lakh population is apparently because they are testing a large number of suspected persons in the district.He said the count of cases per lakh is expected to drop significantly after the infection rate decreases further and positive patients and their contacts are detected and isolated, and all that is not possible without an aggressive testing of suspects. This can result in an increase in the number of positive cases in the short term, but this is the only way to contain the virus spread, he stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-still-has-5th-highest-cases-per-lakh-in-punjab/articleshow/78736920.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents move rights panel for clean drinking water||Ludhiana: Irked over the callousness of the authorities in solving the water contamination problem, the residents of E Block, SBS Nagar, Pakhowal Road, have approached the Punjab State Human Rights Commission, saying their health is being adversely affected. The residents said they were forced to drink contaminated water that emanated foul smell and many of them, especially kids, have been frequently falling ill. They alleged that after coronavirus, dengue started spreading and now they were at risk of water-borne diseases. A resident, Arvind Sharma, said, “We have been complaining since 10 days about water contamination. It has become tough for senior citizens and children. The officials were not solving the problem, so we had no other option but to approach the human rights commission.” While condemning the approach of the authorities, an activist, Narinder Singh Masson, said, “For the most of October, residents of SBS Nagar E Block suffered at the hands of insincere officials. Most of the residents have developed medical problems and are compelled to spend time and money on safe water in the time of pandemic. The emergency situation needs immediate action or children and elderly will suffer immensely.”Ludhiana Improvement Trust executive engineer Boota Ram said, “When the information about water contamination reached us, the Punjab water supply and sewerage board officials started looking into the matter. They have found problems in some of the connections in houses and are fixing those.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-move-rights-panel-for-clean-drinking-water/articleshow/78736913.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Rain damage raises price of vegetables in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The damage caused to the vegetables due to consistent heavy rainfall a few days ago has hit their supply to the cities. On Sunday, most weekly mandis were opened for the first time in the past seven months. These weekly mandis are meant for vegetable farmers who can sell their produce directly to citizens. However, on Sunday, very few farmers had come to the market as most had suffered rain-related crop damage. The supply to the agriculture produce market committee was also hit. The APMC was kept open on Sunday for the first time, mainly to facilitate farmers to come and sell produce to the traders who then sell the same small mandis, malls and to hotels. When compared, the daily inflow of vegetables a week ago and on Sunday clearly shows that the supply was hit by around 30% to 40%. Asif Bagwan a trader from APMC said: “The produce comes from not just Kolhapur district, but also from Sangli district. In both districts, the rain has damaged the crops. Every day, I get around two mini-tempo-load of vegetables from Sangli. But only one tempo has arrived in the past three days.” Around 17,000 kg of tomatoes arrived at the APMC on October 11. But on Sunday, only around 12,000 kg had come in. In APMC, tomatoes were sold at Rs 30 per kg and in open mandis, despite other small farmers selling their produce directly to the customers, tomatoes cost around Rs 60 per kg. Similarly, the supply of methi (fenugreek) had come down from 19,000 bunches to 9,000 and the price was Rs 40 per bunch in the Sunday market. Some vegetables such as green pepper bought to the mandis were of poor quality and fetched Rs 40 per kg. Shirol tehsil is considered a major supplier of vegetables. Farmers there had to crush the produce in the soil during lockdown so as to prepare the land for the new season. Now, the rain has damaged their crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rain-damage-raises-price-of-vegetables-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78736929.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Two claim to have killed disabled man||LUDHIANA: The police on Saturday evening arrested two men for kidnapping a disabled man of Lohara. Even as the arrested confessed to have killed the kidnapped man, Charanjit Singh, 45, police suspect their admission as a misleading attempt as the body has not been recovered. The accused have been identified as Veeram Singh, his brothers Gurdit Singh and Dupinder Singh and auto driver Simran Singh, all residents of Basant Nagar. Of them, Veeram and Simran have been arrested. Charanjit’s brother Baljeet Singh Malra, a Congress worker, said in his police complaint, “My brother was unmarried and lived in Gian Chand Nagar. We would meet after a week or two. As Charanjit, who had polio, had not met his family for some days, I went to his house on October 7. I called him up on finding the door locked. As his phone rang inside the house, I spoke to his neighbours who told me that Charanjit had not returned home since the night of October 2.” A worried Baljeet went to Daba police station to file a missing person complaint. “The police asked me to wait for a few days. Meanwhile, I started asking his friends and our relatives about him. A couple of days later, I met Charanjit’s friend Narinder Singh. I asked him about my brother and he said on the night of October 2, he had dropped Charanjit at the house of Veeram Singh. There, Charanjit asked Veeram to return the money he had borrowed from him. As heated arguments ensued, Narinder left the place. Veeram was our family friend. On September 20, he had borrowed Rs 20,000 from us, saying he would return within 10 days. But he did not,” he added. After talking to Narinder, Baljeet went to Veeram’s house, but the latter did not talk to him. “I spoke to his neighbours, who told me that Veeram and his brothers, who work as part-time drivers, thrashed Charanjit and took him somewhere in Simran’s auto,” said Baljeet. He again approached the police, who called Veeram and Simran for questioning. Daba police station SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said, “Veeram told during interrogation that he along with his brothers Gurdit and Dupinder thrashed Charanjit when he came to his house asking for repayment. After thrashing him, the accused asked Simran, their neighbour, to bring his auto-rickshaw. They bundled Charanjit into the auto, hit a brick on his head and stabbed him before throwing him into Kaind canal in Khanpur village.” Following the confession, police pressed divers into service, but they could not find Charanjit’s body in the canal. “It is being probed whether they killed Charanjit, as they claim, or have kept him in confinement. We are on the lookout for the other accused,” the SHO added. A case has been registered under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) of 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The murder section would be added if the body was recovered, the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-claim-to-have-killed-disabled-man/articleshow/78736935.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Dashmesh Nagar woman dies, 67 positive for Covid||LUDHIANA: An octogenarian woman of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 67 tested positive on Sunday. As per the local media bulletin, the 82-year-old woman with hypertension was a resident of Dashmesh Nagar. She died at civil hospital. The day also saw a patient from Mohali succumbing to the virus and 27 outsiders testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has increased to 819 and that of outsiders to 298. To date, 3,51,508 persons have been tested. Of the 67 positive cases, 24 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), four positive cases’ contacts, 23 from OPD, two healthcare workers, 13 through tracing process and one undertrial. The Ludhiana case count now stands at 19,673 and that of outsiders at 2,596. So far, 18,499 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.03% of the total cases. There are 352 active patients. As many as 1,589 persons are home quarantined. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Eighteen patients, including eight from Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dashmesh-nagar-woman-dies-67-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78736926.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Upset over NEET performance, woman ends life||LUDHIANA: Unhappy over her performance in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), an 18-year-old woman committed suicide at her house in Jagraon on Sunday. Her parents, who are school teachers, said, “On returning home from market, we called up our daughter many times to ask her to come downstairs. When she did not take our calls, we went to her room on the first floor and found her hanging from the ceiling fan.”  They brought her down and took her to a hospital, but she could not be saved. City Jagraon police station SHO inspector Nidhan Singh said, “Her parents said she had fever before NEET, so she couldn’t perform well. She was upset as the result as not as per her expectation.” Police said the woman, who has a 10-year-old brother, had topped in classes X and XII. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/upset-over-neet-performance-woman-ends-life/articleshow/78736930.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Agra||2 days after reopening, overcrowding forces Vrindavan’s Banke Bihari temple to shut its door ‘indefinitely’||Agra: Iconic Banke Bihari temple in Vrindavan was shut “indefinitely” on Monday, just two days after it reopened its portals to the devotees. On the first day of its opening on Saturday -- also the first day of Navratri -- nearly 25,000 devotees flocked to the famous temple to get a glimpse of Lord Krishna after over seven months. The huge crowd posed a big challenge to the temple committee, which struggled to enforce social distancing norms and local police were called for help. Amid allegations of “mismanagement”, the committee decided to shut the doors for a course correction. “The temple will remain shut for devotees from October 19 till further orders. It will reopen for ‘darshan’ of Lord Krishna after proper coordination with district administration and police to ensure security of devotees during this pandemic,” a temple notice read. Before opening the temple, its management had issued a notice saying that only 400 devotees will be allowed in the entire day. “200 devotees will get the chance of ‘darshan’ in the first slot from 8am to 12pm. And another 200 in the next, between 5:30 pm and 9:30pm,” the notice read. Also, the committee had decided to give entry to those who come after registering themselves on the online portal http://www.shreebankeybihari.com. But, unfortunately, the website was not functional and the devotees kept on coming in hope of ‘darshan’, a senior official said. District magistrate of Mathura Sarvagya Ram Misra told TOI, “A police force was deployed outside the temple for crowd management. But the turnout of devotees was huge as it was the first day of Navratri. As the online registration system was also not working, the chaos increased. We could not have taken action against the devotees as it is a matter of faith.” “We will review the arrangements on Monday,” he added. Devotees from far off places like Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Delhi and Rajasthan reached Mathura for ‘darshan’ on Saturday, said officials. A senior police officer said that once the online registration system is in place, it will be easy to control the crowd. “Then the temple will allow only those who have confirmation of a particular slot for darshan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-days-after-reopening-overcrowding-forces-vrindavans-banke-bihari-temple-to-shut-its-door-indefinitely/articleshow/78736122.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Banking on Good Samaritans to provide food for the hungry||PANAJI: To ensure that no one goes hungry during the pandemic, a few Samaritans have come together and installed a fridge in the state capital wherein food donations will be kept for the needy. The fridge will be open to the homeless from Monday, October 19, onwards. “The pandemic has been difficult on all of us and even after businesses are slowly getting back on track, these people are still left to beg for their daily meal,” Rinton D’Souza, who initiated the project, said. D’Souza was inspired by social media posts of similar initiatives in Mumbai that have been feeding the homeless during the pandemic. The Sangolda-based food bank that is already active from the past few years gave further impetus to his movement. “I sought help on social media and immediately received responses from a few friends who wanted to be a part of this initiative. Amogh Fulari provided a fridge free of cost and Anees Shaik helped with installing the fridge at his shop in Panaji. It took us a couple of weeks to coordinate and get the ball rolling,” he said. The fridge is placed in the vicinity of the Panaji church sqaure, at the shop, Shamsudin & Co. The food bank will be operational from 11am to 9pm, during which food can be both donated by people as well as collected by the needy. D’Souza is currently approaching restaurants in the city, requesting them to donate their leftover food at the end of the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/banking-on-good-samaritans-to-provide-food-for-the-hungry/articleshow/78739612.cms||Nida Sayed
October 19, 2020||Agra||Huge explosion at illegal firecracker unit in Agra, 4 dead||AGRA: At least four persons were killed following an explosion at an illegal firecracker unit operating from a house in the densely populated New Azampara locality under Shahganj police station in Agra on Sunday afternoon. Three died on the spot while four others were rushed to SN Medical College. One of them later succumbed during treatment. The explosion was so severe that cracks appeared on the walls of nearby houses. After over two hours of operation, the fire was neutralized. Two fire tenders were called in. District administration has ordered a probe. SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said, “Initial investigation reveals that the house had a large stockpile of firecrackers. The crackers caught fire following leakage from a gas cylinder. Chaman Mansuri, the owner of the house where the blast occurred, has a firecracker manufacturing licence under the name of Mughal fireworks. The licence was issued for operating in Midhakur village under Malpura police station. But, operating the unit in a residential area was totally illegal." SSP Babloo Kumar said, “A forensic team was called in to investigate and collect samples from the site. The two-storey house where the firecrackers were illegally kept has weakened following the blast. Policemen have been deployed in the area. Strict action will be taken against those responsible." The four deceased men were 10-year-old Abid, Sheru, 24, Farmaan, 18, and Salauddin, 27. All four were members of the house owner Chaman Mansuri's family. Residents claimed that the issue was raised at the local police station in the past. But, no action was taken, they said. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Now, all the magistrates and police stations have been directed to identify illegal firecracker units and ensure a time bound action against them. Spot inspections will be conducted at licenced centres." Watch Four killed in blast at illegal firecracker unit in Agra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/huge-explosion-at-illegal-firecracker-unit-in-agra-4-dead/articleshow/78736130.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Commuters return but buses, taxis lie idle in parking lots||CHENNAI: Lohit, a resident of Radha Nagar in Chromepet, is a regular on route number 91. Before the lockdown, he would get a bus every 10 minutes, but now, with businesses opening and commutes becoming more frequent, Lohit has to wait for almost 20 minutes to board a bus. “Even then, we don’t get a bus even during the morning peak hours and the ones available are overcrowded,” he said. With hundreds of MTC buses grounded because of tax dues and thousands of cars and autorickshaws lying idle due to loan-related problems, the city’s public transportation has not been in sync with the unlock mode. Six weeks after relaxing lockdown norms, more than 30% of MTC’s bus fleet is in depots. While MTC said it did not get permission from the transport department to operate at full capacity, transport unions said pending taxes have kept the buses off the roads. According to transport department data, MTC is yet to pay road taxes for 700 buses. Operating these buses without clearing dues will lead to penal action. An MTC official said none of the buses being operated has pending dues. “Transport corporations across Tamil Nadu are struggling to meet their expenditures because of increase in diesel prices and fall in patronage. The government has to extend financial support to pay taxes. Or else they will not be able to operate the entire fleet if the government allows them in the coming months by relaxing norms,” said K Arumugam Nainar from CITU-affiliated state transport union. Before Covid, MTC's daily footfall was 36 lakh and it operated 3,300 buses. With no suburban trains and fewer cabs and autos, dependency on MTC has increased now. If MTC is to follow social distancing norms and transport 36 lakh people, it would need 4,300 buses or even more. But MTC has removed 1,000 buses from daily services causing delay and overcrowding in existing buses on road. But there are very few buses. Commuters say bus frequency has reduced compared to September. In the first week of September, MTC operated around 2,300 buses. In Chromepet, 85 buses are operational now. Last month, 101 out of the 153 buses were scheduled for operation. A senior MTC official said patronage was not uniform on scheduled routes. “Public get angry if conductors refuse to board more passengers citing social distancing norms. But we are making the best efforts to avoid spread of the infection,” said a senior official from the corporation. Cabs, which along with autorickshaws complete the transport chain, are not running in full capacity. J Ramanujam from Tamil Nadu Call Taxi Owners Association said usually 15,000 drivers used to log on to various cab apps every day in Chennai for daily trips. But in October, hardly 6,000 people logged in because they were earning only Rs 400 a day. Earlier, they took back at least Rs.1,000 a day after 12-hours shifts. “Drivers are not showing much interest in leasing cars owned by aggregators. So hundreds of cars are parked at yards in Poonamalle, Ekkaduthangal and other areas. Many drivers, who were unable to pay EMIs, have returned their cars,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/commuters-return-but-buses-taxis-lie-idle-in-parking-lots/articleshow/78737823.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||After robbery bid, police to release security guidelines for finance firms||LUDHIANA: After a robbery bid at the Dugri Road branch of Muthoot Finance, the Ludhiana Police believes that security lapses by finance companies make them easy targets. The police are now coming up with security guidelines for all such companies and these will be released in the next two days under Section 144 of the CrPC, making them an order for mandatory compliance. On Friday morning, six armed robbers had barged into the office of Muthoot Finance, Dugri Road, held the staff captive at gunpoint and filled their bags with 30kg gold and Rs 2.75 lakh. While three accused, Saurav, Roshan Kumar and Surjit Kumar of Bihar, were nabbed with the help of the public and the company staffers, three others, Sushil Kumar, Alok Singh and Varun Kumar, are at large. The accused had also opened fire in an attempt to flee, injuring four persons. Police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal told the TOI that the accused were members of a notorious gang of Bihar involved in gold robberies, bank dacoities and contract murders. They have executed similar robberies in Odisha, West Bengal and Delhi, besides Bihar. The accused had heard from migrants, who returned to their hometowns in Bihar during lockdown, that Ludhiana was the financial capital of Punjab, so they hatched a conspiracy to execute the heist here, he added. Agarwal said, “For the past over a month, the accused were doing a daily recce of the branch. During the investigation so far, the police have not found involvement of any employee of the company.” About the company’s security lapses, as the office had only one unarmed guard, Agarwal said, “Security arrangements at such finance companies, especially gold loan firms, need to be boosted. We are preparing guidelines for them and will release them in the next two days. These guidelines will be released under Section 144 of the CrPC and their compliance will be mandatory like we did for the spas in the city. It will be a foolproof plan to make finance companies secure.” He said the Ludhiana police have made different teams to trace the on-the-run accused and were tying up with their counterparts in other states as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-robbery-bid-police-to-release-security-guidelines-for-finance-firms/articleshow/78736938.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||After cracking NEET, Jhunjhunu farmer’s son to join AIIMS Delhi||JAIPUR: Anil Kumar (17), son of a farmer at Bissau town in Jhunjhunu, has proved that lack of facilities can’t deter someone from being successful. Kumar secured 77th national rank in his first attempt for NEET and set to grab a seat in AIIMS Delhi. His father borrowed money from the local landlord to meet his expenses in Kota. He had no choice, but to crack the examination in the first attempt else a painstaking journey of repaying the borrowed money with interest would have continued for years. “I had only two choices. First, a stethoscope around my neck and second the steering wheel of a tractor back home. I was under constant pressure of the debt my father had taken for my education in Kota. I am happy to have made judicious use of the borrowed money. Now, we hope the money can be returned once I am settled down,” said elated Kumar. He has been a bright student and studied in a private school in Bissau on a scholarship. He went to Kota in 2016 to live with his aunt who worked as a helper in a girl’s hostel in Kota. There he saw his cousin brother preparing for NEET which drew his interest in the medical profession. He completed his Class XII in 2018 and had to wait for two years to turn 17 which is the minimum age to appear in the examination. “Without my aunt, this dream wouldn’t have been possible. She took care of my stay in the girls’ hostel and food. I was told that coaching institutes run several scholarship programmes meant for needy and those which shows consistent results. I took this as an opportunity and qualified for the 90% scholarship which reduced the burden on my father,” said Kumar. He is sure of getting a seat in AIIMS, Delhi even in the overall category and would like to do specialization in neurosurgery for a reason. “My mother is down with a neurological disorder which remained undiagnosed for years due to lack of medical professionals in this area,” said Kumar, whose aim is to make medical facilities not restricted to bigger towns and cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-cracking-neet-jhunjhunu-farmers-son-to-join-aiims-delhi/articleshow/78738856.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Official: Golconda is a mud fort, is vulnerable to harsh weather||Hyderabad: After the torrential rains that battered the city, a wall near the Jagadambika temple in the 500-year-old Golconda fort recently collapsed. According to an Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) official, the steps and rocks of the Kingsway, another structure near the second well, also suffered damage from the heavy downpour. “The portion of the upper parapet, close to the temple, has collapsed due to the rains on October 15, while some walls closer to the portion cracked. It is a mud fort and is vulnerable to such harsh weather,” the official said. “The movement of tourists is regulated. Visitors are not allowed to places that have suffered damage,” said a security guard of the fort. According to an ASI official, the rocks in the fort are bonded by the original limestone masonry. A few wide cracks emerged in it as the water eroded the soil binding together the structure. Heritage experts say that better maintenance and monitoring is a constant need to preserve the fort. “It is a massive area and there is not enough budget with ASI for upkeep. The staff taking care of the fort and monitoring the multiple structures are limited. For maintenance, the ASI needs highly trained technical personnel,” said Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/official-golconda-is-a-mud-fort-is-vulnerable-to-harsh-weather/articleshow/78738858.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Two chargesheeted for hacking FB account of Saudi expat||Mangaluru: The Udupi district police have filed a chargesheet in connection with the arrest of two siblings for hacking the social media account of Harish Bangera and posting provocative posts from it. Harish Bangera, 33, from Beejadi in Kundapur taluk of Udupi district was jailed in Saudi Arabia since December 22 for allegedly insulting religious sentiments and abusing the Saudi royal family through provocative posts on Facebook. Harish was an AC mechanic working in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. The arrested accused were identified as Abdul Uais and Abdul Tuves, residents of Moodbidri. Harish’s wife had suspected foul play regarding her husband’s arrest in Saudi. Later, she filed a complaint at the Udupi district cyber police station for a thorough investigation. Superintendent of police N Vishnuvardhana said that they recently filed a chargesheet in connection with the arrests made. Meanwhile, they have also submitted a report to the ministry of external affairs in this regard. Suman, Harish Bangera’s wife, claimed that her husband is innocent, and that the posts on Facebook were uploaded by hacking his account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-chargesheeted-for-hacking-fb-account-of-saudi-expat/articleshow/78737394.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Govind Karjol’s son airlifted to Hyderabad||BENGALURU: Deputy chief minister Govind Karjol son’s Gopal Karjol, who has been on ventilator for the past 24 days after testing positive for Covid-19, was airlifted on Sunday evening to Hyderabad. Dr Gopal, 43, is Karjol’s eldest son. He had tried his hand at politics in by contesting the assembly elections from Nagathan constituency in Vijayapura in 2018, but had lost. “Many family members, including my son-in-law, are doctors,” the minister said. “We decided to airlift him to Hyderabad and take him to Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences. We consulted a prominent pulmonologist who runs the hospital.” Karjol said if his son’s condition does not improve, he may have to undergo a lung transplant. Manipal hospitals, Bengaluru where Gopal was undergoing treatment, refused to comment on the matter. Karjol himself had tested positive for the virus in the last week of September, but has since recovered although he suggested the infection has left him somewhat drained. He was in the eye of a storm last week after drawing criticism for not visiting flood-affected victims in Kalaburagi, but attending a BJP poll rally in Sira, where a byelection is scheduled. Karjol is minister in charge of the district. Karjol defended the decision say, “My entire family and I have been affected by the pandemic. Moreover I am 70 years old and I find it difficult to travel 600 to 700 kilometres in a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dycm-karjols-son-airlifted-to-hyderabad-covid-for-treatment/articleshow/78737593.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH students protest against cut-off criteria||Hyderabad: Students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) launched a relay hunger strike on Sunday against the administration’s alleged reduction in the number of PhD and MPhil seats by implementing the cut-off marks. The UoH students’ union had been protesting in front of the administrative block and raising slogans against the administration since Saturday. The union alleged that there has been a subversion of the reservation policy for MPhil and PhD admissions and demanded the administration to call for interviews in 1:6 ratio for the available seats. “Atleast 71 seats are vacant in the recent list, out of which 64 seats belong to the reserved categories. The seats are being deliberately left out to make higher education a distant dream for marginalised sections. Students’ union condemns this autocratic decision,” said M Sree Charan, vice-president, UoH students’ union. The UoH authorities have referred the matter to admission grievance committee. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-protest-against-cut-off-criteria/articleshow/78738891.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||30-year-old married woman immolates self in Baran district||KOTA: A 30-year-old married woman immolated her by pouring an inflammable liquid on her body at her house in Barbatkhedi village under Chabda police station area of Baran district on Sunday morning. The woman was the fourth wife of a 35-year-old man. His first two wives had left him earlier while the third wife had also immolated herself, coincidentally during Navratra days a few years ago. Radhibai, wife of Giriraj Kumawat, poured an inflammable liquid on her body and set herself afire around 9.30am on Sunday while her husband was away, Chabda police station ASI Lalit Pareek said. The woman sustained severe burn injuries and was rushed to a local hospital by members of her extended in-laws family. Doctors referred her to Baran district hospital but she succumbed to burns on the way, he added. Radhbai got married to Kumawat around 4 years ago, he added. Post-mortem by the medical board in presence of subdivisional magistrate was underway and the body would be handed over to the family members for last rites after that, the ASI said. The deceased woman had one child while the other two were from previous wives, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-year-old-married-woman-immolates-self-in-baran-district/articleshow/78738889.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||RTU first university in Rajasthan to upload study material of 120 engineering subjects||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) has become the first university in the state to upload learning material related to all 120 engineering subjects. It will allow the engineering students enrolled in all colleges affiliated with RTU and Bikaner Technical University (BTU) to attend online classes from home. The e-content is in addition to the college-wise classes. This is the first of its kind initiative in which colleges have participated in creating the visual content to beat the Covid-19 restrictions on classes. The e-notes/lectures will be available on RTU.ac.in web portal. The content is primarily made for providing relief to students who are unable to attend classes. “The entire exercise has gone miles ahead of its target. The content will provide quality lectures by experienced teachers to every student. Students who are not happy with the teaching in their colleges can also seek direction from the e-content,” said R A Gupta, V-C of RTU. The content is being designed by the highly experienced academically rich and research-oriented faculties from the top-rated engineering colleges in the state. “The lectures on subjects will be based on the syllabus which means students can stick to it and don’t have to look for any other generalised e-content,” said Gupta. “In case any questions don’t match the listed questions, the student can raise it in the portal and will be answered by the team monitoring the portal,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtu-1st-univ-in-state-to-upload-study-material-of-120-engg-subjects/articleshow/78738859.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Elderly couple booked for harbouring son accused of rape||LUDHIANA: The division number 5 police booked an elderly couple for sheltering their NRI son who was wanted by the Ludhiana police in a cheating and rape case, on Saturday. The accused had come to India to apply for bail and stayed at the house of his parents at Mehrana Khurd village of Sangrur. The accused have been identified as Jugraj Singh of the same village and his wife Charanjit Kaur. The 39-year-old complainant from Ludhiana had got an FIR lodged against NRI Parminderjit Singh at Daba police station for cheating and raping her in 2016. The accused had duped her of Rs 20 lakh on the pretext of taking her to Australia. The accused had also allegedly raped her on the pretext of marriage. Later, the accused had solemnised marriage with another woman and fled. After the FIR, the accused was declared a proclaimed offender on November 15, 2016, by a court and the police also issued a look-out circular at all international airports for the arrest of the accused. In another complaint filed on May 30, 2019, the woman stated that the accused, Parminderjit Singh, had come to India from Australia in 2019. He had applied for bail in the court through his counsel, but the bail application was dismissed by the court. Following this, the accused had returned to Australia via Nepal. Investigating officer from police division number 5 ASI Hardev Singh said that during investigation the police had found that the accused had come to India via Nepal as he was aware that the look-out circular had been already issued for his arrest. He stayed at the house of his parents and returned to Australia after his bail application was dismissed by the court. A case under Section 212 (harbouring offender) of the IPC has been registered against the accused’s parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/elderly-couple-booked-for-harbouring-son-accused-of-rape/articleshow/78737844.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP, TDP demand Rs 20L ex gratia for flood hit||Hyderabad: BJP and TDP on Sunday demanded the TRS government increase ex gratia from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh each to the families who lost their loved ones in the flood fury. The second wave of flood not only played havoc at Al Jubail Colony, Gazi-e-Millat, Ali Nagar, Hashmabad, but also Hafeez Baba Nagar, Barkas, Omer Colony and adjoining localities on Saturday night. Consequently, Falaknuma bridge caved in, forcing authorities to stop vehicular movement on the important link road.  On ex gratia to the flood victims, BJP’s minority wing termed it as insufficient to deal with the devastation. “Gurram Cheruvu has been encroached upon and its channel diverted, causing flooding in adjoining areas,’’ BJP Minority Morcha spokesperson Mir Firasat Ali Baqri said. TDP Telangana unit asked government to probe the disappearance of water bodies and the actual cause of flooding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-tdp-demand-rs-20l-ex-gratia-for-flood-hit/articleshow/78738884.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Action against officials if farms not surveyed: Satej Patil||KOLHAPUR: District guardian minister Satej Patil on Sunday said that gramsevaks and talathis, who are village-level officials, will face action if they fail to conduct panchanamas of the farms where crops have been damaged due to the recent rainfalls. Patil on Sunday visited farms in Chandgad tehsil to check on the damage caused by the rains and interact with the farmers. At Kovad village, Rukhmini Giri, a paddy farmer, informed Patil that the crop was in the last stage of harvesting. “Now my entire farm has been destroyed. There is nothing left to harvest,” she said. Patil also met sugarcane farmers and as per rough estimate crops on around 2,300 hectare have been damaged due to the rain. “I have asked the tehsildars to issue an order asking village officers to complete the panchanama of damaged farm fields before October 30. Also, the tehsildar should clearly state that if any farmer complains that his or her farm has not been surveyed for compensation, action will be taken against the talathi and gramsevak concerned . Also, a day before the survey is planned, the farmers in that particular village has to be communicated,” the minister said. Patil also directed the district agriculture authorities to get the details of the sugarcane farms where the canes have fallen due to gusty winds. “In such cases, the sugarcane must be immediately harvested and taken to the mills for crushing so that there is no further damage to the crop,” he said. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is going to tour the rain-hit and flood hit parts of Solapur district on Monday. He is expected to announced the immediate monetary relief to the farmers to clear and restore the farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/action-against-officials-if-farms-not-surveyed-patil/articleshow/78736993.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Post-Covid-19 complications a major cause of worry for doctors||LUCKNOW: A 60-year-old Lucknow resident, who was going to Delhi after recovering from Covid-19, had to cut short his journey and rush to KGMU when he started feeling breathing difficulties. He was immediately admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and his medical examination revealed that he had developed inflammation in heart muscle which resulted in breathlessness. This is not the only case. Fresh novel coronavirus infections are declining, but the post-Covid-19 complications have become a major cause of worry for doctors. Several such cases are being reported daily. While in a few complications, particularly related to respiratory, heart and kidney functions, are severe to the extent that patients had to be put in ICU again, in some comorbidities like diabetes and thyroid-imbalance were found to have aggravated. Patients, who have moderate Covid-19, are coming with problems like low immunity, smell loss and weakness. Severe body ache is also common in most post-recovery cases. Survivors are also facing psychological issues like fear of re-infection. Dr D Himanshu, a communicable disease expert, KGMU, said that the hospital is receiving daily one or two serious and five to ten mild cases of Covid-19 post-recovery complications. “Most post-recovery serious cases are of those Covid-19 patients who had severe infection and post-recovery developed lung fibrosis leading to breathing difficulty. Other cases include heart complications, blood clotting, thyroid derangement, blood pressure and uncontrolled blood sugar,” he added. Head, medicine department, KGMU, Prof Virendra Atam said: "Low immunity is a common problem in most Covid survivors. Many patients with no symptoms of thyroid are coming with swollen throats and are found to have derangement in thyroid levels. In some patients, the problem of mouth ulcer has also been detected.” Medical superintendent, RMLIMS, Dr Srikesh Singh said recently they had to put two Covid survivors -- 42 and 62 years old -- on ventilator support again after recovery when it was found that their oxygen saturation levels declined due to lung fibrosis. "Besides those coming to hospital for post-recovery complications, we are also getting regular phone calls from people apprehensive about re-infection because of weakness and body ache,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/post-covid-19-complications-a-major-cause-of-worry-for-docs/articleshow/78739616.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat yet to set up team to investigate lion deaths||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government is yet to form an investigation team to look into the large number of deaths of Asiatic lions in the first five months of 2020. A report of a committee set up by the central government had in July recommended setting up of a special team comprising of an immunologist, an epidemiologist, virologists, parasitologists, clinical experts and ecologists for field visits to ascertain the actual cause of mortality in lions between January and May this year. According to the Union forest ministry committee report, the total number of lion deaths in the landscape till May 31, 2020 was 85. In comparison, mortality in the Asiatic lion landscape during the entire calendar years of 2018 and 2019 had been 112 and 134, respectively. “I am sure the state government is working towards setting up a special team as recommended by the MoEFCC. The government should expedite work in this direction and step up efforts for conservation of the lion in a scientific manner,” said Nishit Dharaiya, member of the state wildlife board. Two state forest department officials said the department is not keen on involving outside agencies in the surveillance or monitoring of lions and hence there has been a delay in forming the probe team. The MoEFCC report does not mention the canine distemper virus (CDV) as one of the reasons for the large number of deaths, but suggests precautionary measures like expediting the development of CDV vaccines for the strain isolated from the Asiatic lion population in Gir and addressing its efficacy. The state government has also procured 1,000 CDV ferret vaccines and had initiated the process for acquiring another 1,100 vaccines, according to the report. The ministry report, among various other measures, also suggested the strengthening of field functionaries by filling the large number of vacancies on priority basis. The positions of at least 250 beat guards and 85 foresters are vacant in Gir (East) division, it said. Against the approved strength of 208 forester for Gir (East) division, existing strength is only 110. There are only 279 forest guards in the area against the approved strength of 540. “To the best of my knowledge, there have been more than 50% vacancies in almost all cadres of forest staff, particularly in the wildlife divisions, for a long time. These posts need to be filled at the earliest for better conservation of lions and their habitat,” said Bhushan Pandya, ,ember, state board for wildlife. In the case of the Junagadh wildlife circle, there are only 28 foresters against the sanctioned strength of 42 and 81 forest guards against the approved strength of 141. At a recent meeting of the state wildlife board, chief minister Vijay Rupani, who chairs the board, promised that vacant posts would be filled soon, said Dharaiya, who has done his PhD on Asiatic lions. Beat guards and foresters are front line staff and are directly linked to conservation of the lion landscape. While it is important to have technology like radio-collaring, these are support systems and should not be seen as a replacement for human trackers, Dharaiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-yet-to-set-up-team-to-investigate-lion-deaths/articleshow/78738903.cms||Maulik Pathak
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||2 persons commit suicide in separate incidents in Chomu||Jaipur: In separate incidents, two persons, including a minor, committed suicide in Chomu within a span of few hours on Saturday evening. Their autopsies were done on Sunday. The reasons behind the suicides are yet to be ascertained as the victims were alone at home when they hung themselves. On Saturday around 3pm, 17-year-old Sumit Kumar was found hanging from the ceiling fan when his parents returned home after shopping. His father works as a security guard. "The deceased teenager did leave behind a suicide note though it did not specify any reason for the boy taking his own life. In the note, he only wrote he loves his parents, but could not live up to their expectations. The parents also appeared to be clueless as to what made their son take his own life," said an official of Chomu police station. The same night around 9pm, 23-year-old Arjun Kumar hung himself while his family was out. He did not leave any suicide note. Elaborating on the second suicide, the official said, "Arjun was found inside his room which was locked from inside. When he did not open the door despite repeated knocking, the family broke down the door and found him hanging. We are yet to determine the reason behind the suicide." According to officials, Arjun was unemployed which might have led him to taking this action. The bodies of the two victims were handed over to families on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-persons-commit-suicide-in-separate-incidents-in-chomu/articleshow/78738890.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||CID-CB to supervise investigation into Dungarpur violence||JAIPUR: The state crime branch will supervise the probe into last month’s Dungarpur violence. The situation in Dungarpur and Udaipur remained tense for four consecutive days after a group of protesters torched a pickup van and vandalised property. Officials told TOI that while CID-CB was not taking up the investigation, a team of officers has been formed to supervise the probe. Violence erupted in the region on September 24 when candidates of teachers recruitment examination-2018 blocked the Udaipur-Ahmedabad Highway, pelted stones at police, damaged several property and torched vehicles demanding filling of 1,167 general vacant posts with ST candidates. The protestors torched over 25 vehicles, ransacked shops, hotels and a petrol pumps. The violence came to end when police personnel including present DGP M L Lather went to Dungarpur and held talks with tribal leaders. Rajasthan Police have arrested over 150 people in connection with the violence and arson in the district. The opposition had blamed the state government as well as Bharatiya Tribal Party for the violence in which three persons were killed. Cops had to resort to firing when a mob could not be controlled. CID- CB will look into all the FIRs that have been registered in the case. This is the third major case which the crime branch will supervise after the alleged sex racket uncovered in Sawai Madhopur involving office bearers of Congress and BJP and investigation into the death of temple priest who was burnt alive in Karauli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cid-cb-to-supervise-investigation-into-dungarpur-violence/articleshow/78738899.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||In Ludhiana, 67% of juveniles held guilty in 2019: NCRB||LUDHIANA: When it comes to percentage of juveniles held guilty for offences under the Indian Penal code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLL), Ludhiana has less such percentage as compared to Amritsar and other cities of the state, but is higher than that of Chandigarh in 2019. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) suggests slight increase in pending cases against juveniles for such crimes in 2019 as compared to the year before. As per the latest NCRB report, percentage of juveniles held guilty for crimes under IPC and SLL in 2019 was 66.7% for Ludhiana, which is less as compared to Amritsar, which had a percentage at 78.6% in the same year. Chandigarh had a rate at just 45.1% in the year. The percentage of juveniles held guilty for crimes under IPC and SLL for 33 metropolitan cities of the country was 84.2% in 2019. As per the NCRB data, whereas the total number of juveniles apprehended was 182, the total number of cases disposed of was 87. Of such cases, 42 juveniles were awarded imprisonment, whereas 16 of them were dealt with fine and 29 juveniles were acquitted or discharged by the court. The data suggests that as compared to earlier years, starting 2016, the percentage of juveniles held guilty had mostly been witnessing a fall. Whereas such percentage was a whopping 92.1% in 2016, the percentage fell to 82.8% in 2017 before increasing to 84.1% in 2018 and then again reaching a low value in 2019. The data of last many years suggests that pending cases for disposal had increased from just 16 in 2016 to 136 the next year and then fell to 92 in 2018 before increasing to 95 in 2019. Legal experts say that the approach of courts in such cases is reformatory. “In such cases, court normally takes a view to reform a juvenile so that he doesn’t suffer in future. The court also takes into account the state of mind of the accused at the time of occurrence of crime. Also many times, evidence doesn’t come in such cases,” said senior advocate Yogesh Khanna. He added that the pending cases had increased as there was only one such court in Ludhiana and given the population of the district and volume of cases, the number of such courts should be increased. Sham Sunder Ahuja, secretary, District Bar Association (DBA), and a senior lawyer, said that juveniles could be declared guilty even if court took reformatory view. He added that if percentage of guilty was falling, it was because the prosecution couldn’t prove its case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-ludh-67-of-juveniles-held-guilty-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/78737849.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Volunteers to curb tribal student dropouts||IDUKKI: The Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) has launched a project to reduce school dropouts among tribal children. Under the Ooruvidya Kendram project, selected volunteers will be entrusted with the task of child monitoring and mentoring at centres set up in different parts of the district. They will act as a link between the children and the teachers. As many as 15 qualified volunteers have been picked up from the tribal community for the project. Devikulam MLA S Rajendran will kick off the project with the inauguration of an Ooruvidya Kendram at Marayoor Theerthamalakkudy on Tuesday. “School dropout among students from remote areas has been a major hurdle in the path of tribal development. Another problem is that most of the children attending school for the first time do not know Malayalam. The Ooruvidya Kendram volunteers will help them,” said Dhanya P Vasu, programme officer, SSK. “The volunteers will be provided Rs 5,000 each per month as honorarium. SSK is planning to implement the project in more tribal hamlets of the district,” said Vasu. “The volunteers will ensure student attendance. Proper monitoring of the students is also important,” said the official. A total of 480 tribal students from various settlements will benefit from the project. The centres have been opened in Alampettikudy, Chempakathozukudy, Palappettikudy, Societykudy, Periyakudy,Valasapettikudy, Theertamalakudy, Eechampettikudy tribal settlements in Munnarand Koragattikudy, Mazuvadikudy, Njavalparakudy, Thalukandamkudy, Thetalakudyand Venkayaparakudy in Adimali and Thadiyanal in Karimannoor region, said officials. A study conducted by the state child rights protection commission has revealed that a total of 121 students dropped out from various schools in Edamalakudy tribal panchayats in the last academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/volunteers-to-curb-tribal-student-dropouts/articleshow/78737025.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Mahadevapura, Bommanahalli buck trend of falling cases in B’luru||Bengaluru: Bengaluru has reported relatively fewer Covid-19 cases over the past 10 days compared to the previous 10 days. However, during the same period, the number of tests conducted in the city has also significantly increased. Data culled from BBMP’s Covid-19 War Room daily bulletins shows a total 23,81,342 tests have been conducted in the city as on October 16, while the positivity rate dropped to 12.8% from the September 16 figure of 13.9%. In the past 10 days alone, a commendable 4,62,527 tests have been conducted in Bengaluru city. While cases have fallen in six of the BBMP’s eight zones over the same 10-day period, Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli in the IT corridor have registered an increase. Between October 7 and 16, Mahadevapura reported 5,273 cases, up from the 4,151 cases it recorded in the preceding 10-day period from September 27 to October 6. Testing has increased from about 4,000 per day to 5,500 per day (on an average) over past four weeks. As on Sunday (October 18), Bengaluru Urban reported a total 3,07,540 cases and while 2,39,579 people have recovered, 3,526 (including one due to non-Covid reasons) have died. However, the fatality rate in Bengaluru still hovers around 1.2% mark and BBMP officials suggest ramping up tests is the only way to reduce the rate. Officials say areas controlled by huge panchayats on the outskirts of Bengaluru are where Covid-19 safety norms are being ignored, resulting in a spike in infections. They say that while the inflow of people into Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli has increased, panchayats have not responded by ramping up their surveillance systems leading to the virus spreading. Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, attributed the drop in positivity rates to tests being ramped up. "If you analyse the number of tests conducted over the past 30 days, you will find that it has increased by more than 100%," Prasad said. "We are on an average conducting 50,000 tests every day. Identifying primary and secondary contacts, tracking people with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and testing them all remains the prime focus." Prasad revealed that the target is to bring positivity rate down below 5% and the fatality rate below 1% and insisted comprehensive efforts are on in this direction. "The average number of cases reported daily in Bengaluru now stands at about 3,500 while the tests are more than 10-fold higher," he said. Asked about the trend of rising cases in Mahadevapura he said, "Initially more cases were reported in East, West and South zones but now it is increasing on the outskirts of the city. It can only be contained if people behave responsibly by ensuring social distancing, wearing masks properly, ensuring hand hygiene and ramping up tests."  Meanwhile, compared to other major cities in the country, Bengaluru stands second in positivity rates after Pune (24.4%), but the Karnataka capital city’s fatality rate (1.2%) is the lowest compared to cities with a huge caseload. Mumbai tops the list with a rate of 4%, while Pune is at 2%, Chennai at 1.9% and New Delhi at 1.8% as on Friday (October 16).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mahadevapura-bommanahalli-buck-trend-of-falling-cases-in-bluru/articleshow/78737613.cms||Kiran Parashar
October 19, 2020||Nashik||HC quashes FIR against owner of shop booked in atrocity case||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed an FIR registered against two people — a fair price shopowner and his employee — who were booked under an atrocity case and other charges by the Latur police for allegedly abusing a woman and molesting her when she had gone to the shop for getting ration.The ration card with the woman was issued in the name of her father-in-law. She had been living apart from her husband for the past 10 years. However, she had been using the card and had been collecting ration from the fair price shop. She has three children. Of them, two live with her, while the eldest son lives with his father.When she went to buy ration from the shop in Mahmadapur on January 30, 2019, the shopowner insisted on getting her name separated from the card. At the same time, the woman’s eldest son reached the shop and objected to his mother taking the ration and ran away with the ration card.Following this incident, the woman, Muktabai Bansode (38), approached the Latur rural police and lodged a complaint against the shopowner and his employee.  Suryakant Shelke (70) and his aide Pradip Surwase (45), both residents of Mahmadapur, were booked under sections 3(1)(14) and 3(1)(15) of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and section 354, 294 r/w. 34 of the Indian Penal Code. Later, both the accused approached the high court through SS Panale seeking to quash the FIR.While allowing the petition, the bench comprising Justices T V Nalawade and M G sewlikar observed: “The entire record shows that there was a dispute between the woman and her son. Due to that dispute and as the ration card was taken by Pravin, the ration could not be given to the informant. It appears that as ration was not given to the woman, she became angry and gave the report of aforesaid nature. Due to all these circumstances and as almost all the statements are against the informant and they are to the aforesaid effect, this court holds that it will be misuse of process of law if the shop owner and his employee are asked to face the trial for aforesaid offences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hc-quashes-fir-against-owner-of-shop-booked-in-atrocity-case/articleshow/78738922.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Alumni to CM: Appoint Sainik School principal||Lucknow: In an appeal to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Captain Manoj Pandey UP Sainik School Old Boys’ Association on Sunday requested him to ensure early appointment of principal of the school as the post has been lying vacant since March last year. The school is observing its diamond jubilee year this year without a head. Currently, the school is managed by registrar Lt-Col UP Singh who is acting as officiating principal. The Old Boys Association, also known as UPSAINIANS, consist of serving and retired defence officers, civil servants, corporate officials, educationists, doctors, lawyers, businessmen and students. In its appeal, the association said it is not a good sign for an institution to remain headless for such a long time and demanded early appointment of the principal as it would help them celebrate the diamond jubilee year with more enthusiasm. “For the appointment purpose, the military, secretary branch, which looks after posting and promotions of defence officers, sends a list of three officers (they can be from Army, Navy and Indian Air Force) to the department of secondary education which selects one from the panel,” said Amit Jaiswal, secretary, UPSAINIANS. The association also said that it has full faith in the CM’s leadership and vision to make the Sainik chool a role model for the rest of the sainik schools in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/alumni-to-cm-appoint-sainik-school-principal/articleshow/78739633.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Cure is in your kitchen, spices can do wonders’||Lucknow: The cure is in the kitchen and spices can help one fight back curing cold, cough and stomach ailments. Be it turmeric or pepper, the high medicinal values present in these spices can save us from visiting doctors more often. This was emphasized by state minister for women welfare Swati Singh during the ongoing ’Arogya Vatika’ event of ‘Navbharat Times’ on Sunday. The campaign is a step towards creating awareness about the health benefits of plants available in our surroundings. During the event, an ‘Arogya Vatika’ was set up at a park in the Vrindavan Sector 11, in which herbs with high medicinal values were planted. On the occasion, director of Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plant PK Trivedi said ‘Arogya Vatika’, a garden with medicinal and aromatic plants, should be set up in every district of the state. It will not only make people aware of the benefits of medicinal plants but will also help them stay healthy. Around 50 medicinal plants like giloy, tulsi and ashwagandha were planted in the two parks during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cure-is-in-your-kitchen-spices-can-do-wonders/articleshow/78739626.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Woman jumps into tank with two kids||A married woman along with her two children committed suicide by jumping into a water tank under Sankda police station area in Jaisalmer district on Sunday. The reasons of suicide are not known. The deceased include Babu Kanwar, her two-year-old son and four-year-old daughter. Police said that Nathu Singh's daughter Kanwar was married five years ago with Barmer resident Aasu Singh. Around 1.5 months ago Kanwar along with two children Renuka (4) and Rawal (2) came to her parents house at Bethina from her in laws. On Sunday evening she jumped into the water tank with children and all the three died. Her parents had gone out for some work and they were alone. In the evening Nathu came home and found all missing and on searching found the bodies in the water tank. He informed the police and they came and took out the bodies. The in laws were also informed. The reason is not known and there is no information of any dispute. Police lodged the case and started the investigation from all possible angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-jumps-into-tank-with-two-kids/articleshow/78738923.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: From tomorrow, 50 buses to run on fuel that’s cleaner than CNG||NEW DELHI: From Tuesday, buses running on hydrogen-enriched compressed natural gas(HCNG) are going to hit the capital’s roads. A cleaner fuel compared with CNG, HCNG will be used to run 50 buses as part of a pilot project for six months from the Rajghat-1 bus depot. A four-tonne per day compact reformer-based HCNG production plant has come up at the Rajghat-1 bus depot of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and while it was expected to start operations from March, the Covid-19 outbreak put a spanner in the works. The facility is now going to be inaugurated on Tuesday by Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan and state transport minister Kailash Gahlot. The Supreme Court had last year suggested looking at hydrogen-run vehicles as a solution for Delhi NCR’s poor air quality and while the technology will take some time to appear in the capital, HCNG could be a step in that direction. It was, in fact, a directive of the apex court in July 2018 that had led to Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) and Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) collaborating to put up this first semi-commercial plant as a pilot project for conducting the study on the use of HCNG fuel in 50 BS IV compliant CNG-run buses in Delhi. In July last year, IOCL, which has developed the technology to create HCNG, and IGL laid the foundation of the plant. Compared to physical blending of hydrogen with CNG, the use of a compact reforming process is 30% more cost effective, according to IOCL. For using HCNG, the present CNG-run buses can be easily used with just a little tuning and separate buses are not required. The plant was ready by early March this year and was awaiting approval from the Petroleum Explosive Safety Organisation , which comes under the Union ministry of commerce and approves all gas stations and filling stations. The buses that will be run on HCNG also required some tuning even though no major retrofitting was needed. The Covid-19 outbreak, however, brought the plans to a halt. Mixing hydrogen with CNG physically is a difficult proposition and that is why IOCL came up with the compact reforming process, which reforms CNG and there is no need for mixing. For the pilot project, 50 buses will be filled with HCNG and their efficiency and emissions will be recorded for six months and then submitted to the Supreme Court. Four tonne of HCNG will be produced at the plant every day and excess fuel that is generated will be used to run a generator, which will generate electricity. To begin with, it is likely that HCNG may cost a few paise more than CNG per unit, but once the production is scaled up to more buses in future, the costs are expected to come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-tomorrow-50-buses-to-run-on-fuel-thats-cleaner-than-cng/articleshow/78737855.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cloth manufacturer cheated of Rs 76 lakh||Ahmedabad: A cloth manufacturer, Mihir Yagnik, 47, of Isanpur has lodged a complaint of cheating against two persons, Anshu Nagpal of Sai Creations located at New Delhi and Chandresh Ranikla of Thakkarnagar in Bapunagar on Saturday for cheating him of Rs 76.5 lakh. The office of Yagnik’s company, Shakit Adhesi, is near Narol Circle. He stated in the FIR that through an old friend Pagnesh Gajjar he had come into contact with one Ranika. Both had come to his office where Ranika told him that he works for Anshu Nagpal’s “Sai Creation” in Lajpatnagar in New Delhi. They told him that they make ladies garments and do business across the country. Police sources said, the accused first checked the sample of denim cloth at the office of the complainant and then gave an order of 10,000 to 15,000 meter of denim to the complainant with the consideration payable within one month of delivery. The complainant has stated in the FIR that he completed the order and transported it to their office, Sai Creation. After that they again gave big orders but when the complainant asked them about the payment of the cloth already given to them, they said that, he may levy late payment charge according to the condition of the bill but to send them the cloth they have ordered. “They also paid Rs 5 lakh and then Rs 10 lakh in instalments to gain the confidence of the complainant and hence the complainant kept on sending them cloth according to their orders,” said an investigator. Police sources said when the complaint insisted that old dues be cleared, the accused gave him a cheque of Rs 76.49 lakh and another cheque of Rs 55.37 lakh as late payment fee. When Yagnik presented the cheques at his bank, he came to know that both the cheques were of a closed account. The complainant then on verifying in the market came to know that there were several other cloth traders who had been cheated by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cloth-manufacturer-cheated-of-rs-76-lakh/articleshow/78738924.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Fuel outlet worker murdered||Hyderabad: A 31-year-old employee of a fuel outlet was strangled to death at his residence at Chandrayangutta on Saturday night. The assailant also allegedly misbehaved with his wife. The victim was identified as Mohammed Naser from Indira Nagar. Naser was married and the couple has two children. On Saturday night, an unidentified man entered their house and strangled the victim to death. The family shifted him to hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead. Haleema informed his family and alerted police. Naser’s brother Mohammed Ghouse told police that his sibling suspected his wife was having an affair. The victim’s family suspect the woman’s paramour might have been involved in the murder. The body has been sent for postmortem and a case booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fuel-outlet-worker-murdered/articleshow/78738921.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Five Maoists gunned down in fierce gun battle in Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: An attack by the elite C-60 commandos of Gadchiroli district police on Sunday neutralized five Maoist cadres, including four women, in the dense forest of Kosmi-Kisneli in Dhanora taluka. The security force also recovered substantial material, including arms and ammunition. The security forces had zeroed down on the encounter spot, considered as ‘halting point’ for the Maoists, following an input. Sources said Tippagarh Local Organizational Squad (LOS) and Platoon 15 were present at the place when they were surrounded by the commandos. The gun battle lasted for around 45 minutes following which the Maoists started retreating. The bodies of five Maoists, their pittoos (rucksucks), one Insas rifle and two other firearms were recovered from the encounter site. Apart from Tipagarh dalam, Korchi dalam too was present at the site. The deceased have been identified as Rajo Kirko, 34, (platoon 15), Kumli Gawade (23) (Korchi dalam member), Zunki Pada (32) (Tipagarh dalam Area committee member) and Shivaji Madavi (30) (Tipagarh dalam member). Another one is yet to be identified. SP Ankit Goyal said the Maoists opened fired on the commandos following which the forces retaliated. “It’s a substantial setback for the Maoist movement as Platoon 15 and Tippagarh LOS were already depleted. With the latest casualties, it would be a further blow to them,” he said. “Our searches are still going on and more recoveries are likely,” said Goyal. The operation was led by Additional SP Manish Kalwaniya and SDPO Bhausaheb Dhole under the supervision of Goya and DIG, Naxal range, Sandeep Patil. It’s learnt five squads of C-60 commandos were pressed into action in the northern part of the district where Maoists were spotted in last couple of weeks. District police had already started searches in the deep forests after Maoists tried to fly drones near police stations at many places in the southern part. While three squads were deployed to plug the escape routes, two had ventured deep into the forest to strike at the camping Maoists, who had stopped at the place as usual for refreshments. When firing started from both sides, Maoists tried to flee from their known escape routes, where commandos had already positioned themselves. With the latest strike on the Maoists, the rebel movement in the north of the tribal district has received a decisive blow. In the past, Platoon 3 had to merge with the last few members of the Chatgaon dalam after most of their cadres surrendered with former divisional committee member Deepak Kolha. Platoon 15 too had to be merged with Tippagarh LOS after many cadres either surrendered or were arrested. In the last two years, more than 15 Maoists have been killed in Gadchiroli while 45 surrendered and 53 were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-maoists-gunned-down-in-fierce-gun-battle-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/78738999.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana at fourth spot in number of murders committted in 2019||LUDHIANA: The city is at number four among 34 metropolitan cities of India with regard to number of murder cases reported, which was 56 in 2019, as per the data of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). In the category of adults, there were more male victims whereas more girls were murdered in the category of children/minors. As per the data of the NCRB, in 2019, the number of murder cases increased by 5.6% as compared to the previous year. In 2018, as many as 53 murder cases were reported in Ludhiana, while in 2017, there were 59 murder cases. Besides, with 56 cases the city’s share in total cases of 34 metropolitan cities was 5%. Among the 34 metro cities, maximum 83 murder were reported in Faridabad, followed by 63 in Agra and Asansol, 58 in Meerut and 56 in Ludhiana in 2019. If talk about gender of murder victims, in the category of children more girls were murdered and in the category of adults more men were killed. In the 56 cases there were 37 male and 19 females victims. As per the data, in the category of below 6 years there were total three murder cases, which included one male and two females in 2019. Then, in the category of 12-16 years there were two female victims. The total count of child victims is five, including four females and one male. In the category of adult murder victims, in the age group of 18-30 years a total 18 persons were murdered. This included 14 males and four females. Further, in the age group of 30-45 years a total 19 persons were murdered, including 11 males and eight females. In the age group of 45-60 years, a total 12 murders were reported, including 9 males and three females. Then, in the category of above 60 age, two males were murdered. The total count of adult murder victims is 51, including 36 males and 15 females. Further, about the motives of murder, the NCRB report reveals that in Ludhiana 25 murders were executed due to different disputes. With 25 murders due to disputes, Ludhiana is on number 2 in among the 34 metropolitan cities. Maximum 32 murders due to disputes were reported in Meerut, followed by 25 in Ludhiana, 24 in Agra and Rajkot and 22 in Aurangabad. The report also revealed that maximum 11 murders were committed due to petty quarrels/disputes, followed by 10 murders due to illicit relations, 9 due to family dispute, 6 were blind murders, 4 due to monetary disputes, 4 due to personal enmity/ vendetta, 2 for dowry, 2 for personal gain, 1 due to property dispute and 7 are in other cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-at-fourth-spot-in-number-of-murders-committted-in-2019/articleshow/78737856.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Biker run over by truck in Jhalawar||Kota: A 40-year-old man was crushed to death after a truck hit his motorbike at Biriyakhedi circle on Sunel road under Jhalawar Sadar police station on Saturday night. The driver fled from the spot after the mishap leaving the vehicle behind. The deceased was identified as Durga Singh Rajput (40), a resident of Jhalawar city. A truck hit the motor bike killing Singh on the spot at Biriyakhedi circle on Sunel road, Jhalawar SHO Babulal Meena said. Rajput’s body was handed over to family members after postmortem on Sunday morning. Four hurt as tanker rams into Ramdeora pilgrims: Jaisalmer: A tanker rammed into a group of devotees going to Ramdeora on foot near Navagaon village in Pokhran area of Jaisalmer district late on Saturday night. Four devotees, including two women, were seriously injured and were brought to Pokhran government hospital from where they were referred to Jodhpur. The condition of one woman was said to be very critical. The tanker driver fled the spot after the incident, however, he was later caught by police. Thousands of devotees are reaching Ramdeora this Navratri. According to police sources, Pammanram, 23, a resident of Deda, his relative Deu, 30, and Mohani Devi, 45, residents of Thadia (Dechu) were seriously injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biker-run-over-by-truck-in-jhalawar/articleshow/78738947.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fanning piety of all faiths with peacock feathers||Ahmedabad: Wandering through the thick vegetation in areas around the Vasna barrage, Nanubhai Rabari has collected more than 11,000 peacock feathers shed by the birds. Rabari, 65, the caretaker of the Vasna barrage compound, plans to distribute these to religious places of all faiths. “I spent the past 50 days looking for peacock feathers in the dense vegetation in areas opposite the barrage, at Fatehwadi and other surrounding zones,” Rabari said. “I will distribute the feathers to temples, dargahs, gurudwaras, derasars, and agiaries this week.” Peacock feathers are considered to be auspicious and are used for various purposes at religious places. Rabari said that around this time of the year, peacocks shed the feathers and he has been collecting these by roaming around the areas with sizable populations of peacocks. “There are about 400 peacocks in the thick vegetation opposite the Vasna barrage and some 200 at Fatehwadi,” Rabari said. “About a month ago, I would collect approximately 100 feathers daily. But over the past fortnight, I have been finding more than 300 feathers every day.” Rabari said that one peacock sheds between 100 and 125 feathers by the time the monsoon season ends. Rabari, who has been the caretaker of the Vasna barrage compound for over 30 years, said that he has encountered snakes, scorpions, and wasps during his feather-collecting forays. “Thankfully, I did not get attacked,” he said. “There are many wasps in the vegetation opposite the barrage and their sting can be lethal.” Rabari said that last year he gifted 5,000 peacock feathers to the Jagannath temple. This time, he intends to distribute the feathers to over a dozen significant religious places across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fanning-piety-of-all-faiths-with-peacock-feathers/articleshow/78738970.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||2,503 fresh Covid-19 cases in state, 29 more fatalities||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh registered 2,503 fresh Covid-19 cases and 29 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The total number of deaths mounted to 6,658, with the maximum of 818 being recorded from the state capital itself. According to the health bulletin, Lucknow recorded the highest of 293 fresh cases, followed by Ghaziabad and Prayagraj 127 each. While Lucknow accounted for seven fatalities, two deaths each were reported from Varanasi and Kanpur in the last 24 hours. With this, the state has recorded more than 4.5 lakh cases till date. At the same time, 3,981 people got discharged after in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of discharges to 4.15 lakh so far. A total of 580 people were discharged from the hospital in Kanpur, followed by 418 in Lucknow and 264 in GB Nagar. UP tested more than 1.69 lakh samples for coronavirus in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested by the health department has soared to over 1.30 crore. The number of active cases continued the downward trend at a consolidated figure of 32,896. This was almost half of what it has been nearly a month ago, when the active cases remained notched up at more than 64,000, experts said. Lucknow, however, continued to top the chart with 3,787 active cases, followed by 1,774 in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2503-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-state-29-more-fatalities/articleshow/78739638.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Action against SDPO gets other stations to clean up||Aurangabad: The action taken by superintendent of police (rural) Mokshada Patil against Phulamri sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) after she found the police station premises in disarray, has started showing desired results as other police stations have started cleaning their respective premises and keeping the ammunition and muddemal in order.Apart from cleaning the premises the police stations have also provided a place for the constables and the complainants to sit.“The policemen have also started wearing masks and many police stations have started improving the facilities on their respective premises,” said Patil who on Friday had issued a notice to the SDPO after she didn’t find the Phulambri police station was not in order.Eventually, her action had the desired effect and other police stations have resorted changing the way they were functioning. “After cleaning the premises and bringing it in order, many police stations have started sending pictures to me of the changes and improvements they have effected in the respective premises,” Patil told TOI on Sunday. “These police stations include Sillod (rural), Virgaon, Devgaon ?Rangari, Ajintha, and Pachod. Since the unlock process has begun the number of visitors to the police stations have increased. We need to take utmost precautions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and be careful,” she had said.During Friday’s visit to Phulambri police station, the Mahilah Vishranti Kaksha (women’s cloak room), which is mandatory at each police station, was in a very bad shape and did not have proper place for constables to sit. Garbage and filth was strewn all around the premises. Other sections like the place where ammunition and muddemal (items used in crime and recovered from the suspects) are kept and their registers were not in order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/action-against-sdpo-gets-other-stations-to-clean-up/articleshow/78738963.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Prisoner flees from hospital’s isolation ward||Kota: A 32-year-old man, who was under judicial custody in an arms Act offence, escaped through the ventilator of a ward in a government hospital in Bundi where he was kept for Covid testing on Saturday midnight. Police have launched a hunt for the prisoner. Lakhan Bawari, a resident of Lakheri in Bundi district, escaped from custody probably through the ventilator of the inmate isolation ward around midnight, Bundi city police station circle inspector, Lokender Paliwal said. The guards were deployed at the gate of the ward and there were around 8-9 inmates in ward when he managed to escape, he added. Police lodged a case under relevant sections against Bawari and efforts were underway to nab him, he said. Bawari was arrested under 4/25 of the arms Act on Thursday and was produced before the court on Friday that ordered to send him to jail under judicial custody, Karwar police station SHO Bannalal said. Before being sent to the jail, the inmate’s Covid samples were collected and he was admitted to inmate isolation ward of the district government hospital, the Station House Officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prisoner-flees-from-hospitals-isolation-ward/articleshow/78738991.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||MC meets IT professionals to simplify public dealing works||LUDHIANA: In order to simplify public dealing work in municipal corporation offices the authorities concerned have sought assistance from IT professionals after conducting a meeting with them on Sunday. The MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, conducted the meeting with IT professionals in which cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Mayor Balkar Sandhu were also present. Apart from this, officials were asked to improve the sanitation arrangements in the city. Ashu claimed that there were many MC documentation work and related things for which people are forced to take help from touts. He said they were trying to create a provision where they could curb the involvement of touts in the civic body and people would be able to get a facility through which they would get their works done while sitting at home. Most importantly, there should not be any tampering with MC records, he added. So, suggestions were taken from IT professionals for bringing more transparency in the system. Apart from this, discussions were held over improvement in the sanitation arrangements in the city through various techniques. The officials were told to start night sweeping in the markets with the support of shopkeepers so that it could be implemented in a proper manner. Already, the officials have been told to simplify the process of issuing the TS-1 certificate to the residents in a hassle-free manner and zonal superintendents are drafting ways to simplify the same. Now, when help is being sought from the IT professionals, residents may finally get certain relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-meets-it-professionals-to-simplify-public-dealing-works/articleshow/78737892.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Rs 12 crore collected as cow cess, but MC spent just Rs 5 crore||LUDHIANA: Even as the problem of stray cattle is severe in the city despite the imposition of cow cess, it seems that MC officials are unable to utilise even the collected funds properly. The civic body spent around Rs 5 crore from cow cess for welfare of stray cattle whereas other cities in the state are spending more than Ludhiana MC. Information obtained from activist Rohit Sabharwal has revealed that Bathinda MC has spent large amount from cow cess. Bathinda collected Rs 15.69 crores since 2014-15 and out of this and they spent Rs 12.51 crore for the welfare of stray cattle. As compared to this, Ludhiana collected Rs 12.02 crore since 2015-16 and only Rs 5.24 crore were spent from the amount. Even MCs like Patiala and Pathankot have spent most of the collected amount on the welfare of stray cattle. Though their collection was less than Ludhiana MC, but still they managed to spend almost the entire amount. Interestingly, Patiala MC collected Rs 480.92 lakh from cow cess but it spent Rs 532.08 lakh. Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla he said, “We can spend amount collected under cow cess only for the welfare of stray cattle and for that we purchased one cattle catcher van, one additional shed was constructed at Burj Pawat and regular payment was being made to the cow shed which is lifting cattle for Ludhiana MC. We have plans to construct another cow shed on MC land in Noorpur Bet.” Meanwhile, a resident of Chander Nagar Mohan Sharma rued, “The stray cattle menace needs to be addressed on priority because since lockdown the number of stray cattle has increased.” He said if the civic body had collected the amount from public, then why it did not spend it for solving this problem. Another resident from Sunil Park Gagan Malhotra said, “The public paid the cow cess amount to MC but the officials did not utilise it fully, then why the people were being asked to pay. Secondly, if authorities cannot arrange for more cow sheds from this amount then what is the fun in imposing this cow cess.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rs-12-cr-collected-as-cow-cess-but-mc-spent-just-rs-5cr/articleshow/78737878.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolhapur||SUK to conduct re-exams for Covid-infected students||Kolhapur: Shivaji University Kolhapur (SUK) is going to conduct re-exams for those who will not be able to take the test due to Covid infection or have other public competitive exams on the same date when the varsity exams are scheduled. The final year semester exam for the graduate and post-graduate courses of the university are going to start from October 21. Earlier, the exams were planned to be held on October 17, but due to the heavy rainfall in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, the exams scheduled before October 21 have been postponed. On Sunday, the university decided to conduct the exams again for those who were unable to take the exams on the planned dates. “We are gathering data about the students who could not appear for the exams because they are Covid infected or they have competitive exams on the same day. The forms for appearing for re-exams have been made available to their respective colleges and departments. The provision is only for those who fulfil the conditions and not for everyone . After gathering all the details, the students will be conveyed the dates for their final year exam,” Gajanan Palase, SUK controller of examination, said. The university has set up 30 helpline numbers to facilitate the students to overcome the difficulties for appearing the exam online. Currently, the students are provided the mock tests which have questions about general knowledge and not about their exam syllabus. The mock tests are only meant for the students to know how the exam will be conducted, how to login, how to enter password and how to submit the papers. The questions are objective based. “We have found that many students are unable to appear for the mock test mainly because of the connectivity issues caused due to rains. For them we will send the links for the mock test once again,” Palase said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suk-to-conduct-re-exams-for-covid-infected-students/articleshow/78737029.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||3 killed as car rams into two bikes in Kota||Kota: Three persons on two motorbikes were killed when the driver of a car lost control over the wheel while attempting to save another bike rider and rammed into their vehicles on SH-51 between Rupaheda and Palaheda villages under Deoli–Manji police station of Kota district on Sunday. Five people were riding on the two motorbikes involved in the accident which killed three of them on the spot. The deceased included a mother-son duo. The driver fled away from the spot after the mishap leaving his car which was later seized. The deceased were Gayatri Gautam, 60, wife of Pramod, her son Chetan Gautam, 35, residents of Tail Factory in Baran city and Parmar Mongiya, 60, of Gopalpura village of the area. The mother-son duo were going on a separate motorbike while the other deceased Parmar Mongiya was with other two on another motorbike when the car rammed into them. The car overturned onto the other side. The mishap occurred around 1pm on Sunday, a police official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-killed-as-car-rams-into-two-bikes-in-kota/articleshow/78738968.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||IPL betting racket busted, 4 held||Hyderabad: The north zone task force team on Sunday busted a cricket betting racket, after raiding a house in Rasoolpura, and arrested four offenders. The accused were identified as Alugu Raju, the organizer, Dasari Venkatesh, co-organizer, Katta Avinash and Kurva Vijay Kumar, both punters. They were organizing gaming and accepting betting amounts for the ongoing IPL 2020 matches. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ipl-betting-racket-busted-4-held/articleshow/78738990.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Brace for water supply at low pressure in Delhi for next few days||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) issued an advisory on Sunday that water may be available at low pressure in large parts of the city for a few days due to inadequate supply of raw water. The flow from Upper Ganga Canal is less due to its annual maintenance and the Yamuna has low water levels, said an official. For water tankers, people can contact the emergency number of a local area or reach out to the central control room at 1916 or 23538495. The main areas to be affected are parts of south, east and northeast Delhi, and some areas under New Delhi Municipal Council. The flow in both conduits of the Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi water treatment plants (WTPs) are reducing like last year, a DJB statement pointed out. As the water production at both plants may get affected, clean water will be available at low pressure for a few days till the situation of Yamuna raw water improves, it added. In case of low production at any WTP, water is diverted from other such facilities to minimise the overall impact on the supply, a senior officer said. But “this leads to reduction in water pressure”, he clarified. DJB manages about 14,500km water lines to provide supply and sewerage services to about two crore people in Delhi. It has a capacity of producing 935MGD water through its nine water treatment plants, ranney wells and tubewells. The Bhagirathi plant produces 108MGD potable water while the Sonia Vihar production can go up to 140MGD potable water under normal circumstances. Both plants are fed by raw water from Upper Ganga Canal, the Yamuna, DSB Canal and CLC Munak Canal, besides sub-surface sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/brace-for-water-supply-at-low-pressure-for-next-few-days/articleshow/78737891.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Four criminals planning robbery held with weapons||AURANGABAD: Four history-sheeters were arrested by Pundlik Nagar police with a sword, dagger, knife and 20-foot-long rope for planing a robbery. According to police, five people were spotted sitting in the Garkheda area on Sunday night during a combing operation. “When the police team approached them, they tried to run but we managed to caught four of them. Upon frisking them we found the weapons. They were preparing to commit a robbery and we were lucky to catch them before they could,” he said. Ghanshyam B Sonwane, assistant police inspector in-charge of Pundliknagar police station, said that nakabandi and combing operations are being carried out daily following orders from commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta. “During one of the combing operations, we found a moped and a motorcycle parked near an open space and five people were discussing something. We grew suspicious and reached the place when one of the suspects managed to escape,” he said. “Later, we found that these people had been involved in many offences and were intending to commit a crime. Those arrested have been identified as Hitendra Waghmare (24), Ajay Dhage (22), Kiran Shinde (24) and Akash Chate (20). The suspect who escaped has also been identified as 25-year-old Rahul alias Rana Solunke and we are searching for him,” he added Meanwhile, another suspect, Manoj Jadahv (30), who was involved in the another attack extortion related attack was also arrested during a combing operation. Earlier, on October 15, the police had managed to arrest Shaikh Irfan Lal who was wanted for breaking into a shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-criminals-planning-robbery-held-with-weapons/articleshow/78738994.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad rain: Release of Himayathsagar water worsens situation in Old City||HYDERABAD: Even after five days, hundreds of families are staying indoors in Old City after inundation due to both floods as well as flood water discharged into Musi river after floodgates of the Himayathsagar reservoir were opened. As many as 150 to 200 residential colonies of the seven major mandals including Charminar, Bahadurpura, Bandlaguda, Asifnagar, Nampally, Himayathnagar and Amberpet are submerged and thus people are facing a grim situation. Many bylanes are inundated with flood waters and up to two to four feet thick piled up mud. In some areas, residents are suffering power cuts and water supply issues. Even Hyderabad district administration or civic body could not assess the situation till October 12, but both heavy rainfall and simultaneous release of flood water from Himayathsagar have made the situation worse. In fact, floodgates were opened on October 13 and then again on October 18. Apart from district administration, the army, NDRF and civic body are jointly putting rescue efforts to evacuate the affected families for the past five days. “We have set up shelters and arranged food and water supply for the evacuated families, but most of them were refusing to leave their houses. We are trying to convince them but they are not obeying our appeal,” a senior Hyderabad collectorate official told TOI. Their fear is that valuables and other belongings from their houses will be stolen by miscreants, said the official. According to HMWS&SB, four floodgates of Himayathsagar were opened and 2,744 cusecs of water was discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-of-himayathsagar-water-worsens-situation-in-old-city/articleshow/78739030.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Green Gang set to punish eve teasers||LUCKNOW: The Green Gang, brainchild of students of Banaras Hindu University (BHU), will give boost to Mission Shakti programme launched by the state government to provide security and independence to women. The group, to function under the Hope Welfare Trust, would comprise rural women, clad in green sarees, who have been engaged to arrest menace of gambling and alcoholism in over 150 villages of east UP. The group now plans to reach out to 50 new villages in the next six months and provide training to women not only in self-defence, but also help them in getting legal knowhow to boost their morale. The group has already started giving self-defence training to women in naxal affected villages. Secretary of the trust Divyanshu said that the group would carry out a campaign alongside the state government’s Mission Shakti to provide security to the women. The gang, he said, would work in tandem with the police to arrest incidents of crime against women. The gang plans to expand itself in at least 200 villages in Varanasi, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Chandauli and Ayodhya. On receiving complaints of eve-teasing and sexual harassment, the group would take the help of local women in `teaching’ miscreants a lesson and getting them arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/green-gang-set-to-punish-eve-teasers/articleshow/78739645.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Surat||Two years on, Dindoli rape survivor’s agonies haunt family||SURAT: “Our lives have turned into hell since the crime. There is no end to our pain,” mumbled 26-year-old mother, whose seven-year-old daughter bears the gut-wrenching wounds inflicted by a rapist two years ago. Fearing ostracization by their own, this unfortunate family from Dindoli didn’t dare to go back to their natives in Bihar even during the lockdown and continues to tend to the minor’s miseries in isolation. While the brutality of Hathras gang rape incidents had stirred people’s sentiments across the country, this survivor's poor health condition might never get accepted even by her kin. With a bag hanging from her to collect body waste, the girl has been leading a tattered life for two years sans school or enjoyment that kids her age live. The heinous sexual assault had left the girl’s private parts ruptured almost beyond repair. She has already undergone four major surgeries to restructure her private parts. If that’s not all, a few minor surgeries had also to be done on her face to give it a normal look after the 19-year-old convict Roshan alias Kalu Bhumihar, had bitten off. The rapist who had left the girl in a pool of blood in a huge pipe to die on September 29, 2018, was sentenced to life imprisonment in November 2019. “If anyone in our village sees her in this condition we are likely to be ostracized. There is no end to our ordeal despite the treatment that has been going on for two years apart from the multiple surgeries,” said mother, Anita (name changed), while life passes by in a haze of tears and anxiety for the family. The survivor’s father is a labour in a jari unit, while Anita had to stop working to take care of her daughter. The family finds support in two women from the city — Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, and Pratibha Desai, a lawyer — who is helping them fight their situation. Chaudhary supervised the investigation and with woman police inspector A K Chauhan, and filed the charge sheet in 35 days. Apart from ensuring good treatment for the girl, the police also followed up on her progress and provided the family with financial and medical support from the state government. Desai took responsibility for medical expenses and supporting the survivor until she gets married. “Another surgery will be performed on the minor on October 21, and hopefully the last one if the attempts to the bag permanently get successful. She underwent therapy to control her rectum for the past few months and there has been good improvement,” said Desai. Chaudhary said that city police offered the mother of the girl a job in the traffic brigade and also helped the family in other ways possible. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-years-on-dindoli-rape-survivors-agonies-haunt-family/articleshow/78737064.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 19, 2020||Hubballi||‘Training imparted at forest academy will help officers throughout their career’||Dharwad: Training imparted at the Karnataka State Forest Academy will hold the staff in good stead throughout their professional careers, said Sanjay Mohan, chief of the institution in Dharwad. “The trainers and teachers at the academy are imparting valuable skills to the students and helping lay a strong foundation to the junior officers in the department,” said Mohan, who inaugurated the ninth graduation ceremony of the Karnataka State Forest Academy, which is in Gungargatti on the outskirts of Dharwad. Addressing the graduating forest rangers, he said that the academy had been set up, with funds from the World Bank in 1996. As many as 110 freshly recruited deputy range forest officers, who underwent training at the academy, graduated on the occasion. Mohan said that the officers would be posted to different districts and continue to serve the forest department in conserving the rich natural wealth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/training-imparted-at-forest-academy-will-help-officers-throughout-their-career/articleshow/78737001.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||Startup summit on Oct 31 to give boost to women||Kochi: The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) is organizing a summit on October 31 to encourage women professionals to open businesses and startups. Kerala currently has very less women participation in the startup ecosystem and in the technology space. The ‘Women Startup Summit 2020’, organized to improve female participation in the entrepreneurship segment, has ‘Women and Technology’ as its theme this year. The summit is jointly organized by Startup India, TiE Kerala and Indian Women Network of Confederation of Indian Industry. Registrations can be made at https://startupmission.in/womensummit. The October 31 summit would act as a culmination to a week-long (October 26-31) programme that will announce the winners of She Loves Tech India 2020, Best Inclusive Incubator, Best Inclusive Startup and Best inclusive IEDC. It will showcase the National Grand Challenge featuring startups with women founders/products positively impacting the lives of women shortlisted from the ‘She Loves Tech India 2020’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/startup-summit-on-oct-31-to-give-boost-to-women/articleshow/78737042.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Hubballi||Need majority in both houses to pass progressive bills, says Jagadish Shettar||Haveri: Highlighting the need for a clear majority in the legislative council for the BJP, minister for large and medium-scale industries Jagadish Shettar on Sunday said, “We have a clear majority in the assembly but not in the legislative council. If the BJP wins all the four seats in the upcoming legislative council polls, we will able to pass into legislation progressive bills in the upper house as well.” Shettar said that, while the state government had been introducing many progressive bills aimed at ensuring development of the state in the past year, some of them had not been legislated into law since they were stuck pending clearance in the council. “On the other hand, the APMC bill, the Karnataka Land Reforms (amendment) Act, 2020 and other labour bills are yet to be cleared despite their being deliberated on in detail. These bills and amendments will help our state progress. But after the upcoming council polls, BJP will have a clear majority in the council too because teachers and graduates are aware of the significance of these legislations,” Shettar added. Emphasising BJP candidate SV Sankanur’s impressive record during his tenure in the council, the minister added, “We are seeking votes for the BJP based on his performance in the house in the past six years, during which time he has participated actively in discussions and given many valuable suggestions.” Endorsing Shettar’s recommendation of Sankanur, Haveri district in-charge minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “Sankanur has a scientific temper. People like Sankanur need to be in the council so they can add value to the debates with their inputs. In addition to this, he is an acceptable face among the graduates and his credibility will ensure he is elected.” Agriculture minister BC Patil said that the graduates knew of the single-minded focus of both the state and central governments, and would therefore ensure a comfortable victory for the BJP’s candidate. MP Shivakumar Udasi, Sankanur, legislators Nehru Olekar, Verupakshappa Ballari, Pradeep Shettar and BJP general secretary Mahesh Tenginakai and president of the party’s Haveri district unit Siddaraj Kalkoti were among those present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/need-majority-in-both-houses-to-pass-progressive-bills-says-jagadish-shettar/articleshow/78736692.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Energy conservation code must for commercial bldgs||Vijayawada: The state government has recently issued orders making the Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Building Code (APECBC) mandatory to get building approvals for commercial and non-residential buildings with a plot area of 1,000 square meters or built up area of 2,000 square meters. The municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department issued GO 180 amending the AP Building Rules 2017, making compliance to APECBC mandatory for commercial buildings. Compliance with ECBC has been integrated in Development Permission Management System (DPMS) for building approvals, which effectively means that building approvals will only be given if designs are in compliance with the code. Hotels, multiplexes, hospitals and convention centres must adhere to ECBC irrespective of their built up area. The energy department has empanelled 34 Third Party Assessors (TPAs) across the state to check compliance with ECBC at the design and occupancy stages in upcoming commercial buildings. The Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) along with AP Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) recently conducted a webinar for officials of urban local bodies to explain the process of implementation of ECBC. secretary of MAUD J Syamala Rao said the ECBC provides present as well as futuristic advancements in building technology and will save energy consumption as well as reduce greenhouse gases emission. Implementation of ECBC will be supervised by director of town planning V Ramudu. Secretary of the energy department Srikant Nagulapalli said implementation of ECBC is a significant development in energy and building sectors. He observed that the energy demand in commercial buildings presently stands at 3,117 million units and with the effective implementation of ECBC, this demand can be reduced by about 30%. Director of Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), Saurabh Diddhi said AP is the third state in the country to make ECBC compliance a mandatory. The move will be a major step in making the state energy-efficient, Diddhi said. The Union ministry of power-led Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has introduced the ECBC in commercial and non-residential buildings with the objective to ensure construction of energy-efficient buildings with reduced electrical energy by 30 to 40%. ECBC can reduce electricity bills for building owners, apart from environmental benefits and help improve living standards of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/energy-conservation-code-must-for-commercial-bldgs/articleshow/78737034.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru city police seize 2,500 kg beef in truck transporting fish||Mangaluru: City police intercepted a truck and seized 2,500 kg of beef that was being transported illegally in it on Sunday. Police also nabbed two persons who were transporting the meat ostensibly from Hubballi to the city. Acting on information given by Hindu right-wing activists, personnel from Kankanady Town police station intercepted the truck near Kannur-Padil and seized the vehicle. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Arunangshu Giri said the carcasses of slaughtered cows were hidden behind plastic trays containing fish. The lorry was coming to the city via Hassan when police intercepted it, he added. This is the second such incident in the last week. On Tuesday, personnel of Mangaluru north PS too had intercepted a vehicle in which 1,000 kg of beef was being transported illegally. Sharan Kumar, divisional secretary of Vishwa Hindu Parishad said the new modus operandi used by those into illegal cattle slaughter and meat trade is a disturbing development. “This is precisely the reason why the VHP has urged the city police commissioner to set up a special squad,” Sharan told TOI. “We are passing information on any such illegal movement of meat into Dakshina Kannada district to the police for them to take action,” he said. Expressing concern over a trend where meat traders allegedly mix beef with mutton, he said VHP has also urged the police top brass to consider banning inter-district movement of meat. “According to an RTI reply that MCC has furnished, only 10 to 12 cattle are being slaughtered at the city’s only recognised abattoir at Kudroli. Yet, there are more than 100 stalls selling beef in the city and the source of meat to these illegal stalls should be probed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-city-police-seize-2500-kg-beef-in-truck-transporting-fish/articleshow/78737244.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Motorcycle pilots seek monetary aid from public in Goa||PANAJI: The lockdown imposed earlier this year has been hard on many businesses and even after the country opened gradually, and economic activities resumed, many Goans still find themselves struggling to make a living. Motorcycle pilots from the state are one such affected community that has not been able to actively bounce back due to social distancing norms. The dwindling popularity of this service in the current scenario has pushed the Goa motorcycle taxi riders’ association to seek help from citizens. The association has requested Goans to provide them with monetary help to survive and have shared bank account details for the money transfer on social media. “People must step forward and help the pilots who are currently struggling to survive. I beg Goans not to abandon the pilot community,” Suresh Thakur, president of the association said. He pointed out that pilots have been around since the time mini-buses became a common mode of travel in Goa. Thakur said that pilots have seen people go from being completely dependent on public transport to be able to afford their own vehicles. “However, irrespective of the changes in Goa’s transportation, even with the addition of rent-a-bikes, the faith people have in pilots has not changed. However, today due to the pandemic the situation has drastically changed,” he said. He said that public transport operators were were not earning their regular income ever since the lockdown in March. Even while buses and taxis have been able to revive their business to some extent, motorcycle pilots have not been able to reestablish themselves, he said. “When people refuse to pillion ride with us, how will we have an income. In addition, we also have to spend on the vehicle’s maintenance, pay insurance, taxes and the pollution checks. For a country that intends to become atmanirbhar, where does the motorcycle pilot stand? Our families are ‘nirbhar’ on us and there should a solution to this misery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/motorcycle-pilots-seek-monetary-aid-from-public/articleshow/78739684.cms||Nida Sayed
October 19, 2020||Delhi||DTC depots to make space for clean-fuel stations||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s first hydrogen-enriched CNG (HCNG) production plant, which will provide fuel for operating 50 buses on a pilot basis, has come up at the Rajghat-1 bus depot of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). The corporation, however, has bigger plans to promote the use of this clean fuel. The operations at the plant will kick-start on Tuesday where the compact reformer will produce four tonnes of HCNG every day. DTC is now offering 8,500 square metres of space at nine depots and other facilities located across the city for sale of clean fuels like CNG, HCNG, liquefied natural gas (LNG), hydrogen, etc. As a part of the overall exercise to promote clean energy in Delhi, DTC plans to issue tenders for renting or leasing out nine sites for running retail outlets for sale of clean fuel. These outlets will have independent access and right of way for unhindered 24x7 access throughout the year. DTC will allow bidders to use the sites for running retail outlets along with related activities, services, utilities, infrastructure, etc on the basis of established norms. The area allocated for each project will have to be set up keeping in mind that DTC operations are not hindered. The proposed sites would vary in size. While the one at Rohini Depot (I) would be of 700 square metres, those at Sukhdev Vihar and Wazirpur would be 800 square metres. The ones at Nehru Place terminal, Rohini (II), Subhash Place, Peeragarhi depots and Central Workshop at Okhla would be 1,000 square metres. The biggest site measuring 1,200 square metres is proposed to be offered at the DTC colony in Hari Nagar. An agreement would be signed between the successful bidder and DTC for construction and operation of these outlets. DTC may allow the formation of special purpose vehicles or joint ventures for execution of any project with qualified and experienced professionals, funding agencies or investors without any liability of any kind on the corporation. Availability of land is a major hindrance in opening of new CNG filling stations in the capital, which leads to long queues at the existing ones. Also, with Delhi government toying with the idea of using hydrogen or other clean fuels in the future, the availability of space would be a crucial requirement. Watch DTC depots to make space for clean-fuel stations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dtc-depots-to-make-space-for-clean-fuel-stations/articleshow/78737903.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||RTI activists, residents rue MC apathy towards RTI Act implementation||LUDHIANA: The RTI activists here and certain city residents have blamed the municipal corporation for adopting a causal approach towards implementation of the Right to Information Act. They said apart from delaying the information, the officials were also careless in updating the information about the public information officers (PIOs) concerned on its website on regular basis. The activists rued that they had complained about the carelessness of the civic body even to the Punjab State Information Commission, but they had failed to implement the required things. The MC website says Anita Darshi is the first appellate authority in the civic body, whereas she has been transferred long back from the city. Similarly, many other officials have been mentioned as public information officers who have either retired or been shifted from here to other cities. Seeing this, the residents rued that the site was giving wrong information to them. The activists claimed that the civic body was paying money for regular maintenance of its official website but even then things were not getting updated. It is wastage of public money as well as leading to problems for the public, they added. RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal said, “We are fed up of asking officials to provide right information to the public but they are hardly paying heed to our requests. It is clear violation of Section 4 of the RTI Act, which binds the public authority to take steps to provide as much information to the public at regular intervals through various means of communication, including internet.” He said they even approached the PSIC about the same and directions were also issued to the civic body in this regard, but then officials got transferred and again things returned to the same situation. Another resident from civil city Harbhajan Singh said in case any person had to file an application or there was a need to approach the public information officer concerned, then how would a layman do the same because information on the MC website was not appropriate. He said it seemed that the authorities concerned were doing it knowingly so that people should face problems. However, the zonal commissioner, Kulpreet Singh, said, “We have conveyed this to the website developer for doing the required changes but he has not done these so far. I will issue a show-cause notice to the person who is responsible for this failure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rti-activists-residents-rue-mc-apathy-towards-rti-act-implementation/articleshow/78737895.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA from Ballia summoned by party||Lucknow: Hours after the Special Task Force arrested the Ballia shooting key accused, Dhirendra Singh, the state BJP leadership summoned BJP MLA from Bairia (Ballia), Surendra Singh, who has been a vocal supporter of the accused. Sources in BJP said, Surendra met state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and BJP general secretary (organisation), Sunil Bansal, on Sunday evening and was handed out a terse warning for damaging party image. Though the party refrained from issuing any statement on Bairia MLA’s meeting with Singh and Bansal, sources said he was categorically told to mend his ways as his controversial statements could provide enough ammunition to the Opposition and dent BJP’s image ahead of bypolls. Sources said, the state BJP chief later met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and apprised him about his meeting with the Bairia legislator. Besides Surendra, at least six BJP MLAs have embarrassed the party brass with their comments. A senior BJP leader said, the party was aware of discontent brewing in the ranks and senior leaders have been counselling disgruntled legislators not to raise controversial issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mla-from-ballia-summoned-by-party/articleshow/78739664.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Another worry for Kolkata as air quality dips ahead of Puja||KOLKATA: Some leading doctors in the city have warned that the post-festival surge in infection and rapidly declining air quality will complicate the battle against Covid-19. Weak lungs — an outcome of constant breathing of toxic air — will lead to a difficult situation to fight the disease, said the doctors at a webinar to mark the beginning of Bengal Clean Air Network (Bengal CAN), a citizenship initiative against environmental degradation. Significantly, the alert came at a time when the city’s air quality has started turning foul after nearly an eight-month long spell of good air. This is the time when the inversion of temperature prevents rise and dispersal of pollutants from the lower layers of the atmosphere as the warm air above and cooler air on the surface of the earth acts like a lid trapping the pollutants at the breathing height. Sanjukta Dutta, an emergency medicine expert, said, “Lockdown has clearly shown the widespread benefit of clean air. Patients of lung diseases like asthma and COPD are doing extremely well with lesser medication or no medication. Many are not requiring nebulisation or oxygen support that they had to use regularly. Many patients of hypertension are maintaining normal blood pressure with reduced medication. Hospitals in the city are receiving significantly fewer cases of heart attack and stroke.” Arup Haldar, a pulmonologist, said, “The presence of oxidants in lungs aggravates the severity of infections. The oxidative stress actually accelerates the seriousness of a patient, making it a lost battle.” Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) executive director, Anumita Roychowdhury, said the particulate pollution affects every cell and organ in the human body. Heart and lung diseases and several others like dementia, liver problems, brain, intelligence, abdominal organ failures, brittle bones and bladder cancer are caused due to particulate pollution. West Bengal Pollution Control Board chairman Kalyan Rudra said, “The ambient air routinely gets toxic on Diwali night, which fails to recover fully, despite a series of measures. However, source apportionment study and pollutant specific remedial measures started yielding good results.” Suman Mallick, head of radiation oncology at a leading hospital said, “The air pollution is one of the most important causes behind respiratory diseases and lung cancer. Thus, there is no room for debate whether worsening air quality will make the battle against Covid-19 far more difficult. The spike in cases post festival and worsening air quality will be a nightmarish combo.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/another-worry-for-kol-as-air-quality-dips-ahead-of-puja/articleshow/78737896.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Fewer vehicles cause fewer deaths on Nashik city roads||NASHIK: The number of fatal accidents on the city roads has dropped and so has the number of road accident-related fatalities this year when compared to the data available from last year. Senior police officers of the city traffic branch attributed this to the comparative fewer vehicles on the city roads following the closure of schools and colleges, and workplaces encouraging the work-from-home system during the pandemic. Also, fewer people have been coming out on the roads due to early closing time of shops and other establishments. The traffic police said that last year, between January 1 and September 30, there were 121 fatal road accidents, in which 126 people had lost their lives. This year, during the same period, there have been 94 fatal accidents which have claimed 100 lives. There has been a 27% drop in the number of fatal accidents when compared to last year, said the senior officers. Meanwhile, the overall number of road accidents has seen a drop of 32%. Last year, there were 412 road accidents, including the fatal ones, between January 1 and September 30. This year, there have been 289 during the same period. The number of people who escaped with grievous injuries dropped from 218 to 146 in the same period. Similarly, the number of people who escaped with minor injuries also dropped from last year’s 73 to 43 this year. Police officers said that after the unlock process started in a phased manner, the police also came out in large numbers to streamline the vehicular traffic in the city and take action against the erring motorists. All such things could have contributed in the reduced number of road accidents and casualties on Nashik city roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fewer-vehicles-cause-fewer-deaths-on-nashik-city-roads/articleshow/78739012.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Brand Modi facing challenge in Punjab||JALANDHAR: With the BJP going solo in Punjab and expecting to expand, its biggest bet – brand Modi – is facing a challenge. Since the party has focused almost exclusively on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he has become a target for protesting farmers and others. On Saturday, the PM’s effigies were burnt at several places across Punjab. Speakers at most of the farmers’ protests target the PM as well as big corporate houses. During Dalit protests against Hathras incident also, though UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath was the main target of protesters’ ire, they also raised slogans against PM Modi. Since 2014, the party has been trying to replicate the Modi fervour, which worked in the rest of the country, in Punjab. Both the SAD and BJP tried to bank on Modi’s image to get votes. In the 2019 elections, the Badals also sought votes mainly in Modi’s name. This worked in two parliamentary constituencies – Pathankot and Hoshiarpur and some other assembly segments in the state with considerable Hindu population. While the Modi wave did not work with Sikhs and Dalits, there was not much aversion either. Brand Modi appears intact in the core BJP support base among Hindus but BJP needs to find a new support base after Akali Dal severed ties. A BJP leader blamed the Badals for the predicament. “We had such an opportunity in 2014 and 2015, when the party was still high on victories of 2014 parliamentary election and Haryana assembly election but at that time, despite strong voices from Punjab BJP leaders, central leadership decided not to disturb the alliance. In last three elections from 2014, follies of Badals worked against us. Now when they have left the alliance, our party is facing strong opposition everywhere and worst part is that protesters are speaking more and more against PM Modi,” a senior BJP leader said. Besides the Badals, Capt Amarinder Singh has also come in for criticism but Punjab BJP remains under the shadow of the PM’s image. It is that larger than life image of the PM which is being targeted by protesters across Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/brand-modi-facing-challenge-in-punjab/articleshow/78739014.cms||IP Singh
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||PV Sindhu, Saina Nehwal grace badminton stadium wall in Jalandhar||JALANDHAR: The Jalandhar Badminton Association unveiled 65ft× 35ft graffiti of ace shuttlers P V Sindhu and Saina Nehwal at the local Hans Raj stadium. The graffiti images are the biggest ever to have been made in any badminton stadium here. Inaugurating the images, deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said they would not only motivate girls but would also inspire budding players to achieve new feats in the field of sports. He said the graffiti images have been made under Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao programme to encourage girls to join sports. The deputy commissioner lauded Olympian Dipankar Bhattacharjee Academy for announcing that it would offer free coaching to deserving children of BPL families. He said badminton is an expensive game and those from BPL families would be trained free of cost. The DC also handed out corona warrior certificates to 30 trainees of the academy who have been training since Unlock-1. He appreciated the precautions and safety protocols being followed in the stadium since June 3. Prominent among those present included interim committee members Aman Mittal, Ritin Khanna and Rakesh Khanna. Meanwhile, both Sindu and Nehwal tweeted their thanks to the Jalandhar administration for the honour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sindhu-nehwal-grace-badminton-stadium-wall/articleshow/78739016.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kochi||35 co-op societies to procure paddy||Palakkad: After a delay of nearly two months, 35 cooperative societies will start procurement of paddy from farmers in the district from Tuesday. They will sign an agreement with Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) on Monday, said minister for food and civil supplies P Thilothaman. The farmers will get payment on paddy sold to the cooperative societies in their accounts from the branches of Kerala Bank. The minister said that Supplyco will procure paddy through private rice mills. But only five rice mills are procuring paddy in the district. District collector D Balamurali, principal agriculture officer V Suresh Babu, Supplyco regional manager M V Shivakami Ammal and other officials held discussions with the minister. The officials said the procured paddy will be stored at Kinfra, Kanjikode and Ware Housing Corporation godowns at Alathur.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/35-co-op-societies-to-procure-paddy/articleshow/78737074.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: SBI officer held for siphoning cash as gold loans under names of relatives||AMALAPURAM: Police have arrested a State Bank of India (SBI) employee for siphoning over Rs 1 crore from the bank by sanctioning false gold loans under the names of his relative. The irregularities surfaced during the bank’s internal audit. According to Amalapuram DSP Shaik Masoom Basha, the accused BVVS Subrahmunya Sarma who worked as a cash officer at the SBI Samasana branch in East Godavari’s Amalapuram mandal had a prawn business since 2015 through which he had incurred losses to the tune of Rs 55 lakh till 2019. Since he could not obtain more loans, he decided to make use of the lockers in the bank as he was in-charge of the gold loan section. Whenever a customer would come to the bank to take back the gold which was in mortgage, Sarma would open a new gold loan account with the gold which was brought from the locker under his relative’s name. Later, he would transfer the amount to his account from his relative’s and used the money for his personal needs. Between February 2019 and July 2020, Sarma sanctioned gold loans worth over Rs 99 lakh, which along with interest went up to over Rs 1 crore on September 14. The irregularities were discovered in August during an internal audit. Following a departmental inquiry, Sarma was suspended on September 14. Based on the complaint by the regional manager, a case was registered and Sarma was arrested on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sbi-officer-held-for-siphoning-cash-as-gold-loans-under-names-of-relatives/articleshow/78737053.cms||Samson Raj
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Elderly man jumps into Musi river||HYDERABAD: An elderly man on Sunday allegedly jumped into the Musi river to end his life. Malakpet police registered a case and formed a team to find the man. The victim was identified as Mohammed Azeem (60) from Afzal Gunj area. According to police, he was seen jumping into the river at around 5.30 pm by locals who alerted the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-man-jumps-into-musi-river/articleshow/78739015.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Company issued show-cause for damaging trees on Bapu Kuti Road||NAGPUR: The public works department (PWD) has issued a show-cause notice to the contractor engaged in widening the road from Gopuri to Bapu Kuti between Wardha and Sevagram for lapses in protecting trees. The contractor Sevagram-Wardha Roadways Pvt Ltd has been asked to restore the damage done to the trees. However, activists have alleged damage continues to be done to trees. The green activists are also in touch with PWD officials to bring down the number of trees to be felled for the work from 26 to six. PWD is widening the Wardha-Sevagram-Samudrapur-Girad-Umred (SH-326) road and improvement of roads connecting the tourist destination Bordharan under hybrid annuity mode (HAM). The user agency has already felled 78 trees to widen the road. However, green activists under the banner of Wardha Vruksha Bachao Samiti (WVBS) opposed felling of remaining 130 old trees as these were planted during the freedom struggle. The state constituted a high powered committee under PWD principal secretary Ulhas Debadwar. The committee visited the site on September 20 and agreed to suggestions by WVBS to save trees on the 12km patch. “It was decided to carry out the work by keeping minimum 1.50 metre distance from three sides of the tree and minimum 0.5 metre distance from the road face side to protect the roots and stability of the trees. The contractor was also instructed to cover the exposed roots of the tree with soil within 48 hours. But the company did not follow these directions and exposed trees to huge damage,” said ecologist Alok Bang. “This is sheer negligence and against the decisions taken during the meeting on September 20. In view of the complaints, Debadwar asked superintending engineer Sushma Sakharwade and other engineers to do spot inspection and hold a meeting with contractor and activists,” said Sanjay Ingle Tigaonkar. “Detailed instructions to avoid all lapses in the future were given to concessionaire, independent engineers, and field officers. They were directed to finalize the standard operating procedure and methodology. Every excavation work should be preceded by barricade formation around each tree,” said Murlidhar Belkhode of WVBS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/company-issued-show-cause-for-damaging-trees-on-bapu-kuti-rd/articleshow/78739021.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital Covid-19 panel says tourists should stay at registered establishments, hoteliers come out in support||Nainital: The hoteliers in Nainital have come out in support of the suggestion, floated by the high-court appointed district-level Covid-19 monitoring committee, that asks tourists to only stay in a registered hotel so that the spread of the coronavirus pandemic can be contained in the district. The city-based hoteliers said that the local administration should ensure that the recommendation of the panel is implemented. Digivijay Singh Bisht, vice-president of Nainital hotels and restaurants’ association, told TOI that the hoteliers have been asking the district administration to deal with unregistered hotels for several years and in times of coronavirus, this assumes even more significance. “We have been asking the administration to deal with unregistered hotels for long as they do not pay any taxes and therefore, are not only illegal but also causing loss to the state government as well. However, no concrete action was taken. Now, even the Covid-19 monitoring committee has stressed on the same issue. So, we hope that action will soon be taken,” Bisht said. The committee, in its third report, had informed the court that there were around 200 registered hotels and 25 homestays in Nainital. It said that there is a need to ensure that tourists coming to the lake town stay only in the registered establishment “which will help in effectively putting the safety standards and protocols for preventing Covid-19”. The committee added that to achieve this, the tourism officer has to ensure that only registered hotels and homestays are operational in the district. The committee also reiterated its earlier recommendations saying that the total number of tourists coming to Nainital should be capped at 500 per day and the Covid-19 negative certificate should be made mandatory for visitors. These suggestions were put before the court last week. Subsequently, the HC had directed the state government to file its response to the suggestions made by the committee by October 21. Meanwhile, the officials of the tourism department have said that they have been taking action against the unregistered hotels and homestays and in the last week alone, 156 notices were sent to such establishments. “We have been working to get these hotels and homestays registered with us. According to the data available with us, there are at least 100 hotels and 60 homestays across the district whose applications are pending with us. We also take action against the unregistered establishments and several notices have been issued. Further, we have issued a warning to such hotels through the media and have asked the owners to get their facilities registered,” said Arvind Gaur, district tourism officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-covid-19-panel-says-tourists-should-stay-at-registered-establishments-hoteliers-come-out-in-support/articleshow/78737061.cms||Prashant Jha
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Saffron mascot Yogi Adityanath set to storm Opposition turf in Bihar||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is all set to enter the Bihar poll cauldron from Tuesday with BJP gearing up to launch its saffron mascot in six assembly seats, majority of which were swept by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in 2015 when now arch rivals Nitish Kumar and Lalu Yadav joined hands to stop the BJP juggernaut. These constituencies will go to poll in the first phase. Yogi will begin his whirlwind campaign on Opposition turf by addressing rallies in Ramgarh, Arwal and Karakat. He would subsequently hold rallies in Jamui, Tarari and Paliganj seats on Wednesday. Of these six seats, Tarari was won by CPI(ML) and Arwal, Karakat, Jamui and Paliganj were held by RJD, principal constituent of the grand alliance comprising Congress, CPI(ML) and CPI(M). The lone BJP seat where the UP chief minister would campaign is Ramgarh. BJP sources said, the party announced Yogi’s campaign schedule for six seats and would decide on parachuting him again in coming weeks. Yogi would start off from Ramgarh to campaign in favour of party candidate Ashok Kumar Singh, who won the seat in 2015 by defeating Ambika Singh of RJD by a margin of 8,000 votes. Ashok is back in the fray as a BJP candidate. He would then move to Arwal to rally behind party candidate Deepak Sharma. In 2015, BJP’s Arwal candidate Chitranjan Kumar lost to RJD’s Ravindra Singh by 17,000 votes. The same day, Yogi would campaign in Karakat, which was won by RJD’s Sanjay Kumar Singh in 2015, defeating BJP’s Rajeshwar Raj, who is again in the fray. On Wednesday, Yogi would touch down in Jamui from where BJP has fielded Shryshi Singh. In 2015, the seat was also won by RJD’s Vijay Prakash, who trounced BJP’s Ajay Pratap by a margin of nearly 8000 votes. The CM would then campaign in Tarari, where BJP’s Koshal Kumar Singh is contesting. In the last assembly election, the seat was bagged by CPI(ML) candidate Sudama Prasad, who defeated Gita Pandey of Lok Janshakti Party by just 300 votes. Yogi’s two-day campaign would end in Paliganj, where BJP has fielded Jaivardhan Yadav, who won the seat on a RJD ticket in 2015, defeating BJP’s Ram Janam Sharma by 24,000 votes. BJP is contesting Bihar elections in alliance with Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM). The saffron party would contest 110 seats in the 243-member assembly. The party has given 11 seats from its quota to VIP. JD(U) will contest on 115 seats, leaving its remaining share of seven seats for the HAM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saffron-mascot-yogi-set-to-storm-oppn-turf-in-bihar/articleshow/78739680.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Withdrawal Symptoms: Caution Ahead||NEW DELHI: A day before the admissions start under the second cutoff list, Delhi University organised yet-another online open-day webinar for students. The admissions under the second cutoff starts at 10am on Monday and will go on till 5pm on Wednesday. This was the sixth webinar organised by the admission branch of DU this season. Dean of admissions Shobha Bagai said candidates should keep their documents ready so that they could upload while applying for a course. “Physical verification will happen when classes open. We started the admission process on June 20 and have given four months” to ready all documents, she said. Bagai also suggested that applicants should try to pay their admission fees early. “We have given two extra days for payment so that if there is any issue, we can rectify it. If there’s still an issue, applicants should inform us.” Explaining the procedure of cancellation and withdrawal of admissions, Haneet Gandhi, the deputy dean of admissions, said applicants should check their cutoffs before withdrawing from a college. Asking applicants to write emails correctly, Bagai said, “Please don’t write cryptic mails but mention the name and other details, or else we will never be able to answer. We will have no option but to ignore those mails.” Suman Kumar, an admissions branch member, reiterated that applicants should not constantly try to contact nodal officers but write emails to the college or the DU grievance cell. “Do not try coming to the college as you will not be entertained,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/withdrawal-symptoms-caution-ahead/articleshow/78737928.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||TBM wheeled out of Sealdah tunnel||KOLKATA: Ten days after it completed one of the twin East-West Metro tunnels and punched the diaphragm wall, the tunnel boring machine (TBM), Urvi, has now been wheeled out and disassembled. From Monday, it will be extracted out for overhauling so that it can start building the incomplete west-bound tunnel from December. On October 9, the TBM finished digging the eastward tunnel for the 16-km Metro corridor, which will eventually join Sector V with Howrah Maidan. Workers and engineers cheered as Urvi broke open the 1m-thick diaphragm (D-wall) that was already built to integrate the tunnel with East-West Metro’s Sealdah station coming up 17m below railway station complex. ITD-ITD Cementation is building the last leg of the underground tunnelling, covering 2.4-km from Esplanade to Sealdah. The Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) is the implementing agency of the Rs 8,575 crore project. With the help of cradles, the main 9m portion of the 450 tonne giant borer was wheeled out of the newly-built tunnel, supervised by ITD’s chief tunnel engineer, Suvajit Besai, mechanical head, Jyotirmoy Pramanik, and shift engineer, Arpan Adhikary. Even as the entire TBM is 75m long, the operative part with the cutter head, front body, middle body and tailspin is only 9m. The rest, backup gantry, will remain inside the tunnel and will be joined later with the main part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tbm-wheeled-out-of-sealdah-tunnel/articleshow/78737911.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 86 Covid cases, 2 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Only two deaths, lowest in the past few months, were reported across Kolhapur district on Sunday. According to a health official, one of the two patients who succumbed to the contagion was from a village in the neighbouring Satara district and was undergoing treatment at the CPR hospital, while the second was from Ambewadi village in Kolhapur. No deaths were reported at any of the private hospitals across the district. “As many as 86 new cases were reported across the district on Sunday, Also, the number of active cases are also going down as many patients are being discharged from the hospital. On Sunday, 319 patients were discharged from across the district. The number of active patients currently stands at 2,152 while as many as 1,596 people have succumbed to the district,” he said. The total number of swabs tested by RT-PCR on Sunday were 706 — much higher than the daily swabs tested during recent weeks. New chief of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, Kadambari Balkawade, who led the cleanliness drive at Rankala lake, on Sunday morning fined 35 citizens who were out on the streets for morning walks without masks. A fins of Rs 100 each was collected from the violators. She has also asked the civic officials to intensify the action against those who are not following the guidelines. 126 cases in SangliSangli district reported a total of 126 cases and 8 deaths on Sunday. The total number of cases has now gone up to 42,858 out of which 1,576 have succumbed to the infection and 2,737 are still undergoing treatment. On Sunday, 429 patients were discharged from the hospital. Solapur reports 34 casesSolapur city reported 34 cases of Covid-19 and no deaths. The total number of cases in the district has reached 9,258 out of which 513 have succumbed to the infection and 674 currently undergoing treatment. Rural parts of Solapur district reported 10 deaths and 120 fresh cases. Rural Solapur now has 3,679 patients still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-86-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/78737067.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Special ‘highway patrol’ to control crime in UP's Rae Bareli||LUCKNOW: Rae Bareli police has constituted a special ‘highway patrol’ to control crime. The special unit includes 14 police response vehicles (PRVs) to keep a watch on 338km long highways. A team of 168 policemen has been constituted, which will be deployed on the 14 PRVs. Four cops will be attached in eight-hour shift on each PRV. Superintendent of police, Rae Bareli, Shlok Kumar, said the role of special ‘highway patrol’ team is to ensure smooth traffic flow, control law and order and prevent road mishaps. Kumar said during his stint as SP Hamirpur, he had started a similar ‘highway patrol’, which helped prevent road accidents and nab criminals. He said the team will also provide security and safety to 52 banks on the roadside, 28 petrol pumps, along with 26 schools and colleges. “We have also covered as many as 63 crossings which fall under the highways,” said the SP. The officer said the presence of police on highways will make families travelling at night safe. In case of a vehicle breakdown, PRVs have been equipped to provide all the assistance. A special half-radium jacket will also be given to the police team, which will patrol during night. Police said efforts to improve policing is being made with emphasis on reaching the crime spot on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/special-highway-patrol-to-control-crime-in-rae-bareli/articleshow/78739688.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Shortage in veggie supply spurs prices in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A severe shortage of vegetable supply in the last few days has spurred the prices northwards in the retail markets across the city. Officials predict that the prices will go up further until the new crop arrives in the market. Torrential rains that pounded many districts of the state on October 13 has not only damaged the vegetable crops but has also affected its transportation to the city. As per agriculture marketing department records, on an average, 60,000 quintals of vegetables arrive every day but the rainfall has drastically affected the vegetable supply to the markets. “We received only 14,000 quintals of vegetables on October 15. We receive a lot of vegetables from Chevella and Vikarabad but the torrential rains have damaged a lot of crops. Not just that, farmers are also unable to transport the sellable crop,” said Srinivas Lokini, secretary, Bowenpally Market. Lady finger, which was being sold at Rs 35 a kg at Rythu Bazars last month, has witnessed a steady rise in prices and is now available at Rs 70 a kg. Similarly, onions, which were being sold at Rs 50 until last month, are now available at Rs 75 in retail markets. Carrots, capsicum, cabbage are being sold at Rs 80-120 per kg. “Except potatoes, every other vegetable prices are high. We are now buying only small quantities of vegetables,” said Rashmi Mamidala, a home-maker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shortage-in-veggie-supply-spurs-prices/articleshow/78739022.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Ganesh Avenue blaze: Bengal seeks safety details from building owners||KOLKATA: The state fire services department has sent a notice to the owners of Moon House — the eight-storey building on Ganesh Chandra Avenue — that had caught fire on Friday night, leading to the death of two persons, including a 12-year-old boy, to submit the details of fire safety measures at the building. “We have asked the building owners to submit the fire safety-related details. Our officials have already noted down some of the major lacunas in the building but as per the process, we have asked them to furnish the documents,” said Jag Mohan, director general of state fire services. The officials said once the owners submit the documents, the fire department will lodge a complaint with the local police station and then ask the building authorities to take up the necessary repair and fire safety works on an urgent basis. Cops and KMC will survey old buildings in the area and identify structures having meter boxes under staircases. Meanwhile, most families of the building, which has no power and water, are staying at other places even after cops allowed them to return on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ganesh-ave-blaze-state-seeks-safety-details-from-bldg-owners/articleshow/78737936.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati: Two chain snatchers held, gold seized||TIRUPATI: Police on Sunday arrested two chain snatchers in Tirupati and recovered stolen property, including gold ornaments. Speaking to reporters, Tirupati (east) division DSP T Murali Krishna said two chain snatchers, R Nagendra Babu and S Siva, were arrested by the Alipiri police near Vivekananda Circle in the city on Sunday morning. Police recovered three gold chains weighing 71 grams and worth approximately Rs 1.5 lakh and a two-wheeler from the possession of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-chain-snatchers-held-gold-seized/articleshow/78737080.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Dehradun||‘Army chief Naravane’s Nepal visit had been slotted for Feb, but Covid came in the way’||Dehradun: The proposed visit of Indian Army chief General MM Naravane next month to Nepal had actually been cleared in February this year, but Covid came in the way, sources in the Nepalese government told TOI. Speaking about General Naravane’s visit — which is expected to take place sometime after Diwali — spokesperson of Nepali Army, Brigadier General Shantosh Ballave Poudyal told TOI, “Earlier, General Naravane was proposed to visit Nepal on February 3. The exact dates of his current visit are still being worked out between the two governments and we will come to know of the final dates shortly. During his visit, our president, Bidhya Devi Bhandari will confer General Naravane the honorary rank of the general of the Nepali Army.” Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gayali, while saying that the foreign ministry has not yet received formal communication regarding General Naravane’s visit, said that he “personally felt that these engagements are positive developments.” “Such visits will help strengthen bilateral ties between our two countries and will also help solve the issues that have cropped up,” he added. Nepalese opposition members, whom TOI spoke to, also welcomed the Army chief’s proposed visit. Minendra Rijal, member of central working committee of the Nepali Congress said that he believed that the visit will offer Nepal “an opportunity to articulate our position.” “I consider the Indian Army chief’s visit to Nepal as a welcome development. General Naravane’s remarks about Nepal’s land encroached by India had added insult to Nepal’s injured mindset back then. His proposed visit will be a good opportunity for the General to understand Nepal’s perspective on the issue and for us an opportunity to articulate our position,” Rijal said in an email response. He added that “both countries can use the proposed visit to explain, understand and appreciate nuanced differences in our two nations’ perspectives on the China dimension in our bilateral relationship.” “More importantly, Nepal and India can utilise the proposed visit for honest and candid exchanges on various critical facets of our bilateral relationship in an environment that is free of political hullabaloo,” Rijal said. On the recent removal of Nepal’s defence minister Ishwor Pokharel by PM Oli, Rijal said, “Whether PM Oli keeps the defence portfolio with himself or gives it to his minister does not make an iota of difference to an outsider. If it has any significance, it is limited to personal chemistry and power politics within the ruling party.” Former PM of Nepal, Baburam Bhattarai, too, added that General Naravane’s visit will “send a positive message to people in both countries and to the world.” “Relations between our two countries have dipped to a low level. But, it’s good that talks have started again, which is a positive thing,” Bhattarai said. Major General Binoj Basnyat (retd), a former Nepali Army officer, who is currently an analyst on South Asian affairs, said that General Naravane’s visit “proved that military-to-military relationship between Nepal and India went beyond political happenings.” “The visit reiterates that the governments of both India and Nepal admit that military diplomacy is the means and ways for furthering our special relationship and discussing national and regional security concerns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-chief-naravanes-nepal-visit-had-been-slotted-for-feb-but-covid-came-in-the-way/articleshow/78737083.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Business picks up in Bengaluru’s oldest wholesale garment hub||BENGALURU: Business at Mamulpet, Bengaluru’s oldest and largest wholesale garment hub, is slowly picking up even as fears over the pandemic swirl. Orders are trickling in gradually from the rest of Karnataka and the other southern states and the over 1,500 traders who conduct business here are pinning their hopes on the festival season, especially Diwali, Christmas and New Year. The wholesale market is decades old and traders here have supplied fabric and readymade garments to the rest of South India for as long as they can remember. Growth in business over the years saw the market expanding into neighbouring Sultanpet and Old Tharagupet localities. But, the pandemic and the resulting lockdown in March saw sales plummeting to unprecedented lows. “I have been in business here since 1985 and had never seen the kind of dip that followed the lockdown,” said Ravindra Chopra, a trader on Arcot Srinivasachar Street in Mamulpet. “Shops have shut down for good, outstanding credit has piled up and retailers cannot pay us as they are also facing loses. Now, there is a little bit of hope as sales have begun to pick-up.” However, they say, it may take a few more months for the situation to return to pre-Covid days. Many traders in the hub have suffered body blows and ‘to-let’ boards are a common sight. “Recovery has been extremely slow,” said Siddarth Jain, who runs a shop opposite the Chickpet Metro station. Jain has been dealing in shirts, jackets and tracksuits since 1991. This slump, he says, is the worst he has even seen. “I would say 25% of the business has returned and retailers in Bengaluru are gradually returning. But the regulars from rest of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are totally absent,” he said. “These retailers are sceptical about purchasing stock as store sales is a big question mark given the situation.” While some traders have quit, others are hanging on, determined to regain lost trade. Hopeful of a revival in the festival season, they have floated offers and discounts to attract buyers. “Sales in October has been an improvement, thanks to the festive mood and Diwali and Christmas is what we are banking on now,” said Sajjan Raj Mehta, a trade activist who also deals in western outfits. Most traders strongly believe reopening of schools and resumption of public events like weddings, sports competitions and large office events will boost their business as demand for clothing and related gear will increase. Their biggest lamentation is that the state and central governments, to whom they pay large sums in taxes, has failed to give them a helping hand during the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/biz-picks-up-in-mamulpet-blurus-oldest-wholesale-garment-hub/articleshow/78737656.cms||Petlee Peter
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik municipal corporation to spend Rs 33 crore to repair potholes||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to spend Rs 35 crore to repair the potholes on rain-damaged city roads across six divisions. Contractors are expected to be appointed by month-end and they will immediately start the work. The contractors will be accountable for road repairs and pothole-filling works on tar roads, as well as the supply of raw materials and machinery to repair macadamized roads across. “Monsoon is now almost over and we will start repairing roads and filling potholes,” said the NMC officials. “We have already started filling the potholes in some areas. We are also in the process of appointing contractors to repair the roads. We have earmarked Rs 33 crore,” they added. “The condition of roads in the city has deteriorated due to rains. Although the NMC temporarily repaired some roads, potholes have resurfaced. The condition of the Gangapur Road in some stretches is pathetic. The road is also in very bad shape near Savarkar Nagar area,” said city resident Manish Rawal. The two industrial estates of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) — Satpur and Ambad — are located within the jurisdiction of NMC, which takes care of the roads in the industrial areas. But the condition of the roads in the industrial areas is also bad. Industrial associations have been demanding that the NMC improve the road conditions. While one or two major roads are in good shape, most of the internal roads in both the industrial estates are in a very bad state, said an industrialist. Recently, Shiv Sena corporator Santosh Gaikwad had staged a sit-in agitation along with his supporters to raise voice against the pothole-riddled roads and negligence of the civic administration during the online general body meeting of the NMC. Gaikwad had attended the online meeting while sitting on a potholed-road in the Satpur division. The mayor had then directed the civic administration to take up pothole repair works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-spend-rs-33cr-to-repair-potholes/articleshow/78739019.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Active Covid cases fall across Chennai, positivity rate 8%||CHENNAI: Within two weeks, active Covid-19 cases are down in 14 of the 15 zones of Greater Chennai Corporation. This comes when the number of cases reported daily in the city has dropped from 1,200-1,300 to the 1,100-1,200 range. On Sunday, Chennai had 1,036 fresh cases. The fall in the number of cases comes even as the testing of samples has remained consistently in the 13,000 range for the past two weeks. The positivity rate has dropped to around 8% after remaining within 9-10% two weeks ago. Ideal positivity rate for the city as per Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) norms is five or below. Corporation officials said their aim was to gradually reduce the positivity rate to around seven by month-end. Active cases in the city have increased only in Tiruvottiyur in the past fortnight. As of Sunday morning, the percentage of active cases in all the zones was less than 10%. In Royapuram, Tondiarpet and Kodambakkam, it was 5%. According to corporation figures, in the past one week, except Anna Nagar and Alandur, all other zones have reported a negative growth of fresh cases. Royapuram has recorded the steepest drop at 4.7%. Growth of fresh cases in Chennai has fallen by 2.4%. However, corporation officials say the infection curve would not drop drastically but may see an upward trend after some time. “We are not relaxing as in November there will be rains, a cooler climate and bigger gatherings due to festivals. This means that the case load will increase,” an official said. This is why containment strategies will continue for three more months. Also, deliberations will continue on opening of public places such as Marina and Besant Nagar beaches, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-fall-across-chennaipositivity-rate-8/articleshow/78737927.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Delhi||DU Act tweaks may open a Pandora’s box: Teachers||NEW DELHI: The request by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to amend Section 5(2) of Delhi University Act has ruffled feathers with many claiming that it is an attempt to take over the 12 colleges that are fully funded by Delhi government. Many others claimed that any amendment or dilution in the Act would pave the way for colleges like St Stephen’s, Hindu and Ramjas to demand autonomy. Surinder Dahiya, staff association secretary of Ramjas College, said, “The CM doesn’t need to amend DU Act. The government claims that students are not getting seats, but there are so many private institutions affiliated with GGSIP University. More colleges can be simply opened under Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) and IP University. Delhi government just wants to take over the 12 colleges funded by it.” National Democratic Teachers’ Front member AK Bhagi concurred with Dahiya saying it was an attempt to take over the 12 DU colleges fully funded by Delhi government. “If the CM wants to increase seats for Delhi students, then he should build new campuses under AUD or start colleges affiliated with the university. DU Act is a protection against privatisation of education, which I think is the plan of Delhi government,” he claimed. Kejriwal, in his letter to Union ministry of education, had said, “DU has 91 affiliated colleges. Since the past 30 years, no new college has opened as the university has exceeded its capacity. Because of Section 5(2) of DU Act, no new affiliating university or college can be set up.” DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said such attempts had also been made by governments in the past. “When I got the news, my first response was that this would lead to the argument for autonomy and privatisation. If colleges get an opportunity to break away from DU, then the first ones would be Hindu, Ramjas and St Stephen’s. That is dangerous,” said Hindu College staff association member PK Vijayan. Indian National Teachers’ Congress convener Pankaj Garg claimed that changing DU Act would open the doors for trusts to take over colleges that get 5% funds from them and 95% from University Grants Commission (UGC). “In the past, trusts had tried to make Hindu and St Stephen’s autonomous, but failed because of the provisions of DU Act,” he added. “Any attempt by Delhi government or trusts to take over constituent colleges would be strongly opposed by us. DU should take over all colleges from trusts and Delhi government and the funding agency should be UGC,” said Garg. However, English faculty member of St Stephen’s college NP Ashley said he was unsure how the amendment would lead to the demand for autonomy. “I support the idea of reserving 85% of seats for Delhi students in the 12 colleges funded by Delhi government. Many students who do not get admissions are forced to opt for open learning or studying in expensive private universities,” he added. Responding to the claims of teachers, a Delhi government official said, “No university in Delhi, including AUD, is allowed to open or affiliate colleges because of DU Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-act-tweaks-may-open-a-pandoras-box-teachers/articleshow/78737960.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 19, 2020||Meerut||Despite Oct 31 deadline of sweater distribution, many govt schools yet to complete procurement process||Meerut: Uttar Pradesh education department has found that many schools in the state have not even completed the procurement process of sweaters for government schoolchildren. The department had earlier set October 31 deadline for completing the distribution of the sweaters in the state. The education department has now said if the sweaters are not distributed within time, action will be taken against the authorities concerned. “During inspection, however, it has come to fore that many schools have not even completed the procurement process of the sweaters. All the basic shiksha adhikaris are directed to ensure that sweater procurement process in expedited so that distribution process is completed within the said deadline or else action will be taken against the said authorities, Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh, UP (basic) education director said in a letter. The process for sweater procurement wss to have ended by September 20. The sweaters will have to be procured keeping in mind the size and cost. It has to be ensured that each sweater costs Rs 200 and does not exceed the limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/despite-oct-31-deadline-of-sweater-distribution-many-govt-schools-yet-to-complete-procurement-process/articleshow/78737102.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Little KITEs training sessions to be broadcast on Saturdays||Thiruvananthapuram: Training sessions for the members of Little KITEs IT Clubs in 2,060 government and aided schools in the state would be available on Kite Victers education channel from 11am on Saturdays. The training classes are meant for 55,627 students in ninth standard. However, the sessions are fashioned in such a manner that all students or general public interested in IT would also benefit from the classes.  Little KITEs IT clubs were set up in schools as part of the general education rejuvenation mission. The training session would start on Saturday. The classes would help students to develop a fundamental understanding of animation, graphics design, python programming and put them into practice. “Instructions have been given out to schools so that students would have access to laptops deployed in schools so that they can experiment and practice what they learn in the classes,” said KITE CEO Anvar Sadath. Little KITEs club members are eligible for grace marks in SSLC examination. Around 1.2 lakh students in Classes 9 and 10 are members in the Little KITEs clubs. Children are generally given training on animation, electronics, cyber security, Malayalam computing, mobile app development and robotics. Like the First Bell classes broadcast on Victers channel, the training sessions would also be available on YouTube channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/little-kites-training-sessions-to-be-broadcast-on-saturdays/articleshow/78737106.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nashik||CP writes to officials about illegal activities||Nashik: Police commissioner Deepak Pandey has written to the district collector, Nashik regional transport officer and the district superintendent of the State Excise Department to prevent illegal businesses under their purview. He has also appealed to them to inform the police if they need any assistance to conduct joint actions. This comes after the media questioned the CP about illegal sale of liquor, passenger transport and roulette lottery system. In the letters, Pandey while bringing to the notice of the three officers that the police are constantly busy in detecting various crime cases, maintaining law and order ,and maintaining bandobast said they can intimate the police if they need assistance for taking action against illegal activities. In the letter to district collector Suraj Mandhare, the CP said the police expects action against roulette lottery gambling that is flourishing in the city as his department has been empowered by the government to take action against such illegal businesses. In the same way, the CP has also written to Nashik RTO Bharat Kalaskar bringing the latter’s attention on illegal passenger transport by motorists and to the district superintendent of the state excise department about illegal sale of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-writes-to-officials-about-illegal-activities/articleshow/78739025.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH gets govt nod for starting new emerging tech courses in UG||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has permitted Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH), to issue affiliation for engineering colleges to start new under-graduation courses in emerging technologies. A government order (GO) has been issued by the state to add 18,210 engineering seats in artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML), data sciences (DS), Internet of things (IoT), cyber security among others with an additional financial commitment of Rs 33.85 crores per annum from the academic year 2020-2021. “In view of the approvals accorded by All India Council for Technical Education and in the circumstances reported by the registrar, JNTUH, the government hereby accord permission to registrar, JNTUH, to issue affiliation for engineering colleges to start new under-graduation courses with an additional financial commitment of Rs 33.85 crore per annum from the academic year 2020-2021, subject to fulfilment of conditions as stipulated by AICTE,” the GO issued by special chief secretary, education, Chitra Ramachandran said. The minimum intake in majority of the colleges for a course is 60. However, a few colleges have added as many as 180 seats each in AI, ML and DS courses. A few, meanwhile, added only 30 seats in emerging technologies. JNTU registrar M Manzoor Hussain, meanwhile, said they have asked colleges to submit an undertaking for grant of affiliation for these courses. “We informed colleges that we will be conducting inspection anytime to see whether colleges have the infrastructure to run these courses. Colleges, which do not meet the criteria, will lose affiliation next year,” Hussain said, adding that students would be able to see these courses and opt for them in EAMCET counselling from Monday. This year, colleges have surrendered over 13, 000 seats in mechanical, civil and electrical engineering to accommodate seats in emerging technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-gets-govt-nod-for-starting-new-emerging-tech-courses-in-ug/articleshow/78739028.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Exam credibility: Ignou sticks to offline test, regular pass marks||NAGPUR: Though open universities have often been viewed as ‘inferior’ to their traditional counterparts, the recent exams being conducted by varsities may very well change the point of view. Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) not only conducted its final year/semester exams in offline mode as usual, but it also did not compromise on the evaluation benchmarks. Around 3.6 lakh students were issued admit cards for Ignou exams, which started in September and will end this week. Attendance too has almost been the same as in the previous years, about 50%. Unlike other varsities, the passing marks were not altered and no waiver was given for project work or written assignment submissions. By conducting exams this time as per traditional format, the ‘credibility of exam’ stance adopted by Ignou vice-chancellor Nageshwar Rao seems to have paid off. While he refused to compare decisions in the backdrop of those taken by other universities, Rao gave an insight into his thought process. “No one will question the credibility of the degree granted by conducting exams as per established practice. We conducted written exams even for certificate and diploma courses. Students also understood that this was for their future. In Punjab, we had 97% attendance for certificate course in child care exam,” said Rao. Ignou also had some unexpected challenges along the way. Rao said, “The postal department said it was not in a position to deliver the question papers. So, we airlifted the papers and our regional directors then took over.” All hired exam centres were paid extra this year due to Covid-19. “We also increased the number of centres and students did not have to bear any extra cost for this,” said Rao. Another initiative this year is that exam results for those having just one or two papers are being released within days. As for others, this time the wait won’t be for the normal 45 days either. According to regional director P Sivaswaroop, almost 1,900 students are registered for the exams in Nagpur. “Exams have gone off without any problem since last month and by following all Covid-19 guidelines,” said Sivaswaroop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exam-credibility-ignou-sticks-to-offline-test-regular-pass-marks/articleshow/78739051.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fire in LIC building leaves 3 injured||KOLKATA: Three members of a family, living on the fourth floor of LIC building on CR Avenue near Chandni Chowk Metro station, were severely injured after a fire broke out on the same floor in the early hours of Sunday. The trio — Trilochan Behera (58), his daughter Satyadahan (35) and son Navin (20) — who worked and stayed in the canteen of the building, were sleeping when the fire broke out. Five fire tenders rushed to the spot and carried out the rescue operation. Officials said they had brought the fire under control and rescued the three within 35 minutes with the help of locals. The three were taken to SSKM Hospital with burn injuries and severe respiratory distress. Cops said they were out of danger. “An electrical short circuit might have led to the fire. However, we have started an inquiry to find the exact reason behind the fire,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-in-lic-building-leaves-3-injured/articleshow/78737975.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Hamzu’s obit service serves ‘social’ cause||Kozhikode: Thamarath Hamzu, from Perinthalmanna, Malappuram, is literally a messenger of death. The 65-year-old retired cooperative bank employee has been running a one-man obit service on social media for the last nearly five years, during which time he has posted death announcements of over 5,800 persons. Hamzu runs 50 dedicated WhatsApp groups – named ‘Marana Varthakal’. He has also been posting announcements on 50 other WhatsApp groups of which he is a member, apart from a dedicated Telegram group and over Facebook. Interestingly, he has not posted anything on social media platforms all these years other than obituaries of persons from Malappuram and bordering districts. “All the 50 WhatsApp groups I have started have 257 members each. Also I post the obit announcements on another 50 WhatsApp groups of which I am a member. That apart, I have a dedicated Telegram group and my official Facebook page has 8,000 followers, apart from another FB account with 5,000 followers. Other than that, many large FB groups of various social and political organizations also carry my messages on their pages which give the obit messages I post a total reach to around 29 lakh people,” says Hamzu. He took upon himself the task of collecting, verifying and posting obit reports on social media platforms as a social service. “I always wanted to use social media for the good of society rather than using it to post just personal or political messages. The first obit message I posted was on November 2, 2015 of a person near Perinthalmanna,” he reminisces. Death is a very sensitive matter and maintaining factual correctness is of utmost importance, says Hamzu. “There is no scope for errors in obituaries. So I make it a point to gather information of the deceased from family members as far as possible. Nowadays, many families take the time to provide me the information.” Hamzu says his announcements are more detailed than the normal obits published in newspapers. “I make four-five phone calls to get the correct details and I often contact panchayat members, mosque authorities and others in the locality for verification.” Hamzu has been posting around 3-5 obit reports on social media on a daily basis irrespective of social and religious differences. “While making posts about death of expats, in addition to the death announcement, I give additional reports in subsequent days about the date of repatriation of the body and then post another update after the funeral is held,” he added. Hamzu posted a video message asking people to maintain heightened vigil against Covid-19 and meticulously practice social distancing saying that during the first 14 days of October, he posted death reports of 14 people who died due to Covid-19 in Perinthalmanna and nearby areas alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/hamzus-obit-service-serves-social-cause/articleshow/78737134.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Meerut||RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary tests Covid +ve||Meerut: Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary has tested positive for Covid-19. He was diagnosed positive after over a fortnight of political activity which included two back-to-back mahapanchayats -- each in Muzaffarnagar and Mathura -- which were attended by thousands. Speculation was rife about his ill health ever since he did not show up at the Bulandshahr mahapanchayat on October 17. Party insiders had said he was unwell. Putting rumours to rest, Chaudhary took to Twitter to share the news. “Had tested and received a Covid + Report. Family members are negative. Am doing alright and will continually monitor and treat according to doctor’s recommendations. For those who met me recently, please get tested if you have symptoms,” the RLD Chaudhary said in a tweet on Sunday. Chaudhary was in the news recently when he and his supporters on way to meet the family of the Hathras rape-murder victim were allegedly attacked by a police team. This was immediately followed by a massive turnout at a mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on October 8 and a similar event in Mathura on October 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rld-vice-president-jayant-chaudhary-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/78737111.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Malls meet revenue targets three weeks before Diwali as footfall soars in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The last lap of shopping on the final weekend ahead of Durga Puja exceeded expectations at city malls with at least three facilities clocking higher footfall over the three days than they did during the corresponding period last year. The high footfall has also resulted in a spike in sales. While malls were expecting the Puja to act as a catalyst, they have all met the target at least three weeks ahead of Diwali with bumper sales over the past three weeks. “It’s been a fantastic pre-Puja outing. In terms of footfall, the patrons are as good as pre-Covid time and on some days even 10% more,” said Ramesh Pandey of Ambuja Neotia that operates City Centre I in Salt Lake and City Centre II in New Town. While 90,000 people walked into CC-I over the weekend, CC-II clocked 75,000 walk-ins. CC-I raked in Rs 3 crore in just three days while CC-II mopped up Rs 2.4 crore. For the week, it’s been Rs 6 crore and Rs 5 crore respectively. South City, the city’s largest mall and among the country’s most successful, saw the footfall jump from 2 lakh last weekend to 2.5 lakh between Friday and Sunday. It ended the week with Rs 20 crore revenue — the last three days accounting for Rs 12 crore. What came as a big surprise to the mall operator was the high food and beverage sales that has grown 35%-40% over last year. “The food court as well as restaurants have done phenomenally well,” said vice-president Manmohan Bagri. Acropolis also witnessed a higher footfall during the weekend. The mall’s operational head K Vijayan said footfall had increased by 15% everyday over the past few days, keeping mall employees on their toes. “We observed an increase in serious shoppers. It is a breather for them as they have been enjoying quality time with family with all safety and hygiene norms in place,” he said. Last week, the mall has clocked Rs 5 crore revenue, higher than the target it had set three weeks ago. The weekend accounted for Rs 2.5 crore. Forum, the city’s first mall, also saw the footfall zoom to 45,000 during the week, nearly half of it over the weekend. It clocked a revenue of Rs 2.6 crore over the week and Rs 1.2 crore over the weekend. “The business has been swell. We are looking forward to continued excitement over the next few days,” said mall head Ujjwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malls-meet-revenue-targets-three-weeks-before-diwali-as-footfall-soars/articleshow/78739052.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Continuous efforts needed on pollution: Prakash Javadekar||NEW DELHI: As north India heads for another tryst with air pollution in winter, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said the problem couldn’t be resolved in a day and continuous efforts were needed to tackle each of the contributing factors.  Track the pollution level in your cityThe minister also appealed to people to do their bit as force multipliers to improve the situation. “In India, the primary reasons for air pollution are vehicular emissions, industrial emissions, dust from construction and demolition sites, biomass burning, poor waste management and stubble burning,” said Javadekar, noting that the pollution in northern India during winters gets exacerbated when these factors combine with geographical and meteorological factors. Participating in a Facebook Live event on the issue of air pollution, Javadekar also listed the number of measures being taken by the government both in Delhi-NCR and in over 100 cities across the country under the ongoing National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). He said, “The government has introduced BS-VI compliant vehicle standards since April across the country. It’s a revolutionary step towards reduction of vehicular pollution. The BS-VI fuel reduces the NOx emission by 70% in diesel cars and by 25% in petrol cars, and reduces Particulate Matter (PM) in vehicles by 80%.” The minister answered various questions of participants during the live event and urged them to switch over to cleaner modes of transport and minimise use of personal vehicles. Watch Delhi-NCR facing 70 less days of air pollution after 2016: Javadekar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/continuous-efforts-needed-on-pollution-javadekar/articleshow/78737982.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civic body to go after water tax defaulters with over Rs 10,000 dues||NASHIK: The civic administration has decided to start a recovery drive against big water tax defaulters who have dues over Rs 10,000. The decision taken by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) comes in the wake of the drop in revenue collection from water tax following the Covid-19 outbreak. There are over 25,694 water tax defaulters who have outstanding dues ranging between Rs 10,000 to more than 25,000. Collectively, they owe the NMC dues to the tune of Rs 54.09 crore. NMC has set a target of generating Rs 106 crore-revenue from water tax collection for the 2020-21 fiscal. However, the NMC has been able to collect only Rs 14.25 crore till October 10. “The water tax collection has been badly affected due to the Covid-19 outbreak. We have decided to start a recovery drive from big water defaulters. We will be targeting only those water tax defaulters who have dues over Rs 10,000,” said an NMC official. In 2019-20, NMC’s revenue through water tax collection had increased by 35% to Rs 55 crore against Rs 40 crore tax collected in the previous fiscal (2018-19). There are a total 1.98 lakh water connections in the city—1.90 lakh residential, 4,000 commercial and remaining 4,000 non-commercial water connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-body-to-go-after-water-tax-defaulters-with-over-rs-10000-dues/articleshow/78739040.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 19, 2020||Meerut||Two men held for killing 'friend' whowas blackmailing girl with 'pictures'||Bijnor: Two men were arrested for allegedly killing a "friend" whose body was recovered two days ago from a cane field near the forested area of Tarkoli village under Nehtaur police station in Bijnor district. Police said the deceased had accessed "compromising pictures" and was blackmailing the girl with whom the murder accused was in a "relationship".According to officials, the man - identified as Abhishek Kumar, 32, from Sheikhupura village - was strangulated and his hands were found tied with a rope. Ratan Singh, the father of the deceased, filed a complaint against unidentified assailants and a case was registered.Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh formed a team to solve the case. The team arrested two accused - Ankit Kumar and Deepak Saini of Mahandabad village under Haldaur - via surveillance on Sunday. The accused are tailor by profession and run a shop at Khedi village.According to SP Singh, Deepak fell in love with a girl. Abhishek made a video of the pair and blackmailed them. He was torturing the girl repeatedly and forcing her to meet him alone."When Deepak came to know about it, he plotted to eliminate Abhishek. He called him and asked to get him to meet with the girl in a remote area. Deepak and his friend Ankit took him to a field and offered cold drinks laced with intoxicated pills. Abhishek fell unconscious. Deepak and Ankit then strangled him and stuffed soil into his mouth," the SP said.Police have recovered a bike and claimed that the accused, who have been sent to jail, have confessed to their crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-men-held-for-killing-friend-whowas-blackmailing-girl-with-pictures/articleshow/78737124.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Hospital head chargesheeted||Shimla: In connection with the suicide of a 54-year-old Covid-19 patient admitted at Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital in Shimla during the wee hours of September 23, the state government has chargesheeted Dr Lokinder Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital on Saturday. Chargesheet is based on the findings of the magisterial inquiry conducted by the additional district magistrate (ADM), Shimla. After the Covid positive woman committed suicide, her son had alleged gross negligence on the part of the hospital. It was alleged that the woman was neither provided blood pressure medicine as demanded by her nor she was supplied the water bottle provided by the family members. Shimla deputy commissioner (DC) Amit Kashyap had marked judicial probe to look into the circumstances leading to suicide through ADM. Inquiry report was submitted to the DC on October 1. On October 3, the DC had submitted the inquiry to secretary health. The incident had raised serious doubts on the functioning of Covid hospitals in the state. Himachal Pradesh high court on September 25 had issued notice to the chief secretary and additional chief secretary (health) besides director health services and senior medical superintendent of DDU and directed them to file their reply or status report. Next hearing of the case is on November 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospital-head-chargesheeted/articleshow/78739057.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||IP University to rethink law exam decision||NEW DELHI: After Bar Council of India (BCI) objected to the conduct of law examinations before resumption of physical classes, IP University has decided to rethink its strategy. The university has said it will take a call after October 21 as the matter is in court. In its general body meeting on October 5, BCI said its circulars and press releases had “clearly spelled out that no physical exams were to be held till physical reopening of colleges, which should only re-open after the crisis of pandemic is averted”. The directions were also issued to promote all students except those in the final year to ensure that classes for the next academic session would begin, it added. Promoting intermediate students was regularised by adding a clause that exams should be held within a month of re-opening of colleges, BCI has clarified. Prodyut Bhattacharya, the controller of examinations at IP University, said “we will wait for now as there is a court hearing on October 21 where our counsel would place the university’s view”. The university has a plan to start the examination on November 2, “which would have been better as otherwise students will have to sit for two semester exams in December”, he said. “We had decided on a two-hour exam as an arrangement for the Covid-19 precautions.” Bhattacharya claimed that the decision was taken after BCI had said that “exams should be conducted”. The official was referring to a June 9 circular of BCI stating that all students, except final-year ones, will be promoted on the basis of previous year’s performance and the marks obtained in the internal examination of the current year. It had also clarified physical examinations would be held only after reopening of the colleges/universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ip-university-to-rethink-law-exam-decision/articleshow/78737997.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Respecting girl child part of our ‘sanskriti, ‘sanskar’: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday called upon women public representatives and teachers to extend a helping hand to make Mission Shakti, the six-month drive to provide safety and security to women and girl child, a success. Interacting with over 1 lakh women public representatives including block pramukh and corporators and village heads, through a webinar, the chief minister said that a collective conscience of ‘gaon ki beti sabki beti’ needs to be deeply inculcated, adding that respecting a girl child has been a part of ‘sanskar’ (upbringing) and ‘sanskriti’ (culture) of Indian society.  The sentiment, he said, should echo from village to city in the coming days. Yogi said that the Centre and the state government was working to make girls independent through various schemes and programmes but success can be achieved only with the help of women. The CM said it was because of the women public representatives, that improvement has come about in various sectors. “It is only through aware people representatives that government schemes and programmes reach the grass root level, else they are subjected to corruption,” he said. The CM’s observation came a day after the state government launched Mission Shakti which aims to provide security and independence to women in the state. The webinar aimed to percolate the CM’s message to every household. Yogi laid emphasis on spreading awareness about the women helpline numbers including, 1090, 181, 1076 and 112, down to the village level. He said that the slogan ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ given by PM Narendra Modi aims at bringing security, independence and respect to the girls. Yogi said that the state government started ‘mukhbir scheme’ to stop female foeticide and child marriage. Likewise, the Swachh Bharat Abiyan not only aims to improve civic situation but also provides security and dignity to the women. He said that the state government was able to control the menace of Japanese encephalitis because of effective implementation of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. He said that the school chalo programme of the state government aimed at benefiting the girl students. The CM said that the programme helped the state government to increase student enrolment in school by around 50 lakh. Similarly, schemes like Matr Vandana, Saubhagya and Ujjwala scheme have elevated the conditions of women. Even the PM Jan Dhan scheme has helped the government in bringing financial inclusion of women. According to the government, the Mission Shakti programme will be monitored at three levels – while the UP chief secretary will review the programme every month, the district magistrates would do so every week. The programme would be monitored by various departments on a day to day basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/respecting-girl-child-part-of-our-sanskriti-sanskar-yogi/articleshow/78739701.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli cops’ transfer orders in a week: HM||NAGPUR: Former state home minister late RR Patil’s son Rohit is learnt to have taken up the issue of pending transfers of 146 officers at Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district. RR Patil was the guardian minister of the district and is still remembered fondly by the locals for his contribution. Hassled after their transfer was deferred for the sixth time, the officers now have a respite in sight with the present state home minister Anil Deshmukh assuring to get it done within a week. “The process has been started. We can expect to get the issue sorted within a week,” he told TOI. “The officers of the ranks of IAS and IPS were being reshuffled statewide for which the process was deferred but has now been expedited,” said Deshmukh. Sources stated some officers had requested Rohit, whose mother Sumantai is now MLA from Sangli, to take up the issue. Rohit is learnt to have sought the intervention of Deshmukh who immediately responded positively. In all, 146 officers of Gadchiroli and another 24 from Gondia, also a Maoist-affected districts in eastern Vidarbha, had taken to social media to protest their transfer being deferred for six times even after completing three years in trouble torn areas. One officer had mentioned in the social media about the ‘tareekh pe tareekh’ (date after date) being given to them after the transfer dates were shifted from July 31 to August 5, August 15, September 5, September 30, October 15 and now to October 30. The present officers, posted in Gadchiroli, are learnt to be serving here since August 2017. Around a dozen inspectors have been posted for the second time in the district. After having served in the difficult terrain as sub-inspectors, they were sent back on being promoted. One of the inspectors is working there for four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-cops-transfer-orders-in-a-week-hm/articleshow/78739062.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Protest against GHMC corporator||HYDERABAD: A GHMC corporator from Hayathnagar (LB Nagar assembly segment) witnessed protests by a woman when he visited rain affected areas in his ward. She even tried to allegedly assault TRS leader S Tirumala Reddy. In a video that went viral on Sunday, the woman was seen holding the shirt of the corporator and questioning him. Reddy said that he asked GHMC officials to demolish a structure on a nala and the woman objected to it. “All the residents of Rangulagutta, the locality where the incident occurred, are with me. Only one woman had objection to the demolition of the structure. When she tried my hold the collar of my shirt, some mischievous people circulated the video on social media and claimed that I was attacked by residents of my ward,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-against-ghmc-corporator/articleshow/78739056.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana floods: Missing man’s body, car found in lake||HYDERABAD: The body of a 30-year-old businessman, who along with his car got swept away in flood in Ameenpur in Sangareddy district, was found six days later in a lake on Sunday. The victim was identified as Ananth Anand, 30, a businessman and resident of Jayalaxmi Nagar. The incident occured at 8.30 pm on October 13. “It was raining heavily that night. The colony bridge was flooded as the nala was overflowing. Some witnesses saw his car getting swept away while he was travelling on the bridge,” Ameenpur inspector Prabhakar said. According to police, people standing on the other side of the bridge had warned him not to cross over. “He, however, went ahead. After travelling a short distance, the car got stuck in the middle of the bridge and got swept away by a strong current,” the inspector added. Anand’s body was found inside his car just 500 metres away from the bridge near a lake. NDRF and local police teams brought out the car, which got submerged in the storm water, but later found the victim inside the vehicle. “His body was identified by his family and an autopsy was done on the spot. Later, the body was handed over to the family,” the officer said. Initially, a missing case was registered, which was altered to suspicious death case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-mans-body-car-found-in-lake/articleshow/78739059.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hubballi||Residents of villages on banks of Bheema River relocated||Hubballi: The release of an enormous volume of water – 8.5 lakh cusecs – from the Sonna Barrage in Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi on Sunday kept residents of villages on the banks of Bheema River on tenterhooks. Many villages in the district are living in fear of being marooned in the rising river waters. In a pre-emptive move, the district administration had relocated residents of Holi Bosaga village on Saturday. However, most residents of Udachan village refused to shift to safer places, although personnel from the State Disaster Rescue Force helped move those residents who wanted to leave the village. A team from the Indian Army arrived at Udachan village to lend assistance to personnel from other forces in shifting the people to safer places, but most residents refused to budge. The residents, some of whom agreed to be relocated after much coaxing, said that they were forced to leave the village each time it flooded. Meanwhile, waters from the rising Bheema River entered many homes in Jai Bhim Nagar in Afzalpur town. ‘Not given breakfast and lunch’ As many as 300 residents of Udachan, who were shifted to a rehabilitation centre on Saturday, complained of lack of facilities. They said that they were given dinner late on Saturday night, and not given breakfast and lunch on Sunday. They said that failure of the personnel at the centre to ensure timely meals meant that children and the elderly suffered greatly. They demanded that the deputy commissioner visit the rehabilitation centre and take stock of the lack of facilities. Bus stuck on inundated road In Shirval village in Afzalpur taluk, a North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation bus bound for Karajagi got stuck on a road inundated by the rising waters of the river. Although the driver decided to wade through the road, water gushed into the silencer, stopping the vehicle in its tracks. Thankfully, passengers and the crew were rescued by the locals, who pulled the bus back to safe ground with the help of a rope that was tied to a tractor. Meanwhile, people are travelling between Shirval and Bankalaga by tractors. Yadgir villages threatened with floodIn Yadgir district, villages in Surpur taluk are faced with the threat of floods after 2.2 lakh cusecs of water was released on Saturday night from the Basavasagar Dam to the Krishna River. This followed the hike in the inflow to the reservoir from 1.5 lakh cusecs to 2.2 lakh cusecs. Although rain has relented in the region, threat of flood continues in the Krishna basin owing to the incessant rainfall in Maharashtra. The famous Chaya Bhagavathi temple has been submerged following the release of a large volume of water from the reservoir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/residents-of-villages-on-banks-of-bheema-river-relocated/articleshow/78737351.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mysuru||Two farmers killed in road mishap||Mysuru: Two farmers were killed on Sunday after a Kerala registered vehicle hit their two wheeler in Yalachagerebore, Hirikati under Nanjangud police limits. According to the police, the vehicle was on its way from Kerala to Nanjangud via Gundlupet, while the farmers were on their way to their village from Nanjangud. The deceased — 27-year-old Nagaraj and 37-year-old Puttaswamy — both residents of Kudlapura village died on the spot, said police. After hitting the bike, the vehicle toppled and hit a nearby electric pole and landed in an agricultural field. Locals witnessed the incident alerted the police immediately. Police suspect speeding and subsequent loss of control of the vehicle to be the reason for the fatal accident. The bodies were handed over to the relatives after a post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-farmers-killed-in-road-mishap/articleshow/78737442.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad floods: GHMC teams rescue 2,500 residents||HYDERABAD: GHMC’s disaster management rescue operations revealed the condition of residents in inundated areas. Some people stuck inside their homes, who took shelter, were unable to even enter the rescue boat or walk due to health conditions. Staffers had to enter homes and bring them to a safer place by holding them in their arms. A total of 72 disaster response teams to rescue people and 170 monsoon teams were pressed into service. “In Hazeef Baba Nagar, around 500 people were rescued and across the city more than 2,500 people were rescued,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director of EVDM wing, heading the rescue operation in Hafeez Baba Nagar, Chandrayangutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-teams-rescue-2-5k-residents/articleshow/78739067.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Debt-ridden farmer ends life by electrocuting self at farm pump||YAVATMAL: A debt ridden farmer in village Ooty of Mahagaon tehsil of Yavatmal district committed suicide by electrocuting himself on Sunday morning on his farm. Police sources said Punjabrao Mahadevrao Gawande (60) owned 2.5 acre land. This year he had sowed cotton, but due to the recent rains the crop was damaged heavily. His wife is suffering from paralysis for the last three years. Gawande has a huge debt from private money lenders, and it was difficult for him to get out of the liabilities. On Sunday morning, he went to his farm, where there is a well with an electric motor. Gawande had brought a wire and tied it around his leg. He then pulled out the fuse of the motor pump and inserted the wire in it. When he switched on the pump, the electric current passed through the wire and electrocuted him. Farm labourers working on adjoining farms first noticed the incident. His son Vishwas was also informed. All of them rushed Gawande to Sawna Public Health Centre, where doctors declared him brought dead. His nephew Santosh Dattarao Gawande later lodged an FIR at Mahagaon police station. Cops registered a case of accidental death. In April 2019, 75-year-old farmer Madhav Shankar Rawate, of village Savleshwar under Bittergaon police station, had committed suicide by jumping into a pyre of dry fodder on his farm. His cotton crop had been ruined by red boll worm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life-by-electrocuting-self-at-farm-pump/articleshow/78739065.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Action taken against plying of horse carts’||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police told Delhi High Court that tongas (horse carts) are seldom found within a majority of areas in the national capital and if found disrupting traffic on the roads, action is taken against these. In an affidavit, traffic police added that if there is a request from the local civic body, traffic police provides all necessary support and force for implementation of the ban on plying of tongas. Meanwhile, South Delhi Municipal Corporation also filed an affidavit in the matter stating that the veterinary department takes regular action against illegal plying of tongas in its areas. The civic body also told the court that it has issued licences to only 135 buggies for being used in ceremonies, including marriages. The corporation’s reply came on a plea by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) seeking to implement the provisions of Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Disease in Animal Act, 2009 and National Action Plan for control and eradication of glanders in horses, mules, ponies, and donkeys in Delhi. PETA India, in its application, has sought a direction to Delhi government to test all the horses, mules, ponies, and donkeys in the national capital immediately. The organisation has argued that despite there being a complete ban on plying of horsedrawn carts on roads of Delhi, authorities are brazenly permitting the carts to be plied, jeopardising not only the safety and security of the residents of Delhi but also increasing the risk, torture and cruelty meted out to the equines. The petitioner fears that if the authorities fail to take timely action in preventing the spread of zoonotic disease, the same may lead to the death of not only mute and helpless animals but it may also claim several human lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/action-taken-against-plying-of-horse-carts/articleshow/78738007.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Meerut||Woman, 38, shot dead by husband in Muzaffarnagar||Strap: Married for 14 years, the couple had 2 kidsMuzaffarnagar: A 38-year-old woman was shot dead allegedly by her husband in Khatauli area of Muzaffarnagar on Sunday morning, police said. The accused, Firoz Ahmad, was arrested and the body of his wife, Khushnuma, was sent for post-mortem examination. They were married for over 14 years and had two children.Marital discord is said to be the reason of the murder, a police officer said.Saleem, the brother of the woman, said, “We were told that she has died. But when we reached there, we saw her body soaked in blood. It was murder. We called the police.”“She had no dispute with her in-laws. Even we had fulfilled several of their demands earlier.”By the time of filing the report, Firoz was detained for questioning and local police were “waiting for the post-mortem report to file FIR".Superintendent of police Durgesh Singh said, “Prima facie the murder was committed by her husband. Once we get the complaint from the deceased's family, action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-38-shot-dead-by-husband-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/78737157.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 19, 2020||India||Nearly 25k devotees flocked to the famous temple on its reopening after 7 months||AGRA: Iconic Banke Bihari temple in Vrindavan was shut “indefinitely” on Monday, just two days after it reopened its portals to the devotees. On the first day of its opening on Saturday -- also the first day of Navratri -- nearly 25,000 devotees flocked to the famous temple to get a glimpse of Lord Krishna after over seven months. The huge crowd posed a big challenge to the temple committee, which struggled to enforce social distancing norms and local police were called for help. Amid allegations of “mismanagement”, the committee decided to shut the doors for a course correction. “The temple will remain shut for devotees from October 19 till further orders. It will reopen for ‘darshan’ of Lord Krishna after proper coordination with district administration and police to ensure security of devotees during this pandemic,” a temple notice read. Before opening the temple, its management had issued a notice saying that only 400 devotees will be allowed in the entire day. “200 devotees will get the chance of ‘darshan’ in the first slot from 8am to 12pm. And another 200 in the next, between 5:30 pm and 9:30pm,” the notice read. Also, the committee had decided to give entry to those who come after registering themselves on the online portal http://www.shreebankeybihari.com. But, unfortunately, the website was not functional and the devotees kept on coming in hope of ‘darshan’, a senior official said. District magistrate of Mathura Sarvagya Ram Misra told TOI, “A police force was deployed outside the temple for crowd management. But the turnout of devotees was huge as it was the first day of Navratri. As the online registration system was also not working, the chaos increased. We could not have taken action against the devotees as it is a matter of faith.” “We will review the arrangements on Monday,” he added. Devotees from far off places like Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Delhi and Rajasthan reached Mathura for ‘darshan’ on Saturday, said officials. A senior police officer said that once the online registration system is in place, it will be easy to control the crowd. “Then the temple will allow only those who have confirmation of a particular slot for darshan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nearly-25k-devotees-flocked-to-the-famous-temple-on-its-reopening-after-7-months/articleshow/78739948.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 19, 2020||Delhi||New system to alert DMRC of snag before it occurs||NEW DELHI: The signalling system is the most sophisticated component of the Delhi Metro network and, like a nervous system, plays a crucial role in smooth train operations. A snag in it brings operations to a halt. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) now plans to remotely monitor its signalling equipment laid along tracks from a central location 24x7. A remote health monitoring system will use sensors and data acquisition to improve quality of maintenance and reduce the mean time for any repair. The system will also immensely bring down manpower requirements, letting DMRC utilise its existing resources for better planning and train operations. To begin with, DMRC will put in place the system to facilitate continuous monitoring of electrical parameters of outdoor equipment such as point machines and visual signals installed on its 38km Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West). “This system will be able to carry out a comparative analysis of the present data with the stored data and if any deviation is observed, an alert will be sent to the on-duty staff or the in-charge, prompting him to carry out necessary maintenance,” a spokesperson said. The system will provide 24x7 monitoring on a dashboard and will provide an audio visual alarm in case of any abnormality or fault, including signal lamp failures, blanking of signals and point machine obstruction. “This will considerably reduce the need for current periodic inspection and save manhours,” the spokesperson said, adding that online monitoring would also help in reducing the failure rate of equipment. “The process will involve installation of sensors in the outdoor equipment, which will provide accurate data remotely through optical fibres. The system will record the data automatically, eliminating the need of collecting manual data by going to the site,” he added. The system will also provide predictive maintenance, optimisation and proposed solutions with the help of advanced analytics, machine learning and data visualisation. It will offer a real-time dashboard, alarm and history data analysis, besides customized and management reports. The web-based dashboard will display collective health and live status of monitored gears, with quick access to individual details, history, charting, etc. It will display live data for all point machines, including various sensor parameters such as temperature, humidity, operating time, relay room voltage, and current and voltage across the point operations. A mobile application will also be developed to access the data from the remote system. It will be password-protected, and will not allow dual login by a single user or store data locally. The system will not affect the normal working of any system and will have provisions to download the stored data in case of any failure. DMRC expects that it will take around nine months to install the system on Magenta Line. “Based on its feedback and performance, DMRC will implement the same on the rest of the corridors in a graded manner,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-system-to-alert-dmrc-of-snag-before-it-occurs/articleshow/78738031.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Mangaluru’s Wenlock hospital to get plasma therapy unit soon||MANGALURU: District Wenlock Hospital is expected to begin convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 within a fortnight. Confirming the development, Dr Sadashiva, district medical officer said an apheresis machine, which helps separate plasma from blood, was installed about 10 days ago and the hospital has applied for a licence to begin therapy. The drug controller is expected to give permission within 15 days. Meanwhile, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has warned of a protest in case there is a delay in launching the unit. Atavullah Jokatte, district president, SDPI, said people are facing hardships as a private hospital is fleecing patients who are opting for the therapy. He alleged plasma donated by patients who have recovered is sold for Rs 9,000 to Rs 19,000. He urged the administration to begin therapy at the unit at the earliest so that the poor are not put to any kind of hardship. However, when contacted, Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer, said he has not received any complaint regarding overcharging. He said the government has fixed Rs 7,500 as the cost for plasma therapy, but admitted there could be additional costs for related procedures. The therapy is used as a last resort on patients who are critical. It uses antibodies from the blood donated by a person who has recovered from Covid-19 to fight the infection. The donor has to be a person below 45 years of age. The process is similar to donating blood and takes about an hour. Plasma donors are hooked up to the apheresis machine that removes plasma while simultaneously returning red blood cells to the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mangalurus-wenlock-hospital-to-get-plasma-therapy-unit-soon/articleshow/78737621.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Drunk riders take off with cop’s scooter, breathalyzer in Perambur||CHENNAI: You could call it revenge of the tipplers. A police officer checking for drunk driving at Perambur was left red-faced on Saturday night when two bikers he had stopped rode away with his scooter and breathalyzer. Sub-inspector Balamurali and two constables were checking vehicles near Murasoli Maran flyover when they stopped two men on a bike. They suspected the rider was drunk and made him blow into the breathalyzer twice, but the results were erratic. The cops decided to test the man again after a bit and asked the two to wait by the roadside. Balamurali and his men got busy checking other motorists, some of whom were trying to avoid the police check, and forgot to keep an eye on the two. A little later Balamurali realized the two and their bike were missing. Worse, so was his Honda Activa on which he had left a breathalyzer and a body camera. Balamurali and a constable got on another bike and did a quick search of the area, but there was no sign of the two. It didn’t help that the cops hadn’t noted down the number of their bike. All the cops have to go on is that the two men, who were both wearing masks, were in their twenties. Based on Balamurali’s complaint, the Sembium police have registered a case and are combing CCTV camera footage to trace the two. Police suspect the pillion rider made off with the SI’s two-wheeler and he probably couldn’t resist the chance to filch the instrument dreaded by all those who drink and drive and even by other motorists in these times of the pandemic. The city police have said they will use selfie sticks to hold the breathalysers to maintain social distancing, but motorists complain it’s the same old story of a police either sticking his face next to theirs or holding a breathalyzer in hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drunk-riders-take-off-with-cops-scooter-breathalyzer/articleshow/78738032.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Nagpur||Woman drives car into Futala lake to end life, rescued||Nagpur: A woman who drove her car into Futala lake late evening on Friday to end her life was miraculously rescued by onlookers. . The woman, who is in her 50s, is learnt to be undergoing medication for depression. She was dragged out of the car after it fell into the lake. A Good Samaritan jumped into the lake and dragged her out through the rear window after smashing the glass. She was later handed over to the Ambazari police. The car was also fished out later from the lake. A former school principal, the woman had earlier tried to end her life from the other side of the lake a couple of days ago, but was saved by a constable. She had also abandoned her car near Sitabuldi police station a few days back, leaving a suicide note in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-drives-car-into-futala-lake-to-end-life-rescued/articleshow/78739082.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain aftermath: Stench and muck in Old City colonies||HYDERABAD: “I thought we were going to die. Even after the rains receded, my entire house is filled with sewage. My hands hurt from all the cleaning and we are tired but we have no choice,” says Mohammed Nadeem Khan, a 10-year-old, who said he was helping his parents clean their house from one of the city’s heavily affected Rasoolpura area after rains receded on Sunday morning. Visuals outside Nadeem’s house and many other places showed piles of garbage swept up by the flood waters and where the flood waters have not yet receded, there is an unbearable stench. In Chandrayangutta, people have spotted carcasses of livestock floating by, and fishes run riot in abandoned homes. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials have removed the bodies of nearly 50 buffaloes in Al Jubail colony that were killed as a result of water inundating a dairy farm in the area. “We have no hopes on getting any compensation for our losses. The carcasses were lying in the floodwater for an entire night and day,” said Razia Begum, a resident of Al Jubail Colony. Meanwhile, counting their losses from the rains that swept away almost all their belongings, hundreds of residents in Borabanda’s Safdar Nagar await help from authorities. A HMWSSB official said, “ To resolve sewerage problem, we have deployed additional 700 sewerage labour with safety equipment to resolve sewer chokes arising due to heavy rains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-aftermath-stench-and-muck-in-old-city-colonies/articleshow/78739088.cms||Moulika.KV
October 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rain stops residents from moving back to homes in affected areas||HYDERABAD: While people in low lying areas were planning to return back to their homes, Saturday’s downpour which continued till wee hours inundated their houses again. In flood affected areas, rescue operations were underway till Sunday night by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and GHMC’s disaster response teams. Staffers with boats and machinery were deployed to rescue people. A total of 37,409 families have been adversely effected across the city. After breaching of Gurram Cheruvu, around 2,100 families living in the vicinity of the lake were shifted to safer places as per GHMC records. As per GHMC records, Rs 556 crore of government property in the city (till October 16) has been damaged, which primarily include stormwater drains, concrete structures supporting lakes/tanks, roads and water pipelines. Bodies were fished out from water in places where rain stopped and cars submerged in mud were pulled out. Boats ferrying people to safer places and people waving to politicians and officials from terrace of their buildings to get immediate help was a common sight at these locations. In these inundated localities, vehicles were washed away, walls collapsed, valuables (especially in ground floor of buildings including furniture and electronics) were washed away. Most of the people in these localities moved to the first floor and second floor of the buildings and were seen sending sending SOS messages. Some youngsters were also seen helping people with food and water, duly checking for loss of life. Due to Gurram Cheruvu breach, Faluknama bridge was damaged and a road cave was formed, lorries overturned and Kurnool road heading towards the airport via PVNR expressway was damaged. Inundation in eastern and the southern part of city were witnessed due to overflowing of three lakes. Overflowing Gurram Cheruvu inundated Hafeez Baba Nagar, Uppuguda, Shivaji Nagar, Barkas and Shivaji Nagar, all localities in GHMC Charminar zone. Surplus water in Saroornagar lake inundated Kondaramnagar, P&T Colony and Bairamalguda, alllocalities located in GHMC LB Nagar zone. Ramnathupur Pedda Cheruvu inundated Sai Chitra Nagar, Laxmi Nagar and parts of Uppal. After Ramthapur Pedda Cheruvu witnessed surplus water, Indira Nagar, Sai Chitra Nagar and Laxmi Nagar were inundated. These places were inundated since four days and residents in these areas were planning to head back to their homes. Several people in these localities moved to their relatives’ houses on October 13 & 14 and some of them took shelter in relief camps . “I shifted to my relative’s house on October 14, when the downpour stopped on Saturday, I purchased a motor to pump out water and essentials. However when I started heading towards my house, the city witnessed second spell of heavy rain,” said Andul Wahab, a resident of Hafeez Baba Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-stops-residents-from-moving-back-to-homes-in-affected-areas/articleshow/78739093.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Financial crunch forces LDA to put devpt projects on hold||LUCKNOW: In the throes of a revenue loss of Rs 137 crore from March 25 to August 31, the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) has decided to put brakes on its several development projects in the city. LDA chief finance controller Rajiv Kumar Singh said the construction of housing projects in Devpur Para, Sultanpur Road and Aishbagh have been put on ice since March due to financial crisis. Similarly, he said, work of multi-level parking in Transport Nagar and maintenance of 110 parks under LDA jurisdiction have been put on hold. However, Singh said all these projects would be resumed as soon as LDA’s financial health improves, for which several measures were being taken. As per LDA records, development authority suffered a loss of Rs 41 crore during lockdown from March 25 to June 7. After the process of gradual unlocking began, the development authority hoped to revive sources of incomes like registration of its housing and commercial properties, parking lots, map layout approval, rent from housing and commercial properties, ticketing facilities in parks and monetary penalty imposed from construction violators. However, LDA managed to collect only Rs 12 crore against its target of Rs 27 crore in June. In July, LDA generation was Rs 48 crore against the target of Rs 57 crore and in August Rs 36 crore against Rs 128 crore. To make up for the loss, LDA introduced a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme in July for 26,000 defaulters, who had not paid instalments of their housing and commercial units for the past several years. The move to give 10% concession to defaulters worked and LDA managed to recover Rs 32 crore in the past 45 days. “OTS scheme has yielded some results and hope that scrapping the rule of income certificate for the purchase of commercial properties will attract more buyers,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/financial-crunch-forces-lda-to-put-devpt-projects-on-hold/articleshow/78739735.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
October 19, 2020||Chennai||98% engineering students clear Anna university’s final semester online exams||CHENNAI: Reduced weightage and fewer questions ensured 98% of the engineering students who appeared for Anna University’s final semester online exams have cleared it. The university declared the end semester exam results on Saturday. More than 1.5 lakh students have appeared for online tests conducted from September 24 to 29. “Results of the candidates suspected to be involved in malpractices have been withheld. A committee will review the exam video and declare the results,” an official from the university said. The university gave only 30% weightage to the online test while 50% weightage was for pre-final semester and 20% weightage for internal exams. Students were also allowed to answer just 30 of the 40 questions in view of loss of working days. Engineering colleges said the university withheld the results of a significant number of candidates. “In our college, more than 85% of students got their results and all of them have cleared the exam. Results of many students have also been withheld. We need to get more information from the university,” said R M Kishore, vice-chairman of RMK Engineering College. In Sri Sairam Engineering College too results of many students have been withheld. “The results of 65 students have been withheld for reasons including lack of clarity on the web camera,” said K Maran, director of the college. Saranathan College of Engineering in Trichy also got positive results for most students. “For some students they have withheld the results and for candidates with login issues, they have announced re-exam,” said D Valavan, principal of the college. Out of 660 students, the results of 17 students have been withheld in the college. The online exam was monitored with artificial intelligence features. Even turning the head away from the monitor a few times or background noise were considered suspicious activities. However, sources in the university said a few candidates have been caught on camera writing in groups and using headphones “We are examining the data of the students who have been reported for suspicious activities. Some students might not be involved in any suspicious activities. After examining their videos, we will release their results,” an official from Anna University said. Career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi asked the university to send the reports on what went wrong to the college principals so that such mistakes are not repeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/98-engg-students-clear-anna-univs-final-sem-online-exams/articleshow/78738065.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Respecting girl child part of our ‘sanskriti, ‘sanskar’: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday called upon women public representatives and teachers to extend a helping hand to make Mission Shakti, the six-month drive to provide safety and security to women and girl child, a success. Interacting with over 1 lakh women public representatives including block pramukh and corporators and village heads, through a webinar, the CM said that a collective conscience of ‘gaon ki beti sabki beti’ needs to be deeply inculcated, adding that respecting a girl child has been a part of ‘sanskar’ (upbringing) and ‘sanskriti’ (culture) of Indian society. The sentiment, he said, should echo from village to city in the coming days. Yogi said that the Centre and the state government was working to make girls independent through various schemes and programmes but success can be achieved only with the help of women. The CM said it was because of the women public representatives, that improvement has come about in various sectors. “It is only through aware people representatives that government schemes and programmes reach the grass root level, else they are subjected to corruption,” he said. The CM’s observation came a day after the state government launched Mission Shakti which aims to provide security and independence to women in the state. The webinar aimed to percolate the CM’s message to every household. Yogi laid emphasis on spreading awareness about the women helpline numbers including, 1090, 181, 1076 and 112, down to the village level. He said that the slogan ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao’ given by by PM Narendra Modi aims at bringing security, independence and respect to the girls. Yogi said that the state government started ‘mukhbir scheme’ to stop female foeticide and child marriage. Likewise, the Swachh Bharat Abiyan not only aims to improve civic situation but also provides security and dignity to the women. He said that the state government was able to control the menace of Japanese encephalitis because of effective implementation of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. He said that the school chalo programme of the state government aimed at benefitting the girl students. The CM said that the programme helped the state government to increase student enrolment in school by around 50 lakh. Similarly, the schemes like Matr Vandana, Saubhagya and Ujjwala scheme have elevated the conditions of women. Even the PM Jan Dhan scheme has helped the government in bringing financial inclusion of women. According to the government, Matra Shakti programme will be monitored at three levels – while UP chief secretary will review the programme every month, the district magistrates would do so every week. The programme would be monitored by various departments on a day to day basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/respecting-girl-child-part-of-our-sanskriti-sanskar-yogi/articleshow/78739738.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 19, 2020||Delhi||E-protest in Greater Kailash-II over opening of community hall in park||NEW DELHI: Residents of Greater Kailash-II and the area MLA are up in arms against opening of the newly constructed community hall at Uday Shankar Park by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) at the end of the month. Residents have written to LG Anil Baijal regarding this issue and are also planned to hold an e-protest on October 25. Arguing that the land was originally meant for recreational purposes, residents claimed that opening of the community hall would lead to chaos in the area. They mentioned an order given by Delhi high court in 2017 in which directions were issued for maintaining status quo regarding “use of building”. “The civic agency has made repeated attempts to misuse the site. Earlier, they wanted to construct the commissioner’s residence, staff quarters and a club. Residents then took the matter to the high court,” said Ashok Bagga, former RWA president. However, an official said that a November 2019 order allowed SDMC to undertake finishing work at the site and invite bookings just like other community halls. “We are opening the hall after taking permission from the court and the competent authority,” he added. GK-II MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said, “In 2014, SDMC tried to deceive residents with plans to build flats for officers and a club in the middle of the park. The RWA approached the high court and the matter was stayed. I stand with the residents. The corporation should fulfill its promise and allot the building for a recreational centre. In fact, the councillor should also support the residents.” However, Subhash Bhadana, the area councillor, said there would be a recreational centre for senior citizens on the fourth floor of the complex. “We have considered everyone’s requirements before opening the complex. Except for a few people, everyone is supporting the initiative. As far as parking is concerned, people can use the open site next to the community hall,” he added. Chetan Sharma, another resident of GK-II, said, “The move will lead to nuisance due to haphazard parking by visitors. In fact, residents of Alaknanda are already facing such issues after a community hall was opened next to Aravali Apartments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-protest-in-gk-ii-over-opening-of-community-hall-in-park/articleshow/78738171.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 19, 2020||Varanasi||Main accused of Ballia shooting arrested by STF from Lucknow||LUCKNOW/VARANASI: The special task force (STF) of UP Police arrested the main accused of Ballia shooting case, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, from Lucknow, three days after he allegedly shot a person during allotment of government fair price shop in Durjanpur village. “Dhirendra Singh, the main accused in the murder of a 46-year-old man in Ballia has been arrested. He was held from Lucknow near Polytechnic crossing on the basis of an informer's tip-off,” said Inspector General of Police, UP STF, Amitabh Yash. Meanwhile in Ballia, the joint team of Kotwali and Government Railway Police (GRP) succeeded in catching two more accused from Vaishali crossing on Sunday morning. Thus seven out of eight named accused in the case have been arrested. Total 10 persons have been arrested so far. Ballia SP Devendra Nath said two accused Santosh Kumar Yadav and Amarjit Kumar Yadav of Durjanpur were arrested from Vaishali crossing when they were trying to reach railway station for boarding some train to leave the district. Two country made revolvers and live cartridges were recovered from their possession, he said. "These two were named accused in the Durjanpur firing case and a cash reward of Rs 50,000 had been announced on each of them,” he added. Dhirendra, who was absconding since the day of crime, posted a video on social media on Saturday, claiming that he did not open fire and fled the police custody as he was facing threat to life. He was also carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. On October 15, 46-year-old Jaiprakash Pal was shot dead in Ballia’s Durjanpur village in full public view in the presence of sub-divisional magistrate, Suresh Chandra Pal and circle officer, Chandrakesh Singh along with other policemen. All of them were later suspended by the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Later, an FIR was lodged by former SHO Reoti police station against Dhirendra Pratap Singh, Narendra Pratap Singh, Prabhat Singh, Jaswant Singh, Devendra Pratap Singh, Amarjeet Yadav, Santosh Yadav and 25 unidentified persons. DIG, Azamgarh Range, Subhash Chandra Dubey said that properties of the accused will be seized under the Gangster Act. The three unidentified who were arrested on October 17 were identified as Munna Yadav, Raj Pratap Yadav, and Rajan Tewari. Among others arrested in the case are Narendra Pratap Singh, the brother of main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh, and Devendra Pratap Singh. Meanwhile, the kin of those arrested by the police have demanded a CBI inquiry in the case. Dhirendra's sister-in-law, Asha, told reporters that police was doing a one-sided inquiry in the matter. "Only a CBI inquiry can clear the facts along with a NARCO test," she said. Singh in his viral audio had also revealed that he had served in the Army for 18 years and that day he only tried to save his family as he saw his 80-year-old father and sister-in-law being attacked in presence of administration officials. However, the BJP MLA from Bairia, Surendra Singh, who was vocal in favour of the main accused, preferred to be tightlipped and stayed away from the media on Sunday. Varanasi zone ADG Brij Bhushan said that with the arrest of Dhirendra by STF in Lucknow and two more accused persons in Ballia, the total number of arrests in Ballia firing case has reached 10. Of eight named accused, seven have been arrested. "Raids for arresting remaining accused persons are continuing in Ballia as well as adjoining districts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/main-accused-of-ballia-shooting-arrested-by-stf-from-lucknow/articleshow/78740242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Main accused of Ballia shooting arrested by STF from Lucknow||LUCKNOW/VARANASI: The special task force (STF) of UP Police arrested the main accused of Ballia shooting case, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, from Lucknow, three days after he allegedly shot a person during allotment of government fair price shop in Durjanpur village. “Dhirendra Singh, the main accused in the murder of a 46-year-old man in Ballia has been arrested. He was held from Lucknow near Polytechnic crossing on the basis of an informer's tip-off,” said Inspector General of Police, UP STF, Amitabh Yash. Meanwhile in Ballia, the joint team of Kotwali and Government Railway Police (GRP) succeeded in catching two more accused from Vaishali crossing on Sunday morning. Thus seven out of eight named accused in the case have been arrested. Total 10 persons have been arrested so far. Ballia SP Devendra Nath said two accused Santosh Kumar Yadav and Amarjit Kumar Yadav of Durjanpur were arrested from Vaishali crossing when they were trying to reach railway station for boarding some train to leave the district. Two country made revolvers and live cartridges were recovered from their possession, he said. "These two were named accused in the Durjanpur firing case and a cash reward of Rs 50,000 had been announced on each of them,” he added. Dhirendra, who was absconding since the day of crime, posted a video on social media on Saturday, claiming that he did not open fire and fled the police custody as he was facing threat to life. He was also carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. On October 15, 46-year-old Jaiprakash Pal was shot dead in Ballia’s Durjanpur village in full public view in the presence of sub-divisional magistrate, Suresh Chandra Pal and circle officer, Chandrakesh Singh along with other policemen. All of them were later suspended by the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Later, an FIR was lodged by former SHO Reoti police station against Dhirendra Pratap Singh, Narendra Pratap Singh, Prabhat Singh, Jaswant Singh, Devendra Pratap Singh, Amarjeet Yadav, Santosh Yadav and 25 unidentified persons. DIG, Azamgarh Range, Subhash Chandra Dubey said that properties of the accused will be seized under the Gangster Act. The three unidentified who were arrested on October 17 were identified as Munna Yadav, Raj Pratap Yadav, and Rajan Tewari. Among others arrested in the case are Narendra Pratap Singh, the brother of main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh, and Devendra Pratap Singh. Meanwhile, the kin of those arrested by the police have demanded a CBI inquiry in the case. Dhirendra's sister-in-law, Asha, told reporters that police was doing a one-sided inquiry in the matter. "Only a CBI inquiry can clear the facts along with a NARCO test," she said. Singh in his viral audio had also revealed that he had served in the Army for 18 years and that day he only tried to save his family as he saw his 80-year-old father and sister-in-law being attacked in presence of administration officials. However, the BJP MLA from Bairia, Surendra Singh, who was vocal in favour of the main accused, preferred to be tightlipped and stayed away from the media on Sunday. Varanasi zone ADG Brij Bhushan said that with the arrest of Dhirendra by STF in Lucknow and two more accused persons in Ballia, the total number of arrests in Ballia firing case has reached 10. Of eight named accused, seven have been arrested. "Raids for arresting remaining accused persons are continuing in Ballia as well as adjoining districts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/main-accused-of-ballia-shooting-arrested-by-stf-from-lucknow/articleshow/78739739.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||26 more involved in TNPSC scam arrested in Chennai||CHENNAI: The CB-CID police arrested 26 more people in connection with the TNPSC scam which was unearthed earlier this year. This was the arrest made during the past week. This had taken the number to 97 in connection with the TNPSC exam scam. The sleuths had arrested 20 others earlier this month. Due to Covid-19, police have been following a protocol to release them after a month and they have been released. CB-CID sources said most of those arrested were part of the racket and got postings in the TNPSC examination held in the year, 2016, 2017 and 2019. Following the arrest, the investigators had sent letters to their respective departments in which the suspects were working asking to initiate legal action against them for being apprehended in connection with TNPSC scam. Police sources said few more arrests are likely in the coming weeks. The CBCID is probing the malpractices in three examinations – Group 4 held in the year 2019, group 2A held in the year 2017 and VAO examination conducted in the year 2016. The candidates, who approached the middlemen used evaporating ink pens in exams which would later help the middlemen to tamper with the answer sheets. The CB-CID registered a case on January 24 and launched an official investigation into the matter. The TNPSC scam came to light after an unlikely number of candidates, who wrote examinations in two centres in Ramanathapuram, ‘scored’ high ranks in the 2019 Group IV exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/26-more-involved-in-tnpsc-scam-arrested/articleshow/78738112.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Mysuru||Tusker Abhimanyu trains to carry golden howdah||Mysuru: With just a week left for the Jamboo Savari, foresters on Sunday started training tusker Abhimanyu by making him carry the wooden howdah. Abhimanyu, who is tipped to carry the golden howdah during the Dasara procession on October 26, inside the Mysuru Palace premises, was trained by making him carry the wooden ambari. Abhimanyu, along with kumki elephants Vijaya and Cauvery, were made to walk around the Mysuru Palace, to train for the Jamboo Savari which will be held on Vijayadashami. From the past few days, Abhimanyu was given the training to carry the weight using sandbags along with other elephants, but as the date for the grand finale is nearing, the foresters started training him by carrying the wooden ambari. The forest staff and elephant handlers placed the gaadhi (namdha) on Abhimanyu’s back, on which the wooden howdah was mounted using a crane. The wooden howdah which weighs 280 kg was placed on the back of the tusker and fastened with ropes. Later, sandbags weighing 320 kg were placed on it to make the weight go up to 600 kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tusker-abhimanyu-trains-to-carry-golden-howdah/articleshow/78737205.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai man pushed to death by friend's brother in fight over money||CHENNAI: A 25-year-old man was pushed to death by his friend’s brother in a fight that broke out at Tiruporur on Saturday evening. Police said the victim, 25-year-old Deva, and Dinesh Kumar of Melkalavai village in Villupuram district, were friends. Two months ago, Dinesh borrowed Deva’s car to get to his native village but got into an accident on his way, resulting in some damage to the car, police said. Deva’s family sought Rs 50,000 from Dinesh for repairs, which the latter agreed to pay. However, two months had passed and Dinesh failed to pay the money. On Saturday, Deva’s family went to Dinesh’s house after the latter failed to respond to repeated requests for the money. During the talks, the two families got into an argument after Deva’s parents verbally abused Dinesh’s family, police said. “Dinesh wasn’t home during the incident and so his brother Mohanraj asked them to leave and talk to Dinesh about the issue directly. He also warned them of consequences for abusing his mother,” an officer privy to the case details said. The argument escalated into fisticuffs soon after and in a fit of rage, Mohanraj pushed Deva to the floor, leaving him unconscious. Mohanraj escaped from the scene and Deva was rushed to the Chengalpet government hospital by relatives, where he was declared brought dead. Police have registered a case of murder and are investigating. They are searching for Mohanraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-pushes-to-death-bros-friend-in-fight-over-money/articleshow/78738151.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: As nightclubs flout Covid norms, Vishwajit Rane says cancel their licences||PANAJI: On a day when Goa recorded fewer than 200 new Covid cases for the first time in two months, videos and photos of packed dance floors of Saturday parties flouting all rules and SOPs in nightclubs and pubs along the North Goa coastal belt went viral, prompting health minister Vishwajit Rane to call for action against these club owners, including cancellation of licences. “This is not acceptable,” said Rane. “The licences of these clubs should be cancelled. I will be meeting the chief minister and my recommendation is that these nods should be cancelled for violation of the Epidemic Act, which is in force. Every permission given to them should be withdrawn.” A shocked Rane said that healthcare workers, doctors and nurses were working overtime and getting infected “in a big way”, while the state is seeing an increasing number of youngsters getting infected by the virus. While pointing out that infected youngsters have to be treated with plasma and other expensive drugs, Rane called on the youth and tourists to act responsibly. Goa is one of the few states that has removed all restrictions for entering the state and is fully open for business, tourism and leisure. “This casual and careless behaviour will lead to a surge in cases,” said Rane. He also said crowded parties like these jeopardise the health department’s efforts, while doctors said that if parties continue to be held, a fresh surge is expected. “On one side, doctors and healthcare workers are putting their lives at risk to save the people of Goa, and on the other hand, these youngsters are being encouraged to go to nightclubs where there are all kinds of violations, and no SOPs are followed. This is taking the law for granted,” said Rane. The photos and videos which circulated on social media show locals and tourists violating all norms set by the Centre and state government, as well as cautionary advice by public health authorities. Goa has recorded 545 deaths so far due to the pandemic, with over 40,000 persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the state. The state has also seen several healthcare staff test positive for the virus, with the first cases of Covid-19 reinfection also being seen in doctors recently. While agreeing that the tourism sector must be allowed to function, the health minister said that permitting clubs to operate in violation of all norms is counter-productive. “This is not tourism,” Rane said. “This is nothing but spreading the virus in a big way and putting people’s lives at risk. This is not acceptable to me. As a responsible citizen and as minister responsible for the health of the state, I am going to take up the issue with the CM and have a detailed discussion on the SOPs. People violating them should have their licences cancelled with immediate effect.” Watch Vishwajit Rane calls for cancellation of licences as Goa nightclubs flout Covid norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-nightclubs-flout-covid-norms-rane-says-cancel-their-licences/articleshow/78739117.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 19, 2020||Delhi||EDMC gets green approval for raising capacity of C&D waste plant||NEW DELHI: To speed up the process of recycling construction and demolition (C&D) waste, East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has obtained a permission from Delhi Pollution Control Committee increase the capacity of its plant in Shastri Park. The plant, inaugurated in 2016, can now daily process and recycle up to 1,000 tonnes of waste in comparison to 500 tonnes earlier. Though EDMC has started dumping 700 tonne C&D waste at the plant every day, it is waiting for the concessionaire operating the plant to augment its capacity. The permission was granted in March, but the process got delayed due to Covid-19 and some financial issues within the company, said a civic official. “We are expecting that the company will start making by-products in large quantities from December,” he added. Since 2016, EDMC claimed to have dumped at least eight lakh tonne waste, collected from 54 spots, at the 2.5-acre plant. “Of this, at least 1.7 lakh tonne was recycled to make by-products such as bricks and were supplied to construction sites of various government departments. The rest was also processed and utilised for other purposes,” the official said. Around 1 lakh tonne C&D waste is now lying at the plant and EDMC expects to clear all waste in one year after augmenting the capacity. “Once the backlog is cleared, we will get enough space to stock by-products such as tiles. There is a plan to operate the plant in double shifts,” the official added. Due to lack of space for processing plants, the capital can process only 3,150 tonnes of the 6,500 tonne C&D waste produced every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/east-corpn-gets-green-approval-for-raising-capacity-of-cd-waste-plant/articleshow/78738217.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 19, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: To curb spiking infections, Mysuru to test all industrials employees||MYSURU: In a bid to curb surging Covid-19 infections, the Mysuru district administration has decided to make it mandatory for all employees in industrial units to undergo Covid-19 tests. As per the plan, employees above 50 years of age and those suffering from comorbidities will be tested in the first phase. Tests on other employees will then follow. The District Industries Centre has been tasked with the responsibility of ensuring all employees are tested. The centre has already collected data on employees who are above 50 years of age and those who have comorbidities. As on Sunday, Mysuru reported a total 45,042 cases since the pandemic struck and it stands second among districts in Karnataka with the most cases after Bengaluru Urban. The district is inching its way to 1,000 deaths, having reported a total 923 fatalities as on Sunday, again the most after Bengaluru Urban. Incidentally, the district reported a surge in cases in and around industrial areas in the initial stages of the pandemic. The state’s first cluster outbreak was reported at Jubilant Generics, a pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud during the nationwide lockdown, while a JK Tyre factory in the city also saw many of its employees being infected. This outbreak was reported just as cases were subsiding at the Nanjangud pharma company. DK Lingaraju, joint director, District Industries Centre, said initially those above 50 years, who number over 4,500 and those with comorbidity (around 140 employees) will be tested in Mysuru city. "Various trade bodies have joined hands with us for this testing drive," he said. There are 11 industrial areas and five industrial estates in operation in the district. A circular issued by District Industries Centre stated details of all employees, including their contact details, must be shared with the centre. Details of 23 testing centres have been shared with industry managements to carry out testing. Mysuru Industries Association general secretary Suresh Kumar Jain said testing drives will be launched soon in all industrial areas. He said camps will be held to ensure employees are tested. "Many industry managements have agreed to spare space on their premises for testing purposes," Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/to-curb-spiking-infections-mysuru-to-test-all-industrials-employees/articleshow/78737676.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid toll past 6,000, daily average of 34 deaths||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 death toll in the capital crossed the 6,000 mark on Sunday with 28 more fatalities recorded in the past 24 hours. This time, it took 28 days for the number of deaths to increase by a thousand, from 5,014 on September 21 to 6,009 on October 18. It had taken 50 days for deaths to reach the 5,000 mark from 4,004 on August 2. In October till date, Delhi has recorded 33.7 deaths on average every day compared with 30.6 in September and 14.7 in August. However, the average was 36.2 daily in July and as high as 75 in June. In all, 3,299 new cases were reported on Sunday, while 2,863 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, the Delhi government’s health bulletin stated. While the total number of Covid-19 cases was 3,31,017 on Sunday, recoveries stood at 3,01,716 — a recovery rate of 91.1%. The death rate was 1.1% based on data from the past 10 days. The number of active cases on Sunday was 23,292, a dip from 26,738 recorded on October 1. Active cases had reached a peak of 32,250 exactly a month ago on September 18, but the numbers have been slowly going down. As of now, most Covid-positive patients (13,742) are recuperating in home isolation, 5,034 are admitted in hospitals, 910 in Covid care centres and 307 in Covid health centres. On Sunday, 10,670 Covid beds were vacant in hospitals, 6,343 in Covid care centres and 220 in health centres. However, 884 beds in Covid care centres were occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers of Vande Bharat Mission and air-bubble flights. There were 49,414 Covid-19 tests conducted in the past 24 hours, including 14,506 RT-PCR, CBNAAT, True Nat and 34,908 rapid antigen tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.6%. So far, 39.9 lakh tests have been conducted, which accounts for 2,10,023 tests per million. Delhi had recorded its first and the country’s second Covid-19 death on March 13, when a 69-year-old woman from Janakpuri succumbed to the infection. It took 79 days for the death figures to cross the 500 mark and about three months to reach the figure of 1,000. The city, however, crossed the figure of 2,000 deaths in about a week from then and breached the 3,000 mark in another fortnight. The biggest spike in deaths came at a time when Delhi was witnessing a steep increase in the number of active cases and new cases every day. The graph started dipping from June-end and it took almost a month for deaths to reach 4,004 from 3,004.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-toll-past-6k-daily-average-of-34-deaths/articleshow/78738266.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Onions may cost you more than Rs 100/kg this week||CHENNAI: A drop in supply of onions due to rains in Karnataka and Maharashtra has pushed up the staple veggie’s cost again, with a kilogram expected to cost Rs 100 in the Koyambedu wholesale market this week. It is likely to cost more in neighbourhood markets. Daily onion arrival has dropped by 225 tonnes in the past couple of days in the Koyambedu market. From the 775 tonnes supplied every day last week, the hub now receives about 550 tonnes of onions a day, according to market sources. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said heavy rains in Karnataka and Maharashtra have affected onion crops in the states. “This affected arrivals to the Koyambedu wholesale market, which receives 15 trucks of onions less. Traders from neighbouring districts too are visiting Koyambedu to buy onions as trucks from the source states are not supplying to them anymore,” he said. Last week, the number of trucks ferrying onions to Chennai was 50. “Onion prices often vary based on its quality. If the present supply continues, we may see 1kg of first quality onion cost more than Rs 100 this week at local markets,” he added. The vegetable has already started to cost more in neighbourhood markets. For instance, 1kg of first quality onion costs Rs 84 in Medavakkam, while it cost Rs 60 a week ago. Meanwhile, cost of potato has also increased by Rs 5 in the wholesale market, while cost of all other vegetables remained stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/onions-may-cost-you-more-than-rs-100/kg-this-week/articleshow/78738204.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Goa sees lowest daily Covid count after 1.5 months||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 tally dropped to 3,647 on Sunday after 187 new cases were recorded, the lowest single-day count in a month and a half. Sunday also saw the first time in 54 days that the state’s daily Covid-19 tally dropped below the 300 mark. Goa has been reporting 300-500 cases a day over the past few weeks, and last month, 740 new infections were recorded in a single day. Doctors say that this is partly due to the weekend phenomenon seen all over the country, when testing slows down. Some non-bedded primary health centres in the state are not open on Sundays, and fewer people opt for testing over the weekend. The last time the state’s daily count dipped below 300 was on August 24, when 139 new infections were reported. Daily infections have been showing a slight decline over the past week, with new cases remaining largely in the 300-range State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that while cases appear to be on the decline it’s too early to say this. “It’s possible that we’re on a decline, but we will have to wait for the coming week,” he said, cautioning that “one must not let their guard down”. “If we stop taking precautions, cases will begin to peak again,” he warned. Hospitals too have felt the slight dip in cases. “All hospitals, both government and private, now have less patient load,” he said. “There was a time when they were full. If we continue taking precautions, the cases should really fall.” Goa medical college (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that there has been a decline in hospital admissions. “We would receive around 30-40 Covid pneumonia patients (daily). The number has gone down slightly. We received around 20 new admissions on Sunday,” he said. Meanwhile, six more persons succumbed to the infection on Sunday, half of them below the age of 60. The deceased were from Curtorim, Cortalim, Pernem, Sindhudurg, Sanguem and Vasco. A 39-year-old man with liver cirrhosis, ALD and other comorbidities died after ten days of admission. A 48-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease died after 12 days in hospital. A 51-year-old man with diabetes died after eight days of hospitalisation. A 68-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension, CVA and operated carcinoma colon died after being in hospital for six days. A 75-year-old man with hypertension and ischemic heart disease also passed away after 17 days in hospital, while an 80-year-old woman with hypertension and diabetes succumbed after 19 days in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/daily-covid-count-dips-below-200-after-1-5-months/articleshow/78739124.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||Elderly couple found dead in Gumla, witch-hunt suspected||GUMLA: An elderly couple’s bodies were fished out from a dam in Masaria village under Ghaghra police station limits in the district, police said on Sunday. Both the bodies were tied with ropes. Police suspect it to be a case of witch-hunting and their investigation is underway. Littu Oraon (65) and his wife as Saniyaro Devi (60) were missing since Friday and locals spotted the woman’s body in the dam on Saturday, following which they informed the cops. Soon after fishing out her body, police searched for Littu and found his body next day. A police official at Ghaghra station said, “Prima facie it appears that some miscreants first murdered the couple and then dumped the bodies around 2km away from their home in a dam.” Another cop named Bullet Gograi said, “We are investigating the matter from various angles, including witch-hunting and land dispute.” The couple hailed from Belagada Halmati village and have three daughters, all of whom are married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/elderly-couple-found-dead-in-gumla-witch-hunt-suspected/articleshow/78738012.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Jamshedpur||Elderly woman killed by nephews in West Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: In a suspected case of witch hunting, an elderly woman was allegedly beaten to death by her nephews in Deva village under Gudri police station limits on Saturday evening. The woman was reportedly in her sixties. Police said the murder could also be related to a dispute over an ancestral property. “The nephews of the woman thrashed her with sticks, resulting in her death,” West Singhbhum SP Ajay Linda said. Linda said that two nephews of the woman fled from the village following the incident. “The munda (traditional head) of the village is also on the run,” the SP said, adding that the police were conducting a detailed investigation into the incident. The woman’s body was sent to a government hospital in Chakradharpur for an autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/elderly-woman-killed-by-nephews-in-w-singhbhum/articleshow/78739090.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Goa||Filling of water bodies for hotel not proved: NGT||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has disposed of an application filed by the Cansaulim-Arossim-Cuelim Civic and Consumer Forum against a proposed hotel project in the village. The forum’s contention was that the water bodies and low lying areas in the hotel property have been filled, which will lead to flooding during the monsoons as the excess water will not drain into the sea. The NGT said that filling of water bodies or low lying basins in the hotel property has not been proved by the report submitted either by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority or the joint committee appointed by the NGT. The tribunal has also noted that there is no survey record measuring water bodies in this area. “It is desirable that the collector should consider the matter and if anything has not been done and may cause further dispute and problem to the local residents, the matter may be finally disposed off by way of constituting a committee and finalising the matter by identifying and demarcating the water bodies,” NGT said. It said that where the environment clearance for the hotel project is concerned, the same has been contested and decided by the apex court. After hearing through video conferencing last week, the NGT said, “The relief as prayed before this tribunal are not maintainable for the redressal of grievances with regard to measurement or restoration of water bodies, the applicant may move an application before the competent authority according to the rules mentioned above. Accordingly, original application is disposed of.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/filling-of-water-bodies-for-hotel-not-proved-ngt/articleshow/78739152.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||7 Covid deaths, 385 new cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported seven Covid-19 deaths but witnessed a dip in the number of fresh infections. The recovery rate is also high among the infected patients with 452 patients declared cured and discharged on Sunday. Among the seven deaths, there were reported from Ranchi district while Deogarh, Dhanbad, Koderma and Palamu reported one each. Meanwhile, the state reported 385 new positive cases out of 16,638 samples tested on Sunday. The positivity rate now comes down to 2.31%. Of the fresh cases, Ranchi has the highest figure with 242 even as several other districts reported zero new cases. The cumulative caseload in the state is now 96,532, of which 6,502 are active and 89,011 have recovered. A total of 839 patients have succumbed to the virus so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-covid-deaths-385-new-cases-in-state/articleshow/78738465.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||200% sure of BJP’s win in bypolls: Raghubar Das||BOKARO: BJP national vice-president and former chief minister Raghubar Das on Sunday said the results of the November 3 bypolls in Dumka and in Bermo will decide the JMM-Congress-RJD government’s fate. Speaking at an election campaign here for party candidate Yogheshwar Mahto (for Bermo), Das said, “I am 200% sure that BJP is going to win both the seats and these seats will decide the government’s fate.” Asked if the party is working out plans for a coup against the ruling dispensation, he said, “It is the residents who are looking for a change as they can see that development has taken a backseat in Jharkhand ever since the Hemant Soren-led government took charge in January.” He added that although they failed to get the required votes in last year’s assembly polls, their vote percentage has improved now. Das termed Hemant as an “incapable CM” who does not have any vision or the right mentality to work for the development of Jharkhand. Taking a dig at Hemant ‘for his mismanagement of the Covid crisis’, Das said, “One of JMM’s leaders and minister (Haji Hussain Ansari) succumbed to the virus due to his faulty management and now another minister (Jagarnath Mahto) is battling for his life. When Hemant failed to save his own minister, can he save the residents.” Asked about the CM’s accusation of inheriting a poor state treasury due to the previous BJP-led government’s faulty fiscal management, he said, “I want to ask Hemant Soren that when he left the CM’s chair in 2014, was the state exchequer full of cash. He should tell the residents what was the condition of the state treasury back then.” Reacting to the government accusing the Centre of implementing a vindictive fiscal penalty after the latter invoked TPA for auto-debit of funds from Jharkhand’s account with RBI to clear Damodar Valley Corporation’s outstanding dues, he said, “During my tenure, we had paid around Rs 13,000 crore to DVC to clear its outstanding dues. We ran a transparent government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/200-sure-of-bjps-win-in-bypolls-das/articleshow/78737933.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||Accused in criminal cases, Dhullu protests ‘failing law and order’||DHANBAD: Baghmara BJP MLA Dhullu Mahto and Dhanbad MP P N Singh took part in two different dharnas at Katras and Dhanbad district headquarters, respectively. While the Baghmara MLA carried out a protest condemning the bomb attack on the house of one of his relatives in Katras, Singh protested against the alleged deterioration of the law-and-order situation. Notably, CCTV footage found by police showed that two unidentified bike-borne miscreants hurled a bomb outside the house of Dhullu Mahto’s relative Rajesh Gupta, who is a coal trader. Mahto charged the former water resources minister of Jharkhand, Jaleshwar Mahto, of organizing the attack. He also alleged that politicians are patronizing criminals after the change of guard in the state.  Mahto protested outside the Katras police station and he withdrew his dharna only after Baghmara DSP Nitin Khadelwal assured him of arresting the culprits within three days. Notably, Mahto himself is facing over a dozen criminal cases — including extortion, physical assault and sexual harassment. After remaining underground for many months, he had surrendered in May this year in connection to a sexual assault case and is out on bail. Mahto’s party colleague, P N Singh, levelled similar charges at a dharna organized under the leadership of district BJP president Chandrashekhar Singh. He said that the state government has failed to control crime against women and claimed that incidents of rape have increased under the present dispensation. Meanwhile, a joint team of district administration and police conducted raids at Dhanbad divisional jail on Sunday afternoon but could recover only small amounts of tobacco. Dhanbad City SP R Ramkumar termed the raid as routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/accused-in-criminal-cases-dhullu-protests-failing-law-and-order/articleshow/78739103.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||Many Puja committees in Ranchi to give govt guidelines a slip this year||RANCHI: Various Durga Puja committees in Ranchi are dissatisfied with the guidelines for them which were issued by Jharkhand government on October 1. While the city’s front-ranking organizing committees are keeping their pandals modest and devoid of decoration and lightings, they have urged the Hemant Soren government to withdraw the ban on use of public address systems and dhakis. The Bharatiya Nav Yuvak Sangh has cut down on the size of its pandal this year. In 2019, its pandal in Bakri Bazar was sized 150 feet in width and 60 feet in length. “This year, we are building our pandal with the dimensions of 30 feet-25 feet. The size of the pandal has been pruned to comply with the state government’s guidelines this year,” Ashok Choudhary, the president of the committee, said. Since there is restriction on visitors, our pandal is being built right next to the road, so that revellers can have ‘Darshan’ without entering the premises. In addition to building a modest pandal, the office bearers of the Satya Amarlok Puja Samiti in Harmu Road have directed that their pandal be covered from three sides to comply with the guidelines. “The main gate of the compound, where the Durga mandap is built every year, will remain closed for visitors throughout the Puja. Only members of the committee with valid identity cards will be allowed in,” Pradeep Rajgaria, the vice-president of the committee, told TOI. Rajgaria said their budget for this year’s Puja is Rs 4 lakh. “In 2019, our budget was Rs 16 lakh,” he added. While all committees have discarded theme-based pandals this year, they have provisioned takeaway bhog and prasad for their committee members. “We have shipped special boxes of 500ml capacity for distributing khichdi bhog to our members. If the government can run community kitchens and distribute food to thousands during lockdown, why cannot we distribute bhog in packed boxes,” a city-based Puja organizer said, requesting anonymity. While the government has prohibited the use of music and public address systems, many Puja committees have decided to violate it. “Playing dhak is a part of the Puja ritual. How can it be done away with? Hence, we have decided to play dhak within the pandal. Public address system will also be installed, but will be operated on low volume,” another Puja committee member said. Many also questioned the rationale behind capping the height of idols at 4 feet. “There are many Puja pandals which had already placed orders for their idols before the guidelines were issued. For instance, our idols are usually 18 feet high. This year, we ordered for 9-feet tall idols. We have no choice other than performing our Puja with the 9-feet idol as there is no time for getting a new idol commissioned,” the president of a prominent Durga Puja committee in Ranchi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/many-puja-committees-in-ranchi-to-give-govt-guidelines-a-slip-this-year/articleshow/78739000.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||‘Women, children not safe in Barhait’||RANCHI: BJP on Sunday said chief minister Hemant Soren has failing to provide safety and security to women and child in his own constituency (Barhait) and in the entire Santhal Parganas, considered as ruling JMM’s stronghold in the wake of two back to back incidents of gang-rape and murder of minors from these areas in less than two weeks. In the latest incident, a Class V girl was gangraped and killed under Rampur police station in poll-bound Dumka on Friday triggering a massive uproar. The victim had left home for tuition in the morning when she went traceless and her body was found hours later on in a battered state. Days before that, another girl was gangraped and murdered in Sahibganj’s Barhait. While chief minister Hemant Soren directed DGP M V Rao for a speedy probe and put the Dumka case on fast track court, an unimpressed saffron party accused the ruling dispensation of lawlessness. Upping the ante, state BJP president cum Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, while speaking to reporters on Sunday at the party headquarters said, “Women and children aren’t safe in CM’s constituency and in the entire Santhal Parganas. Elsewhere in the state, law and order has equally turned worse with almost daily incidents of rapes, murders, loots etc taking place.” Prakash’s latest assault comes two days after Hemant and his cabinet colleagues unleashed a series of verbal attacks at the BJP-led government in the Centre and accused it of destabilising the state’s fiscal health after the latter invoked tripartite agreement (TPA) to auto-debit funds from state’s account in RBI towards payment of dues to Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Snubbing the state government, Prakash said, “All that this government is doing since taking charge is to cry about lack of funds and put the blame on the Centre. The reality is that the state government is under policy paralysis and lacks fiscal prudence and management. Government must explain to the public what it did with the funds given by Centre for the Covid-19 fight? As far as their allegation on GST dues, the Centre has already given funds earlier this year, but the government failed to utilise it. Despite financial challenges, the Union government has rolled out several people-friendly schemes amid the pandemic to bail out everyone, but the state government has been a failure in using them.” Reacting to charges of NDA MP from Jharkhand maintaining silence over Centre’s decision to auto-debit funds from state’s account, Prakash said, “NDA MPs of the state have been more vocal in Parliament on issues concerning the state than those belonging to the UPA. How many times did JMM patriarch and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren or any other UPA MP visit Parliament in the last five years, raised questions or met Union ministers to demand anything for the state?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/women-children-not-safe-in-barhait/articleshow/78738029.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||Photos of trouble-makers to be pasted in public areas in Hazaribag||HAZARIBAG: Keeping the upcoming Durga Puja festival in mind, the district police have identified close to 100 persons as potential threats to communal harmony and have decided to paste their photographs at police stations and other public places so that the citizens can help the cops in nabbing them. Hazaribag SP Kartik S said, “We have prepared a list of such persons and have asked all the 20 police station in-charges in the district to put up prominent pictures of these people at their respective thanas. This will help them and the masses in staying alert.” He further said, “Hazaribag is one of the most communally sensitive districts in Jharkhand and this move will help us in maintaining law and order during the upcoming festive season. We felt the necessity of exposing such characters before the citizens, who, after seeing their photographs, can help us in nabbing them in case of any communal tension.” “We have also issued notices to those culprits who were chargesheeted earlier or are convicted of a crime and are currently out on bail to refrain from indulging in any anti-social activities. If necessary, the police will not hesitate in booking them under the crime control act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/photos-of-trouble-makers-to-be-pasted-in-public-areas-in-hazaribag/articleshow/78737998.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||‘Interim compensation will prevent abuse survivors from turning hostile’||PANAJI: Former president of the Goa Children’s Court Vandana Tendulkar highlighted the importance of child victims of sexual abuse receiving interim compensation under the victim compensation scheme at the beginning of the trial itself to support the family to fight the case. Speaking on the sidelines of a virtual discussion on the juvenile justice system and child protection, Tendulkar said instead of waiting till the chargesheet is filed, police must tell the complainant to apply for compensation within 180 days of the commission of the crime. “If victims receive compensation in time, it will prevent them from turning hostile. The problem of a well-to-do accused trying to hush up the case by paying the victim’s family can be curbed if this provision is wisely used,” she said. The compensation will help the victim who has already been traumatized, she said. Police must provide this information and explain the procedure to the victim or her family, she added. The application must be submitted to the district magistrate along with a copy of the FIR, medical report and in case of death, a certificate in that regard and a newspaper report, if any. Applications were circulated to all police stations in the past, she said. Citing an example of an incest case, she said the interim compensation helped the mother support her three children aged 13, 9 and 6 who were sexually abused by the father. He was later convicted. The abuse came to light when the 13-year-old boy spoke about it to the school counsellor. “The mother was threatened that she would be thrown out on the streets. There was pressure from his family too and around 50 people from his village in Nepal showed up at the time of remand, trying to say it was a false complaint. The husband’s family was trying to take advantage of the mother’s financial weakness,” she said. The children were put in a protective home and interim compensation was granted. The mother and her three children later moved back to Nepal and were supported by her relatives. The compensation played a role here too with relatives agreeing to support the family. “The compensation is awarded legally within the legal framework and this must be used so that victims don’t face any more trauma,” she said. At the virtual discussion ‘Navigating through juvenile justice systems in times of Covid-19 organised by the commission for protection of child rights, director of Anyay Rahit Zindagi, Arun Pandey said the family of victims of sexual abuse have to spend on medical treatment, transport to the police station and the hospital. Parents have to take leave to be with children for medical treatment and to go to court also. Chairperson of the commission for protection of child rights, advocate Sushma Mandrekar said the commission received complaints of children resorting to begging during the lockdown and being left with no food. The commission also received complaints of challenges faced by children with the lack of infrastructure to cope with online classes. These include bad connectivity, lack of access to smart phones and lack of a separate study room at home, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/interim-compensation-will-prevent-abuse-survivors-from-turning-hostile/articleshow/78739240.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 19, 2020||India||Kerala paying price, don’t be lax during festivals: Vardhan||NEW DELHI: Cautioning state governments against laxity in Covid-19 containment during the festival season, health minister Harsh Vardhan cited Kerala to say the state was paying the “price for gross negligence” during Onam festivities when unlocking of services along with increased travel for trade and tourism led to a spike in infections. During his weekly ‘Sunday Samvaad’ on social media, Vardhan said Kerala “ought to serve as a good lesson for all states against being negligent” in planning anti-Covid-19 measures for the festival season. Kerala health minister K K Shailaja had recently said laxity by people during easing of restrictions for Onam had contributed to a rise in infections. New cases of Covid-19 are increasing rapidly in Kerala. On Saturday, the state recorded 9,016 new cases, taking its tally to over 3.3 lakh while deaths stood at 1,139. Prior to Onam (August 22), the state had reported around 54,000 cases, while the death toll was nearly 200. The state has a low mortality rate of 0.4% but high positivity and growth rates point to the need for more testing, contact tracing and containment. On China’s claim that the novel coronavirus broke out simultaneously in several countries last year, Vardhan said, “There is no evidence that can validate the claims on global multiple focal point for the novel coronavirus outbreak.” He added that Wuhan in China was recognised as the first to report the disease worldwide. Urging people to honour PM Modi’s call for a ‘Jan Andolan’, Vardhan asked citizens to celebrate festivals at home with their loved ones in the traditional way to ward off risk of Covid infection. Though active cases have been steadily declining over the past few weeks, the Centre has asked states to maintain strict vigil on containment measures. The government has indicated that the next few months till December are going to be key as respiratory viruses have a tendency to thrive during winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-paying-price-dont-be-lax-during-festivals-vardhan/articleshow/78739954.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to clear decks today for women to board locals during non-peak hours||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to clear the decks for women's travel in suburban trains during off-peak hours on Monday after the railways insisted on modalities to be finalised to avoid confusion at the station. A top bureaucrat said CS Sanjay Kumar had talks with Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and the railway board chairman on the modalities to start local trains for women, most probably from Tuesday. On October 16, the state government had asked the railway to permit travel for women during the off-peak hours 11 am to 4 pm and 7 am till the end of service, from October 17. The railways had blocked the move as it was wary of crowd control in the absence of modalities. "The railway board has conveyed to the Union home ministry and state government about its willingness to allow women to travel during the off-peak hours," a person who was able to take a peek at the communication said. "The topic of travel for women also came up for discussion during the Covid-related discussion held between state's chief secretary and ministry of home affairs." Following the meeting, state officials told the railways that a note would be put up before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. Modalities for travel for women during the off-peak hours will be issued thereafter. Around 30% of railway passengers are women. The railways had told the state government that in the absence of guidelines, crowd control at stations would be difficult to handle for the Railway Protection Force. Till now only essential service workers as categorized by the state government are permitted to travel in local trains. This includes the work force from the state government, central government, public sector banks, private and cooperative banks, staff of high commissions, lawyers, dabbawallahs and health workers. "The number of services are adequate to handle additional crowd that may travel because of permission for women to travel during the off-peak hours," a senior CR official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cm-to-clear-decks-today-for-women-to-board-locals-during-non-peak-hours/articleshow/78739972.cms||Manthank Mehta
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||JNU protest: 16 more, including 4 students, slapped surety notices||MUMBAI: The special executive magistrate (SEM) of Azad Maidan police division has issued notices to 16 more people, including four students, for participating in a protest in the city on January 6 in the wake of the attack on JNU students in New Delhi. The students have been asked to file a Rs 5 lakh bond each. On August 24, the special executive magistrate (who is assistant police commissioner), had issued a notice to activist Suvarna Salve seeking surety of Rs 50 lakh, which was later reduced to Rs10 lakh, for participating in the protest. The total amount mentioned in these 17 notices is collectively Rs 1.22 crore. Police sources said during a hearing, an interim bond of Rs 10 lakh had been taken from Salve. She had been told the bond would be forfeited if she was found involved in any similar protest till completion of the hearing. Besides Salve, seven more persons have been served notices under section 110 (E) of the Criminal Procedure Code (see box). While three persons have been issued surety notices of Rs 10 lakh each, three others have been asked to file a bond of Rs 5 lakh each. One person has been issued a notice of Rs 30 lakh. Advocate Ishrat Khan, who represents Salve, said, "The proceedings are still going on against her. We have filed our reply. Though it has been stated, we have not received any notice informing us that the amount against her has been reduced to Rs 10 lakh. Over 10 persons have also received summons for protests relating to Aarey and Jamia. We have filed replies for about five of them. On the last date, October 15, proceedings could not be held as the officer concerned was transferred. The matter will now be heard in November. A total of 31 notices have been issued." The notice,served to Surve had sought surety of Rs 50 lakh from one or two persons on behalf of Surve for two years. A police source said the amount was reduced to Rs 10 lakh during a hearing. In the FIR registered at MRA Marg police station, police had identified 31 people and included another 250 unnamed protesters. This included students and activists who took out a rally from Hutatma Chowk to Gateway of India. All the notices were signed by ACP Santosh Balke who has recently been transferred. For the same FIR, the SEM had issued notices under section 107 of the Criminal Procedure Code to nine persons. While seven persons have been issued notices for a Rs5 lakh bond each, two have been issued notices for Rs 1 lakh each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jnu-protest-16-more-including-4-students-slapped-surety-notices/articleshow/78739996.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rera orders a refund as project lacks work nod||MUMBAI: MahaRera recently ordered a builder to refund Rs 8 lakh with 9% interest to a buyer after the project did not receive a commencement certificate (CC) from the BMC. The project was on a plot in Kanjurmarg which required a ministry of defence (MoD) clearance. As the MoD did not give its approval, the BMC did not grant a CC and the builder said he would give buyers alternative accommodation in a project in Airoli. MahaRera member B D Kapadnis in his October 12 order, which was made available on Saturday, said that since the builder defaulted in obtaining a CC, the money deposited by the buyer, Mahesh Parulekar, could not be treated as earnest money liable for forfeiture. Without the CC the builder should not have launched the project and accepted bookings, said the order. The Rera Act is clear that at the time of registration of the project authenticated copies of approvals and CC are to be uploaded, said the order. "Unfortunately in this case, the respondent launched the project without obtaining the CC," Kapadnis said. He said such grounds for failure to proceed with project would fall under 'any other reason' mentioned under the refund provision of Rera Act under Section 18. MahaRera noted that the booking was subject to grant of loan, which the buyer could not get since there was no municipal permission for the project, as argued by Parulekar's counsel Anil D'Souza. Parulekar had filed a complaint before the MahaRera against Sanjeevani Vyapar LLP over a project called 'Avante' at Hariyali, Kanjurmarg in central Mumbai suburbs. He had paid almost Rs 8 lakh. He sought a refund. The builder through counsel Aditya Panikar pleaded not guilty for the delay. He said the completion date declared to Rera was June 30, 2022, and so the complaint was not maintainable under Section 18 of the Rera Act, which provides for compensation and refund on failing to complete a project. He said that though asked in January 2018, the buyer did not come forward to execute the sale agreement. MahaRera held the builder liable to refund Parulekar and pay Rs 20,000 towards cost of complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rera-orders-a-refund-as-project-lacks-work-nod/articleshow/78740003.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Retreating rains destroyed 7 lakh ha of harvest-ready crops in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: A fortnight ago, Siddhesh Jamdade was busy harvesting his bountiful soyabean crop. Now, his field has turned into a muddy marshland. The cloudbursts over the last week caused the river nearby to swell onto his field. "My onion and soyabean crop was destroyed and the flooding left a thick layer of mud on the field, almost like a river bank," said the 30-year-old farmer from Tuljapur in Marathwada's Osmanabad district whose losses amount to nearly Rs 10 lakh. The flooding caused by the retreating monsoon destroyed almost 7 lakh hectares of harvest-ready cro-ps, mainly in the drought-prone Marathwada and the sugar belt of Western Maharashtra, according to preliminary estimates. The neighbouring districts of Solapur in Western Maharashtra and Osmanabad in Marathwada are the worst affected. Standing crops of soyabean, cotton, maize, jowar and moong have been wrecked. "It is only after panchnamas are conducted that we will have a more authentic estimate of crop destruction," said secretary (relief and rehabilitation) Kishore Raje Nimbalkar. Farmers did not get good prices for their produce during the height of the lockdown and were hoping the plentiful monsoon would lead to a bumper kharif harvest. "During the lockdown, I grew vegetables for our own consumption. We were banking on the kharif crop," said Rajendra Giri (50) from Lohara taluka in Osmanabad. The floods washed away his harvested soyabean. Farmers are worried about whether they will receive crop insurance for the disaster. They say the compensation-ranging from Rs 6,800 to Rs 18,000 an acre by NDRF norms-is too meagre for such calamities. Chakrapani Jadhav from Beed's Patoda taluka could not get insurance for his chikoo plantation because the fruit was not eligible for crop insurance in his circle. The farmers' union, Kisan Sabha, has alleged that the retreating rains have damaged 30% of the state's harvested crop. "The government should not delay conducting panchnamas of the damage. Besides compensation, the state should also help farmers in filing crop insurance claims," said Ajit Navale of the union. Already in June, farmers from the Konkan region had suffered because of cyclone Nisarg. Last year, the floods in Western Maharashtra had destroyed 4 lakh hectares of crop and unseasonal rains had impacted 93 lakh hectares of crop across the state during the kharif harvest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/retreating-rains-destroyed-7-lakh-ha-of-harvest-ready-crops-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78740014.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
October 19, 2020||Goa||‘Goa must leverage proximity to Maharashtra, Gujarat to attract investment’||PANAJI: Goa’s proximity to Gujarat and Maharashtra, two states that attract a lot of global investment, can be leveraged to attract US companies that already have a base in the other two states, Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC) west India regional president Naushad Panjwani said. Panjwani, who conveyed to chief minister Pramod Sawant the interest shown by two US based companies to setup in Goa, said that the Goa government should look at industrial clusters in order to attract global investment. “Generally when a company from another country comes, they feel very comfortable when companies from their country are in that cluster,” Panjwani said while speaking to TOI about Goa’s investment potential. “Instead of one company if you negotiate and get a cluster of companies then it is something that works very well.” Panjwani said that Goa has the potential to attract foreign direct investment if it plays its cards right and improves ease of doing business in Goa. Goa, along with Maharashtra and Gujarat, have major ports, which are connected through a robust rail and road network, and are strategically located. “Gujarat and Maharashtra are already the top two states in India. Goa can leverage that by aligning with these two states. For example, if a foreign company has a unit in Gujarat or Maharashtra and wants to setup another unit then Goa should be the ideal location,” Panjwani said. When asked what steps Goa needs to take to create a favourable business environment, Panjwani said that the state government needs to have favourable labour laws, single-window clearances, availability of quality land and develop clusters such as the Tuem ESDM park and the maritime cluster. A delegation from IACC is likely to meet Sawant to discuss ways to bring in more investment into Goa from the US. Panjwani said that riding on Goa’s tourism wave, a lot of allied industries can enter the state. “Goa has been underutilised in a sense that it is the tourism capital of India but not projected in that sense. It is a question of branding,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-must-leverage-proximity-to-maha-guj-to-attract-investment/articleshow/78739018.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Adaptive learning: Mantra for new academic calendar||VISAKHAPATNAM: The education sector has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic in myriad ways. Academic sessions ended abruptly, online education became the rule of the day, campuses remained shut down for months and syllabi was cut to compensate for lost time. The crisis brought on by the pandemic has forced educational institutions of all hues to deepen investments in education technology and revamp curriculum. While private institutions as well as premier government institutions were quick to adapt to the ‘new normal’, publically-funded institutions had a difficult time transitioning owing to limited IT infrastructure, funds and resources. While state universities are yet to conduct exams, private institutions have managed to hold virtual exams and got a head start in placements for final-year students. Following the closure of all educational institutions on March 19, campuses remained closed for almost seven months until a partial reopening was allowed from September 21 for students of classes 9 to 12 as part of the Union home ministry’s guidelines. The move received a lukewarm response as only 30-40% students ended up visiting schools to clear their doubts. Now, the state government is planning to reopen schools and colleges from November 2. The Andhra Pradesh state council of education research and training (APSCERT) has launched a five-day workshop from October 16 to work out an alternative academic calendar. Speaking at the workshop, school education commissioner Vadrevu China Verrabhadrudu said that the department is making arrangements to run schools from November 2-April 31, 2021. “The new academic calendar will be based on Unlock 5.0 guidelines and will give priority to adaptive learning,” the education commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/adaptive-learning-mantra-for-new-academic-calendar/articleshow/78737076.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Deluge in Krishna drowns cottages on Bhavani Island||VIJAYAWADA: As water levels in the Krishna river touched eight lakh cusecs on Saturday morning, parts of Bhavani Island, one of the major tourist attractions in the city, started to get inundated. Movement of boats to the island were restricted and officials swung into action to limit damages. Till Saturday evening, several cottages and amusement parks were under three feet water. Inundation had started late on Friday night when water levels at the Prakasam Barrage were at the seven lakh cusecs-mark. While water levels have come down to 6.7 lakh cusecs, parts of the island remain submerged. In view of the large losses sustained during the 2019 floods, officials of Bhavani Island Tourism Corporation (BITC) were cautious when water levels started rising this year. Officials had shifted birds to safe locations in mid-September when water levels in the Prakasam Barrage started to rise. “We took the necessary precautions this year to minimise damage. After the lockdown, the island was opened to tourists on September 10. With flood warnings from irrigation authorities, we stalled operations from September 13. Birds were shifted to safe locations and all rooms in Bhavani Island and Berm Park vacated,” said BITC executive director Roop Kumar. Roop Kumar added, “We are expecting lesser damage this year. Laser show equipment, speakers, and projectors and other important things were shifted to safe locations as soon as we received flood alerts. Desilting and cleaning works will start as soon as floodwater recedes.” “Tourists who made advance bookings were given a refund. We will soon give an update on the resumption of tourism activity and boat services to the island,” Roop Kumar said. Meanwhile, large inflows into the Prakasam Barrage continued on Sunday. Outflows at the barrage remained constant at 6.7 lakh cusecs. Officials continued flood relief activity with many colonies at Ramalingeswara Nagar and Rani Gari Thota still under water. Despite flooding, many have been taking shelter at river bunds due to the fear of theft at their homes. Functionaries of political parties and voluntary organisations distributed free food and essential commodities to flood victims. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz directed irrigation authorities to erect barricades along the river ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/deluge-in-krishna-drowns-cottages-on-bhavani-island/articleshow/78737098.cms||Venu Lanka
October 19, 2020||Goa||NIT Goa sets up counter to help with admissions||PANAJI: On Monday, the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, will help students from the state, who have secured admission at any of the NITs across the country, with their admission process. Director of NIT Goa, Gopal Mugeraya said that as most of the application process has moved online during the pandemic, extending such a service had become necessary. “Fifty percent seats at NIT Goa are reserved for Goan students and 95 Goan students have already reported for their seats. But we want to ensure that if any student is eligible for a seat at any other NIT across the country, they get the necessary help in completing the admission process,” Mugeraya said. He said it is part of the institute’s commitment to extend its resources to help more Goan students pursue higher education in technical fields. NIT Goa, under a central government programme, has already adopted three villages in the state, with a commitment to help improve living conditions there. The institute’s professors have also trained hundreds of teachers in Goa to help improve teaching in the subjects of mathematics and science at the school level in Goa. School students have also undergone training under NIT Goa professors to improve their understanding of the concepts of mathematics and science subjects. Presently, the institute’s hostel at its temporary campus at Farmagudi is being used as a Covid care centre. “Any student, who has got admission to one of the NITs, can walk into NIT Goa and take consultation on seat selections as well from our experts. The counter will be open from 10am to 5pm. We want to ensure that no Goan student deserving of a seat has to go without it,” Mugeraya said. The counter opened on Saturday. Four professors have been allotted the job at the counter. “If some parents are not well-versed with the online admission process, we will help them through this first round of admissions. The counter will operate by taking all necessary precautions against Covid. It will be ensured that students wear masks and sanitise their hands well before entering the institute,” said Mugeraya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-goa-sets-up-counter-to-help-with-admissions/articleshow/78739026.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Goa||Key members of UGF join Cong||Panaji: Key members of United Goans Foundation (UGF) joined Congress on Sunday, giving the party a boost. UGF president Ashish Kamat, who joined, said UGF will continue to function as an independent organisation. Kamat, along with chartered accountant Anup Borkar, Charles D’Silva and Dominic Noronha joined Congress in the presence of Congress state president Girish Chodankar. “UGF has not merged with the Congress and will continue to function the way it has and will always fight corruption,” Kamat said, adding that BJP has given rise to divisive forces across the country. Meanwhile, Chodankar said that under BJP, civic activists are being threatened and harassed. The party also said that its workers are being threatened. Chodankar came down heavily on the state administration for its lacklustre attitude in investigating crimes across the state. “Political and police personnel are well aware of the masterminds involved in criminal cases happening across the state, including the Porvorim murder that happened last week. They need to arrest the masterminds. Until then, these crimes will not stop,” Chodankar said. Kamat said the BJP government has made a serious mess of the economy, the state’s well being and Goa’s healthcare sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/key-members-of-ugf-join-cong/articleshow/78739054.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Prdesh reports 3,986 cases, Covid-19 tally at 7.83 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,986 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 7,83,132. The toll increased to 6,429 as 23 more people died due to the disease on Sunday. As many as 4,591 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 36,474 active cases with 7,40,229 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 94.5 percent. Andhra Pradesh achieved the seven million Covid-19 testing milestone to reach 70.66 lakh tests on Sunday. The state conducted the latest one million tests in the last 15 days. The state is currently testing about 70,000 Covid-19 samples a day with the highest single-day test total of 77,492 reported on September 17. Andhra Pradesh continued to maintain its lead among all states in terms of carrying out the highest number of Covid-19 tests per million population. The Indian Council of Medical Research gave its approval for a total of 105 coronavirus testing centres in Andhra Pradesh as of date, including 27 private ones. From the initial one lab in Tirupati in March, the testing capacity has been now extended to several community health centres and area hospitals. West Godavari reported 528 cases on Sunday, followed by Guntur 496 and East Godavari 481. East Godavari crossed the 1.1 lakh cumulative case milestone. Of the 23 deaths registered on Sunday, four each are from Chittoor, Guntur and Krishna, two each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Nellore and West Godavari, and one each from Kadapa, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-3986-cases-covid-19-tally-at-7-83l/articleshow/78737121.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Thieves strike ATM at Goa's Socorro, decamp with Rs 19 lakh||PANAJI: Thieves stole an ATM at Socorro near Porvorim and decamped with Rs19 lakh cash. The incident occurred during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The ATM, which was attached to the Union Bank near the Socorro church junction, was later found to an isolated spot some 400m from the bank premises. Police said that they have asked for the closed-circuit television camera (CCTV) footage from the ATM centre to identify the accused. No security guard was posted at the ATM at the time when the robbery was suspected to have taken place. The CCTV camera was damaged by the robbers, a villager said. A neighbour informed the police and also the landlord who stays metres away from the bank. He was alerted by a person who had gone to withdraw cash in the morning. The bank has been operating from rented premises for years. Porvorim police said that the accused removed the ATM and took it to an isolated spot, removing the cash from the machine. The police team arrived at the spot where the ATM was abandoned after locals alerted them. Police said that they suspect that the thieves had done a thorough survey of the place, or it could be that someone who knows the area well was part of the robbery. Porvorim police, who on Saturday cracked the case wherein a Torda resident was allegedly burnt by contract killers, are investigating the robbery. For sometime now night police patrolling has not been regular in the area according to some residents. Last week, burglars had targeted a house in Zoswaddo, 500m from the bank’s premises. During the burglary, both residents of the house — senior citizens whose children are abroad — were in hospital. This is not the first incident in the state involving an ATM being removed to commit theft. A similar incident had taken place two years ago at Pernem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/thieves-strike-atm-at-socorro-decamp-with-rs-19l/articleshow/78739063.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Inspection of pilgrim points at TTD temple||Tirupati: TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams (TTD) executive officer (EO) K S Jawahar Reddy on Sunday inspected various pilgrim congregation points at Tirumala. Accompanied by TTD’s additional EO A V Dharma Reddy, the new EO first inspected the Annaprasadam complex and enquired about the quality of food being served to visiting devotees. He also interacted with some devotees and their families at the free food complex. Later, Jawahar Reddy inspected the Vaikuntam Q complex, mobile deposit counters, among other places. Speaking to reporters, the EO said that a majority of devotees with whom he interacted conveyed that they were satisfied with the services rendered by the temple body. “The devotees were very happy about the quality of food being served at the Annadanam complex. TTD as an institution will continuously strive to render the best of pilgrim services to the visiting devotees,” said the EO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/inspection-of-pilgrim-points-at-ttd-temple/articleshow/78737146.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Jaipur||Cured of Covid-19, Rajasthan duo donates kidneys to save kin||JAIPUR: Amid the gloom and doom of the pandemic, two Covid-19 patients in Rajasthan have not only defeated the virus but also gone on to donate a kidney each to save a loved one. For 30-year-old Durga Devi Bairwa and 44-year-old Mohammad Arif, both suffering from renal failure, the unkindest cut was their prospective kidney donors testing positive for Covid on the eve of their scheduled transplantation surgeries. But just when everything seemed lost, courage and hope rose from the depths of despair. Durga Devi with her husband Ratan Lal BairwaWith a creatinine level of 17 mg/dL as against the normal range of 0.84-1.21, Kotabased Durga had been devastated when she was informed in mid-June that her surgery couldn't take place as scheduled as her brotherin-law Dhanna Lal Bairwa, the donor, had contracted Covid. "We had all reached Jaipur on June 17 for the transplant, only to find our plans going haywire at the last moment. My brother tested negative 14 days later, but he still needed time to fully recover. My wife's transplant finally took place on August 14," said Durga’s husband Ratan Lal Bairwa, who runs an automobile business. Durga is fine now and her creatinine level has returned to normal. Her brotherin-law and kidney donor Dhanna is back to normal life, too. In Sikar, Arif can't stop being grateful for how his wife, 35-year-old Firdaus, got through his illness and her own tryst with Covid. Firdaus had tested positive for the virus on June 29, just before she was to donate a kidney to her husband. "The transplant took place two months after my sister-in-law recovered. We met the doctor today for my brother's check-up and all the parameters are almost normal," said Mohammad Sharif, Arif ’s brother. Surgeons say Covid is not a hindrance in organ transplant. "Once the donor has recovered, it is safe to go ahead with the transplant," said Dr Suraj Godara, consultant nephrologist and transplant surgeon in a private Jaipur hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cured-of-covid-19-rajasthan-duo-donates-kidneys-to-save-kin/articleshow/78740031.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Kanaka Durga temple teems with devotees on day two of Dasara fest||Vijayawada: The Kanaka Durga temple was teeming with devotees on Sunday, the second day of Dasara celebrations in Vijayawada, as Goddess Kanaka Durga was adorned as Sri Bala Tripurasundari Devi. Devotees started gathering from early morning and were seen waiting in line for hours while maintaining physical distance. Temple officials ensured order in the queues wearing PPE kits. Three different queues worked their way from the Vinayaka temple. Temple authorities issued Rs 100 tickets under the current booking scheme. Temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu said that 10,655 devotees were able to make darshan till 6pm. Only 900 devotees were allowed per hour. Devotees who made online bookings performed Laksha Kumkumarchana, Chandi Homam, Sri Chakra Navavarnarchana and other rituals. “We are also allowing current bookings in slots that have low rush. There are a few such slots available on Monday and Tuesday for which devotees can book darshan tickets online.” Devotees seemed happy with the arrangements made by temple authorities. “We were very happy with the arrangements. We got to stay in the sanctum sanctorum for a minute. Prasadam counters were put up at multiple locations and the temple was sanitised every hour,” said M Ravichand, a devotee from Gollapudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanaka-durga-temple-teems-with-devotees-on-day-two-of-dasara-fest/articleshow/78737160.cms||Venu Lanka
October 19, 2020||Goa||Stabilising of Baga hill to cost Rs 1.5cr, says Lobo||Calangute: The state government has initiated the process to stabilise the Baga hill slope near the Jesuit retreat house, said minister for waste management and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo. The slope had seen a series of landslides during this season’s heavy rainfall. Speaking to TOI, Lobo said that PWD engineers have prepared an work estimate, which will be sent to the North Goa collector for approval. “The restoration work on the hill will be done under the Disaster Management Act at an approximate cost of Rs 1.5 crore,” he said. Lobo said a retaining wall was built below the retreat house around two years ago when an access road to the top of the hill had been constructed. “The hill slope above the retaining wall is composed of a type of clay, which came sliding down during the heavy rain in July-August. The mud came down on the access road,” the Calangute MLA said. The occupants of the retreat house had been temporarily shifted out. because of apprehensions that the structure would also collapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stabilising-of-baga-hill-to-cost-rs-1-5cr-says-lobo/articleshow/78739070.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Goa||1,000 trees to be cut in Mollem: Power company||PANAJI: Reacting to claims made by NGOs that a large number of trees will be cut in the Mollem Wildlife Sanctuary to make way for a power transmission line, the Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd (GTTPL) project said that only 1,000 trees would be felled or trimmed in the wildlife sanctuary. “The forest tree enumeration stands at 43,201. However, actual felling or trimming of trees in the forest area would be 14,700, which is just 35% of the enumerated quantity. Moreover, as per the prevailing regulations, payments against the enumerated 43,201 forest trees, are being paid to the forest department. Out of the 14,700 trees expected to be felled/trimmed, only 1,000 trees would be felled/trimmed in the wildlife sanctuary,” GTTPL said. The trees were enumerated to calculate compensatory afforestation and NPV (Net Present Value) cost, GTTPL said in a statement. For the Sangod substation, 2,670 trees were cut on private land for which all necessary permissions were accorded by the Goa forest department. Against it, 8,010 trees were mandated to be planted, but “as on date, 9,367 trees have been planted on the land allocated” by the department across various locations — Goa Institute of Management (Sakhali), Usgao, Sangod, and Codar. “For any further tree cutting in a non-forest area, we will plant three times the trees felled, as per the compensatory afforestation rules of the Forest Department,” GTTPL stated. The company stated that the project was envisaged in 2015 to create an additional source of power for Goa and ensure that the region is future-ready and self-sufficient as far as the power situation is concerned. “Once operational, the connectivity with the western grid and southern grid will ensure high reliability for Goa in terms of power feed. The project will enhance the current power transmission capacity, quality and reliability in the state which will further boost industrial and commercial activities, especially the tourism industry, while minimising the use of DG sets,” GTTPL said. It stated that the project included 1,000 MVA, 400/220 kV AIS substation at Sangod which will be connected to the Western grid through the 400kV Xeldem-Mapusa line, and the Southern Grid through the 400kV Xeldem-Narendra LILO line. The presence of these two transmission lines will result in enhanced power reliability in the region. GTTPL stated that it have taken utmost caution and care, right from project planning to mitigation, and afforestation measures to ensure minimal disruption to biodiversity. “The route for the 400kV Xeldem – Narendra LILO Transmission Line was chosen to avoid the Mollem National Park completely and only involves a minimal unavoidable passage of 2.51km through Bhagwan Mahaveer sanctuary,” GTTPL the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1000-trees-to-be-cut-in-mollem-power-company/articleshow/78739084.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Devotees seek blessings of Lord Malayappa Swamy||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy appeared on the Simha vahanam and the Muthyapu Pandiri vahanams and blessed devotees inside the Tirumala temple during the ongoing Navaratri Brahmotsavams celebrations on Sunday. Adorned with antique jewellery and special floral garlands, Lord Malayappa Swamy on Sunday morning was seated atop the golden Simha vahanam in the pose of Abhaya Narasimha Swamy. Later in the night, Lord Venkateswara was seated atop the pandal-shaped golden carrier and decorated with white pearls, and conveyed the importance of peace, love and coexistence in society. Both Simha vahanam and Muthyapu Pandiri vahanams were carried to the Kalyana mandapam inside the Tirumala temple and religious formalities completed by temple priests under the supervision of the TTD Jeeyar Swamis. TTD EO KS Jawahar Reddy, additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, trust board members and officials took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/devotees-seek-blessings-of-lord-malayappa-swamy/articleshow/78737173.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Positivity rate in Maharashtra declines to 16% after hitting 22% last month||MUMBAI: For every 100 people tested for Covid-19, around 16 are currently testing positive in the state. It used to be 22% in September, 18% in August, and 21% in the months of June and July. After five months of witnessing a soaring positivity rate, the state has finally started seeing a decline in the first two weeks of October. The positivity rate, considered a key indicator to gauge the transmission of the disease, is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus out of those tested. A month-on-month analysis shows the state started with a positivity rate of nearly 5% in March, when the virus first arrived. It rose to 7% in April, although between March and April the number of cases jumped from 302 to 10,201 and from 6,331 to 1.4 lakh. Double-digit positivity rate began in May, when it shot up to 18%. Thereafter, the monthly positivity only kept climbing. It was the highest in September at 22%, the month purported to have been the state peak. While the cumulative positivity rate - overall cases and tests done since March to October - continues to hover around 20%, the monthly rate has dropped to 15.9% and daily positivity is almost down to 15%. "A positivity rate of 10% would be the first good sign and thereafter taking it below 5% needs to be the aim," an central official said. The daily positivity rate of the state is three times the 5.16% rate of the country. The national cumulative positivity rate is 8.07%. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said that with the consistent increase in the number of tests, the positivity rate had begun to dip. He said the positivity rate of the state was much higher in September because of large-scale tests done for early detection and to reduce fatalities. "Testing will continue at the same pace even if the cases are dropping," Tope said. The state is carrying out 65,000 to 70,000 tests daily. Within the state, districts like Raigad and Thane have had consistently high positivity rates of 30% to 32%. In the city, the cumulative positivity rate has remained less than 25%, but the daily positivity rate climbed to nearly 40% on certain days. Now the daily positivity rate is down to around 18% now. In the MMR, Bhiwandi-Nizampura had a positivity of 49% in June. In Navi Mumbai and Panvel, it was 31% and 30%, respectively, in June. Almost all these cities are now reporting positivity between 15% and 20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-maharashtra-declines-to-16-after-hitting-22-last-month/articleshow/78740034.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Domestic workers living in penury: Study||Visakhapatnam: A recent study conducted by Prof John Koti of Andhra University on the socio-economic conditions and social security of domestic workers in Andhra Pradesh, as part of a University Grants Commission project, found lack of recognition, poor wages, harassment and abuse, lack of defined work time and no regulatory framework. Prof John, who reached his superannuation last month as a faculty in the human resources management department, chose Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Rajahmundry and Tirupati, for the study named ‘domestic workers -conditions, rights and social security - a case study in selected urban areas of Andhra Pradesh’. About 500 domestic workers from each city, totalling to 2,690 workers, were interviewed for the study to understand the conditions of the domestic workers. Koti said several children, too, are engaged in domestic work. “Being a part of the unorganised employment sector, the majority of the domestic workforce cannot negotiate their nature of work and wages. The study identified several issues in the sector including undervaluation of domestic work and its contribution to society, low bargaining power of domestic workers, and frequent exclusion from labour protection,” he said. He said domestic work is one of the emerging important avenues for people, who are unskilled and lowly educated. “The domestic workers contribute to the economic growth in the sense that it enables more and more educated women to enter labour market as a result of which they outsource this task formerly which is assigned to “housewives” to hired domestic workers. But at ground level, it may be an empowerment to the housewives who go to work, but not for the majority of the domestic workers whose work is not even recognized and not covered by laws. Several employers view them as mere servants and there are no terms of agreement, which also means that they may be exploited at the extreme level and they may be hired or fired at any point of time. Hence, a decent work, minimum wages, and privileges at the workplace is the need of the hour for these domestic workers,” said Prof John. As per the study, about 20-25 percent of the respondents from the selected five cities earn less than Rs 2,500, while only some 12-15 percent of the study subjects earn more than Rs 5,000 a month. From Kakinada region, the majority of the respondents are aged between 25-45 years. Whereas, the majority of them are in the 35-45 age group in Rajahmundry, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam regions. With regard to gender of the respondents, among all the regions, majority of them are females as compared to male counterparts. The majority of the respondents are from the scheduled castes, followed by backward castes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/domestic-workers-living-in-penury-study/articleshow/78737184.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 19, 2020||Goa||Ceiling of bus shed near Canacona CHC falling off||Poinguinim: The bus shed in front off the Canacona community health centre (CHC) needs immediate attention as half of its false ceiling has fallen off. The bus shed was constructed by Canacona Municipal Council (CMC). Patients and their relatives who were at the bus shed told TOI that they fear the remaining part of the ceiling might fall off and injure them. They said that the false ceiling should either be removed or new one should be reinstalled.  CMC chairperson Nitu Sameer Desai said it was the municipality’s duty to maintain the shed and that the chief officer has been informed about it. CMC chief officer Satish Prabhu told TOI that an inspection would be carried out on Monday and the council would then do the needful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ceiling-of-bus-shed-near-canacona-chc-falling-off/articleshow/78739096.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 19, 2020||Goa||Stray cattle continue to hinder traffic||Poinguinim: The issue of stray cattle hindering traffic on NH 66 again came to the fore once again after carcasses of two bovines were found on the highway at Sheli in the Loliem-Polem panchayat, recently. They had been run down by a vehicle. Loliem-Polem sarpanch Nishant Prabhudesai said the owners of the bovines shun their responsibility and let their cattle roam around the village. “Whenever cattle are found dead along the highway, the panchayat has to pay Rs 1,000 for disposing of the carcass. Last year, 42 dead cattle were found on the Polem to Mashem stretch of the NH 66,” Prabhudesai told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stray-cattle-continue-to-hinder-traffic/articleshow/78739089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Goa||Sancoale to get police station on Dec 19||Vasco: On December 19, Liberation Day, Sancoale village will get a new police station, which will also have Cortalim under its jurisdiction. Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha stated that the new police station will be temporarily housed at the Housing Board units at Upasnagar, Sancoale, until a new building is constructed on comunidade land. “The government had initially approved the construction of a new police station for Sancoale at the site of the existing police outpost in Zuarinagar. However, it has been observed that this area is exposed to ammonia fumes. The plan has now been revised and a new site has been identified for the purpose.” An inspection of the proposed 10,000sqm site was attended by Saldanha, Mormugao DySP Raju Raut Desai, administrator of comunidades (South Goa) Vishal Kundaikar, and the executive committee members of Sancoale comunidade. Presently, Sancoale and Cortalim come under the jurisdiction of the Verna police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sancoale-to-get-police-station-on-dec-19/articleshow/78739101.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 19, 2020||Goa||Curti locals panic as bisons spotted in village||PONDA: Panic has gripped the residents of Curti village, along the Khandepar-Ponda road, after a herd of around six bisons was spotted on a hillock near Curti-Bethora-Borim bypass junction on Sunday evening. People fear the bisons, which included two calves, will destroy their plantations and other property. Admitting that the presence of the wild mammals “could be quite possible in the area”, an official from the forest department said the they come there to drink water at a natural stream which flows close to a petrol station along the bypass road. “The wild animals are nocturnal and normally active during dusk and dawn. This is the time they forage for food or water,” Anand Jadhav, Ponda sub divisional forest officer (SDFO), said. Sandeep Parkar, a resident of Khandepar said that “illegal constructions in forest areas have forced wild animals to foray into human settlements”. “Since encroachers have literally eaten into forest land, the wild animals are now forced to enter villages,” Parkar said. He said the encroachers first build illegal structure in forest land, and then by misusing Section 94A of Public Health Act to ensure they get connections for water and electricity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curti-locals-panic-as-bisons-spotted-in-village/articleshow/78739113.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
October 19, 2020||Goa||Food activists push for local seed bank||Panaji: In the Mapusa market, sellers of heirloom crops are the marginal farmers, but beyond them very few people understand the value of such crops, said food activist and co-founder of Ann Heirloom Foods, Jay Sutaria. He was one of the panellists speaking at the New Earth Summit webinar on the need for local seed banks on Sunday. Heirloom crops refer to old-time varieties that have been saved and handed down through multiple generations of families,like the Goan cashew. “There are a few farmers who work with traditional varieties in Assagao and other areas. These people have their own networks to source heirloom crops and sell them at the Mapusa market. Buyers must start asking for the ‘gaavti’ produce even if they are at an extra price,” he said. Sutaria pointed out that a Goan papaya or lime are unlike anything in the world. “Once we popularise these, we will be able to help the farmers form seed banks and revive the growth of such crops,” he added. Other panellists said that farmers must believe in their heirloom seeds and propagate them because people now are slowly realising that the world needs to be a lot greener. Peter Fernandes, who runs a homestead in Assagao, said that Goa has about 17 different varieties of amaranthus, popularly known as ‘tambi’’ bhaji. But the vast majority of people are only looking at growing the red amaranthus due to its demand . “We are not selecting its varieties for its culinary properties and other features. We need to educate ourselves on the basics of seed production and seed saving, and then proceed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/food-activists-push-for-local-seed-bank/articleshow/78739118.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Boost your ‘karma’ by mapping rural Goa via app||PANAJI: Borrowing a concept from Google Maps and Reddit, ActforGoa — a community initiative program — wants locals and visitors to the state to map Goa’s rich diversity as well as community issues to enhance their ‘karma’. The move is part of a program to help Goa’s 191 panchayats, and NGOs, identify local resources and help with the grassroots planning process. In order to accomplish the mapping process, ActforGoa collaborated with NineStack to develop a mobile app PinIt, which allows anyone to tag pothole-ridden roads, garbage black spots, heritage sites, even recycling spots or water bodies in Goa on a map. Jill Ferguson, the co-founder of ActforGoa says that the community-driven app is designed as a tool to help citizens collect data about their locality and help panchayats make informed decisions. “In general we lack data in the social sector,” said Ferguson, an American who has created roots in Goa. “There isn’t enough data about the local community and when you have that data, the potential to create a strategy or plan is so much more possible,” she said. In Goa the panchayats are supposed to have village development committees which draw up the gram panchayat development plans for the year based on which the panchayat can avail of funds from the state and the Centre. Lack of data and delay in completing the plans often leaves panchayats without access to these funds. NineStack developed the app as a CSR initiative, said co-founder Aaron Fernandez. He said that they are talking to the Google developers group to explore if Google can support the app. “Part of the planning process is a mapping exercise. Most village panchayats struggle with this,” said Ferguson. She says that with the app, which is integrated with Google Maps, it is much easier to map village resources as well as concerns. To keep things interesting, the app offers karma points whenever a user pins something on the map. “The idea is that we want to encourage people to do good by giving them karma points. You will get points as you pin things. You get three points if you pin a place or an expert, and you get one point if you pin an issue,” said Ferguson. Eventually, ActforGoa hopes to integrate the karma points with freebies offered by restaurants and experts so that users can exchange the karma points for a free surfing lesson or other giveaways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/boost-your-karma-by-mapping-rural-goa-via-app/articleshow/78739128.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||JMM seeks changes in Jharkhand govt’s Durga Puja guidelines||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Sunday criticized the state government’s decision to prohibit the use of dhak and public address systems in Durga Puja pandals of the state as “illogical” and demanded a roll-back of the same. In an open letter to chief minister Hemant Soren, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya also urged the former to consider revising the upper limit of people who can be present in the pandal at one time and attend the immersion procession “keeping in mind the rituals and traditions”. JMM said: “The people of Jharkhand welcomed with open arms the decision to prohibit public gatherings and host fairs during the Durga Puja. But the ban on use of public address system during the chanting of Vedic mantras and sandhya arti is illogical. This year, revellers cannot offer their pushpanjali to the deity. If the public address systems is used, then the revellers can perform the rituals at home by hearing the mantras.” JMM also urged Soren to revisit the decision, which allows only seven people (including the priest) to be present inside a Puja pandal at one time. “Much more people are required to be present to carry out the rituals, such as sacrifice and Kumari Puja. The rituals also mandate the presence of dhakis,” Bhattacharya wrote, adding that Soren must consider capping the maximum number of people inside a pandal at 25. The letter also criticized government guidelines which restrict the number of people participating in the immersion rituals to three. Bhattacharya wrote: “The immersion procession has to be conducted in the presence of priests and musical instruments. So it is imperative that you reconsider allowing a maximum of 25 people to be a part of the immersion procession wearing gloves and masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-seeks-changes-in-state-govts-durga-puja-guidelines/articleshow/78737957.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||RMC gears up for cleanliness drive during Puja||RANCHI: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) is geared up for a cleanliness drive to collect the garbage generated during the nine-day Navratri festival. Two days into the festival, RMC on Sunday said it is coming with up an integrated plan — a collaboration with puja committees and its workforce — to take up the challenge and conduct regular sanitization of areas with higher footfall to keep the Covid-19 virus at bay. Talking to TOI, deputy municipal commissioner Shankar Yadav said, “It used to be a routine affair for us every year but this time, the puja celebrations are different. We cannot just ensure proper collection of garbage as we are fighting a virus, too. To make the city clean and free from infection, we have worked out the detailed plan.” As part of the plan, the civic body is focussing on keeping the roads clean by increasing the daily trips of the garbage collection and mechanical sweeping vehicles. Small pick-up vehicles and tractors will also increase their frequency of garbage collection and all city managers have been assigned six wards each for personal supervision daily. On steps taken up to check infection at puja pandals, Yadav said, “We have already conducted the first round of sanitization at every puja pandal and have them to get sprayer machines so that they can conduct sanitization daily with the help of volunteers. We will provide 10% concentrated sodium hypochlorite for the purpose.” He added, “I have reviewed the city’s mini garbage transfer stations and will visit areas with high waste outputs. For the last three days, I have been touring the city areas during the night to prioritize the areas where we have to increase the trips of our garbage collection vehicles.” The civic body officials appealed to the public to support their efforts and not to litter their neighbourhood. “Please keep your garbage in dustbins and the ‘Safai Mitras’ will pick them up from your homes or from areas where the dustbins are,” Yadav appealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-gears-up-for-cleanliness-drive-during-puja/articleshow/78737852.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 19, 2020||Kolkata||Guvernor’s letter on custody death draws sharp retort from TMC||KOLKATA: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee over the East Midnapore custody death issue, prompting Trinamool Congress to accuse Raj Bhavan of turning into the state BJP headquarters and to urge the governor to be restrained in commenting on issues pending in court. BJP supporter Madan Ghorai’s death in a city hospital while in jail custody has sparked a high-voltage court battle over his family’s plea for a second autopsy. The issue reached Raj Bhavan on Sunday. A Calcutta High Court division bench is likely to hear on Monday the Bengal government’s plea against an HC single-bench order for a second autopsy in the case. On Sunday evening, Madan’s brother Swapan, along with BJP MPs Arjun Singh and Locket Chatterjee, called on the governor seeking a CBI probe. Before the meeting, Swapan collapsed on the stairs of Raj Bhavan and had to be sent to hospital. In a letter to the governor, Swapan said the Patashpur (East Midnapore) police had arrested his brother on July 24 on kidnapping charges, and he was sent to jail custody on September 27. “On October 13, he died at SSKM Hospital. My brother was killed as he was a BJP worker and we are also being threatened,” his letter said. The governor tweeted that Swapan also urged for a CBI inquiry. In his letter to the CM, Dhankhar wrote: “Recent custodial death of Madan Ghorai alias Kalipada Ghorai of village Kanakpur in East Midnapore district, is yet another horrifying instance of dehumanising torture, assault and death in custody.” The governor quoted the Supreme Court judgment in the case of DK Basu of 1997 to prevent custodial death and torture, “as aggravating factor makes democracy a mockery”. Dhankhar urged the CM to “make police and administration politically neutral and accountable”. Minister of state for housing and health Chandrima Bhattacharya categorically said the governor acted as a BJP spokesman and that he had converted Raj Bhavan into BJP headquarters. “His advice to run the administration sounds farcical. I thought he was a legal expert and so he should have abstained from commenting on a matter in which a probe is on. Everything is fine in Bengal, and on the eve of Durga Puja, he is trying to find fault. In Bengal, the administration is run by Mamata Banerjee, who is far more politically experienced than the governor and she has no lessons to learn from him,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guvs-letter-on-custody-death-draws-sharp-retort-from-tmc/articleshow/78739377.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Jagarnath Mahto critical, put on ventilator||RANCHI: The condition of state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection at a private hospital here, deteriorated further and is very critical, doctors said on Sunday. Earlier on Saturday, chief minister Hemant Soren visited Medica hospital and held a high-level meeting with senior officials and doctors treating the ailing cabinet minister to discuss his shifting to a Chennai-based lung transplant centre. But by Sunday afternoon, Mahto was put on invasive ventilator after his condition deteriorated. Soren visited the hospital again on Sunday to inquire about his condition. Addressing reporters outside the hospital, Soren said, “We are constantly in touch with lungs specialists in Chennai and they were supposed to arrive on Monday. However, we have requested them to visit the patient today so that we can plan further treatment.” According to hospital sources, the oxygen saturation level of Mahato has fallen below 60 after which the doctors decided to put him on an invasive ventilator. “His condition has deteriorated very rapidly in the last 12 hours and his oxygen saturation level fell below 60% around 1 am on Sunday after which we had to put him on invasive ventilator support. We are now able to increase the level to 90%,” said one of the doctors treating him. Meanwhile, a team of doctors led by lungs specialist Dr Jindal from MGM Hospital in Chennai has left for Ranchi and is expected to arrive around 11 pm. Talking to TOI, adviser to the Medica Hospital group, Anand Srivastava, said: “An expert medical team is scheduled to arrive tonight and after conducting a thorough examination of the patient, they will take a call on his shifting.” Notably, Mahato was admitted to the Rims Covid-19 ward on September 28 after he tested positive. He was shifted to the Medica hospital on October 1. A three-member medical board constituted by the state government, doctors treating him at the Medica hospital and the visiting experts will evaluate his situation on Sunday night will take a final call on shifting Mahto to Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jagarnath-critical-put-on-ventilator/articleshow/78737918.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 19, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Infections and deaths down for second straight day in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state has recorded a dip in Covid-19 cases and deaths for the second day in a row. It added 9,060 new cases and 150 fatalities on Sunday, taking the tally to 15,95,381 and the toll to 42,115. The state and the city continued to discharge more people than they added cases. On Sunday, 11,204 people were discharged across the state, of which 3,308 were from the city. The total number of discharges in the state stood at 13.7 lakh and the rate of recovery was 85.8%. On a day Union health minister Harsha Vardhan said that parts of the country were witnessing community transmission, most senior health officials in the state did not wish to comment on it. One state task force member said: "What's new in this?" An analysis of the cases on a week-on-week basis shows that there has been a dip in cases and deaths in the state. This week from October 12 to October 18, a total of 67,155 cases were added as compared to 84,817 cases that were added in the previous week from October 5 to 11, a 21% drop. While 1,553 fatalities were reported this week, it was a 31% drop over the 2,265 the previous week. The Mumbai region topped the charts with the number of cases and deaths that were added. A total of 3,132 cases were added and 59 deaths reported from the region, taking the total cases to 5.5 lakh and deaths to 17,293. In the city, the steady decline in cases continued for the third day in a row. On Sunday, 1,600 positive cases were detected compared to the 1,791 on Saturday and the 1823 on Friday. Prior to that, the city was adding more than 2,000 cases on average. The city's tally now stands at 2,41,935. The current active caseload is 20,907, of which around 7,300 are symptomatic and 1,326 critical. Civic figures showed that nearly 7,500 beds were currently vacant out of the capacity of 18,500. On Sunday, the addition of 49 deaths took the city's toll to 9,785. The BMC claimed that 34 of the 49 patients had co-morbidities. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the city had definitely seen a dip in month-on-month mortality even if cases had seen ups and downs. Now, with the state toying with the idea of allowing more women to travel by local trains, doctors said a spurt in cases could be expected. In Thane, as many as 266 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Sunday, taking the tally of infected people to 43,571. Five fatalities were reported, taking the death toll to 1,104. The recovery rate in Thane increased to 89.8% on Sunday with 39,122 patients recovered till date and only 3,345 active cases left. Kalyan-Dombivli and Bhiwandi-Nizampura, which once had a significant number of deaths, had no deaths to report on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-infections-and-deaths-down-for-second-straight-day-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78740053.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 19, 2020||Noida||How Noida is battling dust clouds as construction norms go for a toss||NOIDA: A rapid rise in construction activity across Noida and Greater Noida has shrouded the city with a blanket of dust. And the residents are at the receiving end of it The Noida Authority and private developers lost the crucial lockdown months in carrying out construction when traffic on the roads was minimal. But availability of workforce was indeed a challenge. Now, despite the graded response action plan (GRAP) being in force in the city, builders are carrying out construction at a massive scale to make up for the lost time. Although they have been asked to install smog guns to control the dust around construction sites, other basic norms such as keeping the material covered and sprinkling water at the sites are being increasingly overlooked. The result is that residents who now have to step out for work are reeling from problems such as headache, skin rashes and nausea. “We don’t know about the regulations, but with so much dust, we are taking a steam bath twice a day. The dust, which is largely from uncovered construction material in the 7x sectors, is affecting our lives. The authorities should first clean the roads before imposing a ban on gensets,” said Amit Gupta, a resident. Manish Kumar from Noida Extension said his children were complaining about headaches every day. “This is all because of dust pollution in our area. We had washed the statues here all by ourselves and have been trying to be as proactive as possible, but that’s not enough. Smog guns have been installed by some builders, but they are hardly operating,” he added. The claims by the residents are not unfounded. As TOI took a tour of the city between 11am and 1pm on Sunday, piles of dug up mud and construction material were visible at several places, throwing up a cloud of dust. In Sector 76, a pile of mud lay in the open along a drain being constructed by the Noida Authority. In Sector 74, a boundary wall being built by the Authority’s contractors had construction material lying uncovered beside it. In Sector 78, a stretch of road that had been watered had already dried up and turned into a dust bowl. “It takes about two hours for the entire stretch to dry up after the tanker leaves,” said Ramesh, a roadside stall owner. Heaps of broken bricks and mud piles were lined up in Sector 72, where an excavator was working on the stretch of a road. In Noida Extension, a lane near Gaur City was shrouded in dust even after it had been sprinkled with water. In front of Galaxy Plaza, manual sweeping was only making matters worse — a smog gun running in front of a mall on the same stretch appeared of little help. Parthala Chowk, which was dubbed the most polluted area in Noida in a recent study, was visibly less polluted on Sunday. But the top cover of the roundabout, which was supposed to be an open green patch, was dry with neither concrete cover nor vegetation. Avinash Tripathi, officer on special duty at the Noida Authority, said sweeping and sprinkling were both being conducted frequently. “We are following all EPCA guidelines for dust control,” he added. Praveen Kumar, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board, said, “We have gone around the city and ordered contractors to cover construction material. We have issued fines when needed. All large construction sites have smog guns. We are being vigilant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/how-noida-is-battling-dust-clouds-as-construction-norms-go-for-a-toss/articleshow/78738365.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
October 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Kidnapped boy murdered, prime suspect dies in custody||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: Thirteen year-old Aditya Lamba, who was kidnapped on Thursday while on his way to buy a packet of chips, has been murdered. His body was found in a canal on Sunday morning, about 15km from Jabalpur city. In a sensational twist late at night, prime accused Rahul Vishwakarma alias Monu died in police custody. A mechanical engineer, he strangled Aditya as the child had recognized him, said police. There will be a judicial inquiry into Monu’s death, said SP Siddhartha Bahuguna, adding that they are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain cause of death. The gruesome killing of the child brought back memories of the kidnap and murder of the Chitrakoot twins in February last year. There are chilling similarities in both crimes — Aditya was murdered within a day because he had identified one of the kidnappers. The abductors had played recordings of his voice to convince his parents that he was alive and they should pay the ransom. Monu, the mastermind of the crime, was an acquaintance of the victim’s family, and had plotted the crime as he was under a debt of Rs 15 lakh, SP Bahuguna told TOI. “Arre uncle, aap to humare ghar aate the (uncle, you used to visit our home),” Aditya had apparently exclaimed on seeing Monu while being held hostage. Police said the trio got scared and killed him on Friday afternoon. He and his alleged accomplices Malay Rai, 25 and Karan Jaggi, 24, were arrested late on Saturday. All three were paraded in public on Sunday. Police plan to book Malay and Jaggi under NSA, say sources. On Thursday, Aditya took Rs 50 from his mother and stepped out at 6.15pm to buy chips from a local grocery, his father Mukesh Lamba has told police. That was the last time they saw him alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-kidnapped-boy-murdered-prime-suspect-dies-in-custody/articleshow/78740073.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Woman alleges gang-rape by 5 cops for 10 days in lock-up||BHOPAL: A 20-year-old woman has alleged that she was kept in a lock up and raped for 10 days in May this year by five police personnel, including the police station in-charge and sub-divisional police officer, in Mangawan of MP’s Rewa district. The woman is an accused in a murder case and is now in jail custody. She made the explosive allegation before an additional district judge and a team of lawyers when they had gone to inspect the prison on October 10. The district judge then ordered a judicial inquiry and write to the Rewa SP Rakesh Singh to take action. The SP said he was yet to get the letter from the court. “She is a murder accused,” he said. The complainant says she was raped between May 9 and May 21, while police say she was arrested on May 21, around five days after a woman named Sudha Verma was murdered in a village in Mangawan police station jurisdiction. The woman alleges she was kept in the lock-up and raped by the SDOP, police station in-charge and three constables. A female constable had protested but was rebuked by her seniors, she told the legal team in prison on October 10. Warden admitted woman told her about the gangrape, but did not believe herUnder Supreme Court orders, legal teams routinely visit female inmates in prison and submit reports, said advocate Satish Mishra, who was part of the group that spoke to the woman on October 10. “She said all this in front of the four of us — additional district judge, law officer of the district legal aid authority and two lawyers, including me. When we asked why she hadn’t spoken up earlier, she said she had told the warden three months ago. Also, she pointed out, policemen had done this to her and there were policemen in jail too, so she was scared. She says the accused cops had threatened to implicate her father in the murder case if talked about it,” said advocate Mishra. The warden acknowledged that the detainee had told her about the gangrape but they did not believe her. “Her statement was recorded by additional district judge and placed before the chief judicial magistrate, who then submitted it to the district judge. On October 14, the judge ordered a judicial probe and wrote to the SP,” president of Rewa district bar association, Rajendra Pandey, told TOI on Sunday. Rewa SP Rakesh Singh said the woman and a male friend were arrested on May 21 on the basis of call details, mobile location and other evidence. “Based on her information, the weapon used in the crime was recovered from a septic tank in the presence of villagers on May 21. Her blood-stained clothes were also recovered. She underwent a medical examination as she was injured in the legs during the struggle with the murder victim,” said the SP. As per police records, the mobile location of the woman was around 20km from the police station till May 16. Her male co-accused has got bail, but she is still on remand, say police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-woman-alleges-gang-rape-by-5-cops-for-10-days-in-lock-up/articleshow/78740127.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bhopal||CM orders transfer of Ujjain SP & ASP, CSP suspended||BHOPAL: A day after two constables were arrested for the Ujjain hooch deaths, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday ordered the transfer of Ujjain SP Manoj Singh and ASP Rupesh Dwivedi and the suspension of city SP Rajnish Kashyap. The CM issued the orders during a law-and-order review meeting where additional chief secretary-home Rajesh Rajora, who is leading an SIT probe into the case, briefed him on the developments. Singh has been replaced by Sathyendra Kumar Shukla, who was Shahdol SP. Awdesh Goswami, SP PTS-Indore, is being moved to Shahdol. Singh’s new posting is AIG police headquarters, Bhopal. The three prime accused — Yunus, Gabbar and Sikandar — have been booked under NSA, said sources. They were contractual employees of Ujjain Municipal Corporation and have since been sacked. The Rajora-led SIT is investigating the tragedy in which the 13 labourers died on October 14-15 after drinking an illicit concoction named Jhinjhar. Another died in hospital on Sunday., taking the toll to 14. Police, however, put the number of deaths at 12 on the basis of autopsy reports. Chouhan expressed serious concern at the deaths and ordered a statewide crackdown on the mafia involved in such illegal activities. The government has taken a tough stand on the tragedy, transferring assistant excise commissioner K C Agnihotri out of Ujjain and suspending Ujjain Municipal Corporation (UMC) assistant commissioner Subodh Jain on Saturday. The officer-in-charge of Kharakuan police station, an ASI, and five constables have already been suspended. Two constables — Shaikh Anwar and Nawaz — have been named accused in the case and arrested. Accused used stolen cell phone to make ransom callsShortly after that, Aditya’s mother got the first ransom call of Rs 2 crore. An hour later, she got a second call, repeating the demand. Aditya was safe with them, the caller assured. On Friday, the kidnappers called at 11am to ask if the money had been arranged. Mukesh, who runs a mine drilling business, said he couldn’t arrange for more than Rs 8-10 lakh. The kidnappers said they wouldn’t settle for anything less than Rs 1 crore. They said the drop-off point was in Sihora, about 50km from the city, and asked Mukesh to come alone. It’s perhaps around this time that Aditya was murdered. Police deployed 10 teams around the ransom drop location. Around 8pm on Friday, the kidnappers called Mukesh and asked how much money had been arranged. Lamba said he had managed Rs 8 lakh only. The caller agreed to this and asked him to come with the money to a location near bypass road. Aditya would be released later, he said. When Mukesh insisted on the handover at the same spot, the kidnappers threatened to kill the boy if Mukesh made any mistake. “They played a recorded voice of Aditya to convince his father that he was alive,” said SP. When Mukesh reached the spot with a bag containing cash, he was told to keep the bag on the roadside and return home. He did so, and kept praying Aditya would return home safely. Over the next few hours, police rounded up the three suspects based on technical inputs. After nightlong interrogation, the trio told police where they had dumped Aditya’s body. The SP said Monu had worked at a mobile shop and tried to dodge police mobile surveillance. “They looted a mobile phone three days before the kidnap and used it to make ransom calls. Also, they kept moving around while making the calls to mislead police,” said the SP. A 13-year-old boy, who was kidnapped on Thursday while on his way to buy a packet of chips, has been murdered in Jabalpur. Aditya Lamba's body was found in a canal on Sunday morning, about 15km from the city. Local officials are conducting an inquiry into their properties. The house of one of the accused was demolished on Sunday evening. The locality where the trio lives has been barricaded and police deployed in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-orders-transfer-of-ujjain-sp-asp-csp-suspended/articleshow/78740138.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Fresh Covid cases in TN below 4,000-mark for first time since July 8||CHENNAI: For the first time since July first week, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu has dropped below 40,000. The number of new infections dropped below the 4,000-mark for the first time since July 8. On Sunday, 3,914 people tested positive for the virus and 56 people died of Covid. Only one had no comorbidity. On Sunday, the state had 39,121 patients undergoing treatment. The figure had crossed the 40,000-mark on July 2 and reached a peak of 57,968 on July 31. After that, it has decreased steadily. At present, the active rate of TN is 5.9% -- every 100 confirmed cases, roughly six are currently infected. In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.7% every day. TN's Covid tally at present is 6,87,400. This means, approximately 9,000 out of every 10 lakh people in the state have tested positive. The national average is around 5,600 per 10 lakh people. The state's recovery rate has been hovering around 90% for a while. For every 100 cases, 93 have recovered. With another 4,929 getting discharged on Sunday following treatment, the discharge count increased to 6,37,637. On Sunday, one-third of the new cases (1,036) and deaths (17) were reported in Chennai district. Numbers were high in the neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. As many as 499 got infected and nine died in these districts. Western Tamil Nadu reported 1,118 new cases and 14 deaths. Coimbatore reported 319 cases followed by Salem (188), Tirupur (166) and Namakkal (117). North (478), central (396) and south (387) reported new cases in three-digit figures and 15 districts had no deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-covid-cases-in-tn-below-4000-mark-for-first-time-since-july-8/articleshow/78740152.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Erode||Fresh Covid cases in TN below 4,000-mark for first time since July 8||CHENNAI: For the first time since July first week, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu has dropped below 40,000. The number of new infections dropped below the 4,000-mark for the first time since July 8. On Sunday, 3,914 people tested positive for the virus and 56 people died of Covid. Only one had no comorbidity. On Sunday, the state had 39,121 patients undergoing treatment. The figure had crossed the 40,000-mark on July 2 and reached a peak of 57,968 on July 31. After that, it has decreased steadily. At present, the active rate of TN is 5.9% -- every 100 confirmed cases, roughly six are currently infected. In the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.7% every day. TN's Covid tally at present is 6,87,400. This means, approximately 9,000 out of every 10 lakh people in the state have tested positive. The national average is around 5,600 per 10 lakh people. The state's recovery rate has been hovering around 90% for a while. For every 100 cases, 93 have recovered. With another 4,929 getting discharged on Sunday following treatment, the discharge count increased to 6,37,637. On Sunday, one-third of the new cases (1,036) and deaths (17) were reported in Chennai district. Numbers were high in the neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. As many as 499 got infected and nine died in these districts. Western Tamil Nadu reported 1,118 new cases and 14 deaths. Coimbatore reported 319 cases followed by Salem (188), Tirupur (166) and Namakkal (117). North (478), central (396) and south (387) reported new cases in three-digit figures and 15 districts had no deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/fresh-covid-cases-in-tn-below-4000-mark-for-first-time-since-july-8/articleshow/78741384.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai has fewer platforms for express trains than Kolkata, Mumbai||CHENNAI: In spite of railway stations like MGR Central, Egmore and Tambaram, the city ranks behind Kolkata, Mumbai and New Delhi in the number of platforms for departure and arrivals of express trains. Kolkata has 58 platforms, Mumbai 54, New Delhi 53, where most satellite stations are terminals, and Chennai 36. Hyderabad has 21 and Bengaluru 16. In Chennai, no station other than Central, Egmore and Tambaram, which have 17, 11 and eight platforms, has been developed for origin and termination of trains. Central could not be expanded because of a bottleneck near Basin Bridge and railways is hesitant to use Tiruvallur as a hub for west and north-bound trains. In Tambaram, there is very little space for more tracks though it is being developed into a terminal by developing a train maintenance yard. The 'Royapuram as a terminal' plan was shelved as a bridge couldn't be removed. There is little scope to add tracks at Egmore station, sandwiched between two main roads. "In Central, there is space between Central and Basin Bridge but for the last 10 years the authorities were not confident of pulling down a bridge crossing the tracks. This is being done now," said an official. At Central, the lack of a good yard is forcing trains to be parked in space that could have been used for some departures and arrivals. Limited-stop trains like Delhi-Chennai Rajdhani Express and Duronto that arrive early are either forced to slow down or are held up to ensure they enter Central, which handles around 115 trains a day, only at the scheduled time. At Bengaluru, with least platforms among metros, Banaswadi, Cantonment, RK Puram and Yelahanka stations are used to temporarily halt and originate trains. At the peak of the lockdown, 21 Shramik specials from Tiruvallur showed the station with six platforms can be used for such operations even if it is not a terminal station. In a letter to the railway ministry on October 14, the Tiruvallur Town Consumer Protection Association said special trains and expresses should have halts at Tiruvallur station which in pre-pandemic times handled 1 lakh passengers a day and earned 15 crore annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-has-fewer-platforms-for-express-trains-than-kolkata-mumbai/articleshow/78740178.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||DRI intercepts Oz-bound Rs 13 crore drug hidden in photo albums at Singapore||BENGALURU: Sleuths from Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) thwarted a gang’s attempt to smuggle pseudoephedrine worth Rs 13 crore to Australia by concealing it inside photo albums and frames. Booked from Chennai and sent by air courier from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) here, the consignment was intercepted last week at Singapore’s Changi airport and brought back to Bengaluru for probe. Sources said pseudoephedrine, a sympathomimetic substance, is used as a key component in the preparation of methenamine, ecstasy pills and other psychotropic substances. “The consignment in two boxes containing photo albums, frames, bangles, saris and dhotis were booked by an unidentified person in Chennai to be shipped through air courier to Australia. A few weeks ago, it had come to KIA cargo and was shipped to Singapore en route to Australia,” said an investigating officer. Fake photoshootThe 13.2kg drug, dexterously concealed inside 12 albums and six frames, managed to slip past the scanner at Bengaluru airport cargo. “We received specific input on pseudoephedrine smuggling and by the time we could intercept, the consignment had reached Singapore port to be readied for shipment to Australia. We recalled the goods and they reached KIA on Thursday,” the officer said. The DRI team opened the two boxes—declared as personal items for ‘loved ones’ in Australia—to find saris, dhotis, bangles and albums of photoshoot by a family. Dismantling the albums and frames revealed nearly 1kg of the substance in each piece, hidden in plastic covers. Investigators suspect the smuggling gangs based in Chennai, supplying substance to Australian drugmaking rackets, had orchestrated the entire photoshoot with some individuals to make it look like a family album which was being shared with relatives living overseas along with other traditional and auspicious items for a festive occasion. Probe is under way to track the source of the substance in Tamil Nadu and nab the gangs with international ties, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dri-intercepts-oz-bound-rs-13-crore-drug-hidden-in-photo-albums-at-singapore/articleshow/78740183.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Modify ICU ACs to save medics from virus: Study||BENGALURU: Pointing out that existing ICUs worldwide aren’t designed for scenarios like Covid-19, a research paper from a team of IISc researchers has recommended modifications and complete elimination of airconditioning wherever possible to prevent further infections among healthcare workers. “The current outbreak has again made us realise the importance of health workers as the most valuable resource and it is of utmost priority to provide them a safe and disinfected environment and ensure security,” reads the paper recently uploaded to the public domain. ‘Design of ICUs not suited for highly infectious Covid patients’Its lead researcher said ICUs now are unable to do that.AG Ramakrishnan, senior professor, Medical Intelligence and Language Engineering (MILE) Laboratory, department of electrical engineering, IISc said the current design of most ICUs, where air is recirculated through air-conditioning, is not suited for treating highly infectious Covid patients. They may be a cause of thousands of infections among healthcare workers which has also led to death of hundreds worlwide. “Originally, ICUs are designed to protect a patient who may be immune compromised or has an open wound. When it comes to Covid-19, the way ICUs are used is totally meaningless. The patient is already infected to the core, and every time she breathes out, she is emitting millions of viruses. They shouldn’t be in a closed room with no fresh air,” said Ramakrishnan. Researchers recommended a cost-effective redesign of existing ICUs and propose suggestions for choosing buildings intended to be converted to makeshift hospitals. The paper points out that the guidelines of Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine recommend ICUs serving critically ill patients have a filtering efficiency of 99% for particles above 5 microns. Negative air pressure is suggested as a necessity in units dealing with infectious disease spread through airborne droplets with microbes of size less than 5 microns. “Even with these guidelines, the filter efficiency dealing with the smaller size of SARS CoV-2 is questionable. WHO guidelines now say air travel has high risk mainly because of this recirculation of same air, with no filtering possible for any virus in the air within the plane. However, an aircraft will never have a high number of Covid-19 patients. An ICU meant for these patients has a high number of patients, leading to a high viral load in the air,” it reads. Ramakrishnan said no hospital in India has AC filters that can filter out this virus, whose size is less than a micron.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/modify-icu-acs-to-save-medics-from-virus-study/articleshow/78740198.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Manish Shetty was killed in Udupi district to avenge rowdy’s murder: Cops||BENGALURU: Bar owner Manish Shetty was shot and hacked to death in retaliation to the killing of rowdy Kishan Hegde in Udupi district recently, police said. Hegde was hacked to death in broad daylight in Hiriyadka on September 24. Udupi police had arrested five persons in connection with Hegde’s death. Hegde was an associate of fugitive gangster Vicky Shetty. “The accused have confessed that they eliminated Shetty to avenge Hegde’s murder. They said Shetty had financially helped Hegde’s killers,” a police officer said. Shetty was attacked by four bikeborne men in front of his Duet Bar, off Brigade Road, on Thursday night. MN Anucheth, deputy commissioner of police (central), said it was a revenge murder and probe is under way. “Vicky Shetty had directed his associates to kill Shetty,” an officer said. Hours after Shetty’s murder, a man, ‘Vicky’ called a TV channel and that he had killed him. Shetty’s suspected killers — Shashikiran alias Munna, Nitya, Ganesha and Akshay — were arrested on Saturday. Probe revealed all four are Vicky’s associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/manish-shetty-was-killed-in-udupi-district-to-avenge-rowdys-murder-cops/articleshow/78740214.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Two zones buck the trend of falling cases in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Bengaluru has reported relatively fewer Covid-19 cases over the past 10 days compared to the previous 10 days. However, during the same period, the number of tests conducted in the city has also significantly increased. Data culled from BBMP’s Covid-19 War Room daily bulletins shows a total 23,81,342 tests have been conducted in the city as on October 16, while the positivity rate dropped to 12.8% from the September 16 figure of 13.9%. In the past 10 days alone, a commendable 4,62,527 tests have been conducted in Bengaluru city. While cases have fallen in six of the BBMP’s eight zones over the same 10-day period, Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli in the IT corridor have registered an increase. Between October 7 and 16, Mahadevapura reported 5,273 cases, up from the 4,151 cases it recorded in the preceding 10-day period from September 27 to October 6. Testing has increased from about 4,000 per day to 5,500 per day (on an average) over past four weeks. As on Sunday (October 18), Bengaluru Urban reported a total 3,07,540 cases and while 2,39,579 people have recovered, 3,526 (including one due to non-Covid reasons) have died. However, the fatality rate in Bengaluru still hovers around 1.2% mark and BBMP officials suggest ramping up tests is the only way to reduce the rate. Officials say areas controlled by huge panchayats on the outskirts of Bengaluru are where Covid-19 safety norms are being ignored, resulting in a spike in infections. They say that while the inflow of people into Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli has increased, panchayats have not responded by ramping up their surveillance systems leading to the virus spreading. Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, attributed the drop in positivity rates to tests being ramped up. “If you analyse the number of tests conducted over the past 30 days, you will find that it has increased by more than 100%,” Prasad said. “We are on an average conducting 50,000 tests every day. Identifying primary and secondary contacts, tracking people with influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and testing them all remains the prime focus.” Prasad revealed that the target is to bring positivity rate down below 5% and the fatality rate below 1% and insisted comprehensive efforts are on in this direction. “The average number of cases reported daily in Bengaluru now stands at about 3,500 while the tests are more than 10-fold higher,” he said. Asked about the trend of rising cases in Mahadevapura he said, “Initially more cases were reported in East, West and South zones but now it is increasing on the outskirts of the city. It can only be contained if people behave responsibly by ensuring social distancing, wearing masks properly, ensuring hand hygiene and ramping up tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-zones-buck-the-trend-of-falling-cases-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78740237.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Isolate self immediately if exposed to Covid infected, advise doctors||PANAJI: Contacts of a Covid-19 person must immediately self-isolate themselves prior to testing and even before they get their test results to break the chain of transmission, doctors say. A person is infective even during this incubation period when one may not experience any symptoms, head of department of pulmonary medicine at GMC, Dr Durga Lawande says. The incubation period is the time between catching the virus and beginning to experience symptoms of the disease. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, the incubation period for Covid-19 ranges from 1-14 days but is most commonly around five days. “If you have come into close contact with a person who has tested positive, you must immediately self-isolate. Tests on contacts are done only after four to five days or as soon as one turns symptomatic because the virus may have entered the body but not yet manifested itself during this incubation period,” Dr Lawande says. “This is the reason that all the other family members are also asked to quarantine when one member in the family tests positive for Covid,” she adds. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar says contacts are advised to immediately stay in isolation as they are infectious during this incubation period and although asymptomatic may unknowingly be carriers of Covid-19. Tests done between the fifth to the tenth day after exposure are more likely to turn positive, Dr Lawande says. “One needn’t get alarmed if a close contact has tested positive. It’s better to wait for five days or as soon as one develops symptoms to get tested. Testing on the first day is not recommended,” she said. In the initial days of the pandemic, the directorate of health services were back tracing all the contacts of a positive person. After community transmission set in, this has been reduced to family and work contacts only. The government is now testing those with influenza like illnesses (ILI) or those with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), acute breathlessness, cough, high fever etc, contacts of positive person and health workers who have been exposed to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-isolate-self-immediately-if-exposed-to-covid-infected-advise-doctors/articleshow/78740290.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Protest held during BJP leaders’ programme in Rajpura||PATIALA: Slogans were raised during a conversation of state and national BJP leaders with farmers through vide-conference in Rajpura. BJP leaders in Patiala said they wanted to disseminate authentic information on farm laws, which, according to them, are not against farmers. BJP held a conference in Patiala under its urban president, after which ‘Samvad’ programme was scheduled in Rajpura under the party’s rural president. However, farmer unions staged a protest outside the venue in Rajpura. Dr Darshan Pal, convener, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, said, “Farmers had protested and gheraoed the venue of the conference being held by BJP leaders. Farmers are protesting against the agricultural laws enacted by the Union government but BJP leaders are adamant about turning them in favour of agricultural laws.” Vikas, BJP rural president said, “Our conference was scheduled for one hour and we completed it despite some farmers staging a protest outside the venue. State and national-level leaders, including Tarun Chugh held a conversation with the farmers we brought from different villages to discuss the farm bills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protest-held-during-bjp-leaders-programme-in-rajpura/articleshow/78739241.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Lucknow||Not much fun on campus as schools in Lucknow reopen today||LUCKNOW: Morning assembly, lunch breaks, chatting with friends during library hours, sports activities. All this and much more fun will be missing as some schools eventually reopen for classes X and XII from Monday. Students will no longer have the privilege of loitering on the campus while going out for water or using the washroom as passes will be issued. Due to the implementation of safety norms, it would be a challenge for students to fall in line with the post-Covid school life. As per the guidelines issued by the Unaided Private School Association to parents on Sunday, children will be not allowed to bring any eatables as there will be no lunch break. Sharing of stationeries, water bottles will not be allowed and parents have been requested to pick and drop their kids in their own vehicle. School will be run in two shifts and only 50% of students will be called on alternate days. “I am okay with the no lunch break and other rules as it is for the safety of our kids. My son was least interested to attend school as no group activities or playing basketball with friends will be allowed but since it’s his board he doesn’t have any choice,” said Shipra Bajpai, whose son Achintya is a class X student of City Montessori School. She said the worst part is his best friend Saad is in the other group since the class has been split into two groups. Another parent Ravi Dixit said, “I am sending my son just for practical classes and once it will be over he will join back online classes. There is no point in taking a risk when theory classes will be livestreamed. For practicals, board students have no choice but to learn in school labs.” President of UPSA Anil Agarwal said, “These guidelines will ensure on-campus safety for students but the new normal will surely turn around the school life for students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/not-much-fun-on-campus-as-schools-in-lucknow-reopen-today/articleshow/78740299.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Amritsar||Protests against farm laws put families in a bind in Punjab||BATHINDA: Besides roads, train tracks and toll plazas, tension over the three agricultural laws is being felt within family circles too. A case in point is a family based in Barnala. Part of the family is associated with the BJP and favours the farm laws while a daughter of the house, who is married in the nearby Aklia village, is opposing the farm laws with her relatives. The matriarch of the farming family in Aklia, Paramjit Kaur, is a staunch opponent of the farm laws. With the flag of a farm organisation draped around her shoulders, she has been participating in protests. Paramjit’s Canada-based son Gurdeep Singh is married to Sharry, daughter of teacher Rajmohinder, whose younger brother Yadwinder Shunty is Barnala district president of BJP. Rajmohinder and Shunty’s family is facing the wrath of farmers at the doorstep. Apart from that, the family faces the awkwardness of their daughter’s in-laws feeling they are against farmers’ interests. In response to the call of laying siege to houses of BJP leaders, farmers have been protesting outside the residence of Rajmohinder and Yadwinder for the last four days. Paramjit Kaur said, “These laws are anti-farmer and will lead to us losing the right of Minimum Support Price (MSP). Our lands could also be taken over by corporates, so we are opposing these laws and will keep on protesting till they are withdrawn.” Rajmohinder said, “Farmers have the right to raise a voice if they have issues but they must thoroughly read the laws as there is no mention of stopping MSP. These laws will be favourable for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/protests-against-farm-laws-put-families-in-a-bind/articleshow/78739262.cms||Neel Kamal
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers demand check on black marketing of DAP||PATIALA: After having caused coal shortage in private power plants of Punjab, the farmers’ agitation is also leading to shortage of diammonia phosphate (DAP) fertiliser. The resultant black marketing of DAP is a cause of concern for farmers, particularly small ones. Farmers’ unions have urged the state government to check black marketing of DAP manure, which is being sold at higher prices than last year, they said. According to Union members, small farmers are also being asked to purchase extra articles from the shop while buying DAP, which is required during wheat sowing. In some places, farmers said, people have started stocking up on DAP after the rise in price fearing that it would not be available later if the agitation continued. BKU (Ekta Dakanuda) president Boota Singh Burjgill said, “A number of farmers had complained to us about black marketing of DAP, mostly in Malwa region of Punjab. Shopkeepers compel farmers to purchase one or more items along with the DAP bag. Neither is the state government facing shortage of coal nor of DAP. Urea is not in demand as it is required at a later stage. We proposed to the state government earlier that farmers can allow train bogies to reach the rail track at Shambu border of Punjab and Haryana and at Rajpura track from where the coal and DAP can be transported in trucks.” Farmers in Punjab need over 5 lakh MT of DAP during wheat sowing and around 2.8 lakh MT is available. “As of now, there is no shortage of DAP as the stock available in the market is enough to cater to the demand for a few days. However, if the rail-roko agitation continues then the demand would not be met,” said chief inspector, fertiliser G S Brar. He also said no complaint of black marketing of DAP has reached the department but assured that he would look into the allegations. Brar said DAP for October could not be supplied in Punjab because of the farmers’ agitation. He said shopkeepers were earlier giving a discount of up to Rs 100 on MRP of the DAP bag but this time, they have either reduced the discount or have discontinued it, because of which farmers might have thought price has risen. However, he said, no complaint of the DAP bags being sold above the MRP of Rs 1,250 has reached them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-demand-check-on-black-marketing-of-dap/articleshow/78739295.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Vigil enhanced at inter-state borders to check illegal paddy inflow into Punjab||PATIALA: In a bid to check illegal flow of paddy from various states into Punjab, the state government has instructed the district authorities to increase vigil at the inter-state borders, so that illegally arriving food grain does not cause any direct or indirect loss to the farmers or the government. The move came following the busting of a racket involved in such trade by the police, mandi board and revenue officials in Patiala. A total of 20 persons have been arrested and over 32 vehicles carrying about 822.5 tonnes of paddy seized over the last two days. In all, 13 FIRs have been registered against the accused. Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said credible inputs suggest that numerous heavy vehicles carrying loads of paddy from other states like UP and Bihar are headed for Punjab. Taking a serious view of the matter, vigil has been increased at various inbound routes at Punjab-Haryana borders falling in Patiala district, such as Shambu, Pehowa, Balbera, Cheeka, Dhabbi Gujjran, Patran. “Several police check-posts have been set up and flying squads consisting of police personnel, revenue and mandi board officials deployed to monitor the illegal movement of trucks,” the SSP said. Duggal said preliminary investigations reveal that such inbound paddy is first purchased at lower rates in other states and then transported to Punjab for sale at much higher prices, thereby giving a huge margin to the sellers. “This practice causes enormous and undue burden on the state exchequer and indirect loss to the farmers of Punjab.” Over the past few days, the farmers have themselves been confiscating the paddy-loaded trucks entering through the state borders and informing the police. In one such incident in Samana on Friday night, the farmers had a clash with the rice miller. BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said, “There is no law that allows the traders in Punjab to purchase paddy from outside the state. The recovery of illegal paddy arriving in Punjab from other states shows that farmers in these states are being exploited by private buyers as their crop is not being purchased at MSP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vigil-enhanced-at-inter-state-borders-to-check-illegal-paddy-inflow/articleshow/78739270.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD moves resolution calling for Dharasmot’s dismissal||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), on Sunday, moved a resolution calling for the dismissal of scheduled caste welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and his ‘henchmen’ besides registration of a criminal case against them in the alleged Rs 64 crore postmatric scholarship scam. The SAD said chief secretary Vinni Mahajan should be censured for allegedly giving a clean chit to Dharamsot despite incriminating evidence. SAD legislature party leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon told Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana K P Singh that he was constrained to move the resolution because the government had not done its job and the House should step in immediately to recommend Dharamsot’s dismissal. He said that besides embezzling Rs 64 crore, the minister had also adversely affected the career of thousands of students by not releasing Rs 309 crore due to the students since the past one year. Dhillon said the assembly should recommend registration of a criminal case against former scheduled caste welfare department director Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, who was now an MLA and other officers responsible. The SAD also demanded constitution of a Vidhan Sabha committee to look into the criminal offences committed by Dharamsot and others in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-moves-resolution-calling-for-dharasmots-dismissal/articleshow/78739317.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Stubble set on fire, official’s pay held||GHAZIABAD: The district administration has lodged an FIR against a farmer for allegedly burning stubble in Jalalabad area of Sadar and has put a stay on the salary of the local lekhpal till further order. The district magistrate has ordered a departmental probe against the official for dereliction of duty.  Track the pollution level in your cityPolice have been asked to ensure a close watch in their respective areas. The agriculture department has been asked to depute teams in villages round the clock. Taking a serious note of burning of straw, DM Ajay Shankar Pandey instructed the sub-divisional magistrate of Sadar to conduct a spot inspection. The SDM in his inquiry report stated that sugarcane plants residue were burnt in a 0.45-hectare farm owned by one Sunny Chaudhary. An FIR has been lodged against Chaudhary under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 290 (public nuisance) and 291 (repeated public nuisance) at Muradnagar police station. The DM said, “The air quality of Ghaziabad district is in the poor category. To control air pollution, all the sub-divisional magistrates have been asked to coordinate with the UP pollution control department to keep a watchful eye against the polluters in their respective areas, and issue penalties to those who violate the rules.” Moreover, lekhpals have been strictly instructed to be present at the time of wheat harvesting in their areas and ensure that no repetition of garbage or leaf burning takes place. The chief development officer and senior officials of the agriculture department have been directed to monitor the crop harvesting and take action against violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/stubble-set-on-fire-officials-pay-held/articleshow/78738390.cms||Aditya Dev
October 19, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP wants special House session extended to 7 days||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday demanded that the two-day special session of the Punjab legislative assembly, convened to discuss and legislate a state law to counter the Centre’s ‘anti-farmer’ laws, be extended to seven days. The party said the special session should be of at least seven days to discuss and debate at length the disastrous implications of the deadly laws and how to render those infructuous. A delegation of the party led by leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on Sunday met Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana K P Singh and submitted a memorandum flagging certain issues of concern. Cheema alleged that barely a few hours are left for the special session to commence, but neither the Punjab government nor the Vidhan Sabha secretariat has yet informed the principal opposition party (AAP) about the detailed agenda of the Vidhan Sabha session. He said this exposes the double standards of the government and demanded that the details of the proposed agenda to nullify the draconian laws be made known to the opposition. The delegation brought to the notice of the speaker the undeclared censorship imposed on the electronic and print media covering the special session. It said citing Covid-19, the media has been kept virtually out of bounds from the assembly’s press gallery, which is an assault on the freedom of the press. The memorandum demanded live coverage of the proceedings of the session in an impartial and transparent manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-wants-special-house-session-extended-to-7-days/articleshow/78739320.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Amritsar||Government calls farmers for talks, protest outside assembly cancelled||BATHINDA: After the Punjab government called farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders for talks on Monday morning, the farm body cancelled the planned protest outside the state assembly at Chandigarh on Monday. The farmers were to protest before the start of the state assembly session but would be meeting government functionaries instead at that time. “As the government has called us for talks, the protest on Monday has been cancelled for the time being. If the talks remain inconclusive, next course of action will be decided after the talks,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) organisation secretary Shingara Singh Mann. The organisation had urged the Captain Amarinder Singh government to pass resolution against the 2017 decision of making amendment in the APMC Act, allowing private mandis in the state; and assure to fulfil the various promises made by the Congress before the 2017 assembly elections in the session, apart from passing resolutions against three agri laws. The farm organisation had also announced to intensify the protests against the Congress government of Punjab along with protests against the Union government if resolution against the 2017 amendment in APMC Act is not passed. The 30 farm organisations too will decide further course of action about the ongoing protests in the state at railway track smd, toll plazas after a meeting on October 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/govt-calls-farmers-for-talks-protest-outside-assembly-cancelled/articleshow/78739352.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Doctor kills patient after affair, held in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: A 33-year-old doctor was arrested from his clinic in Dasna on Saturday, more than a month after he allegedly smothered to death a woman patient with whom he had developed a relationship. Police said the woman, a mother of four, was pestering the doctor to live with her. The doctor, however, was unwilling as he, too, is married. Ismail, the accused, is believed to have told the police that the patient’s repeated pleas to stay with the doctor in a different house drove him to commit the murder. Ismail has been running the clinic in Dasna for the past five years and had first met the woman there several months ago. The case came under the police’s scanner after the patient went missing from her house on September 7. The woman’s husband lodged a complaint with Ghaziabad police and the cops shared her photos with their counterparts in neighbouring districts and states. Over a month of search by the cops failed to elicit any result. On October 15, the police in Ghaziabad got a call from the Haryana cops that a body had been found near Kurukshetra and it matched the photos shared by them. After the body was identified as that of the woman, the police examined her call records and zeroed down on Ismail. After sustained interrogation, the doctor admitted to have killed the patient. SP (rural) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said Ismail had initially denied any role in the murder. “He later confessed to the crime. He told us the woman would come to his clinic for treatment and they had developed a liking for each other. The woman was pestering the doctor to stay together, but he kept refusing as he was married,” the officer added. Fed up with her repeated prods, the doctor plotted her murder. He told her they would stay together in a house in Chandigarh. “On September 7, the doctor took her to a hotel in Paharganj on a bike and stayed in a room there. He then left after the patient went off to sleep,” Jadaun said. The next day, Ismail hired a car and drove it himself to Paharganj. He picked her up there and told her they were going to Chandigarh. On the way, the two had a fight and the woman, who had asthma, started having breathing problems. “Ismail then bought a combination of three drugs (calcium, KCL and efcorlin) and injected them into her. When the woman became unconscious, the accused used a towel to smother her to death,” the SP (rural) said. Doctors said the three drugs that were injected into the woman affected her heart beat all the more because she was asthmatic. Ismail, the police said, dumped the body at a secluded spot in Kurukshetra and returned home. “Since then, he had been running his clinic as usual,” Jadaun said. Ismail has been booked under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/doctor-kills-patient-after-affair-held/articleshow/78738411.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
October 19, 2020||Gurgaon||No cars in no parking zone: Traffic cops send message loud and clear||GURUGRAM: The traffic police, along with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), is tightening measures to check illegal parking in the city. “Our teams are monitoring all the stretches in the city and wherever a vehicle is found in the no-parking zone, we tow it and issue a challan,” said Bhardwaj. On Saturday, a man, identified as Mukesh Kumar, was booked for parking his car in the middle of the road and obstructing vehicle movement near Vatika Chowk. A complaint against him was registered by a police officer stationed to monitor traffic at the Vatika Chowk junction. On the basis of the complaint, an FIR was registered under Section 283 (accounting to danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the IPC. Similarly, a man was booked last week for illegally parking his car and obstructing the way. DCP traffic D K Bhardwaj said, “Legal action can be taken in cases where an illegally parked vehicle is causing obstruction.” GMDA and traffic police are also planning to install no-parking signboards on key roads, commercial areas and markets in the city. The move comes after authorities received several complaints from vehicle owners alleging their cars were towed away from spots that did not have ‘no parking’ signs. Since the authorities are now carrying out a drive against illegal parking and towing vehicles, it is imperative that they clearly mention parking and no-parking zones. The drive to check illegal parking across the city had earlier been put on hold during the lockdown. Illegal parking is a major issue for the authorities as it causes congestion during peak hours. To tackle the problem, GMDA’s GIS wing had launched a web application, OneMap Gurugram, to help owners locate their cars if they had been towed. The details available on the app include vehicle registration number, from where it has been towed and where it has been taken to, violation and fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-cars-in-no-parking-zone-traffic-cops-send-message-loud-and-clear/articleshow/78739435.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 20+ days hospitalization in Gujarat cut to half in 3 months||AHMEDABAD: The share of Covid-19 patients spending more than 20 days in hospitals has got reduced to 2% out of active patients – which accounts for 289 cases as on October 17 in Gujarat. The share was more than 4% at 461 three months ago on July 17. The data by the state health & family welfare department revealed that out of 14,587 active cases on October 17, 80% or 11,670 were in the hospital for less than 10 days, whereas additional 2,042 were for 10 to 14 days – in all, 94% of the patients spent less than a fortnight. “The share (of patients spending a fortnight) was more than double three months ago,” said Dr Kartikeya Parmar, coordinator for Covid-19 hospital at Civil Hospital. Days of hospitalization reducedDr Kartikeya Parmar, coordinator for Covid-19 hospital at Civil Hospital, said, “Days of hospitalization have surely got cut. Primary factors responsible could be less severity of cases and better treatment protocol.” Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that an earlier study carried out by them had shown average hospital stay of eight days in city-based private hospitals in August. “The figure has come down as we see patients even getting discharged in five days. Better understanding of treating Covid-19 and availability of repurposed drugs has helped cope better,” he said, adding initially 14 days of hospitalization was common for majority patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-20-days-hospitalization-in-gujarat-cut-to-half-in-3-months/articleshow/78740357.cms||Parth Shastri
October 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Physically distanced but joined by faith, city Pujas opt for well-being over fervour||GURUGRAM: Autumn in much of the land is a time of happy anticipation, when fragrant dusks make way for festive nights. But this year the alfresco rapture of Durga Puja will be missing, even if our faith remains strong. In Gurugram, as elsewhere in India, members of the Bengali community are caught between sentiment and reality. For the sake of societal wellbeing, they understand they must forgo the ambitious pandals and eye-catching idols, the food stalls and the music, dance and drama. Grandness must give way to intimacy, if only for a year. Thus, many are opting for the simple and unadorned Ghot puja, in which an earthenware vessel takes the place of the Pratima, without diluting any of the symbolism of the occasion. Every Puja collective in Gurugram’s 25-strong Joint Puja Committee is in touch with the district administration (and their local police station), for all the necessary permissions and the official standard operating procedure. Each safety guideline will be strictly adhered to, but, at the same time, all rituals will be observed in line with sacred convention. “To maintain the tradition, we will be having a very small Puja,” reveals Kaushik Bandopadhyay of Maruti Vihar Sarbojonin Durgotsav, in Sector 28. Here, rituals will be performed on all days, sticking to the spirit of Durga Puja while heeding contactless protocols. “To make sure that every member gets to pray, we will allot time slots over the five days so that they can visit the community centre. But we are advising them not to linger too long, so that others get the chance,” he adds. On Gurugram-Faridabad Road, Jugantor Valley View Puja Samity will be live-streaming the ceremonies on each of Panchami, Shashti, Saptami, Ashtami and Navami. The cultural programs, coordinated and rehearsed in-house, have also transitioned online. “It is a digital Pujo in compliance with social distancing, but it will still be according to the almanac, right from Pushpanjali, etc.,” informs member Debashish Das. Out in South City 2, Pujo is going to be a one-day affair. The Pratima will be brought on the evening of Ashtami and set up the next morning. “We will have a Ghot puja on Navami but with a small idol, of around 3ft-4ft, for the sake of sentiment, and so that there is continuity in the rituals,” told Sudip Mondal, executive committee member and treasurer, Dakshin Gurugram Puja Committee. “Because, a painting or a photograph of Maa Durga can’t convey the same feeling,” he adds. With its sprawling outdoors location, this Pujo always wins marks for atmosphere; this time, the snug confines of the Nirvana Club will play host. The folks in Sector 10 are hoping to pay obeisance to the goddess on the most auspicious of days, Ashtami. “We would like to continue our traditions but with respect to the rules and norms,” insists Tanmay Guha, a founder member of Sharadiya Durgotsav Samiti. “Hopefully, Maa Durga allows us to pray for a day at least.” Guha’s son is a year younger than the Sharadiya Durgotsav Samiti, so the Pujo is close to his heart. Like most Probashi Bengalis, he is eager to embrace as much of the emotion of the season as is possible in these trying times. Keeping the faithOn Sohna Road, Vatika City Durga Pujo is making up for the absence of food stalls –a redolent part of the autumnal festival – by organising Anondomela, in which home chefs will be preparing authentic Bangla dishes to share with fellow Vatika residents. Meanwhile, the young and the old are reciting, through video, the greats of Bengali poetry, bringing the bards’ words (and worlds) alive, and providing a literary flourish to proceedings. The biggest of the three Sector-56 Pujas, and arguably the most popular in the Millennium City, is heading indoors, to the HUDA community centre. “While it will be a small affair, all rituals will be followed, and Anjali will be streamed live on Facebook and YouTube,” mentions Partha Dey, general secretary of Bangiya Parishad Gurugram (BPG). Dey adds, “To visit the mandap and offer prayers, people will have to pre-book a slot through the BPG app.” Bhog will be for members only, the organisers ensuring it is packed and delivered to their homes. And there will be exclusive member access to cultural events, beamed live from studios in Kolkata (featuring, among others, Durnibar, the Nandy sisters, and Jagannath Basu). The new sectors too are keeping things cosy and low-key. The Pujo on the amphitheatre lawns of Tulip Violet, which attracts residents from the dozen or so societies in and around sectors 69 and 70, is scheduled for Navami, with a small-scale and idol-less pandal. “Obviously, this time around, we can’t have a grand celebration; puja will be restricted only to members, and no visitors will be allowed,” shares Tuhin Bhowmik, a member of the core committee, Tulip Bangiya Parishad, adding, “Pandals will be open and social-distancing rules will be in place for those who wish to offer in person.” It’s no different in Garden City in Sector 90 – minus the Pratima but inclusive of all observances. “Members will obviously get preference but we can’t stop devotees from taking part. So, we will ensure that only a few people can offer prayers at one time,” says Sraboni Chakrabarty of the Garden City Bengali Cultural Association. On the other side of the highway, in Sector 9 in the Old City, is a Pujo that has remained loyal to tradition. And despite concerns over public health, members here were loath to break with custom. So, the Gurugram Durga Puja Committee, under the aegis of the Gurugram Bengalee Association, has chosen Ashtami and Navami as the days to be given over to rituals. The ceremonies are moving from the community centre to Gauri Shankar Mandir in Sector 9A, just a stone throw’s away. A roster will allow long-time participants to offer prayers, and Pushpanjali will be shown live, so that everyone else can join in. This is, incidentally, the oldest continuous Puja in Gurugram, having been held since 1982. That it returns in this year, of all years, is of great comfort, like a familiar face from better days come to assure us. Because, Durga Puja is about renewal. And in Sector 56, it will be about remembering Sanjay Banerjee, the life force and guiding light of Bangiya Parishad Gurugram who passed away in September. His colleagues will endeavour to honour him as best, and as fondly, as they can.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/physically-distanced-but-joined-by-faith-city-pujas-opt-for-well-being-over-fervour/articleshow/78739595.cms||Sharad Kohli
October 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: After amended rules, 1,000 guesthouses on colony roads face sealing in two weeks||GURUGRAM: Around 1,000 guesthouses in the city that are either built on internal roads or on plots measuring less than 500 square yards are likely to be sealed this month. These facilities do not comply with the recently amended guesthouse policy. The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has started preparing a list of guesthouses that are built on internal roads within licenced colonies. Over the next two weeks, these guesthouses would either be sealed or their certificates cancelled. According to a recent amendment to the policy, guesthouses can only be allowed on plots that measure between 500 and 1,500 square yards. They must be on sector or main roads and not along internal pathways. District town planner RS Batth said the department was preparing for the drive against guesthouses along internal roads of colonies. “Most of these facilities are situated in areas like DLF, Sushant Lok 1 and South City 1 and 2. We already had details of most of them. But the department is updating on the list after the recent amendment to the policy,” he added. Sources in DTCP said at least 50 guesthouses could be sealed every day over the next two weeks. These facilities have been served several notices in the past, they added. Meanwhile, owners of guesthouses developed on smaller plots demanded that the policy be amended again so that they, too, can be included. “Small plot owners like us are being deprived of business opportunities like this. We have requested the DTCP to look into our demands,” said the owner of a guesthouse. Sheetal Agarwal, another guesthouse owner, said the policy had helped only a few facilities in the city. “If our demand of including smaller plots in the policy is factored in by the state government, around 25% guesthouse owners will benefit from it,” Agarwal said. According to him, a majority of the 2,00-odd guesthouses in the city stand to lose according to the current policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-amended-rules-1000-guesthouses-on-colony-roads-face-sealing-in-two-weeks/articleshow/78738648.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
October 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Two years on, GMDA yet to take a call on liveability index as Covid puts off meet||GURUGRAM: Almost two years after the ‘final’ round of public consultations on the liveability index, GMDA has not yet been able to finalise the index which was supposed to be one of the guiding documents for the city’s long-term development plans. The final set of suggestions on the key parameters under the index were to be submitted by January 20, 2018. But there is yet to be any significant development on this front. GMDA chief VS Kundu said there were some changes to be made in the liveability index and it will now undergo another round of public consultations. “We were supposed to carry out the consultations earlier this year which could not happen due the pandemic. We are now planning for virtual consultations in the coming weeks,” said Kundu. He added that the Bengaluru-based agency which has been working on the project has been asked to arrange for the public consultations at the earliest. Once the consultations have been completed, the index will be tabled to the resident advisory council and finally in the authority meeting for the chief minister’s approval. The GMDA act talks about multiple plans such as infrastructure development plan, mobility management plan and urban environment plan and all these will all be developed keeping in mind the liveability standards defined by the authority. The idea was to compare these metrics with the Centre’s liveability standards and see where Gurugram stands on a national level. The draft defined liveability as a combination of ten themes or indicators — mobility, safety and emergency services, water supply and sewerage, waste management, environment, affordable health, education and skill development, affordable housing, power, clean energy and piped gas and government responsiveness. Each of these indicators will further be subdivided into detailed metrics to gauge how the city performs. For instance, waste management will include factors like the percentage of household from where waste is collected, share of waste that is segregated; mobility will include the percentage road area in the city, idling time at bottlenecks; under power the index would measure the hours of undisrupted power supply among other things. “Only 60% of Gurugram is covered under the sewage network and water supply almost 30% less than the cities in the developed nations such as Denmark and Germany. In terms of environment, only 119 days in a year see satisfactory air quality and the city is still lagging behind in availability of green spaces,” a copy of the draft index had mentioned. The draft had undergone changes after the initial consultations with the stakeholders. During the consultation, it was found that environment, urban mobility and waste management were the two most important metrics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-years-on-gmda-yet-to-take-a-call-on-liveability-index-as-covid-puts-off-meet/articleshow/78738673.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Woman on way home harassed, man booked||GURUGRAM: A woman was allegedly harassed and threatened while on her way back home from office on Friday evening near New Colony. According to police, the miscreant was identified as Shahrukh Khan. “The accused man is an acquaintance of the woman,” a police officer said. The complainant, who lives in New Colony, told police that on Friday she was coming back from work around 6.30pm when a bike-borne man from the opposite street held her hand. “When I tried to free my hand, he abused me and threatened to kill me and my entire family,” the woman said in her statement to the police. She was with her younger sister when the incident took place. She managed to flee the spot with her sister and narrated the entire incident to her family once she reached home. On Saturday, she submitted a written complaint against the accused at the New Colony police station. A FIR has been registered in the case under sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at New Colony police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/woman-on-way-home-harassed-man-booked/articleshow/78738701.cms||---
October 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Cabbie killed in road rage, man arrested in Haryana||GURUGRAM: A man has been arrested in connection with the murder of a cab driver on October 11, said officials from Manesar crime branch in Gurugram. The accused, Rohit alias Monu, was nabbed from Jhajjar on Saturday. On October 11, Rohit’s scooty brushed past the victim’s — Netrapal — car. Next, a scuffle broke out between the two. “The accused then called a few of his friends to the spot. A group, carrying rods and sticks, beat the victim,” said ACP Prit Pal Singh at a press meet. A passer-by had informed the control room about the incident following which the victim was taken to a nearby private hospital. He was then referred to Fortis hospital in Gurugram where he died during the treatment on October 12. The police received a complaint from Chetan Kumar that his maternal uncle died after he was beaten by a group of men near Kherki Dhaula toll plaza. He was with a woman at the time of the incident. Based on Kumar’s complaint, an FIR was registered in the matter under the relevant IPC sections. The accused is a resident of Kakrola in Gurugram. During the preliminary investigation, he confessed to the crime. He was produced before a local court on Sunday and has been sent to police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cabbie-killed-in-road-rage-man-arrested/articleshow/78738722.cms||---
