October 20, 2020||Goa||Campal to be Khelo India Centre of Excellence||Panaji: The sports ministry has approved SAG sports complex at Campal as one of the eight Khelo India Centre of Excellence after they sanctioned four other projects and a grant of Rs 19.4 crore under the Khelo India Games scheme. The other seven centres will come up in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Puducherry and Tripura. "Government of India has approved setting up of Khelo India Centre of Excellence at SAG Sports Complex at Campal Panaji. I thank Shri @KirenRijiju, Union MoS for Youth Affairs & Sports (I/C) for the decision. This will greatly benefit Goa's pursuit to achieve excellence in sports," chief minister Pramod Sawant tweeted on Monday. Goa had suggested three centres at Panaji, Peddem and Margao to be taken up by Khelo India. However, due to various issues such as availability of space and schedule, Panaji got the nod ahead of the other two. The Campal centre will be open for athletes from other states to come and train, should they be chosen by SAI and Khelo India. "This will definitely enhance the quality of performance of Goan athletes," said deputy chief minister and sports minister Manohar Ajgaonkar. "The far-reaching effects of this Centre of excellence will be felt in the sports sector. In the next five to six years, the standard of Goan players will rise and their participation in the Indian team will increase. The sports department will also set such a target," said Ajgaonkar. Goa already has two centres in collaboration with SAI — the girl’s hostel in Mapusa and the boys hostel in Ponda. "Most of the things will come from SAI. It will be for players who are already participating from Goa and selected for Khelo India and it will serve as a talent identification programme for peak performance. They will also depute sports psychologists, nutritionists, trainers, coaches and other scientific support. Our athletes can win international medals if we get these," said VM Prabhudesai, SAG executive director. Financial support plays an important part in the development of athletes and Goa will not be found wanting. "Money will be an important factor. Lack of resources and support are a few reasons for not achieving what we can. There is so much talent in Goa. This is a right step," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/campal-to-be-khelo-india-centre-of-excellence/articleshow/78757348.cms||Paresh Mokani
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Durga Pujo in Chennai: Artists from Kolkata bring Ma Durga alive in the city||Even as the city is celebrating a scaled-down version of Navratri, the Bengali community in Chennai, too, is getting ready to welcome Ma Durga, keeping in mind the social-distancing and other safety protocols. Several artists from Kolkata have made Chennai their home for the last few months and have been working at a furious pace to make beautiful idols of Ma Durga. Kishori Mohan Pal is one among them. The artist is in Chennai for the last three months, and has been busy making several life-size figurines of the Goddess with his team. He says, “I came to Chennai three months ago. I got the clay required to make the idols from Kolkata. There are seven other artists with me, in T Nagar.” Talking about his routine, Kishori says, “Our day starts at 7am, when we begin working on the idols. We break for lunch at 2pm and restart work at 5pm. It’s usually midnight when we go to sleep. We have to deliver all the idols by October 22, in time for the pujo celebrations.” Kishori says he and his men will be in Chennai till Deepavali. “We will work on idols of Ma Kali for the Kali Pujo and then go back to our homes,” he signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/durga-pujo-in-chennai-artists-from-kolkata-bring-ma-durga-alive-in-the-city/articleshow/78757301.cms||V Lakshmi
October 20, 2020||Goa||Asian Chess: India women finish on top, face Kyrgyzstan in quarters||Panaji: Top seed India women's team finished first after nine rounds in the Asian Nations' Women Online Cup on Monday. India had eight wins and a loss. Led by WGM Mary Ann Gomes, India got the better of Syria (4-0), Mongolia (2.5-1.5), Myanmar (3.5-0.5), Singapore (4-0), Indonesia (3-1), Philippines (3-1), Vietnam (2.5-1.5), Kazakhstan (2.5-1.5) while their only loss came against sixth seed Iran (1.5-2.5). In the last-eight stage, India will face Kyrgyzstan, who finished eighth after winning five, drawing one and losing three. The quarterfinals will be played on Friday. Captain Gomes has been in a terrific form and won all her five matches with five points to her credit. WGM R Vaishali (6.5) claimed six victories, drew one and lost two on the top board, while IM Padmini Rout (7.5) finished on top in six matches and drew three matches on the third board. WGM PV Nandhidhaa won four, drew one and lost one to finish with 4.5 points, while Goa's IM Bhakti Kulkarni has been below par with two victories, draws and defeats. “I agree that I haven't been at my best. I am trying my best and at the same time I ran into some strong opponents who are playing good. I believe I can do better," said Bhakti. Bhakti started well by winning against Roula Mahmoud of Syria. However, in the next match, Bhakti had to settle for a draw against Bayarjargal Bayarmaa of Mongolia. The Margao resident went down against Mobina Alinasab of Iran. The tie also saw Nandhidhaa losing her match against Anahita Zahedifar. Two losses also caused an upset for India. However, Bhakti recovered in the fourth round and coasted to victory against Hsett Lwin May of Myanmar. Against the run of play, Bhakti conceded her match against Indonesia's IM Medina Warda Aulia. Bhakti didn't play against Philippines and was up against one of the favourites Kazakhstan, the third seed team. The Goan held her own against WGM Gulmira Dauletova to finish with three points. "I hope to come back to form. In a team game, it is a good sign that many of our players are in great form. Vaishali is playing well on board 1, Padmini is very solid on the three and captain Mary is five out of five," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/asian-chess-india-women-finish-on-top-face-kyrgyzstan-in-quarters/articleshow/78757536.cms||Paresh Mokani
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Upgrade health infra before hosting tourists, demand Havelock Island residents in petition||KOLKATA: The festive season is when several travel enthusiasts from Kolkata set out on vacations and with the easing of travel restrictions, many are eager to cure their lockdown fatigue. Another major reason for leaving the city is the fear of a surge in COVID-19 cases post the upcoming festivities. While the majority of travellers are choosing destinations within Bengal, many are yearning to head to the warm beaches of Goa and Andaman and Nicobar islands. However, the local community of Havelock Island in South Andaman is not happy with this development. Owing to the poor health infrastructure on the island, they are urging authorities to not allow tourists for now. Two of the island’s gram panchayat pradhans have even filed a petition to the deputy commissioner of South Andaman, in which the residents have demanded that the health facilities be improved before letting the tourists in. Beaches over hills According to tour planners, most travellers are opting for beach holidays vis-à-vis hill stations because they believe the likelihood of contracting the virus is higher in places with low temperatures. “And when it comes to beaches, Goa, Puducherry and Andamans are among the most popular options,” said Vickey Shaw, a travel agent. According to Anil Punjabi, chairman of Travel Agents’ Federation of India (east), at least 2,000 enquiries for Andamans have poured in from Bengal alone. “And about 600 of them have confirmed their travel plans between October and December. The numbers may be higher from January to March,” he said, adding the demand for Goa and Puducherry is equally high. As for those who have their hearts in the hills, destinations in north Bengal are sought after, but those in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand don’t have many takers from Bengal. islanders’ health woes. Anticipating a surge in tourists in the festive season, the local community of Havelock Island, aka Swaraj Dweep, is caught in a dilemma. On the one hand they realise how tourism is a key source of their livelihood, but on the other hand, they are apprehensive about the safety of the archipelago when a huge number of tourists flock to the island. “Tourism is necessary to kick-start the islands’ economy, but it is important to plan better. For the 9,000-odd residents of Havelock, there is only one healthcare facility with just one doctor, five nurses and less than 15 beds. There are just two more beds at two sub-health centres and there are no facilities for intensive care or critical care COVID isolation centre, separate COVID wards, ventilator support for emergencies and specialised medical care. On an average, 500-1,000 tourists visit Havelock every day during the peak tourism season. The medical facilities here are not adequate for the residents, let alone the tourists,” said Ajit Kumar Roy, the gram panchayat pradhan of Govind Nagar. Even in remotely complicated cases, the residents have to travel to Port Blair to seek medical care. “In such a scenario, allowing tourists here can be suicidal for the locals as well as the guests,” he added. Setback for tourism biz As the tourism industry continues to bear the brunt of the pandemic, these hiccups have made their journey towards recovery even more difficult. “We have seen similar instances in north Bengal, where locals were not in favour of having tourists amid the pandemic. After almost seven months, when the industry has finally started seeing some activity, such incidents put us back to square one. The authorities should take appropriate steps to resolve these issues,” said Anil. Demands by Havelock’s local community is to separate COVID units with oxygen supply, ventilator and medical staff, separate COVID isolation centres, more COVID-19 testing kits, tourists must have a COVID-19 negative certificate before being allowed to enter the union territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/upgrade-health-infra-before-hosting-tourists-demand-havelock-island-residents-in-petition/articleshow/78753946.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
October 20, 2020||Business||Govt deals: China, Pakistan companies must show ownership plan||NEW DELHI: From names of directors and their nationalities to a graph depicting the ownership structure, the Centre wants Chinese and Pakistan-based companies to bare it all to be eligible to bid for government and PSU contracts. Besides, details of all entities with over 10% shareholding has to be disclosed. The move comes almost three months after the government decided to impose security checks on companies from countries sharing a land border with India — meant to do a security check on vendors from China and Pakistan. The guidelines, released last week, will result in security clearance for contracts, which could range from supplying mobile phones and laptops to more sophisticated equipment and for building roads and tunnels across the country. The move will impact not just the likes of China Light and Power, which built power projects in the country, and road construction firms, but also Xiaomi and Oppo that bid for contracts to supply phones. Besides, the entry of companies such as Huawei and ZTE in the telecom infrastructure and 5G business will also depend on security clearance. The 14-page office memorandum issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) follows the government’s decision to check the presence of Chinese companies in India after border tension escalated in Ladakh. Read AlsoFDI with even the smallest Chinese holding will need government nodFDI proposals with even minuscule Chinese holding will need govt approval, with the Centre abandoning its earlier plan to set a floor for “significant beneficial ownership”. A threshold for “significant beneficial ownership” was meant to ensure that Chinese companies did not enter India via thirdBased on the data submitted by the companies, a panel comprising key security and DPIIT officials will clear the entry of these entities into the country’s lucrative public contracts business. Unlike FDI, where the rules are still being debated, in case of government contracts, the Centre has decided to fix 10% threshold to decide if a Chinese company has a “controlling stake” or not. In case of any change in the holding pattern, the foreign company has to inform the government. In fact, details of beneficial ownership have to be shared in case it is above the 10% threshold. Watch Chinese, Pakistan companies must show ownership plan to be eligible for govt deals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-deals-china-pakistan-companies-must-show-ownership-plan/articleshow/78758836.cms||Sidhartha
October 20, 2020||India||India, US likely to sign pact on geospatial cooperation||NEW DELHI: India is now getting set to ink the fourth and final `foundational military pact’ called the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geo-Spatial Cooperation (BECA) with the US to further tighten the strategic clinch between the two countries. Officials on Monday said BECA, which will enable the US to share advanced satellite and topographical data for long-range navigation and missile-targeting with India, is “very likely” to be inked during the “two-plus-two” dialogue here. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar will hold the dialogue with their US counterparts Mark Esper and Mike Pompeo on October 26-27. India inked the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) with the US in 2002, which was followed by the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016, and then the Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) in 2018. Despite constant prodding from the US, the previous UPA regime had not agreed to ink LEMOA, COMCASA and BECA during its 10-year tenure on the ground that it would compromise India’s “strategic autonomy”. But the NDA government has pushed ahead with them, stressing that there are “enough India-specific safeguards” built into these pacts. LEMOA provides for reciprocal logistics support like refueling and berthing facilities for each other's warships and aircraft, while the COMCASA has paved the way for India to get greater access to advanced military technologies with encrypted and secure communications and data links like armed Predator-B or Sea Guardian drones. Read AlsoIndia, US expected to sign BECA deal during 2+2 dialogue this month-endNEW DELHI: Seeking to build close ties amid an ongoing conflict with China, India and the United States of America are expected to sign the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for geospatial cooperation during the 2+2 dialogue between the defence and foreign ministers of the two“With BECA, the two countries can work towards enhancing their geospatial cooperation,” said an official. The pact will enable India to eventually use its ballistic and cruise missiles, drones and other weapons, with much better accuracy. There are, however, some concerns about Indian inking BECA when it has its own considerable satellite imaging capabilities. The decision to expedite BECA was taken during US President Donald Trump’s visit to India in February. The visit had also seen the inking of two deals worth $3 billion for 24 MH-60 `Romeo’ naval helicopters and six Apache attack choppers, which has taken the total value of lucrative Indian defence deals bagged by the US to over $21 billion just since 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-likely-to-sign-pact-on-geospatial-cooperation/articleshow/78758911.cms||Rajat Pandit
October 20, 2020||India||PLA soldier strays across LAC, to be handed back||NEW DELHI: The Army on Monday apprehended a Chinese soldier after he had inadvertently strayed into Indian territory in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh, where troops from the two countries are ranged against each other in the ongoing military confrontation since early May. The soldier, identified as Corporal Wang Ya Long, an armourer in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), will be handed over to Chinese officials at the Chushul–Moldo border meeting point after completion of formalities and according to established protocols. “It will probably take place on Tuesday morning,” said an Indian Army officer. Wang, who had his identity card in his pocket and be longs to Shangxizhen town of central Zhejiang province in China, apparently lost his way and strayed across the LAC early on Monday. “There does not seem to be any espionage angle. He was disoriented when he was taken into custody by our troops,” said another Indian officer. Read AlsoChina calls on India to honor pledge, return missing soldierChina's military says it hopes India will make good on its pledge to swiftly return a Chinese soldier found lost along their mountainous border where the sides have been locked in a tense standoff. The defense ministry issued a statement late Monday saying the soldier had been helping herders roundThe PLA soldier was provided medical help and food and warm clothes to protect him from the vagaries of high altitude and harsh climatic conditions. A request has also been received from the PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier,” said the Indian Army officer. The incident comes at a time when the eighth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China is set to take place later this week. There was no tangible breakthrough in resolving the standoff during the seventh round on October 12, though the PLA came up with “a fresh set of mutual disengagement proposals. India has stuck to its stand of “complete de-escalation” at the troop face-off sites and along the entire LAC in eastern Ladakh, with the PLA initiating the withdrawal. India had rejected China’s demand that its troops first vacate the tactical heights they preemptively occupied on ridge line stretching from Thakung on south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La on August 29-30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pla-soldier-strays-across-lac-to-be-handed-back/articleshow/78758943.cms||---
October 20, 2020||World||Tsunami alert for Alaska after major 7.5 magnitude earthquake||LOS ANGELES: A tsunami alert was issued Monday after a major 7.5-magnitude quake struck off the coast of Alaska, US agencies said. The tsunami warning covers much of the southern coast of the remote US state, including the thinly populated Alaska Peninsula, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The at-risk zone currently extends hundreds of miles northeast to the Cook Inlet, but stops just short of the state's largest city of Anchorage, located at the end of that gulf. The "level of tsunami danger is being evaluated," the agency warned. The earthquake hit some 57 miles (92 km) from the small city of Sand Point, at a depth of 25 miles (40km), the US Geological Survey said. There was "a low likelihood of casualties and damage" from the quake itself, the USGS added. The major quake was followed by at least four aftershocks of 5.0-magnitude or higher. The earthquake was felt in the nearby Alaska Peninsula community of King Cove, but everything seemed to be intact, city administrator Gary Hennigh told the Anchorage Daily News. "Residents and cannery workers are evacuating to higher ground until we know more about the tsunami warning," Hennigh said. Cold Bay resident Michael Ashley said the quake was "a pretty good ride." "All the couches, recliners and bookcases were moving around, and I had to pretty much hold one of them up," he told the newspaper. There was no immediately available information on possible casualties or damage elsewhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/tsunami-alert-for-alaska-after-major-7-5-magnitude-quake/articleshow/78758982.cms||---
October 20, 2020||---||Alert sounded ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s rallies in Bihar||PATNA: The state police headquarters on Monday sounded an alert in the wake of intelligence inputs apprehending terror or Maoist attacks on some senior politicians, including Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath, during election rallies in the state. While the PM is scheduled to kick-start the election campaign for the first phase of the three-phased assembly polls on October 23, the UP CM will begin his campaign from Kaimur on Tuesday. Adityanath is likely to address two other rallies in Rohtas and Arwal the same day. According to sources in the state BJP office, the PM will address altogether 12 rallies in favour of the NDA candidates on October 23, October 28, November 1 and November 3. Adityanath, on the other hand, will campaign for six days and address 24 rallies in the districts close to Bihar-UP borders. His press adviser Mritunjay Kumar confirmed his schedule beginning Tuesday. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told mediapersons on Monday that IGs, DIGs and SPs had been asked to keep a watch on the people moving in a suspicious manner and take all preventive measures. “Any lapses on their part will not be tolerated,” he added. The ADGP said the top officials of the state police were in touch with the agencies entrusted with the task of providing security to special category VIPs during the upcoming elections in the state. The central as well as state intelligence agencies received inputs about possible Maoist or terror attacks on politicians during the election campaign. Seven additional IPS officers and 4 DSPs have been deployed in the districts where the PM’s rally is scheduled to be held. Besides, cops in civvies will keep a close watch on the people at the rallies. Leaders of other political parties are also expected to visit the state during the election. “We are coordinating with the police officers of other states from where senior politicians are expected to come to Bihar for campaigning,” said an IPS officer posted at the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/alert-sounded-ahead-of-pms-rallies-in-bihar/articleshow/78757198.cms||Ramashankar
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Many woman mukhiyas confident of poll victory||PATNA: Mukhiya of Pirokhar panchayat in Madhubani district, Mandakini Chaudhary, is all set to contest the upcoming assembly polls from Harlakhi assembly constituency as independent. Harlakhi in Madhubani district will go to the polls in the third and last phase of the elections on November 7. Mandakini, an MBA degree holder in finance and marketing from ICFAI Business School, Kolkata, chose politics as her career in 2013 and vowed to work for women empowerment and youth employment in Madhubani district. Within three years, she became very popular. She contested the mukhiya election in 2016 on her supporters’ demand and emerged victorious. The victory inspired her to work more to uplift the poor and the downtrodden. “I don’t believe in ‘prachar’, but in real work. My works speak volumes of development in the panchayat,” she said. Granddaughter of an ex-IAS officer, Mandakini hails from Sujatpur village. “I declined multi-lucrative job offers after obtaining a management degree from a reputable institution. The zeal to do something different forced me to settle in my native village. To bring a change in the lives of the poor is my prime objective,” she said. Mandakini is not an isolated case. Several women mukhiyas are trying their luck in the forthcoming assembly polls. For instance, Shushumlata Kushwaha, the mukhiya of Dawan panchayat, has been fielded as JD(U) candidate from Jagdishpur constituency in Bhojpur district. Jagdishpur will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. “I have learned a lot while performing duty as mukhiya. I know very well about the government schemes for the welfare of the people. If you work at the grassroots level, there is possibility of doing well at upper level. I hope the people of Jagdishpur will judge my performance and shower their blessing,” she said. Ritu Jaiswal, the mukhiya of Rajsinghwahi panchayat in Sitamarhi district, has been fielded as RJD candidate from Parihar assembly constituency. Wife of a former IAS officer, Arun Kumar, Ritu is hopeful of getting people’s support on the basis of her development works in the panchayat. Ritu said she has a vision for all-round development of the constituency. “It is not necessary that only big industries will provide jobs to the unemployed. There is a vast scope of job opportunities in agro-based industries, fisheries, dairy, tourism and horticulture,” she said. Though the state pioneered 50% reservation in local bodies in 2006, there are only 11% women in Bihar assembly. Statistics showed that women candidates have a much stronger success rate than their male counterparts. In 2015 assembly polls, all 10 women who fought on RJD tickets, won. Nine of the 10 who fought on JD(U) tickets and four of the five Congress candidates had also emerged victorious. Pramod Kumar, a poll observer, said, “Bihar is witnessing several young women taking the electoral plunge to change the way politics is seen and done in the state. Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who has announced herself as CM candidate and decided to contest the election from Bankipore assembly constituency in Patna, is a case in point.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-woman-mukhiyas-confident-of-poll-victory/articleshow/78759733.cms||Ramashankar
October 20, 2020||---||In a first, five candidates vie for Bihar CM post||PATNA: Bihar has never witnessed so many claimants for the single post of the chief minister during the assembly elections. There are as many as five claimants, including self-declared ones, for the coveted chair this time. Though the main claimants are the ruling NDA’s CM face Nitish Kumar and the Grand Alliance’s CM nominee Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, other smaller alliances too have declared their CM candidates. While the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF), comprising AIMIM, BSP and RLSP, has declared the former Union minister and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha as its CM candidate; the Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA), headed by Jan Adhikar Party-Loktantrik (JAP-L) has declared ex-Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav as its CM face. The PDP comprises four parties — JAP-L, the Azad Samaj Party led by Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) led by M K Faizey and the Bahujan Mukti Party headed by V L Matang. The fifth open claimant for the CM post is the new entrant Plurals Party chief Pushpam Priya Choudhary. She has also declared herself a chief ministerial candidate. Though LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan’s name is also being considered, Chirag himself has clarified that he is not in the race. He has categorically said his party would support the CM candidate of BJP after the election results. The saffron party’s national leaders such as Union minister Amit Shah and the president J P Nadda have time and again said the JD(U) chief and present CM Nitish Kumar is their CM candidate. Shah also recently clarified that Nitish would be the chief minister, even if the BJP gets more seats than JD(U). Ironically, both the biggest national parties—BJP and Congress— are not in the race for the CM post in Bihar. While BJP has backed Nitish, Congress has accepted RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav as its CM face. Generally, the chief minister of a state is elected by the newly-elected MLAs of the largest party or the largest group of parties after the poll results are out. Such practice used to happen in Bihar till the assembly election of the 1990s. Lalu Prasad was elected the leader of the then Janta Dal by the newly elected MLAs in 1990 after the assembly election results were out and the governor had invited the largest party to form the government. Old-timers say the practice of declaring the CM face before the state polls began in Bihar in 2005 after the BJP declared Nitish Kumar as the CM candidate of NDA. In the 2010 election, too, the NDA contested the assembly polls after declaring Nitish as its CM face. In 2015 polls, the Grand Alliance comprising JD(U), RJD and the Congress, had declared Nitish as its CM face, but the BJP-led NDA contested that election on the face of PM Narendra Modi, saying the BJP would declare its CM after the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/in-a-first-5-candidates-vie-for-cm-post/articleshow/78757188.cms||Madan Kumar
October 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: Teen ends life after mom reprimands||VASCO: A 13-year-old boy from Jetty Sada, Vasco, died by suicide after he hung himself. He took the step after he was reprimanded by his mother for ignoring his studies. The boy was supposed to answer an online exam of mathematics at 4pm on Monday. The victim was a Class VIII student. Police said that the boy was playing with marbles till 2pm, for which the mother admonished him for not studying. Furious, the boy barged into a room, latched it from inside and hanged himself, police said. The family forcibly broke open the latch, and found the boy, police said. The boy was then rushed to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim. However, doctors declared him brought dead. The boy was the sixth of seven children, and had lost his father a year ago. He is survived by three brothers and three sisters. Mormugao police have registered a case of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teen-ends-life-after-mom-reprimands/articleshow/78758552.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||IIT-Patna student gets Rs 43.50 lakh offer from software company||PATNA: Challenging the adverse situation prevailing in certain sectors due to the Covid-19 pandemic, 16 companies have recruited 38 students of IIT-Patna so far through online placement this session, its training and placement officer (TPO), Kripa Shankar Singh, told TOI on Monday. “Our one of the final-year students has got an offer of Rs43.50 lakh per annum from Microsoft. Four other final year students have got pay package of Rs33.50 lakh per annum from the CodeNation. Two other students have been hired by the Media Net with a package of Rs 29.92 lakh per annum,” Singh said, but refused to divulge the names of the students due to certain reasons. “Moreover, four pre-final year students have been given internship offers from Google,” Singh added. The placement session at IIT-Patna started in the first week of September, he said. “Despite the difficult times, IIT-Patna is doing very well in the current session, both in terms of full-time employment (final year students) and the internship hiring (pre-final year students),” he said. For internships, 19 companies have made handsome offers to 24 students till date. “The selection process has been going on virtually this year, mainly because the students are at home and the recruiters are not able to travel to the campus. With proper coordination, the online process is running smoothly as per predetermined schedule. Also, a good number of recruiters are finding that the online process enables them to select talented students more efficiently and at a much lower cost and time,” said Dr Jose V Parambil, professor incharge of training and placement cell at the IIT-Patna. The institute’s placement cell also conducted several online training programmes and webinars to keep the students motivated and ready for the campus recruitment process. “We are expecting an excellent placement in the current season, which will continue up to April 2021,” the TPO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-p-student-gets-rs43-50-lakh-offer-from-software-company/articleshow/78755844.cms||Madan Kumar
October 20, 2020||Business||Festive demand uses up motown’s idle capacity||Chennai: Festival demand is not only bringing cheer to car dealerships but has already improved capacity utilisation in factories by around 15%-20%, resulting in a 16% YoY increase in vehicle production in September and a promising October. “Typically we produce nearly 3,000 vehicles per month on a one-shift basis but this October we are hitting an all time high of 4,000 plus vehicles on one-and-a-half shifts,” said Rajeev Chaba, president and MD, MG Motor India. Auto parts makers say Maruti and Hyundai have increased production by 15-20% so far in October. This comes after a sharp ramp up in September — 24% for Maruti and 11% for Hyundai. “Most OEMs operated at pre-Covid level capacity utilisation during September and October should be similar,” said Ashish Modani, VP, ICRA. “The schedules received by the component industry for all segments of the vehicle industry barring the commercial vehicle sector have today reached the pre-Covid levels. Also the aftermarket had bounced back almost two months prior to the OEM supplies,” said Vinnie Mehta, director general, of industry body ACMA. The passenger vehicle market is sitting on nearly 2 million units of idle capacity in its factories with pre-August current capacity utilisation in some plants as low as 35% said a just-released survey by ICRA.Till September, passenger vehicle factories on an average were using up only 55% of the installed capacity of 6.5 million units in FY2021, down from 70% in FY18. The low utilisation levels have prompted car companies to look at various options to use up part of the idle capacity. Honda Cars is pushing exports in right hand drive markets. Toyota is looking at its alliance with Suzuki for contract manufacturing. Volkswagen is ramping up its local and export plans and also talking to Indian OEMs for synergy alliances. Others like MG are looking at the contract manufacturing approach rather than green field expansion options. Ford and M&M have already announced an alliance for shared manufacturing.The reason for the huge idle capacity is that passenger vehicle companies ramped up capacity in 2018 expecting India’s car and SUV sales to hit 5 million units by 2021. Instead they were hit by first the slowdown and now the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/festive-demand-uses-up-motowns-idle-capacity/articleshow/78756529.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 20, 2020||Business||EV maker Ultraviolette Automotive raises funds||Chennai: Electric mobility startup Ultraviolette Automotive has raised an undisclosed amount in Series B funding from entrepreneur Kumar Vembu, the CEO of GoFrugal Technologies. Ultraviolette Automotive is looking to scale up its operations in the immediate future by expanding the team, investing further in R&D, and building manufacturing capabilities. Vembu, who has been an early investor in the company during its Series A funding, joined TVS Motor to support Ultraviolette Automotive in this round. Chennai-based Speciale Invest is another early investor in the company. The company raised an investment of around Rs 30 crore from TVS Motors earlier in September as part of the Series B. TVS Motors holds 29.48% stake in the EV startup. Ultraviolette Automotive is building F77, a high-performance electric motorcycle indigenously with principles used in the aviation industry. The pre-production version of the F77 was unveiled less than a year ago, and the company is now gearing up towards launching the motorcycle in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ev-maker-ultraviolette-automotive-raises-funds/articleshow/78756569.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 20, 2020||Allahabad||CM inaugurates 377 panchayat bhawans||Prayagraj: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday interacted with pradhan (head) of Shahpur Kalyan ‘Newada’ village, Sumant Lal Tiwari, through video conferencing while inaugurating/dedicating 18,847 community toilets and 377 panchayat bhawans constructed under the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan/Swachh Bharat Mission and MANREGA across the state. The CM also interacted with gram pradhans across the state, including Aligraph, Gorakhpur, Lalitpur, Mirzapur and Prayagraj districts. The CM also praised the gram panchayat bhawan building being constructed at gram panchayat Shahpur Kalyan ‘Newada’ in Holagarh block of the Prayagraj district. He also instructed officials to connect the gram panchayat with optical fiber and maintain the visitor book properly. The visitor book would be containing the names and details of visitors. The CM also directed the officials to ensure that people seeking caste/income certificate, domicile, and other certificates could get arrangements and facility at panchayat bhawan building online. He also asked officials that banking should be introduced at gram panchayat bhawan building by the rural development department and selection of corresponding ‘sakhi’ women would also be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cm-inaugurates-377-panchayat-bhawans/articleshow/78755172.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||Overseas players shine in crossword||PATNA: Three overseas players, including two foreigners, were among the top 10 on the weekly leaderboard after the 7th scoring round of the Indian Crossword League (IXL) global annual contest, which started on September 13. There are two more rounds to go before the grand finale of the 8th edition of the contest. Philip Coote from Griffith, Australia, who had topped the last round, was at number 3 while Koh Ting Sween Kenny from Singapore was at 6th place and Akshay Bhandarkar from Dubai at number 8. Ramki Krishnan from Chennai and Mohsin Ahmed, the reigning champion, were 1st and 2nd, respectively, on the weekly leaderboard. In the cumulative rankings, Ramki, Mohsin and Venkatraghavan S from Mumbai were at the top three positions, respectively. Akshay and Koh are the likely overseas qualifiers for the offline climax to be held towards the year-end in Bangalore. Philip has already qualified for the grand finale by virtue of being the topper of the last weekly round. Sowmya Ramakumar from Manama, at number 31 in the cumulative ranking, is also expected to make her way to the finals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/overseas-players-shine-in-crossword/articleshow/78755858.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||Katoria voters repose faith in different parties||BANKA: Perhaps the Maoist-hit Katoria is one of the few assembly segments in Bihar having sizeable population of tribal and scheduled caste voters. It is largely a rural and reserved seat with 30% scheduled tribe’s population. The assembly election in Katoria is in the first phase on October 28. The electorates in Katoria have always elected candidates from different parties, including Congress, RJD and BJP, in state assembly elections. Those who were elected from Katoria include Piro Manjhi of Congress (1952), Raghvendra N Singh of Congress (1957), Kampa Murmu of Swaraj Party (1962), Sitaram Kishorepuria of Bharatiya Janasangh (1967), Suresh Yadav of Congress (1969), Jaiprakash Mishra (independent) in 1972, Guneshwar Singh of Janata Party (1977), Suresh Yadav of Indian Socialist Party (1980, 1985 and 1990), Girdhari Yadav of Janata Dal (1995), Girdhari Yadav of RJD (2000), Rajkishore Prasad Yadav of LJP (February 2005) and from RJD in October, 2005. Katoria was declared ST (reserved) constituency in 2010 after the delimitation owing to high population of ST and scheduled castes. In 2010, Sonelal Hembrom of BJP won the seat while Sweety Seema Hembrom of RJD was elected in 2015. RJD has retained Sweety as its candidate. BJP has fielded Nikki Hembrom, a member of Bihar State Women Commission. The JMM has fielded Anjala Hansda. Deliberating on the major issues in the area, Katoriya panchayat mukhiya Pradeep Gupta said: “Scarcity of drinking water, poor irrigation facilities, unemployment, lack of education facilities, superstitious beliefs and practices pervading the tribal community, farming hassles due to rocky agriculture fields and dearth of irrigation water, forest areas becoming hideouts of Maoists, illegal brewing of mahua (local toddy) and migration of youths for menial jobs continue to plague this constituency.” Social activist and resident of Sitane village under Katoria block, Kabinder Singh, referred to the 2011 Census data to claim that Katoria is one of the few assembly segments where the urbanization process is yet to start. “The influence of Maoists has weakened but still the forest areas of the region act as shelters for them and criminal activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katoria-voters-repose-faith-in-different-parties/articleshow/78763192.cms||Kumar Rajesh
October 20, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: RJD promises up to 70% hike for PRI representatives||PATNA: RJD Rajya Sabha member and party’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha on Monday said there will be 60 to 70% increase in the honorarium given to mukhiyas, sarpanches and elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj system, along with the opening of two Simultala schools in each district. He further said Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as CM will stage a dharna for special status for Bihar. Addressing a press conference, Jha said his party will launch its separate manifesto in a couple of days and said they have already launched their joint declaration. He hit out at chief minister Nitish Kumar, who has been mocking Tejashwi over his poll promise to create 10 lakh jobs in the first cabinet meeting. “Creation of ten lakh job is not impossible. One needs to have the will power. People now want a young and new government,” said Jha. He added, “The CM has lost his ideological balance and now is losing his temperament. He is using such language for the opposition leader, which is not acceptable in public life. Never has an opposition leader used such language for the CM, and even after coming to power we will not use such language.” Explaining how jobs will be created, Jha said there is a vacancy of around 4.50 lakh jobs and the ratio, be it of teacher and student, cops and people or doctors and people, was lower than the national average and needed to be filled. He criticised the corruption in money spent on various schemes under Jal-Jivan-Haryali and said even the number of trees planted is fudged. Jha said for the CM, development means renovation of roads, which get ruined in a year and bridges that get washed away within a year of construction. “Even former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi has talked about estimate ghotala in Nitish Ji’s regime. Bihar needs schools and hospitals. We have seen how a secretary-rank officer died outside a hospital after being denied a bed for treatment,” added Jha. He also lashed out at the government for the problems faced by migrants during the lockdown. The JD (U) state spokesperson, Rajiv Ranjan, slammed RJD saying people will not be fooled by their promises. “People have seen what employment means for RJD- kidnapping and handing over pistols to the youth. When they came to power, the first RJD family was busy minting money. Tejashwi spent crores on the renovation of his bungalow and his siblings had made huge property.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-promises-up-to-70-hike-for-pri-representatives/articleshow/78757265.cms||---
October 20, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Caste takes a back seat as youngsters stress on change||PATNA: Caste politics in Bihar may have played a major role for years and been the decisive factor during elections, but youngsters and first-time voters seem to care more about development, proper education, infrastructure and jobs in 2020. Many of them are unsatisfied with the sluggish progress in different sectors in the state. Vicenarian Vaibhav Rajhans, a student of the National Institute of Technology-Patna (NIT), believes it’s high time youngsters chose candidates on the basis of development, instead of caste or religion. “No country or state can develop if people continue exercising their franchise to pick candidates of their community,” he says, adding, “There are a couple of good institutes in Bihar like the Indian Institute of Technology, NIT and National Institute of Fashion Technology, but these are not enough. We need more such institutes so that the students do not have to move out for higher studies.” 21-year-old Anupama also condemns the state of higher education in Bihar. The Patna Science College student is planning to pursue her Masters from a Delhi-based institute and look for a job there because of the “lack of employment opportunities in Bihar”. Many first-time voters want to choose candidates who work for the overall development of the state. A Patna Women’s College student, Shivangi Priya, says, “It was easy for politicians to fool the old-timers, but youngsters cannot be misguided. We do not want fake promises. We look for change and development.” Anubhav Singh, who works with a private firm in Bengaluru, is excited to cast his vote when he comes to Patna during the festive season. “I would have loved to stay in my hometown, but there are no jobs here. I had also pursued my higher education in Hyderabad,” he says. Anubhav wants “change” and will only vote for a candidate who develops Bihar in the long run. 25-year-old Naveen Ram, a migrant who had returned to Bihar during the lockdown, is going back to Delhi in search of a job. “I was unable to find work in Bihar,” he rues. Rajendra Nagar resident Bipin Agarwal thinks it is unfortunate that Bihar is still an underdeveloped state. The 56-year-old says, “After so many years, I realized that our focus should only be on the development of the state. Nothing else matters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/caste-takes-a-back-seat-as-youngsters-stress-on-change/articleshow/78756997.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Netas strictly follow Covid-19 protocols on campaign trail||PATNA: Star campaigners of different political parties and even candidates contesting the election this time are taking extra precautions to keep themselves fit as they move around in the field for electioneering. Not only are they adhering to Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Centre, but are also taking all safety measures to ensure that they don’t contract the virus while interacting with the masses. A personal assistant of senior BJP functionary and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi Rakesh Praveer said: “Modiji never steps out without a face mask. His car and helicopter are sanitised every day. Physical distancing is ensured even while travelling as only two persons wearing masks are allowed to sit in the four-seater helicopter. After returning, he makes sure to change his clothes and put on fresh clothes and masks, before stepping out for further meetings in the evening hours.” Danish Rizwan, spokesperson of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi- led HAM (S) said, “We ensure that we do not become carriers of Covid-19 in any way. Hence, we ask our supporters to use sanitizers and face masks if someone is seen without covering their face. We also distribute safety kits comprising mask, gloves, and sanitizer to people, wherever possible. Our cars are also sanitized everyday and we ensure that no one from the party or the supporters are seen without wearing a face mask.” Danish said that stages in political rallies are around 8 feet above the ground and only four persons can sit on the dais. The audience also ensure physical distancing. LJP candidate from Gayghat assembly segment in Muzaffrpur district, Komal Singh said: “Being a youth, I am much more concerned about the elderly people I meet while canvassing. I along with my entire team ensure to wear masks and use sanitizers regularly. I also try to maintain the required physical distance as issued by the Centre, while meeting people. Before seeking people’s support, I ensure to make them aware of the Covid safety guidelines.” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said: “To avoid crowd and ensure everyone’s safety, JD (U) is organising a large number of virtual meetings and rallies. Besides, masks and sanitizers are must in physical rallies of the party.” Darbhanga graduate MLC candidate Rajnikant Pathak said: “It is difficult for everyone to do electioneering amid the pandemic. Garlands offered by party supporters are only accepted by hand. After this, we instantly use sanitizers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/netas-strictly-follow-covid-19-protocols-on-campaign-trail/articleshow/78755983.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||Covid crisis dampens Puja festivities in Patna||PATNA: Will the people of the city enjoy Dussehra festival this year with the same zeal and enthusiasm as they used to do earlier? Certainly not. The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a heavy toll on festivities this time. Most people, particularly the youths, are disheartened with the onset of the festival on a very low key note. Festivals are meant to rejoice special moments and emotions in people’s lives with their loved ones, but they are going to be deprived of this opportunity this year. Social scientists feel that this festival offered immense opportunities for the people of different communities to come closer and promote the feeling of fraternity and brotherhood. “India’s secularism became very much pronounced in Dussehra festival in which people belonging to both Hindu and Muslim communities participated with almost equal enthusiasm to share their mutual feelings of joy. Many non-Hindus used to participate in the decorations and illuminations which were the highlights of the festival. At most places in Patna, attractive pandals were usually erected by Muslim artisans,” said Patna College sociology department’s former head Randhir Kumar Singh. The social side of Durga Puja used to be very prominent with a large number of people comprising an entire neighbourhood , sometimes a whole mohalla, joining in its preparation and successful execution. “The festival brought us all together in the spirit of brotherhood and togetherness and reminded us there is a lot of good in the world that we live in. Festivals come at the right time to break the monotony and bring some cheer into our lives,” observed Patna University Hindi department’s former head Dinesh Prasad Singh . Magadh University retired chemistry teacher Mahesh Chandra said, “In the modern age, families rarely have free time left. This festival was the only event when they would go out and have a good time together at the Puja pandals. Moreover, religious festivals are important for families as they help to inculcate moral values and ethics in our next generations. All festivals bring the same message of peace, love, tolerance and coexistence,” he said. Besides, planning and organising festivals involve many members of a locality, which yields a number of social benefits. “ The best thing about being involved with festivals is the opportunity to help build a community, foster a sense of pride within a community and at the same time engage a community,” said RP Tripathy, who used to organize community Durga Puja along with musical programmes at Boring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-crisis-dampens-puja-festivities/articleshow/78755885.cms||B K Mishra
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Many sitting MLAs seeking re-election face voters’ ire||PATNA: As electioneering for the first phase of state assembly election is gaining pace, the voters in many constituencies seem to be angry with their sitting MLAs and vent their ire against them publicly. The voters have been seen asking the MLAs, who are again in the fray, about their work done for the constituency in the last five years and why they should be elected again. Candidates were even driven out from the village youths in some cases. On Monday, a video went viral showing people heckling planning and development minister Maheshwar Hazari and his supporters and shouting slogans against them in Kalyanpur constituency in Samastipur. The JD(U) MLA is seeking re-election from there. The locals, mostly in their 30s and 40s, asked their MLA where he had been all these years and asked him to go back. They also shouted slogans like ‘Road Nahi toh Vote Nahi’ (no road, no vote). One of them said the minister did no development work in the past 10 years. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has also shared the video on his Twitter handle: “…Nitish Kumar’s development on paper has been exposed, whether it is encephalitis, waterlogging, flood, drought or corona (sic).” A similar incident took place in Nokha assembly constituency in Rohtas district last week when people surrounded sitting RJD MLA Anita Devi and asked her to give the account of development works in the last five years. The locals were seen in the video shouting that many households were without electricity supply because of lack of poles. Anita, who was tourism minister for 18 months in the grand alliance government in state, said she had done several development works in Rohtas district, including the upgradation of heritage sites like Rohtas Quila and Sher Shah Suri’s fort. “Several mahotsavas were also organized in Bihar during my tenure. Development can be seen in my constituency,” she said. RJD’s Jehanabad MLA Suday Yadav, who is trying to retain the seat, faced similar people’s wrath at Murhara in Ratni block on October 15. The villagers drove him out when he went there to seek votes. The locals shouted slogans about their unresolved issues. One of the locals said Suday promised good road network, but did not show up in the last five years. State education minister and Ghosi MLA Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma was hooted by the local people on October 8. They questioned Verma about the poor condition of higher education and teaching faculty in Bihar. They also raised question about unemployment and vacant posts in government departments. Agriculture minister and BJP leader Prem Kumar also faced the people’s ire at Chapra in Goh assembly constituency. When the situation went out of control, the minister as well as sitting MLA Manoj Sharma had to leave the place immediately. Prem, however, accused the RJD workers, and not the general people, of attacking him and his supporters during the campaign. “This is shameful in democracy,” he said. The people in Maharajganj under Siwan district even abused JD(U) MLA Hemnarayan Sah when he reached there to seek votes. In a viral video on October 17, the MLA could be seen appealing to the people to vote for him, while they kept on using derogatory words while asking him to leave. Kurtha MLA Satyadev Kushwaha also had to leave Purana village in Arwal to avoid any trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-sitting-mlas-seeking-re-election-face-voters-ire/articleshow/78763303.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 20, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav sympathizes with Chirag Paswan in attacking Nitish Kumar||PATNA: A day after calling LJP the ‘B’ team of BJP, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday said something which must have been soothing to the ears of its chief Chirag Paswan. “What Nitish Kumar ji did with Chirag Paswan is not good. Chirag needs his father at this time more than ever before. But Ram Vilas Paswan is not among us and we are sad about it. The way Nitish Kumar behaved… did injustice to Chirag,” Tejashwi told mediapersons before leaving for the election campaign. Chirag had criticised CM Nitish Kumar for not saying even a word of sympathy to him following the death of his father Ram Vilas Paswan or his body was flown to Patna airport where Nitish paid tribute but did not acknowledge him. “I am shocked that because of personal feelings, we even forget basic ‘shishtachar’ (courtesy),” he had said. Even RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha did not waste time to sympathize with Chirag and invited him to join his alliance. “Chirag is being humiliated by BJP. If he wants to come with us, we will welcome him,” Kushwaha told this newspaper over the phone. However, Chirag’s joining hands with RLSP-led alliance is unlikely more because Mayawati’s BSP is already there. “Both the leaders represent Dalits and fight for their cause,” said an LJP leader, dismissing the possibility of LJP being part of RLSP-led combination. Meanwhile, Chirag continued his attack on JD(U) chief Nitish and urged people to ask his candidates to explain the development works in their respective constituencies in the last five years. “I think they will not be able to reply as they have done nothing,” he said. The LJP chief also claimed his party will win more seats than JD(U) in the assembly polls. “Keeping in tune with the idea of ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’, we will create a new Bihar,” he tweeted. An NDA ally since 2014 Lok Sabha polls, LJP is contesting the state assembly election separately owing to ideological differences with JD(U). What keeps the rumour mills abuzz is Chirag’s repeated assertion that LJP and BJP would form the next government in Bihar and he was the PM’s ‘Hanuman’. That had compelled senior BJP leaders, including Amit Sah and Bhupender Yadav, to announce that LJP was not the NDA partner and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar would be the NDA CM. They also slammed Chirag for trying to misguide the voters ahead of election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-sympathizes-with-chirag-in-attacking-nitish/articleshow/78757106.cms||Ramashankar
October 20, 2020||---||‘Need to ensure that half of all candidates in Bihar polls are women’||PATNA: The GST originally levied a 16% tax on sanitary napkins, while the nationwide lockdown in March 2020 did not include sanitary napkins as an essential commodity at first. Women, in their varied backgrounds, have distinct life experiences — the primary responsibility for household water, dominant farm labour, particular health and hygiene needs, targets of violent gender-based crimes, lack of formal employment etc. Since we are constitutionally a representative democracy, it means that sizeable sections of the demographic must have a voice. This enables women’s participation in House debates that decide upon laws and policies, duly considering the perspectives from women’s, and their female constituents’ lived experiences. While women’s representation automatically conjures up the Women’s Reservation Bill, there are many ways to skin that cat. Ensuring half the candidates standing for election are women, for example. This allows voters a real choice to elect who they please, if political parties are fair, and stand women in half the contests. Are there enough female aspirants for that? Bihar was the first state to accord 50% reservation to women in local bodies, enabling a stream of women with electoral and administrative experience. Over 8,000 local bodies, half of them run by women for three cycles since 2006. Even an ultra-conservative estimate of 5% being superlative would amount to a whopping pipeline of 600 women worthy of consideration for MLA candidate. Plus women members and leaders from political parties. Women have also been voting in a greater percentage than men in the assembly elections, displaying great interest in political participation. Still, parties gave barely 10% tickets to women in the last Bihar Vidhan Sabha election, leading to a minuscule 11% women in the assembly. Altogether 28 out of 243 women, down from 34 in 2010-2015. This is the motivation for citizen intervention to persuade and pressure the players to provide greater opportunities to women in electoral politics. Shakti — Political Power To Women, is a non-partisan, grassroots citizens collective, running ground campaigns to increase women MLAs elected to Vidhan Sabha. Shakti joined hands with over 120+ Bihar NGOs and eminent personalities, farmers, Dalit, minority, women's and students groups, civil society organizations, professors, retired bureaucrats, etc, to petition political parties to field 50% women candidates. Shakti's volunteers then reached out to elected mukhiyas and sarpanches across Bihar for the 'Selfless Selfie' and 'Call Women MLAs' campaigns. In these Covid-safe campaigns, mukhiyas and sarpanches sent selfies demanding 50% women candidates, and the sitting women MLAs committed to asking their parties for the same. Ground campaigns reveal that women's top issues in Bihar, law and order, sanitation, education and employment (of women), are not the priority in male-dominated parties. To highlight the stark costs of this lacuna, Shakti released an 80-second public interest film in Bhojpuri and Maithili, called Aadha Humara. We are hopeful that the demands of citizens, volunteers, ecosystems of NGOs and influencers, and the lakhs of voters that the Mukhiyas, Sarpanches and MLAs represent through these campaigns, will reach the ears of the Candidate Selection Committees of the political parties. And that it yields plenty of female candidates, leading to an Assembly that is gender-balanced in its composition and more representative of Bihar. (The writer is a co-founder of Shakti — Political Power to Women)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/need-to-ensure-that-half-of-all-candidates-in-polls-are-women/articleshow/78756946.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Business||JSW Steel’s Rs 1,550-crore Asian Colour bid cleared||MUMBAI: The New Delhi arm of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Monday approved JSW Steel’s Rs 1,550-crore offer for the debt-ridden Asian Colour Coated Ispat. The transaction, when completed, will be the billionaire Sajjan Jindal-controlled JSW Group’s third asset purchase via the Indian bankruptcy code. Asian Colour has a capacity of 1 million tonnes and its plants are located in Maharashtra and Haryana. The deal will consolidate JSW’s play in India’s steel sector, which is currently impacted due to slowdowns in automotive and construction industries as the country fights the Covid-19 pandemic. Asian Colour, founded by R K Aggarwal, owes Rs 5,000 crore to creditors. The steel company was among the RBI’s second list of loan defaulters that was referred to the insolvency tribunal. Of the Rs 1,550-crore offer, Rs 1,525 crore will be paid to Asian Colour’s financial creditors while the remaining Rs 25 crore will be paid to its operational creditors. In the recent past, JSW along with Aion Investments had acquired the bankrupt Monnet Ispat & Energy for Rs 2,650 crore in 2018. A year later, it bought the stressed Vardhman Industries for Rs 64 crore. It is currently pursuing the completion of Bhushan Power and Steel for which it has offered Rs 19,700 crore. While the appeals tribunal has given the green signal to JSW to acquire the bankrupt metal maker, the deal has hit a roadblock after the enforcement directorate seized the latter’s assets in connection with a money laundering probe against its founder Sanjay Singal. The matter is before the Supreme Court. India’s largest steel producer has also put in a bid for Gontermann-Peipers — a company promoted by Pramod and Vinod Mittal, the younger siblings of ArcelorMittal chairman Lakshmi Mittal — which is undergoing bankruptcy proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jsw-steels-rs-1550-crore-asian-colour-bid-cleared/articleshow/78757195.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 20, 2020||Business||‘India may see 10 startup IPOs in 3 yrs’||BENGALURU: India could see at least 10 internet companies going public in 2-3 years. This, after the financials of startups became more real and viable in the long term with less dependence on equity capital funding, according to one of India’s top venture capital investors. Ravi Adusumalli, the managing partner at Elevation Capital, which was till recently known as SAIF Partners, said 3-5 companies from its India portfolio could go for an initial public offering (IPO), without naming any firm. The development comes at a time when the Indian government is easing overseas listing norms for domestic companies and startups in markets like the US, the UK and Japan. Elevation has closed its seventh fund of $400 million to double down on India bets. This takes total assets under management to $2.4 billion. “India is long overdue for companies to go public. There are enough compelling businesses that will go public in the next 2-3 years. We would probably see 3-5 companies from the Elevation portfolio (going public). The number is probably higher than 10 (for the ecosystem) — even 15, which is fantastic because it’s much needed for India,” Adusumalli said. Elevation’s India portfolio includes several billion-dollar valuation startups and well-known brands like Paytm, Swiggy, UrbanClap (now Urban Company), Firstcry, Unacademy, BookMyShow and Rivigo. It was also the early backer of MakeMyTrip and Just Dial, among the few listed Indian internet companies, besides investing in IndiaMart during its IPO last year. In the US, major startups like Airbnb and Stripe have also reportedly begun the process of going public, while India has seen firms like Zomato outlining the IPO deadline to the first half of 2021. The latest $400-million fund has a 15% larger corpus compared to the previous three of $350 million each. It will allow Elevation to allocate more capital in investee firms in follow-on rounds, while it will continue to focus on backing new early-stage to series-A startups, the fund’s leadership team told TOI. Mayank Khanduja, one of the MDs at the fund, said the recent ban by the Indian government on Chinese capital hasn’t led to a dramatic fall in deal activity and that a different pool of capital is coming from investors in other geographies. “Second, on the app ban, it’s been a tailwind for a lot of startups, especially in the content space. ShareChat for us has been a big beneficiary with a massive uptick in the end-user base. I think that gives a good opportunity to Indian startups to innovate and launch new products without the constant pressure of extreme cash burn that was done by the Chinese,” said Khanduja. SAIF is an early backer of ShareChat. Adusumalli echoed the same views on a broader ecosystem across a range of startups. He said there has been a lot of “introspection” among startups since the virus outbreak in India and their health has improved “dramatically”. “Some of the burn rates, frankly, were just stupid 18 months ago. In the last 10 years, the down periods have been very short — 3-4 months — and, as a result, there is a lot of fat built up in the system. There was too much focus on growth at any cost with the capital being relatively easier to raise. What’s happened now is Covid-19 is more prolonged — a 12-24 months’ situation. Everyone, CEOs and CFOs, are proactive on where they can become lean as a company and aspire to become profitable,” Adusumalli added. Besides Khandhuja, other MDs at Elevation include Deepak Gaur, Mukul Arora, Mridul Arora and Vivek Mathur. On the much talked about Reliance Industries’ impact on startups with the Mukesh Ambani-led conglomerate making fast moves in the internet economy, Adusumalli added Reliance is definitely formidable but it is unlikely they will win every single vertical in India. Elevation’s fund-close comes at a time when other large ones have also closed theirs for the market. TOI reported in July that Sequoia has raised $1.4 billion for India and Southeast Asia, while Lightspeed raised its third India-focused fund of $275 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-may-see-10-startup-ipos-in-3-yrs/articleshow/78757141.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: RJD promises up to 70% hike for PRI representatives||PATNA: RJD Rajya Sabha member and party’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha on Monday said there will be 60 to 70% increase in the honorarium given to mukhiyas, sarpanches and elected representatives of the Panchayati Raj system, along with the opening of two Simultala schools in each district. He further said Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as CM will stage a dharna for special status for Bihar. Addressing a press conference, Jha said his party will launch its separate manifesto in a couple of days and said they have already launched their joint declaration. He hit out at chief minister Nitish Kumar, who has been mocking Tejashwi over his poll promise to create 10 lakh jobs in the first cabinet meeting. “Creation of ten lakh job is not impossible. One needs to have the will power. People now want a young and new government,” said Jha. He added, “The CM has lost his ideological balance and now is losing his temperament. He is using such language for the opposition leader, which is not acceptable in public life. Never has an opposition leader used such language for the CM, and even after coming to power we will not use such language.” Explaining how jobs will be created, Jha said there is a vacancy of around 4.50 lakh jobs and the ratio, be it of teacher and student, cops and people or doctors and people, was lower than the national average and needed to be filled. He criticised the corruption in money spent on various schemes under Jal-Jivan-Haryali and said even the number of trees planted is fudged. Jha said for the CM, development means renovation of roads, which get ruined in a year and bridges that get washed away within a year of construction. “Even former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi has talked about estimate ghotala in Nitish Ji’s regime. Bihar needs schools and hospitals. We have seen how a secretary-rank officer died outside a hospital after being denied a bed for treatment,” added Jha. He also lashed out at the government for the problems faced by migrants during the lockdown. The JD (U) state spokesperson, Rajiv Ranjan, slammed RJD saying people will not be fooled by their promises. “People have seen what employment means for RJD- kidnapping and handing over pistols to the youth. When they came to power, the first RJD family was busy minting money. Tejashwi spent crores on the renovation of his bungalow and his siblings had made huge property.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-promises-up-to-70-hike-for-pri-representatives/articleshow/78763247.cms||---
October 20, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Many sitting MLAs seeking re-election face voters’ ire||PATNA: As electioneering for the first phase of state assembly election is gaining pace, the voters in many constituencies seem to be angry with their sitting MLAs and vent their ire against them publicly. The voters have been seen asking the MLAs, who are again in the fray, about their work done for the constituency in the last five years and why they should be elected again. Candidates were even driven out from the village youths in some cases. On Monday, a video went viral showing people heckling planning and development minister Maheshwar Hazari and his supporters and shouting slogans against them in Kalyanpur constituency in Samastipur. The JD(U) MLA is seeking re-election from there. The locals, mostly in their 30s and 40s, asked their MLA where he had been all these years and asked him to go back. They also shouted slogans like ‘Road Nahi toh Vote Nahi’ (no road, no vote). One of them said the minister did no development work in the past 10 years. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav has also shared the video on his Twitter handle: “…Nitish Kumar’s development on paper has been exposed, whether it is encephalitis, waterlogging, flood, drought or corona (sic).” A similar incident took place in Nokha assembly constituency in Rohtas district last week when people surrounded sitting RJD MLA Anita Devi and asked her to give the account of development works in the last five years. The locals were seen in the video shouting that many households were without electricity supply because of lack of poles. Anita, who was tourism minister for 18 months in the grand alliance government in state, said she had done several development works in Rohtas district, including the upgradation of heritage sites like Rohtas Quila and Sher Shah Suri’s fort. “Several mahotsavas were also organized in Bihar during my tenure. Development can be seen in my constituency,” she said. RJD’s Jehanabad MLA Suday Yadav, who is trying to retain the seat, faced similar people’s wrath at Murhara in Ratni block on October 15. The villagers drove him out when he went there to seek votes. The locals shouted slogans about their unresolved issues. One of the locals said Suday promised good road network, but did not show up in the last five years. State education minister and Ghosi MLA Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma was hooted by the local people on October 8. They questioned Verma about the poor condition of higher education and teaching faculty in Bihar. They also raised question about unemployment and vacant posts in government departments. Agriculture minister and BJP leader Prem Kumar also faced the people’s ire at Chapra in Goh assembly constituency. When the situation went out of control, the minister as well as sitting MLA Manoj Sharma had to leave the place immediately. Prem, however, accused the RJD workers, and not the general people, of attacking him and his supporters during the campaign. “This is shameful in democracy,” he said. The people in Maharajganj under Siwan district even abused JD(U) MLA Hemnarayan Sah when he reached there to seek votes. In a viral video on October 17, the MLA could be seen appealing to the people to vote for him, while they kept on using derogatory words while asking him to leave. Kurtha MLA Satyadev Kushwaha also had to leave Purana village in Arwal to avoid any trouble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/many-sitting-mlas-seeking-re-election-face-voters-ire/articleshow/78757239.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 20, 2020||Patna||‘Nitish Kumar erased perception of Bihar as a Bimaru state’||PATNA: JD (U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh talks to TOI’s Piyush Tripathi on a range of issues, from Chirag Paswan to BJP’s insistence on Nitish as NDA CM face, to the reason behind JD(U) going with ‘15 Saal Vs 15 Saal’ as the party’s main poll plank, among other issues. Excerpts: JD(U) parted ways with BJP after 17 years in 2013 and joined hands again in 2017. Senior saffron leaders are repeatedly asserting that JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar will remain the CM face of NDA. Why do you think BJP is backing him so strongly? I’ve known Nitish Kumar from student politics days and I saw the visionary in him from that time. The governance of Nitish has been universally accepted as an ideal model. His track record of erasing the perception of Bihar as a ‘Bimaru’ state to manifold development in all sectors has been stupendous. This prompted us to coin our slogan ‘15 Years Vs 15 Years’. How effective is JD (U)’s slogan considering a large number of young voters have not seen the 15 years before Nitish? Unlike negative politics by opposition parties, JD (U) is spreading the message of the development work done during Nitish’s rule. Before Nitish, extortion fear was rampant. There was a perception that there is no government in Bihar, but it changed after Nitish came to power. It was his visionary schemes like cycle and uniform for government school students, which encouraged kids to study. Besides, the initiatives for skill development and scholarships under Seven Resolves are being appreciated by the youth. When BJP is asserting that Nitish is the CM face of NDA, does it mean they are putting their stamp on JD (U) as the ‘big brother’?It depends on how you define it...I think they say it based on their experience of working with Nitish Ji and acceptance of his style of governance. They had to reiterate it lately after Chirag started giving baseless statements, trying to create doubts by taking BJP’s name. LJP chief Chirag Paswan has been alleging that CM Nitish mistreated his father late Ram Vilas Paswan and also ignored him. Your take?Chirag's statements are against coalition dharma. Moreover, we don’t take his utterances seriously. It is his style of politics to defame someone. I believe he is feeling isolated. Ram Vilas Ji and Nitish Ji had very cordial relations. I have seen both of them for long, and they were always respectful of each other. Chirag keeps saying BJP-LJP will form the next government.When Amit Shah Ji has said BJP is fighting against LJP and NDA is going to form the next government under the leadership of Nitish, then such statements from Chirag hold no relevance. The politics of doubt or false propaganda is always short-lived. JD (U) is contesting on the highest number of seats in NDA. How high are the stakes for the party?We are not thinking only about JD (U). I have sent a message to our party workers that they should work with complete dedication for ensuring the victory of all constituents of NDA, including BJP, HAM (S) and Mukesh Sahni – led VIP. How significant will be PM Narendra Modi’s role in this Bihar election?PM Modi is the national face of the alliance, of which we are a constituent. Thus, his role is significant and will work in our favour. He is the face at the Centre and Nitish Ji is the face for Bihar. Modi Ji is firm about Nitish Ji’s leadership in Bihar. 15 years is a long time and it leads to natural fatigue among the electorate. What do you think?Such a situation has not been witnessed in many cases in the past like Jyoti Basu in West Bengal or Nabin Patnaik in Odisha. A scenario of fatigue is being created by Opposition when they have no issues or a face. What factors will go in favour of JD (U)?Women’s empowerment will be the foremost factor in our favour. We have taken several steps for women, including 50% reservation in Panchayati Raj institutions and 35% horizontal reservation in government jobs. Improved law and order, education, bringing the most backward sections of society to the mainstream and prohibition are such factors. Is caste politics still dominant in Bihar or development agenda plays a bigger role?Caste continues to be a factor but its grip has loosened to a large extent. Now, a section of society doesn’t believe in caste politics and takes development as the bigger parameter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-erased-perception-of-bihar-as-a-bimaru-state/articleshow/78763365.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Academy begins work on Arebhashe dictionary||MANGALURU: Karnataka Arebhashe Samskruthi and Sahitya Academy have commenced work to bring out an Arebhashe dictionary. The dictionary will be a blend of lexicon and Kittel dictionary, with inspiration from the Tulu dictionary.  Vishwanath Badikana, assistant professor, Kannada, St Aloysius College, and member of the academy, is leading the initiative. He told TOI that Karunakar Nidinji, Kannada professor from Field Marshal K M Cariappa College, Kodagu ,was assisting in the project. Two meetings have already been held, and the academy has held interactions with Prof Kodi Kushalappa Gowda, Prof Che Ramaswamy, retired professors, Madras University, and Sukumar Gowda, a retired teacher from Puttur, for guidance. Prof Ramaswamy has the experience of working on this language, he said. Meanwhile, a team will soon be constituted to conduct a field study in areas where the language is spoken, and document every aspect of the language, which could even include short songs and proverbs. Once the team for fieldwork is selected, they will be trained on the documentation process. Minute details from where and from whom the word has been picked up from will be documented, he said, adding that it may take about two years for the dictionary to be released. Arebhashe is a dialect of Kannada spoken in Sullia, Kodagu and a few areas of Kasaragod. An estimated five lakh people, mostly Gowdas, speak Arebhashe. This is probably the second attempt to bring out a dictionary of the language. Lakshminarayan Kajegadde, president of the academy, said various measures have been taken to preserve and promote the language. The dictionary is expected to be a unique one. On challenges in bringing out the dictionary, he said, “The language has Tulu influence among those who speak in Sullia, Kodava in Kodagu and Malayalam in Kasargod. Hence, words have to be carefully selected,” he said. Meanwhile, the project of documenting Arebhasha culture through the items that were used by people who speak this language is near competition, he said. Arebhashe Yakshagana In a related development, the academy is also attempting to bring out a Yakshagana episode in Arebhashe. In this regard, artiste Bhavya Hareesh Kulkunda has been given the task of composing the ‘Kamsavade’ episode under the guidance of Bhagavat Subbaraya Sampaje. Talamaddale episode ‘Shara Sethu Bandhana’ has been composed in the language and recorded at the studio of Puttur Vivekananda College. “The episodes will soon be uploaded on YouTube,” said Lakshminarayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/academy-begins-work-on-arebhashe-dictionary/articleshow/78757932.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 20, 2020||Patna||Alert sounded ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s rallies in Bihar||PATNA: The state police headquarters on Monday sounded an alert in the wake of intelligence inputs apprehending terror or Maoist attacks on some senior politicians, including Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath, during election rallies in the state. While the PM is scheduled to kick-start the election campaign for the first phase of the three-phased assembly polls on October 23, the UP CM will begin his campaign from Kaimur on Tuesday. Adityanath is likely to address two other rallies in Rohtas and Arwal the same day. According to sources in the state BJP office, the PM will address altogether 12 rallies in favour of the NDA candidates on October 23, October 28, November 1 and November 3. Adityanath, on the other hand, will campaign for six days and address 24 rallies in the districts close to Bihar-UP borders. His press adviser Mritunjay Kumar confirmed his schedule beginning Tuesday. Additional director general of police (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told mediapersons on Monday that IGs, DIGs and SPs had been asked to keep a watch on the people moving in a suspicious manner and take all preventive measures. “Any lapses on their part will not be tolerated,” he added. The ADGP said the top officials of the state police were in touch with the agencies entrusted with the task of providing security to special category VIPs during the upcoming elections in the state. The central as well as state intelligence agencies received inputs about possible Maoist or terror attacks on politicians during the election campaign. Seven additional IPS officers and 4 DSPs have been deployed in the districts where the PM’s rally is scheduled to be held. Besides, cops in civvies will keep a close watch on the people at the rallies. Leaders of other political parties are also expected to visit the state during the election. “We are coordinating with the police officers of other states from where senior politicians are expected to come to Bihar for campaigning,” said an IPS officer posted at the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/alert-sounded-ahead-of-pms-rallies-in-bihar/articleshow/78759711.cms||Ramashankar
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav trade barbs in rallies||GAYA/AURANGABAD: Electioneering for assembly election in the Magadh region of south Bihar gained momentum on Monday as both CM Nitish Kumar and the Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav hit out at each other in a series of public meetings. The region will go to the polls in the first phase scheduled on October 28. Nitish addressed public meetings in Sherghati, Tekari, Atri and Rafiganj segments in Gaya district while Tejashwi covered Wazirganj, Atri and Belaganj assembly segments. At the Ranglal High School ground in Sherghati, Nitish said his government never favoured any particular section of the society. ‘Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas’ has been my sole agenda. Ask him (read Tejashwi) what they did in their 15-year rule. There was no respect for women and the weaker sections like SC and the ST people during their (Lalu-Rabri) rule,” he said without taking anyone’s name.  “Pati (read RJD chief Lalu Prasad) andar gaye to patni (Rabri Devi) ko baitha diya. Aaj kuchh log buraayi karte chal rahe hain (now some people are criticizing me). But I do not care. Let them do what they want. I have always believed in my works and will continue to do that for the sake of development of the state,” Nitish reiterated. Tejashwi attacked Nitish on the issues of unemployment, migration, poor health and education facilities in the state. But Nitish said his government established rule of law compared to the “jungle raj of pati and patni in the state. We also fought against crime, corruption and communalism”. Addressing an election rally in Rafiganj in support of JD(U) candidate Ashok Kumar Singh, Nitish enumerated the achievements of his government in the last 15 years. “Crime was at its peak and massacres were rampant 15 years ago. There was no development at all. Doctors and traders were scared. We changed the atmosphere,” he said. “According to a central government report, Bihar was 23rd in the country in terms of crime in 2018. Bihar’s growth rate is the highest at 12.5%. Women have been given 50% reservation in panchayati raj system and girls have been given cycles and clothes. The number of school-going girls has increased more than boys,” Nitish said. Meanwhile, one Hafiz Ruknuddin Ahmad, who attended the public meeting of Nitish at Sherghati, said: “Nitish and Tejashwi are speaking the same thing everywhere. There is nothing new and interesting in their speeches for the audience. What does it mean to make new promises every day when old ones remain unfulfilled? The promise to upgrade Sherghati into a district remained unfulfilled since the previous two assembly elections. In fact, the villagers of remote areas are turning up at the rally venue to see the helicopter these leaders, as they will get a chance to see it from close only after five years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-tejashwi-trade-barbs-in-rallies/articleshow/78759818.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 44 held with 47 weapons in just over a month||JAIPUR: Jaipur East police have arrested 44 people in 35 cases of carrying illegal weapons between September 9 and October 19. A total of 47 country made weapons have been seized along with 82 cartridges. In September, the Jaipur Commissionerate had started Operation Action Against Guns (AAG) to cut down on arms smuggling in the city. Jaipur East DCP Rahul Jain told TOI, “We have been arresting persons with illegal arms on a regular basis, especially as cases of loot, robbery etc., have come to light. There are multiple reasons why the arrested persons possess these weapons and surely they are used for destructive purposes. At times persons who have recently come out of prison immediately try to get a weapon or for land disputes. Also, now as the IPL season is on, bookies also keep weapons.” According to data, most of the arrests have been in the heart of the city with the most recent one in Adarsh Nagar on Monday in which three people were arrested with two country made pistols and one cartridge. The accused were identified as Ankur Sharma, 22, Sanjay Kumar, 24, and Abhishek Jain, 19, all residents of Bansur in Alwar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/44-held-with-47-weapons-in-just-over-a-month/articleshow/78757950.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Revised entry and exit routes, logistics, traffic issues emerge main challenges||KOLKATA: The city police on Monday hit the streets to canvas remind people to maintain physical distancing as several hundreds queued up at Durga Puja pandals by late evening. Cops started reaching out to puja organizers after the Calcutta High Court order in an attempt to rejig the crowd and traffic circulation plans given the 10m no-entry zone stipulations for bigger pandals. The HC order made it clear that most Kolkata pujas will be treated as big ones. “It is made clear that all the major pujas referred to in the manual of Kolkata Police pertaining to Durga Puja, 2020, will be considered as larger pandals; which will imply that all such puja organizers have to maintain a no-entry zone within the pandals and for an area of 10m from the extremities of the pandals on all sides,” the HC said. Police said its chief discussion point with organizers revolved around fixing the new entry and exit routes. “It seems from our weekend experience — and even on Monday — that a few hundred people will still flock to the pandals. So multiple meetings for the past month that decided the suitable entrances and exits will have to be reworked. With barely 15 people being allowed inside a pandal now, we have to communicate with the organizers of hundreds of smaller pujas too,”said a source. “We need to be methodical. We are not changing the basic traffic police deployment. The on-ground micro changes will happen at the divisional level,” said DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar. Simultaneous canvassing was carried out on stretches like Mohammad Ali Park, Behala 14 No. and Gariahat crossing, with special focus on the market zone of Burrabazar and Posta. Some big pujas, like Mudiali and Abasar, allowed visitors as it stuck to its original Tritiya arrangement on Monday till they received the HC order. According to police, around 100 people stood in line for the Mudiali Club puja around 7pm. Several market areas — Gariahat and Hatibagan in particular — witnessed heavy jams. By evening, the special home guard force kept on reserve was asked to report to 10 of the 25 traffic guards. Police said there are some immediate challenges. “If we have to stop people 10m from Singhi Park or Hatibagan Sarbojanin, we have to shut down Dover Lane and Grey Street fully or partially. This year, the pandals are closer to the roads, so shutting down the streets is not an option,” said an officer. There is also no clarity on how many cops will be required at the pandals, especially the smaller ones. “I have 27 pujas in my area and I provided cops for 12. Now, with limited manpower, if I am asked to man all 27, how many can I spare for the roads?” asked a senior officer. Lalbazar is also worried about all pujas that have set up stalls. CM Mamata Banerjee, during the video conference meeting with officials attended by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, state security advisor Surajit Kar Purakayastha, DGP Virendra and Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma, asked that the Covid norms be complied with. She also asked the district magistrates, police superintendents and CMOHs to keep track of the safety norms and keep ready the emergency health system as the number of new cases was increasing rapidly. The chief secretary said everybody had to follow the norms of immersion issued by the state. “Everyone has a duty to ensure a safe Puja. Puja committees and the public must follow Covid protocols. Organizers and cops will distribute ma-sks,” the CP had told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revised-entry-and-exit-routes-logistics-traffic-issues-emerge-main-challenges/articleshow/78756395.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 20, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Unhappy over exams, Ajmer woman kills self||AJMER: A 25-year-old woman hanged herself in her room as she was reportedly upset over her performance in the exams. According to Civil Lines police, Dilsukh Khichi, a resident of Kayar Road, brought her daughter Pooja to JLN hospital where she was declared dead. Police said the father registered a case that his daughter was appearing in her Bachelor of Education second year exam and she performed badly in some papers. Pooja was upset when she returned after writing the exam. She went into her room and hanged herself from ceiling. Later, family members found her in her room and rushed her to a hospital where she was declared dead. Police said no suicide note was found from her room. In another case, a businessman was duped of Rs 49,900 in an online fraud. Padam Chand of Ganj booked an online air ticket and later called the free toll number of the airlines to cancel the ticket. An unknown person on behalf of the airlines took details of the bank account to refund the money, but Rs 49,900 were withdrawn from his bank account. Ganj police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/unhappy-over-exams-ajmer-woman-kills-self/articleshow/78757941.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||Patna’s air quality drops from moderate to poor category||PATNA: With the change in weather pattern, Patna has witnessed a sudden spike in air pollution and the air quality slipped from moderate to poor category on Monday. As per the daily bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna plunged from 161 on Sunday to 217 at 4pm on Monday. Each year, Patna witnessed poor air quality in winter when PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micron) is found to be the major pollutant. The BSPCB officials said the overall AQI of 217 for Patna was the average of six air monitoring stations at BIT-Mesra, Patna (263), Eco Park (141), SK Memorial Hall (148), DRM office, Khagaul (333), Planetarium (242) and Patna City (121). The CPCB stipulates that ‘poor’ AQI can lead to breathing discomfort on prolonged exposure. Environment experts say it would further deteriorate in November and December depending on climatic conditions. The AQI mainly remains in the 300 to 400 range, from very poor to severe category. According to BSPCB officials, geographical location of Bihar is a major factor for poor air quality during winter. “The pollutants get trapped in the region due to thermal inversion phenomenon,” one official said. Pradhan Parth Sarthi, professor at Department of Environmental Science of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) and standing committee member of Bihar State Action Plan for Climate Change, told this newspaper that the dust particles settle down in lower atmosphere due to transition in weather and high atmospheric pressure. “Due to climatic reasons, thermal inversion phenomenon has been created in the atmosphere. The conditions can improve only by high wind velocity and rainfall, which wash away the pollutants in the environment,” Sarthi said here on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnas-air-quality-drops-from-moderate-to-poor-category/articleshow/78755894.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 20, 2020||Business||Bank of Maha’s Q2 profit grows 13% to Rs 130 crore||TNN Pune: State-owned Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) has said that its second quarter net profit grew 13% on the back of a higher recovery and lower non-performing asset (NPA) additions. The Pune-based bank earned a net profit of Rs 130 crore in the three months ended September against a net profit of Rs 115 crore in the year-ago period. “Profit increase is mainly due to NII (net interest income), which has grown by 5%. Provisions have also come down as asset quality has improved,” said BoM’s MD & CEO A S Rajeev. After a long time, the gross non-performing ratio also fell to single digits, which the bank thinks is sustainable in the future. This is despite the fact that the bank has set aside Rs 925 crore so far as provisions against Covid-related losses. “The recoveries were higher and we also could not recognise fresh NPAs because of the apex court order...if we were to add these, the NPAs will rise by maximum 20 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). Yes, the days of double-digit NPAs are over,” Rajeev added. The bank’s gross bad loans fell to Rs 9,105 crore from Rs 15,409 crore a year earlier. Rajeev said that the bank has restructured 800 small accounts, including those of MSMEs, worth Rs 40 crore. “Despite these prevalent conditions, in the opinion of the management, there would not be significant impact on the bank’s financial results and on going-concern assumptions,” the bank said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-of-mahas-q2-profit-grows-13-to-rs-130-crore/articleshow/78756988.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Business||Equitas raises Rs 140 crore from anchor investors||Chennai: With the Rs 518 crore initial public offer (IPO) for Equitas SFB opening today, the bank has raised Rs 140 crore from anchor investors by the way of allocating 4.23 crore equity shares at the price of Rs 33 per equity share, including a premium of Rs 23 a share. On Monday, the bank’s Listing Committee of the board of directors had finalized an allocation of 42,327,271 equity shares to its anchor investors, in consultation with the promoter selling shareholder and the IPO’s lead managers. Out of the total allocation of 4.23 crore equity shares, about 50.8% (i.e) 2.15 crore equity shares were allocated to six domestic mutual funds through a total of 27 schemes. The highest anchor investor portion of 8.95% (37 lakh equity shares each) was held by ITPL — Invesco India Contra Fund Reg —RCF, Franklin India Smaller Companies Fund, Mirae Asset Large Cap Fund, IIFL Special Opportunities Fund - Series 4. And two other insurance companies ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Ltd and SBI Life Insurance Co. Ltd at the same volume of shares. The price band for the issue is fixed at Rs 32-Rs 33 per share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/equitas-raises-rs-140-crore-from-anchor-investors/articleshow/78756449.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 20, 2020||Business||Edelweiss gets Rs 6.6k cr for new fund||TNN Mumbai: The assets management arm of homegrown financial house Edelweiss has raised Rs 6,600 crore from a clutch of global investors for providing structured credit to corporates. This is Edelweiss’s third special opportunities fund, in which the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board (OTPP), Florida’s State Board of Administration, Swedish Pension Fund-AP4 and a European insurance investor are among the investors, it said through a release on Monday. Edelweiss Alternative Asset Advisors, one of India’s leading asset management platforms with an asset under management (AUM) of about Rs 75,000 crore, announced the final close of its alternative investment fund — ESOF III. “This fund-raise, amid subdued economic climate, is a strong endorsement of the opportunities in the Indian alternative asset management space, as well as the robust and unique private debt platform of Edelweiss Asset Management,” it said. The assets management arm of Edelweiss currently manages funds worth about Rs 45,000 crore under its mutual fund arm and another Rs 30,000 crore under the alternatives one. The group’s alternatives platform is the largest in the country, which has grown 30 times in the last decade from just Rs 1,000 crore to its current size now, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edelweiss-gets-rs-6-6k-cr-for-new-fund/articleshow/78757287.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Business||Hatsun Agro board approves bonus issue||The board of dairy firm Hatsun Agro Product on Monday approved the issue of bonus shares in the ratio of 1:3. The board has recommended issuance of one equity share of Rs 1 each fully paid up for every three existing equity shares held by the shareholders as on record date December 3, 2020, subject to shareholders' approval, Hatsun Agro said in a statement to the exchanges. The pre-bonus issue paid-up capital as on date stands at Rs 16,16,72,492, and the post-bonus paid-up capital shall be Rs 21,55,63,323, the company added. Hatsun Agro, in its board meeting, also approved a proposal for raising funds through private placement of equity shares by way of Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP). The board will seek approval to raise funds not exceeding Rs 900 crore through a postal ballot, the company said. Hatsun Agro reported a net profit of Rs 66 crore for the quarter ended September as against Rs 25 crore profits it posted in the same quarter a year ago. The company manufactures and deals in dairy products such as milk, curd, ice creams, dairy whitener, skimmed milk powder, ghee, paneer and others. Shares of Hatsun Agro closed the trading day at Rs 850.3 up over 9% on the BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hatsun-agro-board-approves-bonus-issue/articleshow/78756594.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Business||Kalyan Jewellers gets Sebi nod for Rs 1,750cr IPO||TNN Mumbai: Kalyan Jewellers has received capital markets regulator Sebi’s nod to raise about Rs 1,750 crore through its maiden public offering (IPO). Of the total amount, Rs 1,000 crore will accrue to the company, while the balance Rs 750 crore will go to the selling shareholders, including Rs 250 crore to T S Kalyanaraman, the main promoter of the company. Highdell Investment, one of the investors in the jeweller, is also selling shares worth about Rs 500 crore in the IPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kalyan-jewellers-gets-sebi-nod-for-rs-1750cr-ipo/articleshow/78757093.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Lodge FIR against Maken, CM & Dotasra: Bainsla to guv||Jaipur: Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla’s son Vijay Singh Bainsla on Monday submitted a representation to Bharatpur collector addressing governor Kalraj Mishra demanding an FIR against chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and AICC general secretary Ajay Maken within 24 hours for organising legislature party meeting at the CM’s residence and staging demonstrations, in violation of Covid norms and state epidemics diseases act.In the representation submitted on behalf of the MBC community to collector Nathmal Didel, he requested the governor to lodge a case against Gehlot, Dotasra and Maken under ‘equal offense, equal justice, equal penalty’ rule and said, “The manner in which the FIR was lodged for organising a mahapanchayat by MBC (most backward class) community, in the same pattern, it should be registered against them within 24 hours and uphold the Indian justice system.”Bainsla also attached pictures of legislature party meeting at the CM’s residence, MLAs protesting at the governor’s house, Dotasra addressing public meeting and Maken and PCC chief staging a demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lodge-fir-against-maken-cm-dotasra-bainsla-to-guv/articleshow/78757955.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Agra||45 new Covid positive cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 45 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 6,778. These included six patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, five of influenza-like illness, four of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Moreover, a 60-year-old man died during treatment at the SN Medical College in Agra. The Kamla Nagar locality resident was suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome and diabetes. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 137 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 50 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 6,778 cases, 90.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district had reduced from 485 on Sunday, to 479 on Monday. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 6,162 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/45-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78755488.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Business||‘Sept footfalls were higher than last year’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com It will truly be a new normal in the future as shopping behaviour of people will change for good and retailers and wholesalers have to adapt to it, says Metro Cash & Carry India MD & CEO Arvind Mediratta. Digitisation and omni-channel presence are the two ways to remain competitive in a changed world of groceries... How far has business returned to normal? Business will never return to the so-called ‘normal’ and digital will become the new normal, whether it is B2B (business-to-business) or B2C (business-to-consumer). In retail or wholesale, everybody has to become a complete omni-channel player, and that is a journey we started in April. Lots of kirana customers are shopping on our trader e-commerce platform and that number is growing every month. The future of shopping will be hybrid — a mix of physical mode and digital. While kiranas have been strong, the ‘Horeca’ (hotels, restaurants, cafe) segment has been impacted, which will take at least another year to recover. However, our footfall in September has been higher than the same period last year. What are the challenges that you still face? The biggest challenge is, despite the directives from the government on August 31, there are still state-level lockdowns which disturb the rhythm of business. We have seen that in Kolkata, where our store was closed for two days, or in Punjab, or Uttar Pradesh or in Surat. These are spoilsports and big dampers on business coming back to normal. Of course, UP and Punjab modified their stance, but at the same time people are also scared to go out. Has Covid-19 impacted remuneration, or resulted in downsizing? We have not laid off a single employee nor cut salaries. Instead, we will be giving hikes from October and will not roll it back. We have also offered incentives to store teams and extra money to retain talent. What additional steps can the government take to help businesses? The challenge of a kirana customer is access to credit and the government should ensure they get it through the PSU banks. A kirana owner will never default on the loan he takes as it is the only source of livelihood. Incentivising digitisation of these stores will make them competitive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sept-footfalls-were-higher-than-last-year/articleshow/78756939.cms||Avik Das
October 20, 2020||Delhi||From CNG to hydrogen, Delhi’s journey towards becoming city with clean air||NEW DELHI: On Tuesday, Delhi will become the first city in the country to roll out buses run on hydrogen-enriched CNG (HCNG), a fuel cleaner than CNG. However, HCNG is only an “interim” technology and the aim is to finally have hydrogen-run buses in the capital. Read AlsoExplained: What is HCNG and what are its benefits?Buses running on hydrogen-enriched compressed natural gas(HCNG), a cleaner fuel compared with CNG, are going to hit the capital’s roads, from Tuesday. We will explain what HCNG is, its benefits and other things.A four-tonne-per-day compact reformer-based HCNG production plant will be inaugurated at the Rajghat-I bus depot of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Tuesday by Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan and Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot. From Tuesday itself, 50 buses running on HCNG will hit the capital’s roads. The buses will be run for six months as part of a pilot project. After the trial period, a detailed performance report will be compiled incorporating the fuel economy and the emissions data of the trial buses run with CNG and HCNG fuel mixtures. The report will be submitted to the Supreme Court and Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority. The apex court had earlier suggested that Delhi could “leapfrog” from the CNG-run to the Hydrogen-run buses instead of procuring electric buses as a solution for Delhi-NCR’s poor air quality. While the technology will take some time to appear in the capital, HCNG will be a step in that direction, even as Delhi government plans to gradually replace its fleet of CNG-run public transport buses with electric buses. The hydrogen fuel cell technology is one of the most efficient and only produces water and heat instead of emissions, making it the cleanest. These buses use hydrogen fuel cells that function like a battery but do not need to be charged. The buses have been developed by Tata Motors and Indian Space Research Organisation, but are not easily available in the market yet. While a source in Delhi government said the possibilities were being explored, HCNG would help the city achieve reduction in emissions. It can be used in engines of the existing public transport buses in Delhi without any major modification. Also, re-fuelling of HCNG blends in vehicles can be achieved with minimum modifications in the CNG infrastructure. The apex court had said hydrogen buses were running successfully in other countries and their procurement might not be a problem as the Tata group has started manufacturing these vehicles in India. Delhi government officials, however, said creating a fleet of purely hydrogen-run buses would take some time while it just needs to modify existing CNG-run buses for adopting HCNG. Delhi government is also looking at inducting 2,000 electric buses in Delhi’s public transport fleet by the end of 2021. In August, transport minister Gahlot had spoken to R K Singh, Union minister of state (independent charge) for power and new and renewable energy via videoconferencing about installation of charging infrastructure in Delhi-NCR as part of the recently launched electric vehicle policy of the state government. After the meeting, Gahlot said Singh had assured to consider subsidies for 1,000 electric buses in the city under the Centre’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme II, which had a Rs 10,000-crore subsidy outlay. Delhi government plans to induct 1,000 electric buses but their delivery schedule got hampered due the Covid-19 outbreak. DTC also plans to induct 1,000 electric buses in its fleet and in a first-of-its-kind public-private partnership under the build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) model for the corporation, it is going to induct 300 electric buses by selecting an operator for procurement, operation and maintenance of these buses in an 11-year contract. The company will be paid operating cost per kilometre under the operating expenses (OPEX) model. Though DTC had received bids, the tender is yet to be awarded. Watch What is HCNG: All you need to know||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-cng-to-hydrogen-delhis-journey-towards-becoming-city-with-clean-air/articleshow/78757948.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 20, 2020||Business||RBI buys back Rs 14,553 crore gilts in OMO switch||MUMBAI: In its first enhanced open market operation (OMO) under the switch method, the RBI bought back government securities (G-Secs) worth Rs 14,553 crore from the market. At the same time, the central bank issued long dated ones worth Rs 15,277 crore. Earlier, the RBI had said it would conduct an OMO switch worth up to Rs 20,000 crore on Monday. Switch OMOs are market operations under which the RBI buys short-tenure G-Secs and, at the same time, sells medium- and long-tenure ones. These operations are carried out to manage the yield in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-buys-back-rs-14-5k-cr-gilts-in-omo-switch/articleshow/78757218.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav sympathizes with Chirag Paswan in attacking Nitish Kumar||PATNA: A day after calling LJP the ‘B’ team of BJP, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday said something which must have been soothing to the ears of its chief Chirag Paswan. “What Nitish Kumar ji did with Chirag Paswan is not good. Chirag needs his father at this time more than ever before. But Ram Vilas Paswan is not among us and we are sad about it. The way Nitish Kumar behaved… did injustice to Chirag,” Tejashwi told mediapersons before leaving for the election campaign. Chirag had criticised CM Nitish Kumar for not saying even a word of sympathy to him following the death of his father Ram Vilas Paswan or his body was flown to Patna airport where Nitish paid tribute but did not acknowledge him. “I am shocked that because of personal feelings, we even forget basic ‘shishtachar’ (courtesy),” he had said. Even RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha did not waste time to sympathize with Chirag and invited him to join his alliance. “Chirag is being humiliated by BJP. If he wants to come with us, we will welcome him,” Kushwaha told this newspaper over the phone. However, Chirag’s joining hands with RLSP-led alliance is unlikely more because Mayawati’s BSP is already there. “Both the leaders represent Dalits and fight for their cause,” said an LJP leader, dismissing the possibility of LJP being part of RLSP-led combination. Meanwhile, Chirag continued his attack on JD(U) chief Nitish and urged people to ask his candidates to explain the development works in their respective constituencies in the last five years. “I think they will not be able to reply as they have done nothing,” he said. The LJP chief also claimed his party will win more seats than JD(U) in the assembly polls. “Keeping in tune with the idea of ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’, we will create a new Bihar,” he tweeted. An NDA ally since 2014 Lok Sabha polls, LJP is contesting the state assembly election separately owing to ideological differences with JD(U). What keeps the rumour mills abuzz is Chirag’s repeated assertion that LJP and BJP would form the next government in Bihar and he was the PM’s ‘Hanuman’. That had compelled senior BJP leaders, including Amit Sah and Bhupender Yadav, to announce that LJP was not the NDA partner and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar would be the NDA CM. They also slammed Chirag for trying to misguide the voters ahead of election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-sympathizes-with-chirag-in-attacking-nitish/articleshow/78763404.cms||Ramashankar
October 20, 2020||---||Katoria voters repose faith in different parties||BANKA: Perhaps the Maoist-hit Katoria is one of the few assembly segments in Bihar having sizeable population of tribal and scheduled caste voters. It is largely a rural and reserved seat with 30% scheduled tribe’s population. The assembly election in Katoria is in the first phase on October 28. The electorates in Katoria have always elected candidates from different parties, including Congress, RJD and BJP, in state assembly elections. Those who were elected from Katoria include Piro Manjhi of Congress (1952), Raghvendra N Singh of Congress (1957), Kampa Murmu of Swaraj Party (1962), Sitaram Kishorepuria of Bharatiya Janasangh (1967), Suresh Yadav of Congress (1969), Jaiprakash Mishra (independent) in 1972, Guneshwar Singh of Janata Party (1977), Suresh Yadav of Indian Socialist Party (1980, 1985 and 1990), Girdhari Yadav of Janata Dal (1995), Girdhari Yadav of RJD (2000), Rajkishore Prasad Yadav of LJP (February 2005) and from RJD in October, 2005. Katoria was declared ST (reserved) constituency in 2010 after the delimitation owing to high population of ST and scheduled castes. In 2010, Sonelal Hembrom of BJP won the seat while Sweety Seema Hembrom of RJD was elected in 2015. RJD has retained Sweety as its candidate. BJP has fielded Nikki Hembrom, a member of Bihar State Women Commission. The JMM has fielded Anjala Hansda. Deliberating on the major issues in the area, Katoriya panchayat mukhiya Pradeep Gupta said: “Scarcity of drinking water, poor irrigation facilities, unemployment, lack of education facilities, superstitious beliefs and practices pervading the tribal community, farming hassles due to rocky agriculture fields and dearth of irrigation water, forest areas becoming hideouts of Maoists, illegal brewing of mahua (local toddy) and migration of youths for menial jobs continue to plague this constituency.” Social activist and resident of Sitane village under Katoria block, Kabinder Singh, referred to the 2011 Census data to claim that Katoria is one of the few assembly segments where the urbanization process is yet to start. “The influence of Maoists has weakened but still the forest areas of the region act as shelters for them and criminal activities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/katoria-voters-repose-faith-in-different-parties/articleshow/78757354.cms||Kumar Rajesh
October 20, 2020||---||‘Nitish Kumar erased perception of Bihar as a Bimaru state’||PATNA: JD (U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh talks to TOI’s Piyush Tripathi on a range of issues, from Chirag Paswan to BJP’s insistence on Nitish as NDA CM face, to the reason behind JD(U) going with ‘15 Saal Vs 15 Saal’ as the party’s main poll plank, among other issues. Excerpts: JD(U) parted ways with BJP after 17 years in 2013 and joined hands again in 2017. Senior saffron leaders are repeatedly asserting that JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar will remain the CM face of NDA. Why do you think BJP is backing him so strongly? I’ve known Nitish Kumar from student politics days and I saw the visionary in him from that time. The governance of Nitish has been universally accepted as an ideal model. His track record of erasing the perception of Bihar as a ‘Bimaru’ state to manifold development in all sectors has been stupendous. This prompted us to coin our slogan ‘15 Years Vs 15 Years’. How effective is JD (U)’s slogan considering a large number of young voters have not seen the 15 years before Nitish? Unlike negative politics by opposition parties, JD (U) is spreading the message of the development work done during Nitish’s rule. Before Nitish, extortion fear was rampant. There was a perception that there is no government in Bihar, but it changed after Nitish came to power. It was his visionary schemes like cycle and uniform for government school students, which encouraged kids to study. Besides, the initiatives for skill development and scholarships under Seven Resolves are being appreciated by the youth. When BJP is asserting that Nitish is the CM face of NDA, does it mean they are putting their stamp on JD (U) as the ‘big brother’?It depends on how you define it...I think they say it based on their experience of working with Nitish Ji and acceptance of his style of governance. They had to reiterate it lately after Chirag started giving baseless statements, trying to create doubts by taking BJP’s name. LJP chief Chirag Paswan has been alleging that CM Nitish mistreated his father late Ram Vilas Paswan and also ignored him. Your take?Chirag's statements are against coalition dharma. Moreover, we don’t take his utterances seriously. It is his style of politics to defame someone. I believe he is feeling isolated. Ram Vilas Ji and Nitish Ji had very cordial relations. I have seen both of them for long, and they were always respectful of each other. Chirag keeps saying BJP-LJP will form the next government.When Amit Shah Ji has said BJP is fighting against LJP and NDA is going to form the next government under the leadership of Nitish, then such statements from Chirag hold no relevance. The politics of doubt or false propaganda is always short-lived. JD (U) is contesting on the highest number of seats in NDA. How high are the stakes for the party?We are not thinking only about JD (U). I have sent a message to our party workers that they should work with complete dedication for ensuring the victory of all constituents of NDA, including BJP, HAM (S) and Mukesh Sahni – led VIP. How significant will be PM Narendra Modi’s role in this Bihar election?PM Modi is the national face of the alliance, of which we are a constituent. Thus, his role is significant and will work in our favour. He is the face at the Centre and Nitish Ji is the face for Bihar. Modi Ji is firm about Nitish Ji’s leadership in Bihar. 15 years is a long time and it leads to natural fatigue among the electorate. What do you think?Such a situation has not been witnessed in many cases in the past like Jyoti Basu in West Bengal or Nabin Patnaik in Odisha. A scenario of fatigue is being created by Opposition when they have no issues or a face. What factors will go in favour of JD (U)?Women’s empowerment will be the foremost factor in our favour. We have taken several steps for women, including 50% reservation in Panchayati Raj institutions and 35% horizontal reservation in government jobs. Improved law and order, education, bringing the most backward sections of society to the mainstream and prohibition are such factors. Is caste politics still dominant in Bihar or development agenda plays a bigger role?Caste continues to be a factor but its grip has loosened to a large extent. Now, a section of society doesn’t believe in caste politics and takes development as the bigger parameter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-erased-perception-of-bihar-as-a-bimaru-state/articleshow/78757170.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Caste takes a back seat as youngsters stress on change||PATNA: Caste politics in Bihar may have played a major role for years and been the decisive factor during elections, but youngsters and first-time voters seem to care more about development, proper education, infrastructure and jobs in 2020. Many of them are unsatisfied with the sluggish progress in different sectors in the state. Vicenarian Vaibhav Rajhans, a student of the National Institute of Technology-Patna (NIT), believes it’s high time youngsters chose candidates on the basis of development, instead of caste or religion. “No country or state can develop if people continue exercising their franchise to pick candidates of their community,” he says, adding, “There are a couple of good institutes in Bihar like the Indian Institute of Technology, NIT and National Institute of Fashion Technology, but these are not enough. We need more such institutes so that the students do not have to move out for higher studies.” 21-year-old Anupama also condemns the state of higher education in Bihar. The Patna Science College student is planning to pursue her Masters from a Delhi-based institute and look for a job there because of the “lack of employment opportunities in Bihar”. Many first-time voters want to choose candidates who work for the overall development of the state. A Patna Women’s College student, Shivangi Priya, says, “It was easy for politicians to fool the old-timers, but youngsters cannot be misguided. We do not want fake promises. We look for change and development.” Anubhav Singh, who works with a private firm in Bengaluru, is excited to cast his vote when he comes to Patna during the festive season. “I would have loved to stay in my hometown, but there are no jobs here. I had also pursued my higher education in Hyderabad,” he says. Anubhav wants “change” and will only vote for a candidate who develops Bihar in the long run. 25-year-old Naveen Ram, a migrant who had returned to Bihar during the lockdown, is going back to Delhi in search of a job. “I was unable to find work in Bihar,” he rues. Rajendra Nagar resident Bipin Agarwal thinks it is unfortunate that Bihar is still an underdeveloped state. The 56-year-old says, “After so many years, I realized that our focus should only be on the development of the state. Nothing else matters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/caste-takes-a-back-seat-as-youngsters-stress-on-change/articleshow/78763522.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 20, 2020||Patna||‘Need to ensure that half of all candidates in Bihar polls are women’||PATNA: The GST originally levied a 16% tax on sanitary napkins, while the nationwide lockdown in March 2020 did not include sanitary napkins as an essential commodity at first. Women, in their varied backgrounds, have distinct life experiences — the primary responsibility for household water, dominant farm labour, particular health and hygiene needs, targets of violent gender-based crimes, lack of formal employment etc. Since we are constitutionally a representative democracy, it means that sizeable sections of the demographic must have a voice. This enables women’s participation in House debates that decide upon laws and policies, duly considering the perspectives from women’s, and their female constituents’ lived experiences. While women’s representation automatically conjures up the Women’s Reservation Bill, there are many ways to skin that cat. Ensuring half the candidates standing for election are women, for example. This allows voters a real choice to elect who they please, if political parties are fair, and stand women in half the contests. Are there enough female aspirants for that? Bihar was the first state to accord 50% reservation to women in local bodies, enabling a stream of women with electoral and administrative experience. Over 8,000 local bodies, half of them run by women for three cycles since 2006. Even an ultra-conservative estimate of 5% being superlative would amount to a whopping pipeline of 600 women worthy of consideration for MLA candidate. Plus women members and leaders from political parties. Women have also been voting in a greater percentage than men in the assembly elections, displaying great interest in political participation. Still, parties gave barely 10% tickets to women in the last Bihar Vidhan Sabha election, leading to a minuscule 11% women in the assembly. Altogether 28 out of 243 women, down from 34 in 2010-2015. This is the motivation for citizen intervention to persuade and pressure the players to provide greater opportunities to women in electoral politics. Shakti — Political Power To Women, is a non-partisan, grassroots citizens collective, running ground campaigns to increase women MLAs elected to Vidhan Sabha. Shakti joined hands with over 120+ Bihar NGOs and eminent personalities, farmers, Dalit, minority, women's and students groups, civil society organizations, professors, retired bureaucrats, etc, to petition political parties to field 50% women candidates. Shakti's volunteers then reached out to elected mukhiyas and sarpanches across Bihar for the 'Selfless Selfie' and 'Call Women MLAs' campaigns. In these Covid-safe campaigns, mukhiyas and sarpanches sent selfies demanding 50% women candidates, and the sitting women MLAs committed to asking their parties for the same. Ground campaigns reveal that women's top issues in Bihar, law and order, sanitation, education and employment (of women), are not the priority in male-dominated parties. To highlight the stark costs of this lacuna, Shakti released an 80-second public interest film in Bhojpuri and Maithili, called Aadha Humara. We are hopeful that the demands of citizens, volunteers, ecosystems of NGOs and influencers, and the lakhs of voters that the Mukhiyas, Sarpanches and MLAs represent through these campaigns, will reach the ears of the Candidate Selection Committees of the political parties. And that it yields plenty of female candidates, leading to an Assembly that is gender-balanced in its composition and more representative of Bihar. (The writer is a co-founder of Shakti — Political Power to Women)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/need-to-ensure-that-half-of-all-candidates-in-polls-are-women/articleshow/78763595.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||RJD and JD(U) to fight it out in Belhar||BANKA: The Belhar assembly segment in Banka district is set to witness a close contest between RJD’s sitting MLA Ramdev Yadav and JD (U)’s MLC Manoj Yadav. Both the candidates, say the locals, have a major influence on the Yadavs, Kumhars and scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in the constituency that will go to the polls on October 28. Since 1995, the Belhar constituency has either been represented by the candidates of the RJD or the JD (U). Prior to that, Congress candidates represented the constituency in 1952, 1957 and 1962, followed by Socialist Party candidates in 1967 and 1969. A Congress nominee again registered victory in 1972 and a Janata Party nominee in 1977. An independent candidate won in 1980, followed by a Congress nominee in 1985 and 1990. In 1995, Ramdev Yadav won as a Janata Party candidate. He emerged victorious again in 2000 and 2005 as an RJD candidate. In the 2005 election, Janardan Manhji won and was replaced by Girdhari Yadav of the JD (U) in the 2010 polls. The latter also emerged victorious during the 2015 election by defeating BJP’s Manoj Yadav. He, however, resigned from his assembly seat after winning the Lok Sabha election from the Banka parliamentary constituency as a JD (U) nominee in 2019. During the by-election for the Belhar assembly constituency held last year, RJD candidate Ramdev Yadav wrested the seat by defeating Girdhari’s brother and JD (U) candidate Laldhari Yadav by nearly 22,000 votes. Major issues in the constituency are unemployment, lack of good education, potable water, large forest areas turning into hideouts of the Maoists and migration of youths for menial jobs, among others. Referring to the problems, a local, Abhay Kumar, told this newspaper, “Unemployment, Left-wing extremism and migration of locals are major issues that people face.” Lawyer Sunil Singh said, “There are more than 100 polling booths where the threat of Maoists looms large. Many forest areas are also their shelters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-and-jdu-to-fight-it-out-in-belhar/articleshow/78756702.cms||Kumar Rajesh
October 20, 2020||Patna||56% Covid deaths in 50-69 age group||PATNA: More than half (56.3%) of the Covid-19 patients who died at the dedicated hospitals in Patna since March were in 50-69 years’ age group and 26.1% in 60 to 69 age bracket. Close to 65% Covid patients who died had comorbidities like diabetes, heart ailments, hypertension and respiratory problems. Altogether 605 Covid patients have died at AIIMS-Patna and NMCH-Patna, including 20 in the age bracket of 1-29. Altogether 35 deaths were in 30-39 age group, 82 in 40-49, 147 in 50-59, 158 in 60-69, 99 in 70-79 and 29 above 80 years of age, as per the data shared by the Covid dedicated hospitals in the city. According to the experts, senior citizens are more susceptible to the novel virus infection and death, mainly because of their weak immune system and several health ailments like hypertension, diabetes, heart ailments, chronic kidney disorder (CKD) and asthma. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said around 33% of the Covid deaths there were of those in the age group of 60 to 69 and 60% of them had comorbid conditions. “Several patients have also died due to the seriousness and spread of the virus to other organs. Many people delayed the treatment leading to the Covid fatalities. Those who are living in home isolation should take extra precaution and take vitamins, antibiotics and anti-allergic drugs if cough persists,” Dr Sanjeev said. He added: “As Covid is a disease of hypercoagulable state, blood thinner is to be given under medical supervision with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) injections. If it’s not possible, then administer anti-coagulant tablets.” NMCH nodal officer for Covid, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said the death audit committee has observed that the delay in treatment and medical history of patients are some of the reasons behind Covid fatalities. “People in home isolation believes that they can treat themselves there as there is no medication or vaccine for the disease. But they come to the hospital after their cases become critical. At critical stage, it becomes difficult for doctors to treat such patients,” he said. The death audit committee of the hospital has urged the state health department to advise comorbid patients to admit to the hospital, instead of allowing such patients to remain in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/56-covid-deaths-in-50-69-age-group/articleshow/78756052.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Attack on BJP president’s cavalcade: leaders lodge complaint against Bittu, CP marks inquiry||Ludhiana: On Monday, BJP leaders of the district led by president Pushpendra Singal lodged a complaint against Congress leader and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, accusing him of attack on BJP state president Ashwani Sharma near Jalandhar. The BJP leaders met police commissioner of Ludhiana, Rakesh Aggarwal, and submitted their complaint with him. Aggarwal marked an inquiry to DCP law and order. Notably, a few days ago, when a motorcade of Ashwani Sharma was attacked on Jalandhar Pathankot highway, Bittu had allegedly claimed that the attack on Sharma was not conducted by farmers but was held at his behest and he dared that the case should be registered against him. Singal said, “We condemn the cowardly attack by Congress goons on the cavalcade of our state president Ashwani Sharma on Jalandhar-Pathankot highway near Cholang toll plaza. Its really unfortunate that so far no arrests have been made by the police. To the shock of everyone , immediately after the attack, in which our leader and those travelling with him had a narrow escape, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu had openly claimed to be responsible for the attack and challenged police to register a case against him. On the basis of the statements made by him, he should be tried under sections 153, 307, 505 and 506 of IPC. We met CP Ludhiana today and have submitted a written complaint against Bittu along with the evidence. We are hoping that justice will be served to us and all the culprits including Bittu are booked at the earliest.” Singal also added, “In this entire incident, Congress and its leaders have been exposed and it is beyond doubt that they can stoop to any level to gain political mileage, even if it involves staging a deadly attack on the opponent. However, our party’s stand is clear: come what may, we will do what so ever it takes to bring the guilty to book. Be it staging dharnas across Punjab or outside the homes of Congress leaders, ministers and even the chief minister.” When contacted, Aggarwal said, “A delegation of BJP leaders met me today and submitted their complaint, based upon which I have marked an enquiry to DCP law and order Ashwani Kapur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/attack-on-bjp-presidents-cavalcade-leaders-lodge-complaint-against-bittu-cp-marks-inquiry/articleshow/78757957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Mayor, Cong councillor at loggerheads over CLU issue, shopkeepers divided||Ludhiana: With mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and Congress councillor, who is also Punjab Small Industries & Export Corporation (PSIEC) chairman, Gurpreet Singh Gogi at loggerheads over the issue of change of land use charges (CLU), the shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi, who had started protests against civic body for recovery of CLU charges from the owners of shops in the market are divided divided over the issue. Mayor Sandhu issued a press statement and pictures of shopkeepers handing over cheques of CLU charges to him on Monday, the PSIEC chairman and Congress councillor Gurpreet Gogi met commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal at his camp office and again raised voice against CLU notices. The mayor claimed that shopkeepers were now aware of CLU charges and it was in their favour to get their commercial establishments regularised. He claimed that not only Ghumar Mandi but also Jawahar Nagar shopkeepers have started making payment. He asked other shopkeepers to utilise this opportunity. On the other hand, Gogi maintained that CLU notices at this moment were not appropriate. He highlighted an old resolution of government issued in 1995, according to which shopkeepers were supposed to pay Rs 25.80 per square yard. But at that time, the officials neither issued the notices or started any recovery process. He said officials cannot recover CLU on the basis of a notification of 2005, especially from those shopkeepers who are settled in the market before 1970. According to Gogi, no shopkeeper is paying CLU charges out of choice. As the civic body has started sealing shops, they are forced to pay. The commissioner assured immediate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mayor-cong-councillor-at-loggerheads-over-clu-issue-shopkeepers-divided/articleshow/78757944.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Patna||Experts discuss virus impact on agri supply chain||PATNA: Experts shared their views on the impact of Covid-19 on agriculture supply chain and way forward at a webinar organised by the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) and International Growth Center (IGC) on ‘Navigating Impact Of Covid-19 On The Agriculture Supply Chain in India’, on Monday. Delivering the keynote address, ADRI’s member secretary Shaibal Gupta said early evidences at the farm gate level indicate that post lockdown, quantity arrivals in agriculture mandis fell by 42%. “The lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic led to massive disruptions in agri-food supply chains. The unplanned and sudden policy shocks affected all segments of food supply chains right from production, procurement and processing, to transport, logistics and final demand. Even restrictions and disruption on vehicle movement both across state borders and within the cities hit the agri sectror badly,” he said. N. Saravana Kumar, secretary, department of agriculture said that maize prices crashed down by 50% during the pandemic. “The starch industry was also hit due to which demand for maize dipped. Marginal farmers needed cash and hence distress sale was observed. Moreover, there was no procurement mechanism for maize,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-discuss-virus-impact-on-agri-supply-chain/articleshow/78756754.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Business||Sebi sets up data advisory committee||TNN Mumbai: Regulator Sebi has constituted a market data advisory committee (MDAC), headed by Madhabi Puri Buch, a whole time member, for effective dissemination of its data for research, decision making and innovations in the financial market. This is part of Sebi’s initiatives “to make shareable data on the Indian securities market, available for researchers, policy makers, general public alike and to enhance the quality of such data”, a release from the regulator said. The committee will recommend appropriate policy for access to securities market data, identify segment-wise data perimeters, data needs & gaps, recommend data privacy and data access regulations applicable to market data. CEOs of stock exchanges & depositories, representatives of various stakeholders and senior officials of Sebi are members of the committee. Sebi recognises that non-private data is a ‘public good’ and that access to high quality standardised data on various securities market activities is essential for fostering market transparency, operational efficiency and innovations in Indian securities market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-sets-up-data-advisory-committee/articleshow/78757252.cms||---
October 20, 2020||---||Bihar: Many woman mukhiyas confident of poll victory||PATNA: Mukhiya of Pirokhar panchayat in Madhubani district, Mandakini Chaudhary, is all set to contest the upcoming assembly polls from Harlakhi assembly constituency as independent. Harlakhi in Madhubani district will go to the polls in the third and last phase of the elections on November 7. Mandakini, an MBA degree holder in finance and marketing from ICFAI Business School, Kolkata, chose politics as her career in 2013 and vowed to work for women empowerment and youth employment in Madhubani district. Within three years, she became very popular. She contested the mukhiya election in 2016 on her supporters’ demand and emerged victorious. The victory inspired her to work more to uplift the poor and the downtrodden. “I don’t believe in ‘prachar’, but in real work. My works speak volumes of development in the panchayat,” she said. Granddaughter of an ex-IAS officer, Mandakini hails from Sujatpur village. “I declined multi-lucrative job offers after obtaining a management degree from a reputable institution. The zeal to do something different forced me to settle in my native village. To bring a change in the lives of the poor is my prime objective,” she said. Mandakini is not an isolated case. Several women mukhiyas are trying their luck in the forthcoming assembly polls. For instance, Shushumlata Kushwaha, the mukhiya of Dawan panchayat, has been fielded as JD(U) candidate from Jagdishpur constituency in Bhojpur district. Jagdishpur will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. “I have learned a lot while performing duty as mukhiya. I know very well about the government schemes for the welfare of the people. If you work at the grassroots level, there is possibility of doing well at upper level. I hope the people of Jagdishpur will judge my performance and shower their blessing,” she said. Ritu Jaiswal, the mukhiya of Rajsinghwahi panchayat in Sitamarhi district, has been fielded as RJD candidate from Parihar assembly constituency. Wife of a former IAS officer, Arun Kumar, Ritu is hopeful of getting people’s support on the basis of her development works in the panchayat. Ritu said she has a vision for all-round development of the constituency. “It is not necessary that only big industries will provide jobs to the unemployed. There is a vast scope of job opportunities in agro-based industries, fisheries, dairy, tourism and horticulture,” she said. Though the state pioneered 50% reservation in local bodies in 2006, there are only 11% women in Bihar assembly. Statistics showed that women candidates have a much stronger success rate than their male counterparts. In 2015 assembly polls, all 10 women who fought on RJD tickets, won. Nine of the 10 who fought on JD(U) tickets and four of the five Congress candidates had also emerged victorious. Pramod Kumar, a poll observer, said, “Bihar is witnessing several young women taking the electoral plunge to change the way politics is seen and done in the state. Pushpam Priya Choudhary, who has announced herself as CM candidate and decided to contest the election from Bankipore assembly constituency in Patna, is a case in point.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/many-woman-mukhiyas-confident-of-poll-victory/articleshow/78757257.cms||Ramashankar
October 20, 2020||Patna||In a first, five candidates vie for Bihar CM post||PATNA: Bihar has never witnessed so many claimants for the single post of the chief minister during the assembly elections. There are as many as five claimants, including self-declared ones, for the coveted chair this time. Though the main claimants are the ruling NDA’s CM face Nitish Kumar and the Grand Alliance’s CM nominee Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, other smaller alliances too have declared their CM candidates. While the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF), comprising AIMIM, BSP and RLSP, has declared the former Union minister and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha as its CM candidate; the Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA), headed by Jan Adhikar Party-Loktantrik (JAP-L) has declared ex-Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav as its CM face. The PDP comprises four parties — JAP-L, the Azad Samaj Party led by Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) led by M K Faizey and the Bahujan Mukti Party headed by V L Matang. The fifth open claimant for the CM post is the new entrant Plurals Party chief Pushpam Priya Choudhary. She has also declared herself a chief ministerial candidate. Though LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan’s name is also being considered, Chirag himself has clarified that he is not in the race. He has categorically said his party would support the CM candidate of BJP after the election results. The saffron party’s national leaders such as Union minister Amit Shah and the president J P Nadda have time and again said the JD(U) chief and present CM Nitish Kumar is their CM candidate. Shah also recently clarified that Nitish would be the chief minister, even if the BJP gets more seats than JD(U). Ironically, both the biggest national parties—BJP and Congress— are not in the race for the CM post in Bihar. While BJP has backed Nitish, Congress has accepted RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav as its CM face. Generally, the chief minister of a state is elected by the newly-elected MLAs of the largest party or the largest group of parties after the poll results are out. Such practice used to happen in Bihar till the assembly election of the 1990s. Lalu Prasad was elected the leader of the then Janta Dal by the newly elected MLAs in 1990 after the assembly election results were out and the governor had invited the largest party to form the government. Old-timers say the practice of declaring the CM face before the state polls began in Bihar in 2005 after the BJP declared Nitish Kumar as the CM candidate of NDA. In the 2010 election, too, the NDA contested the assembly polls after declaring Nitish as its CM face. In 2015 polls, the Grand Alliance comprising JD(U), RJD and the Congress, had declared Nitish as its CM face, but the BJP-led NDA contested that election on the face of PM Narendra Modi, saying the BJP would declare its CM after the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-a-first-5-candidates-vie-for-cm-post/articleshow/78759766.cms||Madan Kumar
October 20, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav trade barbs in rallies||GAYA/AURANGABAD: Electioneering for assembly election in the Magadh region of south Bihar gained momentum on Monday as both CM Nitish Kumar and the Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav hit out at each other in a series of public meetings. The region will go to the polls in the first phase scheduled on October 28. Nitish addressed public meetings in Sherghati, Tekari, Atri and Rafiganj segments in Gaya district while Tejashwi covered Wazirganj, Atri and Belaganj assembly segments. At the Ranglal High School ground in Sherghati, Nitish said his government never favoured any particular section of the society. ‘Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas’ has been my sole agenda. Ask him (read Tejashwi) what they did in their 15-year rule. There was no respect for women and the weaker sections like SC and the ST people during their (Lalu-Rabri) rule,” he said without taking anyone’s name.  “Pati (read RJD chief Lalu Prasad) andar gaye to patni (Rabri Devi) ko baitha diya. Aaj kuchh log buraayi karte chal rahe hain (now some people are criticizing me). But I do not care. Let them do what they want. I have always believed in my works and will continue to do that for the sake of development of the state,” Nitish reiterated. Tejashwi attacked Nitish on the issues of unemployment, migration, poor health and education facilities in the state. But Nitish said his government established rule of law compared to the “jungle raj of pati and patni in the state. We also fought against crime, corruption and communalism”. Addressing an election rally in Rafiganj in support of JD(U) candidate Ashok Kumar Singh, Nitish enumerated the achievements of his government in the last 15 years. “Crime was at its peak and massacres were rampant 15 years ago. There was no development at all. Doctors and traders were scared. We changed the atmosphere,” he said. “According to a central government report, Bihar was 23rd in the country in terms of crime in 2018. Bihar’s growth rate is the highest at 12.5%. Women have been given 50% reservation in panchayati raj system and girls have been given cycles and clothes. The number of school-going girls has increased more than boys,” Nitish said. Meanwhile, one Hafiz Ruknuddin Ahmad, who attended the public meeting of Nitish at Sherghati, said: “Nitish and Tejashwi are speaking the same thing everywhere. There is nothing new and interesting in their speeches for the audience. What does it mean to make new promises every day when old ones remain unfulfilled? The promise to upgrade Sherghati into a district remained unfulfilled since the previous two assembly elections. In fact, the villagers of remote areas are turning up at the rally venue to see the helicopter these leaders, as they will get a chance to see it from close only after five years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-tejashwi-trade-barbs-in-rallies/articleshow/78756805.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Gone with the wind: Share of farm fires in bad air dips to 10%||NEW DELHI: The share of pollutants from stubble burning in Delhi’s air reduced to 10% on Monday compared with 17% a day earlier. Farm fires in Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions also decreased from Saturday’s high of 1,230 to 1,090 on Sunday, data from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed. The reduction in the percentage of smoke from farm fires in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was the result of an increase in wind speed. Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 244 in the “poor” category on Monday, the same as the day before. Track the pollution level in your city“Though transport-level wind direction is favourable, an increase in its speed and local surface winds led to a decrease in stubble burning percentage contribution in Delhi’s air,” said the forecasting body. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said that strong winds on Monday helped in the dispersion of pollutants. “Wind speed reached 15-16 kmph on Sunday, but it was calm at night. However, wind speed again started picking up from 8am on Monday and reached 16-18 kmph from noon to 6pm. Wind speed above 15 kmph is sufficient for dispersion of pollutants,” he added. “The overall AQI has marginally improved and is in the poor category owing to a sight increase in surface winds. Air quality is forecast to stay in poor to the lower end of very poor categories on Tuesday. A change in surface wind direction is forecast on October 21, which is likely to bring calm conditions leading to low ventilation and deterioration of AQI. Very poor AQI is predicted for October 21 and 22,” SAFAR stated. This season’s worst AQI was recorded at 312 on October 15 when it hit the “very poor” category after eight months. However, it later improved to the “poor” category. On October 13, Delhi’s air had reached the extreme end of the “poor” category after touching the 300 mark. The capital recorded 15 “very poor” air quality days in January and February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gone-with-the-wind-share-of-farm-fires-in-bad-air-dips-to-10/articleshow/78757967.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 20, 2020||Bareilly||Work on to give PTR’s Chuka tourist spot a Rs 3.50 crore makeover||PILIBHIT: The Chuka tourist spot in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) is being given a facelift worth Rs 3.62 crore for the upcoming tourist season, beginning on November 15. The repairs and renovation work is being managed by the UP tourism department through the Construction and Design Service (CNDS) of UP Jal Nigam. RN Pandey, programme manager of CNDS, said the project envisages floating jetties at Sharda Sagar dam adjoining the Chuka spot. The other changes include restructuring and increasing height of the four Tharu tourist huts in the core area besides a bamboo hut, expanding public toilets, specially to facilitate the handicapped and improving security by erecting an eight layered fence to wildlife at bay. A 25 KVA solar power plant will be set up to ensure 24-hour supply at Chuka, he added. Referring to repairs of the tourist huts despite a ban on night stay in the core area at tiger reserves by the Supreme Court and the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Lalit Verma, chief conservator of forest, Bareilly zone, said the almost 18-year-old thatched huts were infested with termites and the bamboo structure were decaying. Besides, their wooden pillars had weakened. These huts would eventually be used by visiting wildlife researchers in future, he added Pandey said two signature gates -- one each at Mustafabad and Mahof -- and a wildlife interpretation centre were other important components of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/work-on-to-give-ptrs-chuka-tourist-spot-a-rs-3-50cr-makeover/articleshow/78754393.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Allahabad||Kids remove flags of Puja pandal, spark tension||PRAYAGRAJ: Panic gripped Bihar Bazar and adjoining areas in Baghrai police station area of Pratapgarh district on Monday for more than two hours after flags were removed from a Durga Puja pandal and thrown near a garbage point by unidentified persons. The news spread like wildfire in the area and locals started assembling at the pandal demanding stringent action against the miscreants. The Nav Durga Samiti has set up a Durga Puja pandal at Bihar Bazar area to celebrate Sharadiya Navaratra. Some unidentified persons removed the flags installed outside the pandal and threw them near a garbage point. Baghrai police rushed to the spot on being alerted and pacified the agitating crowd. Senior police officials assured that strict action would be taken against the accused. Station Officer, Baghrai, Umesh Kumar Singh told TOI, “A group of children of another community had unintentionally removed the flags installed outside the pandal but were scolded by their family for the act and threw them near a garbage point.” When the Puja Samiti members came to know that children aged between six and eight years had removed the flags installed outside the pandal for playing without any mala fide intention, they too withdrew their complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kids-remove-flags-of-puja-pandal-spark-tension/articleshow/78755195.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||CM: Moved IIT from Sanguem as MLA didn’t hand over land to govt||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday hit back at Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar, stating that Gaonkar was busy in “land deals” and that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) project had to move to Sattari as he failed to provide the land for it “Gaonkar was busy in land deals and because setting was not done properly he first refused to hand over the land to the government. We would have not shifted IIT from Sanguem to Sattari,” Sawant told reporters. Refuting Gaonkar’s charge, the chief minister said the government was ready to buy a property, but Gaonkar was not ready to transfer the land as apparantly his “settings” had failed. “If the land title was not clear then how would they give the land, and that is the reason we had to shift IIT-Goa,” he said. When asked that Gaonkar said that there was three sites in Sanguem, Sawant said it must have been Gaonkar’s settings. “ No single site with clear title was shown by the MLA,” he said. Sawant also hinted that Gaonkar is making statements against the government as he has not got what he was expecting from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-moved-iit-from-sanguem-as-mla-didnt-hand-over-land-to-govt/articleshow/78758487.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Kota Congress declares poll list after nomination hours||KOTA: On the last day of filing nominations on Monday, the ruling Congress kept a constant eye on papers being filed by rival BJP candidates for election in 150 wards of Kota South and Kota North. The party declared its list of candidates after nomination was over at 15 points in the city. The discontentment was apparently visible on ticket distribution in both BJP and Congress camps with allegations that eligible candidates were denied tickets. Candidates close to local MP and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla (BJP) and state UDH minister and MLA from Kota North Shanti Dhariwal (Congress) got tickets for the 150 wards of Kota South and Kota North. Being a loyalist of Birla, sitting BJP MLA from Kota South Sandeep Sharma got his supporters to file papers in 80 wards of Kota South while his party man and former MLA Phralad Gunjal could hardly get tickets for a handful of his supporters in 70 wards of Kota North where he faced a defeat against Shanti Dhariwal in last state assembly elections. “Contentment and discontentment persisted only till the finalisation of tickets and once the party cleared the names, it was necessary for all in the party to abide by the decision, though objections were conveyed to the state (BJP),” Gunjal said, but claimed that BJP would form the board in Kota North and Kota South as the locals are unhappy with Dhariwal as he failed to fulfil commitments. Meanwhile, Rakhi Gotum, ex-councilor and Congress candidate against BJP’s Sandeep Sharma in Kota South in last assembly elections, claimed the party had given tickets the most suitable candidates and there was no dissatisfaction among the workers. “Due to scrutiny of suitable candidates, we delayed the announcement of the list,” Gotum said. Congress has given less than 50% tickets to women candidates with 26 in Kota North and 18 in Kota South. Meanwhile, scenes of anger and protests among party workers both in BJP and Congress were witnessed at several occasions in the day. A few party office bearers also reportedly sent their resignations in protest. On the last day of nominations, 632 candidates filed 706 nominations that included 275 candidates and 291 nominations in Kota North and 357 candidates and 415 nominations in Kota South.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-cong-declares-poll-list-after-nomination-hrs/articleshow/78757981.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Agra||Schools reopen after 7 months in west UP, low attendance on day 1||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Schools in several parts of western Uttar Pradesh reopened on Monday to a low attendance after a long Covid break of seven months. Parents and teachers were understandably a worried lot, focusing more on the students' health concerns, sanitization and strictly following the Covid protocol. In Agra district, classes started for 9 to 12 standard students. Most of them remained absent. Special teams conducted inspections on the premises and the classrooms to review the arrangements of sanitization, thermal screening and social distancing norms. District inspector of schools Ravindra Kumar said, “Attendance in schools remained low on the first day. Schools have been directed to call students for classes only after parents' consent. Students are required to bring their own food and water bottles. Wearing a face mask is compulsory. Schools should hold classes in two shifts. No interval will be allowed and students will need to avail their own transport." District president of National Progressive Schools Association (NPSA) and principal of Holy Public School, Sanjay Tomar, said, “About 70 CBSE schools in Agra district are associated with NPSA. Of these, 60% schools held classes for 11th and 12th standard students." “In my school, around 650 students are enrolled in Classes 11 and 12. Of these, 180 parents had sent their consent. On Monday, 80 students turned up. We have also made arrangements for live streaming for students who want to study online. Soon, we will start regular classes for 9th and 10th standard students." On the first day experience, a Class 11 student, Sakshi Gupta, said, “It is a nice feeling to go to school after seven months. Online studies can't be a long term substitute. My parents were worried, but I managed to convince them." While Sunit Singh, a mother of a Class 10 student, said, “Opening of schools is not reasonable. This will allow schools to force students to attend regular classes so that they can charge full fees. Covid-19 is continuing to spread in the state." In Bareilly district, less than 10% students recorded their presence on day one. The administration of most schools asked the students to carry an application signed by their parents as consent. Very few turned up. “The students seemed to be very happy after attending the class, though. Day one passed off with sharing experiences of the pandemic and its effect on their lives," school teacher Irfan Khan said. Citing reasons for low attendance, the principal of a school said, “Many students have not paid their fees as their parents are seeking full exemption for the lockdown period. However, they are completely ignoring the expenses borne by the school as we had to repay our loans and have paid salaries to the teachers and other staff.” In the entire Meerut district, not even 10% of the total strength of students reported to schools on Monday. Also, only 20% of the parents gave their nod, the district education department data suggested. Apart from the offline classes, online classes continued simultaneously to ensure that the students who cannot go to school do not miss their classes. Additional district magistrate Ajay Tiwari inspected the schools and checked the safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/schools-reopen-after-7-months-in-west-up-low-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/78755502.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||NGO announces phased relief and rehab projects for affected families||HYDERABAD: The NGO Sahayata Trust on Monday announced relief and rehabilitation project for families that have been affected by the torrential rains and subsequent flooding in the city last week. The trust, Indian wing of the US-based IMRC charity, said that it will roll out phased projects to help the families, cab and auto drivers and small traders and businesses. The repair works for motor cabs and autorickshaw that were damaged during the deluge will be funded by the trust. In a press release, Sahayata Trust CEO Syed Aneesuddin said: “We are helping residents in the Al Jubail Colony, Shaheen Nagar, Osman Nagar and Barkas among other areas and relocating by them to safe zones. Many of the affected have no food to eat or water to drink. We are ensuring they are provided with food packets, water bottles and milk to survive the crisis.” The trust also announced that it would undertake repair works for homes of 25 families worst affected by the rains at a cost of Rs 75 lakh as well as 200 auto rickshaws and 200 cabs at a cost of Rs 30 lakh. A budget of Rs 35 lakh rupees was also announced to help 75 small traders whose shops and businesses were damaged due to rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-announces-phased-relief-and-rehab-projects-for-affected-families/articleshow/78757992.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jodhpur||To prevent unrest, Jodhpur Congress keeps names secret till last moment||JODHPUR: Apprehensive of protests, Congress preferred not to declare names of candidates for the municipal elections even on the last day of filing nominations on Monday. All those who have been chosen by the party as its candidate were informed over the phone and were asked to file nominations with directions to keep the secret until the nomination time was over. This is for the first time in the home town of chief minister Ashok Gehlot that the fear of rebellion was quite perceptible that the party hesitated to disclose the names of candidates. According to sources, Gehlot had given the responsibility of ticket distribution to former JDA chairman Rajendra Solanki in his own Sardarpura constituency, MLA (City) Manisha Panwar for city constituency and city president Saeed Ansari and Ayub Khan for Soorsagar constituency and had also sent his son Vaibhav Gehlot for finalisation of the list. But even this exercise could not spare the allegations of favouritism against these leaders in giving priority to family members and close ones over experienced and ground-level workers. Some workers resented the decision of filing the nomination by Ansari’s daughter from ward 15 and neglecting those who have been associated with the party since years. Rajesh Mehta, a supporter of Sachin Pilot, alleged that his wife had filed the nomination from ward 37, but City MLA Panwar rejected her candidature despite the observer's positive report just because he was a Pilot supporter. On the other hand, BJP declared its list of candidates two days in advance from the date of filing of nominations with consensus among the leaders. The core team of BJP headed by MP (Jodhpur) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had prepared the list of the prospective candidates, but the final list had been prepared in Jaipur with the state leadership. Though there are reports of rebels filing nominations as independents in BJP also, the party is waiting for Tuesday to get the names of all these rebels to proceed with talking to them. BJP spokesperson Jagdish Dhandia said the candidates have been selected through a fair process and it was not possible to satisfy all expectants. “There are 75,000 party workers, but the city has only 160 wards. We tried to be very fair and have distributed the tickets on merit basis,” he said. Meanwhile, a total 846 candidates have filed 965 nominations for 160 municipal wards for North and South of Jodhpur till the last day of filing of nominations on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/to-prevent-unrest-jodhpur-cong-keeps-names-secret-till-last-moment/articleshow/78757973.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana Rly station’s upgradation project in limbo (with pics of rly stn)||Rahul Tawar Ludhiana- Four years after the Indian and French governments signed a railway protocol, under which Ludhiana railway station besides Ambala was to be developed into a world-class platform as a part of pilot project, uncertainty looms large on the project as officials are apprehensive about the fate of project because of its huge projected cost due to delay. Sources in the railways said the plans have seen no progress since French National Railways Company (SNCF) presented the 3rd survey report in August 2016. They did not rule out the possibility that the project might be shelved. Sources in the railways said “the ambitious project received a major setback as the initial cost of the project is calculated at about 500 crores and northern railway board was allegedly not in a situation to bear such a hefty cost for redevelopment. The prolonged lockdown and financial losses due to suspension of railway service in view of outbreak of covid-19 virus further made the cost unbearable. Work of conducting the redevelopment of Ludhiana railway station would have commenced between October 2016 to January 2017, but the railway authorities pulled back from the project due to financial issues and now the cost has further inflated and seems to have reached beyond reach.” Rakesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager of Ferozepur Division said, “In past few years several foreign companies visited different railway station of country to share with views on development project. France company too carried out survey in initial stages but After that Railway Ministry of India constituted another development carrying institution with name of Indian railway station development board to look after development work of all important station of northern India, they are bound to carry the development project in Ludhiana and tackle with every required measure so development is going on with the same pace without depending on foreign company model.” In the meanwhile, Ludhiana railway station director, Tarun Kumar said, “Still I cannot make any comments on the question of drop of the France model Project as it was decided by the railway ministry or northern railway board officials because a huge amount of money and approval is required to execute such big developing project in India.” On other hand, local passengers and business travellers are waiting for revamp of the city railway station from past several years. Speaking with one of city based industrialist regarding non execution of development project by France companies, a local industrialst Deepak Verma said, “I was anxiously waiting for this world class project when the made the announcement to carry redevelopment works at Ludhiana railway station with the help of France model as local industrialist fraternity people think that I would help in exported large amount of goods through Ludhiana railway station to big cities of country but nothing happen till date which is quite annoying thing for local people. Vipin Pathak, a professor of Punjab Mata Nagar said that “Ludhiana Railway station desperately needs a face-lift and augmentation of services. After coming to know that French company will help in revamping the station few years back, but still not even a single window has been installed under this project which makes us quite irking ”. Ankit Kapoor, another industrialist, said that, “The Ludhiana Railway Station came into existence in 1907 and right from the start the station it was not renovated since now and it needs urgent renovation. As the passage of time passes, the number of visitors will increase and northern authorities must watch this scenario and take appropriate steps and take some corrective measures”. At present “Foul smells emitting from the railway tracks of Ludhiana station is becomes one of the major problem which is being faced by the passengers travelling through the same station ahead of festival season in every year”. He further calmed that, not even a single change has been come in Ludhiana station from past several years as the same problem is being witnessed by the passengers ever year which are travelling through Ludhiana railway station”. Another local resident, Pardeep Kumar, told , “It the need of an hour as Ludhiana station passes through its worst condition. In Ludhiana station bathrooms and waiting rooms are lived their life, most of time passengers prefer to use bathrooms based at trains stranding at the stations”, told another local resident. Box Besides Ludhiana, Ambala railway station was also to be modelled on “French experience and expertise,” under the same development plan of redevelopment as Memorandum of understanding (MOU) was signed by the Indian Railways and SNCF in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French president Francois Hollande. As per the pact, SNCF was supposed to develop a renovation concept design, including new buildings and 3D plans. Earlier on April 2, 2016, a three-member team from French National Railways (SNCF) had come to the city to study the station. The objective was on providing facilities and value added services to passengers to make it a pleasant experience for them by carrying out certain development project included beautification, landscaping and other aspects while taking the help of France companies. Project’s focus was on Faster Transit Oriented development to make entry/exit faster and easier. Optimal use of railways land, modernisation of platforms with colourful graffiti and social messages on walls, new toilets, separate arrangements for goods trains, separate entry and exit points will be also be included. There was also a plan to build retail shops and a commercial complex in Ludhiana station premises. With large number of business persons commuting daily from the entire country here, they need one-stop shop for work like photostat, post office, courier etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludhiana-rly-stations-upgradation-project-in-limbo-with-pics-of-rly-stn/articleshow/78757971.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP achieves MNREGS’ annual target in 6 months||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh set a record of creating 26.1 crore man days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) in just six months against the annual target of 26 crore. This is for the first time that the state has achieved the annual target of the scheme in the past many years, that too in just half the duration. The state rural development department achieved the feat by accelerating the job creation under MNREGS for lakhs of migrants who returned to the state following a Corona-induced lockdown. The state government started giving jobs to the migrants from April 21 just around a month after the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown bringing down economic and financial activities to a grinding halt. Expressing his satisfaction, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that the scheme proved to be of immense help in providing jobs to migrants who came back to rural areas in large numbers amid the peak of pandemic. The scheme, Yogi said, is being implemented in a strategic manner while carrying out various important works including revival of rivers, ponds and plantation of trees. “All these activities helped the state government in providing jobs to the migrants,” Yogi said. In the past, the MNREGS has not been a big job spinner in the state. Data show that the target for enrolment of people under the scheme has largely remained constant at 1.03 crore households for the past five years. This translates into around 5 crore annual man days. But against this target, the rural development department achieved 52.22% in 2015-16, 48.11% in 2016-17, 46.81% in 2017-18, 48.60% in 2018-19 and 43.69% in 2019-20. “The idea was to engage people who are low down the social-economic index. This is being done to attain the sustainable goals as flagged by the centre,” a senior official in the rural development department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-achieves-mnregs-annual-target-in-6-months/articleshow/78758554.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Engine off at traffic light: Delhi govt to deploy 2,500 green marshals||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai has said that 2,500 environment marshals will be deployed at the 100 busiest traffic signals to request people to turn off their vehicles’ engines while waiting in order to reduce emissions. The minister said “Red light on, Gaddi off” is an awareness campaign and will be conducted from October 21 to November 15 between 8 am and 8 pm. The government will, however, consider implementing the odd-even scheme only when other measures to control air pollution fail. “We have implemented odd-even several times in Delhi. It is our last resort. The scheme is also aimed at reducing vehicular pollution and we are currently focusing on ‘Red light on, Gaddi off’ campaign,” said the environment minister. Times ViewThe exact benefit of such a step may be minimal, but every small step towards reducing pollution must be appreciated. The move will not only create more awareness on the subject, but hopefully also engage citizens by making them a part of the drive.Claiming that the campaign was an awareness campaign and not enforcement, Rai said it was targeted at initiating a behavioural change. “It is the campaign of 2 crore people in Delhi. People who are concerned about the consequences of pollution should voluntarily participate in it. This is about taking ownership,” he added. For this campaign, the transport department and traffic police have identified 100 major traffic points from 11 districts. The marshals will be deployed at these traffic signals. They will be working in two shifts and 10 environment marshals will be positioned at each traffic point. However, additional marshals will be deployed at 10 traffic signals, including ITO, where stoppage time is around two minutes. 300 marshals have been kept as reserve in case of need, said Rai. According to the minister, environment marshals will give a rose flower to those not turning off their car at the red light in the initial three days of the campaign. They will appeal to them to participate in it. These marshals have undergone extensive training under the guidance of the district magistrates and officers from traffic police and transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/engine-off-at-traffic-light-govt-to-deploy-2-5k-green-marshals/articleshow/78757975.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ludhiana||‘My son, 2 others killed in 13 seconds, yet no one charged for murder’||PATIALA: The families of three youths killed in London street brawl in January this year feel justice has not been done to them as the London court has allowed the killer to walk free. The family members of 29-year-old Harinder Kumar of Patiala, who was stabbed to death on January 19 by another Punjabi man near Seven Kings station in East London, say they have not got justice as the London court let the person who killed him and two others escape punishment. An inconsolable Rama Rani, mother of the deceased, said she lost her only son and now justice has also been denied to them. Harinder’s brother-in-law Sandeep Sharma said the court had let go the murderer, Gurjeet Singh (30), on the grounds of self-defence. “We reached UK in February and came to know that the London court had already provided us a counsel. We could not hire any private advocates and there was a lack of guidance too. We feel our case was not properly pursued in the court, so we lost the battle. We were shown the CCTV footage of the crime scene in which Harinder, along with two others, was killed in just 13 seconds by a Punjabi person with a professional knife,” Sharma said. The London court said the three dead men — Harinder, Narinder Singh Lubaya, 29, from Adamvaal village in Hoshiarpur, and Malkit Singh Dhillon, 37, from Sarai Jattan village near Sultanpur Lodhi — together with their fellow builders Harpreet and Sandeep Singh (both sentenced) had plotted an attack on Gurjeet with hammers and knives in revenge for a row between Narinder and Gurjeet at a celebration a night before. Narinder’s father Harjeet Singh, who is an ex-serviceman, said he was disappointed but not really surprised at the outcome of the case. “When I went there with my nephew to bring Narinder’s body back, investigators showed me the CCTV footage. I was shocked when they said the three had attacked the man who killed them. I don’t think it can be called justice as the man who stabbed three to death has been allowed to go scot free.” He said that Narinder was his only son after six daughters. “He had gone there to study and started working there later. He was to get his papers of stay (in UK) this February and had told us that he would come to meet us in March. Instead, I brought his body back,” he said. Malkit’s brother Narinder said, “My cousins in UK have been following the case and we did not know much here,” he said. Malkit had gone to UK around 16 years ago and never returned. He did not even come when his father died around 10 years back, fearing that he would not be able to go back, he said. BOX A Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) spokesperson said on Monday: “Following an assessment of the evidence referred to us by the police, we did not charge Gurjeet Singh with more serious offences because he had been acting in self-defence.” He was instead charged with having a bladed weapon in a public place and was found not guilty by a jury. “The role of the CPS is to make fair and independent decisions based on the evidence and present our case in court. We respect the decision of the jury.” The knife used in the crime was never recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/my-son-2-others-killed-in-13-seconds-yet-no-one-charged-for-murder/articleshow/78758021.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Baba ka Dhaba gets franchise offers||NEW DELHI: Ten days ago, Kanta Prasad and his wife, Badami Devi, had come face to face with the power of social media. A day after a video showing Prasad weeping about poor business and scant earnings in the pandemic days went viral, people flocked their Baba Ka Dhaba in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, eager to put the elderly couple out of their misery. In the week since, the grey-haired pair have hardly got the time to chalk up their earnings because of the long queues outside their eatery. “We could not even sell half a kilo of cooked rice a week ago, and now 5kg runs out by noon,” Devi told TOI on Thursday. “We never dreamed that our life would change in such a manner.” People queue up at #BABAKADHABA in #MalviyaNagar after video of the octogenarian owner couple went viral on social… https://t.co/jNtMNonVSu— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1602147676000There’s a board outside with a message of thanks for the support the couple have got. It has visuals of Prasad and Gaurav Wasan, who shot the video that went viral. The dhaba owners received gifts of cash and food ingredients from people across India too, but Prasad hastily added that reports of his getting a car and house were false. The couple also gently point out that there are many who come to their eatery only to click photos and make videos. But they recognise fame for what it is. They have no complaints, and have hired a man to help them deal with the business after “nearly 70 companies approached us as sponsors and a few offered to open franchises in other states”. Though no deals have been finalised yet, Prasad does want to expand his dhaba. Visuals: People outside an eatery in Malviya Nagar after a video of the hardship faced by of its owner went viral o… https://t.co/g1EWTrLl4s— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1602140192000“Many of the company representatives who visited us took photos and posted them on social media. Many said they wanted to support us, but didn’t taste our food,” smiled Prasad wryly. The old man said he wanted the municipal corporation to give him a bigger space for his eatery so more people could come and eat. “We are also planning to introduce dinner meals,” disclosed Prasad, resplendent in a gifted T-shirt emblazoned with ‘Baba Ka Dhaba — Ghar Ka Khana’. Modernisation has crept in too. Online deliveries will begin soon and customers can pay for the dhaba food using eight digital modes. People start visiting the nondescript joint from 6am, but the queue is longest at lunch hour, with most clamouring for Baba Ka Dhaba’s famed mattar-paneer. The dhaba, operating since 1990, also offers customers dal, rice, chapatis and stuffed parathas along with tea. Prasad does most of the cooking, with Devi in charge of chopping vegetables and other preparations. “We are thankful for the help we got. We now request people to also assist others whose lives have been adversely affected by the pandemic,” chorused the kindly couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/net-gain-empty-dhaba-wakes-up-to-queues/articleshow/78757999.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Bird arrivals at Sambhar Lake fall||Jaipur: Sambhar Lake is witnessing a steep decline in arrival of migratory birds due to less water following a weak monsoon and high day temperatures.Two joint censuses conducted on October 15 and October 19 by NGO Wildlife Creature Organization (WCO) in association with the forest department recorded less than 3,500 birds in the waterbody, India's largest salt inland lake.According to experts, flocks of migratory birds start descending on the wetland for warm winters by the second week of October. This time, not many birds can be seen at the lake where the country’s first avian tragedy occurred last year.WCO president Om Prakash Sen said, “The number of migratory birds coming to the lake is negligible. Only Greater Flamingo, which is the most widespread species, could be seen in flocks. Our team along with the forest department is conducting census twice a week, on Mondays and Wednesdays. We are hoping that the number should increase, but the possibility is less because of less water in the lake.”Many believe that negligible migration is also a repercussion of last year’s avian tragedy.According to official records, over 18,000 carcasses were found at Sambhar Lake in November 2019. It was recorded as India’s largest mass death of birds in history. However, the actual figures might be much higher.International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) member Dau Lal Bohra said the forest department had recorded only dead carcasses that were collected. But many carcasses were not recovered in the mammoth lake.“Last year’s tragedy disturbed the reproductive cycle. Out of total deaths, 60% were breeding pairs and the remaining 40% were juveniles. Depending on the species, migratory birds come to Rajasthan three to four times. The reason for less migration may also be because the majority of the breeding population which came to the wetland was wiped out,” Bohra added.Around 25-30 species of birds have been found dead, but, maximum carcasses were found of little ringed plover, northern shoveler, Kentish plover, little stint and pied avocet last year. However, the number of all these species are negligible. On Monday, the highest number of species, 2894 were Greater flamingos recorded at the lake. There were 42 species of birds recorded at the lake. Other than northern shoveler (213) river tern (133), Kentish plover (107), little ringed plover (119), black winged stilt (132), none of them were more than 100 in number at the lake.Hoping that migratory birds will return to the lake, ornithologist Asha Sharma said, “The temperature will recede by mid-November. We should wait till then before drawing any conclusion. At present, the day temperature is warm and not preferred by the migratory birds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-arrivals-at-sambhar-lake-fall/articleshow/78756837.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||CM demands amendment in Banking Regulation Act withdrawn||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the amendment in the Banking Regulation Act would have a negative impact on the functioning of state cooperative banks. In a letter, he said the amendment was against the basic principles of cooperatives and it should be withdrawn. Under the new provisions, all administrative control of the co-operative banks has been given to the RBI instead of the state government. “It is an encroachment on the principle of co-operatives,” the letter states. The letter states that a large number of people have invested in multi-state cooperative societies across the state. “We have received complaints from around 73,000 investors regarding irregularities amounting to Rs 1,419.77 crore,” the letter states, explaining how the move would come as a blow for investors. The letter sought remedial measures including directing the central registrar to authorise the state’s cooperative department to take action in the matter in order to save the interests of common people from Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-demands-amendment-in-banking-regulation-act-withdrawn/articleshow/78756833.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Goa CM keeps double-tracking hearing on hold after protest||VASCO: Over a thousand people from across the state assembled in Vasco on Monday to protest the personal hearing for southwestern railways’ double-tracking project, forcing chief minister Pramod Sawant to ask the Mormugao deputy collector to keep the hearing on hold. “I have told them that we will again discuss the issue and take a decision,” Sawant said. The meeting was to be held in the deputy collector’s court from Monday from 2.30pm onwards. Protesters were stopped by police when they tried to barge into the the venue. “I informed higher authorities about the protest and people’s objection to the hearing. As per the directions I have received, I have deferred the personal hearings which were scheduled from October 19 to 27,” said deputy collector Sachin Desai, who is also the land acquisition officer for the project. Among those present were BJP’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha, NCP’s Benualim MLA Churchill Alemao, Congress’ Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, NCP’s state president Jose Philip D’Souza, GPCC’s vice-president Sankalp Amonkar, and more than 30 NGO groups. At around 3pm, after a short meeting NCP’s state chief and the Benaulim MLA had with Desai, they told the people gathered outside that the hearing for the day has been deferred. Alemao told the media that he would meet Sawant and discuss the issue with him. A delegation of citizens held a one-and-a-half-hour-long meeting with the deputy collector and tried to convince Desai to cancel the hearing and not allow land acquisition for the project. They also told him that till the hearing is deferred for all days not a single person would exit his cabin The group comprised Saldanha, Amonkar, Lourenco, advocate Albertina Almeida, Rachol parish priest Fr Eremito Reb ello, activist Abhijeet Prabhudesai, National Fish Workers Forum’s vice-chairperson Olencio Simoes, executive member of Goencho Ekvott Capt Viriato Fernandes. The crowd became restless after Desai left his cabin and was nowhere to be seen. Desai then returned around 7pm and informed the protesters that the personal hearing has been deferred for all days. Earlier, Saldanha told Desai that since he had personally not visited the areas where land acquisition is taking place, he could not hold the hearings without ascertaining the destruction the double tracking is going to create. D’Souza, who the chief minister along with Alemao, told TOI that they had explained the matter to Sawant and “he agreed to postpone the matter”. “Goa had two economy sectors — mining and tourism. Mining has collapsed and the same will occur to tourism if this destructive project is permitted,” Capt Fernandes said. Activist Prabhudesai said that “it looks like the government is taking advantage of the Covid-19 pandemic and is planning to push the project. There is 100% objection to this anti-people project, which is full of illegalities. No matter how many times the government tries to push the project, we will protest everytime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-keeps-double-tracking-hearing-on-hold-after-protest/articleshow/78758292.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana follows Punjab, appoints Dhesi as CM’s chief principal secy||CHANDIGARH: Putting to rest the speculations about replacement of Rajesh Khullar, the principal secretary to chief minister, the Haryana government on Monday appointed former chief secretary D S Dhesi as the CM’s chief principal secretary. The post has been specifically created and appointment done with immediate effect. Haryana has followed Punjab’s example where Capt Amarinder Singh’s government which had first appointed a former IAS officer as chief principal secretary to the chief minister. Dhesi has assumed the charge after chief secretary Vijai Vardhan released the appointment orders issued by Haryana governor. After retiring as chief secretary, Dhesi was appointed as the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) chairman. He resigned ahead of the new appointment. Dhesi’s appointment was has been necessitated as Khullar, a 1988-batch IAS officer from Haryana, was appointed as an executive director of the World Bank to represent India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka. He will be one of the 25 executive directors of the bank. He is expected to join his new assignment in the first week of November, and will be relieved from Haryana within this week or latest by October 30. Speculations were on rise after Khullar’s international appointment. Some of the senior bureaucrats, who included the recently retired officers too, were in the reckoning for the post of the CM’s principal secretary. At his farewell party at the commission office in Panchkula, Dhesi said, “The electricity department is very challenging and interesting. There there are multiple arenas with endless possibilities to work in this department.” He said that he joined as HERC chief on August 14, 2019, and worked there for about 14 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-follows-punjab-appoints-dhesi-as-cms-chief-principal-secy/articleshow/78757993.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Agra||CBI questions four accused in Hathras case for 8 hours||AGRA: The CBI questioned the four men accused of the alleged gang rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras for nearly eight hours on Monday. The six-member team reached Aligarh district jail, where the four are incarcerated, around 11.50pm. “After sessions with each accused separately, the team left at 7.30pm,” a jail official confirmed. Families of the four accused had been questioned earlier and had all claimed the four had been “framed”. One of the four accused is a minor, a senior police official confirmed. His marksheet, which TOI is in possession of, has been taken by the CBI and shows his date of birth as December 2, 2002. Another CBI team visited Chandpa police station, where the first FIR in the case was registered, and questioned three cops who had been suspended — Sadabad circle officer Ram Shabd, station house officer Dinesh Kumar Verma and head moharrir (clerk) Mahesh Pal. They also questioned two journalists with a local news site who were at the police station when the girl was brought in by her mother and brother on September 14. An auto driver who took the victim from the police station to the district hospital was also questioned, a source said. Earlier in the day, a three-member team visited the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh, where the girl had been admitted for treatment before she was referred to Delhi. Meanwhile, the four men arrested on their way to Hathras and facing sedition charges in two cases were produced in court through video-conferencing on Monday. “Now, the police will seek permission from the court to take their written statements in jail. The case has been transferred to the Hathras crime branch,” Chandpa police station SHO Laxman Singh said. Earlier in the day Maant subdivisional magistrate Dr Suresh Kumar informed them four men through videoconferencing that their bail application under Section 151 of the CrPC had not been granted. He told TOI two personal bonds of Rs 1 lakh each have to be produced. The four men — Siddique Kappan, Atikur Rehman, Masoor Ahmad and Aalam — were arrested two weeks ago in Mathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-questions-four-accused-in-hathras-case-for-8-hours/articleshow/78755517.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cops arrest fourth accused in Rs 32 lakh bank robbery case||JAIPUR: Police have arrested one more person in the Rs 32-lakh robbery case of a cash collection vehicle of a private bank. The accused was seen on CCTV camera before and after he changed his clothes before he fled to Delhi. Police arrested him late Sunday night and brought him back to Jaipur. In another case of the same day, police officials claimed that they have got a concrete lead in the jewellery store robbery case, though no one has been arrested yet. The accused was identified as Ajay Kumar Kataria, who hails from Delhi and was arrested with the cooperation of the police there. Jaipur South SP Manoj Kumar told TOI, “We have arrested all the four accused in the case out of which three persons executed the robbery and one was aiding them. We also recovered the bike used by Kataria.” Cops on Sunday had arrested Gaurav Singh, a resident of Jaipur, Vipin Kashyap and Saugandh Singh, both from Uttar Pradesh. They had done recce of other banks as well in the last one week. Gaurav, who planned the robbery, apparently had a lot of debt to repay. However, presently no previous criminal cases have been found against the accused, but cops are looking into it Officials had vital clues which led them to the accused. The security guard who was shot in the abdomen is in a stable condition. Three armed robbers in an SUV, who might have been following the van, came out of the vehicle and overpowered the bank guards and the van’s staff. When guard Bhim Singh resisted, one of the robbers fired at him. A staff of the van, who also tried to stop the robbers, sustained injuries. The robbers then snatched the cash bag containing Rs 31.50 lakh. Sources claimed that cops have identified the persons involved in the robbery of Rs 80 lakhs worth of jewellery at Murlipura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-arrest-fourth-accused-in-rs-32-lakh-bank-robbery-case/articleshow/78757994.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Cops arrest 3 in Pernem, seize Rs 1 crore cannabis||PANAJI: Pernem police on Monday arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in illegal cultivation of cannabis, and seized drugs worth over Rs1 crore. Pernem PI Jivba Dalvi said that all the accused are from the same family and are involved in the carpentry business. Dalvi said that after receiving information of illegal drug activities being carried out from a residence at Keri in Pernem, the police had mounted a surveillance and raided the premises at Thorlebad. During the search police found a cannabis plantation in the backyard of the house. This is the second major raid by Pernem police within ten days. In the past few months Goa has seen many cases of people growing cannabis from residential premises. Dalvi said the raiding team seized 2.3kgs of cannabis worth Rs5 lakh, along with 1.3kgs of ganja worth Rs1.3 lakh and 2.5kgs of charas worth over Rs1 crore. He said the police have registered the offence under section 20(a)(i), 20(b)(ii)(B), 20(b)(ii)(C) and three residents, Rama Kerkar, 22, Rashmi Kerkar, 44 and Shivaji Kerkar, 34 have been arrested. “All the accused have been remanded to four-day police custody. On October 14, in two separate raids, Pernem police arrested a Russian national for illegal possession of drugs at Mandrem, while a cannabis plantation was also raided at Arambol. After receiving a tip-off police had raided a premises at Sawantwada in Mandrem and recovered charas and ganja from 37-year-old Oleg Nazarov. The charas was valued around Rs25,000, while the ganja was valued at around Rs1.6 lakh. Later in the evening in another raid at Madhlawada in Arambol, cannabis that was being cultivated and valued at around Rs 1.7 lakh was also seized by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-arrest-3-in-pernem-seize-rs-1-crore-cannabis/articleshow/78758353.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Nadda: MLA shouldn’t influence Ballia probe||Lucknow: BJP chief JP Nadda on Monday reportedly expressed his displeasure over BJP’s Bairia (Ballia) MLA Surendra Singh’s remarks in defence of the Ballia shooting accused Dhirendra Singh. Dhirendra was arrested by UP STF in Lucknow on Sunday. Sources said Nadda spoke to UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh over phone and asked him to ensure that Surendra Singh does not interfere with the investigation into the case. Nadda also expressed his displeasure over remarks by some UP BJP legislators which embarrass the party and provide an opportunity to the opposition to attack the party. A senior BJP functionary told TOI that the party may issue a show cause notice to Surendra Singh. “He (Surendra Singh) was summoned to the UP BJP headquarters yesterday (Sunday) and issued a warning. He met state party chief Swatantra Dev Singh and general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal who has asked the legislators to refrain from making statements which dent the party’s image,” a senior BJP leader said. “He (Surendra Singh) agreed and promised to abide by the party directives on exercising restraint while speaking in public domain,” the BJP leader said. “What else can be done at this point of time? The party can only issue notices and summon the party MLAs who speak out arbitrarily,” he said. Surendra Singh is not the lone MLA to have embarrassed the party with his remarks. Earlier, party’s Sultanpur MLA Devmani Dwivedi had sought to post a question in the UP assembly on the number of Brahmins killed in encounters and steps taken for the security of the community. BJP MLA from Sitapur, Rakesh Rathore, had hit the headlines during the lockdown when an audio clip went viral in which he was heard ridiculing the PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to the public to clap ‘thalis’ to honour corona warriors. The party served him a showcause notice to which Rathore reportedly did not reply. Another legislator who was served with a showcause notice by the party was Shyam Prakash, MLA from Hardoi. In a facebook post, Prakash had alleged that he had never seen so much corruption in his political career as in the BJP regime. He had also alleged misappropriation of MLA funds. BJP MP Jai Prakash echoed similar sentiments recently when he questioned the purchase of ventilators in his constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nadda-mla-shouldnt-influence-ballia-probe/articleshow/78758570.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 20, 2020||Agra||Day after blast, owner of illegal firecracker unit booked||AGRA: A day after an explosion claimed four lives, a case was registered against the owner of the illegal firecracker unit operating from a house in the densely populated New Azampara locality, under Shahganj police station, in Agra. The unlicenced firecracker unit was operating in the house of Chaman Mansuri. According to police, primary investigation reveled that the house had a stockpile of firecrackers that caught fire following a gas leak from a cylinder. Mansuri had a licence to run a firecracker manufacturing unit in the name of Mughal Firework. But the licence was for operating a unit at Midhakur village, under Malpura police station. Botre Rohan Pramod, superintendent of police (city), said, “An FIR has been registered against Mansuri at Shahganj police station under IPC section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and provisions of the Explosive Substances Act. The matter is being investigated.* Meanwhile, Prabhu N Singh, district magistrate, said, “To prevent any such incident in future, all the magistrates and police stations have been directed to identify illegal firecracker units and ensure a time-bound action against them. Spot inspections will be conducted at licenced firecrackers manufacturing units to check compliance with rules and regulations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/day-after-blast-owner-of-illegal-firecracker-unit-booked/articleshow/78755530.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia firing accused sentto 14-day judicial custody||VARANASI: The Ballia firing case main accused, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, arrested on Sunday from Lucknow by the UPSTF, was produced before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Ballia on Monday and remanded to 14-day judicial custody. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said Dhirendra was brought to Ballia amid tight security arrangements on Sunday night and was produced before the CJM court and sent to jail. A team of Ballia police brought Dhirendra from Lucknow and took him to district court where heavy police force had been deployed. Dhirendra’s lawyer filed a bail plea, which was rejected by the CJM, who ordered to send him to jail on 14-day judicial remand. BJP MLA from Bairia Surendra Singh, who had been vocal in Dhirendra’s support did not speak and remained out of scene, but MP Virendra Singh Mast met DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chandra Dubey, district magistrate Ballia Hari Pratap Shahi and SP Devendra Nath and asked them to ensure an FIR is lodged on the complaint of Dhirendra’s family members as they had also suffered injuries in the incident. After the meeting, the MP said, “The incident was circumstantial. If one person of a side was killed, women of the other group also suffered injuries. The DIG is camping in Ballia. I have talked to him, DM and SP and a decision was taken that people of the other group would give complaint and action will be taken on it.” He also appealed to all parties to work for normalising the situation in Durjanpur village. However, DIG Azamgarh range, DM and SP could not be contacted despite repeated efforts to know whether FIR had been lodged on the complaint of Dhirendra’s family. Dhirendra had allegedly shot Jai Prakash Pal Gama (46) on Thursday following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia's Reoti area in presence of senior administration and police officials. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party activists led by district unit chief Hawaldar Yadav staged a demonstration in Azamgarh. Yadav said law and order has gone out of control in the state and the silence of the chief minister on the incident is shocking||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-firing-accused-sentto-14-day-judicial-custody/articleshow/78755298.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Sacked VNIT guards protest jobs to outsiders||Nagpur: Bajaj Nagar police on Monday detained 10 persons for allegedly vandalizing security cabin and defacing walls near Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) entrance on IT Park side. All detainees were released in the evening. For the last two months, 140 sacked security guards had been sitting on hunger strike from 11am to 5pm near the VNIT entrance demanding reinstatement. On Monday afternoon, the protest witnessed some tension after a scuffle broke out between the protesters and new security guards leaving some window panes damaged. Led by Prashant Pawar’s Jai Jawan Jai Kisan and All India Students Federation, the protesters wanted to meet VNIT director but were stopped by on-duty guards. As both sides refused to budge, the VNIT entrance got blocked. Later, police were summoned to handle the situation. After this, the protesters started raising slogans like ‘aazadi, aazadi’, ‘tum police bulalo, tum goli chala lo, hum leke rahege aazadi’, VNIT ka bhagwa karan nahi chalega’, which were last heard during the anti-CAA NRC stir across the country. The aggrieved protesters accused VNIT administration of handpicking Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) city vice-president Ashish Pande’s Delhi-based Armour Security Pvt Ltd in awarding the contract. Pande trashed the charges saying the disgruntled persons were unnecessarily dragging RSS, BJP, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis in the controversy. The protesters alleged Pande not only used his clout as BJP youth wing’s office-bearer in removing them from their job but also brought in North Indians, who were unfit as per eligibility. “North Indians who were panipuri vendors, kitchen help or doing menial jobs have been hired by Armour. It retained only 30 guards from previous force and assured to re-hire rest of us too. But we realized the agency had already hired 140 guards,” said Mangesh Kuranjikar, who was in charge of security for previous firm SIS. Kuranjikar said some of them were employed for 10 years and do not have much employment scope outside now. Armour’s vice-president Pande said his firm had invited applications from all the protesting guards soon after getting the work order, while SIS too had assured them to deploy them elsewhere. “But these guards insist they want to stay in VNIT only. They didn’t apply to Armour as well. Some political party got involved and misguided them,” said Pande. Regarding North Indians, Pande said his employees belong to all faiths and background. “Most are from Maharashtra only. In case anyone is from outside state, don’t they have right to work here,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sacked-vnit-guards-protest-jobs-to-outsiders/articleshow/78758045.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Exemption in stamp duty for street vendors||Jaipur: The state government on Monday issued an order making provision for exemption in stamp duty for street and sidewalk vendors under PM Minister Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana (PM SVANidhi).Joint secretary of the finance department Nishant Jain said the banks or financial institutions which used to levy stamp duty on contracts for loans up to the amount of Rs 10,000, were now declared eligible under the PM SVANidhi Yojana. There will be a provision for exemption in the fee as ordered.PM SVANidhi was launched to empower street vendors by not only extending loans to them, but also for their holistic development and economic uplift.The scheme intends to facilitate collateral-free working capital loans of up to Rs 10,000 for one-year tenure, to approximately 50 lakh street vendors to help resume their businesses in the urban areas, including surrounding peri-urban/rural areas.Meanwhile, additional chief secretary (ACS), tribal area development (TAD), Rajeshwar Singh said the construction work of international-level multipurpose indoor stadium at Pratapgarh and Banswara, at an amount of Rs 5 crore each, has been completed.Singh said that a total of 13 sports hostels are run by the department in scheduled areas. Around 875 boys and girls are being trained in these hostels. Sportspersons from the tribal communities (from class 6 to 12) are admitted to the sports hostels. The students are selected on the basis of a specific type of battery test (overall physical ability and sportsmanship).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/exemption-in-stamp-duty-for-street-vendors/articleshow/78756844.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||3 more held for house break-in||HYDERABAD: After arresting three Nepalis in connection with a burglary at a house in Madhapur, Cyberabad police arrested three more members of the gang. The arrested are Janaki Budayar, a 28-year-old Nepali who works as a cook in the house, her associates, Chakra Bhul, 23, also from Nepal and Akhilesh Kumar, 30, from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. Four other gang members are absconding. On the intervening night of October 5 and 6, Janaki mixed sleeping pills in the food and tea served to the residents of the house. After family members, except one who did not drink the tea, fell unconscious, the gang looted the house. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-more-held-for-house-break-in/articleshow/78758036.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Alleging police inaction, gang rape survivor threatens suicide||JIND: A high voltage drama prevailed at Jind SP office after a 28-year-old gang rape survivor and her mother sat on a dharna there alleging police inaction in the case. The rape survivor threatened to commit suicide if the police fail to arrest the accused. The woman stated that she had fallen in love with a Delhi boy and got married with him in 2019. “After that we planned for a honeymoon trip, in which my father-in-law’s brother also accompanied us, which I found very unusual. However, sometime later, I got a job as a counsellor with the government of India and am currently posted in Gujarat, whereas my husband was also selected as a loco pilot in the Indian Railways.” As days passed, her husband asked her to share bed with his uncle, who is the same age as my husband, saying that he also had sexual relations with her aunty. “When I declined, the three of them, including my father-in-law, his brother and my husband, raped me and beat me up,” she alleged. “Thereafter, I filed a complaint with the Delhi Police, but nothing has happened except for filing of an FIR against them. Being native of Jind, now I have approached the police here, but even they have failed to take any stern action against the accused,” she said. Talking to TOI, DSP Pushpa Khatri, said, “As soon as we got the complaint, we lodged a case in June this year under sections 376D (gang rape) 498A (dowry), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and the matter is being investigated. We are trying to pacify her, but she is adamant on immediate arrest of the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/alleging-police-inaction-gang-rape-survivor-threatens-suicide/articleshow/78758037.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tech takes centre stage as Covid hits Ctrl-alt-Del on puja festivities||NEW DELHI: Every year, the Durga Puja celebrations are marked not only by religious norms but also by pandal hopping, cultural programmes and feasting. Preparations begin months in advance. But the Covid pandemic has curtailed the scope of celebrations this year. Delhi’s mini-Bengal, Chittaranjan Park, home to some of the most popular pandals, is usually thronged by lakhs of visitors during these five days. This year, however, it will see no celebration. On Monday, around 12 Durga Puja committees of CR Park and nearby areas like Greater Kailash-I & II, Alaknanda and Kalkaji took part in a meeting called by GK legislator Saurabh Bharadwaj, where a decision was taken to suspend the Puja celebrations this year. The meeting was also attended by the local subdivisional magistrate, police personnel and civic officials. Bharadwaj said only a ghat or kalash (sacred water vessel) puja would be carried out to maintain religious traditions and attended by 10-15 members of respective committees. The MLA said he had requested the district administration and Delhi Police to help Puja committees stop any outsider from entering the venues. Narayan Dey, secretary of Mela Ground Durga Puja Samiti, Delhi’s biggest in terms of size and scale, and Tamal Rakshit of B Block Durga Puja Samiti said there would only be a small ghat puja and no one would be allowed to enter these areas. However, the capital will see an extensive use of technology this year — from live-streaming of rituals to online pushpanjali — to somewhat salvage the festive mood. The religious rituals at CR Park Kali Mandir, where an idol will be worshipped, will be live-streamed and, except for the priest and a limited number of committee members, no one will be allowed even near the venue, managing committee member Prodip Ganguly said. Mayur Vihar’s Milani Durga Puja will also worship an idol, and the Puja will be live-streamed and an online pushpanjali will also be held. Devotees will be allowed to leave the pushpanjali offerings at a designated place, which will then be sanitised and offered to the idol. General secretary Mrinal Kanti Biswas said they had also arranged for live dhak beats, all the way from West Bengal. “The dhaakis (drummers) aren’t coming this time but we will pay them and they will beat drums during the rituals on video calls and we will play it on speakers here,” he said. Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of Safdarjung Enclave’s Matri Mandir Durga Puja, said a major portion of the donations received would be given to those whose livelihood was associated with the Puja celebrations, such as pandal artists and dhaakis. “We are also creating a 12-foot-tall artwork showing Ma Durga slaying the novel coronavirus as a symbol of good triumphing over evil. We will make copies of the original artwork and display it at different parts of the city,” Saha said. Arambagh Puja Samiti has moved the venue from a park to a temple complex and will allow a limited number of devotees on pre-booked slots, with separate booking for pushpanjali, said Abhijit Bose, its chairman. “We are also trying to financially help artisans and workers associated with our Puja,” he said. Members of Delhi Durga Puja Samiti couldn’t have imagined that in its 111th year, Delhi’s oldest Durga Puja — known as Kashmere Gate Durga Puja — will become such a pale shadow of its grand and glorious heritage. The Puja is popular among devotees from across the national capital region for its sandhya aarati and the food stalls that are run by committee members themselves and serve delicious items. Som Prakash Mitra, its president, the pandal would be smaller this year and no one would be allowed to stand during aarati. Only members of the committee and some patrons will be allowed inside, he added. There will also be no food stall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tech-takes-centre-stage-as-covid-hits-ctrl-alt-del-on-puja-festivities/articleshow/78758031.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Railway employees demand Diwali bonus||Jaipur: Unhappy with no announcement of Diwali bonus yet, a large number of railway employees of North Western Railway Employees Union on Monday staged a protest at the NWR headquarters. Uttar Paschim Railway Mazdooor Sangh (UPRMS) is also planning similar protests in the coming days. On Monday, a large number of employees with placards gathered outside Jaipur station and NWR headquarters demanding bonus. “Bonus has to be given based on productivity and revenue generated by NWR in 2019-20. They can’t deny that. The rail ministry should announce it as it is our genuine demand,” said Mukesh Mathur, general secretary, NWR Employees Union.He claimed that railways generated a revenue of nearly Rs 3,811 crore in 2019-20 and bonus should be announced. Uttar Paschim Railway Mazdoor Sangh (UPRMS) and other employees union are geared up to stage similar protests along with office bearers of National Federation of Indian Railwayman (NFIR). Apart from bonus, railways employees have been demanding night duty allowance and old pension scheme. “We had worked even during the lockdown and transported essential commodities across the country. Thus, we would be protesting against anti labour policies of the Union government,” said an office bearer of UPRMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/railway-employees-demand-diwali-bonus/articleshow/78756865.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Intern docs end stir as govt agrees to raise stipend||Jaipur: A celebration erupted at the Sawai Man Singh Medical College on Monday, where the intern doctors have been protesting for the past five days, sitting on hunger strike. They called off the hunger strike, after a committee formed by the principal and controller SMS Medical College, accepted their demands of increasing their monthly stipend. Dancing to drum beats, the smile on the faces of the agitating intern doctors was quite vivid. “The state government has accepted our demands and approval has been made by the committee formed by the government to increase our stipend from Rs7,000 to Rs14,000 plus daily allowance,” said an intern doctor. The intern doctors have been protesting for the past few months and sat on hunger strike on October 15. They took out rallies and marches in different parts of the city to bring it to the notice of the state government that the stipend they were getting was not even half of the stipend which the interns in other states get. The committee has also decided to provide hazardous work incentives to the interns on Covid duty. Many intern doctors from different parts of the state have been camping in Jaipur for demanding a raise in their stipend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intern-docs-end-stir-as-govt-agrees-to-raise-stipend/articleshow/78756860.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Student develops attendance tech||Hyderabad: A Mahindra University student has developed a deep learning app called Chaksu Face Attendance to provide employers, institutions and organisations with an alternative feature that would enable contactless recording of attendance. Kartiya Bhardwaj, a mechanical engineering student from the class of 2020, has developed an interface that is especially relevant in the view of Covid-19 outbreak. The app can provide a safe alternatuve to touch-based fingerprint attendance systems. The system is being incubated by Mahindra e-hub, an incubation centre of Mahindra University under the University’s Centre of Entrepreneurship & Innovation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/student-develops-attendance-tech/articleshow/78758047.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Assault charge false: CBI DIG to court||NEW DELHI: Following summons, a DIG-rank officer of the CBI appeared before a special court on Monday and called the allegation of “beating up” a CBI prosecutor against him “absolutely false”. The court noted that both the prosecutor and the officer had taken legal action against each other and the matter required no further orders. Special CBI judge Rakesh Sharma said, “It is submitted by DIG Raghvendra Vats that the submissions made by the public prosecutor on the last date of hearing are absolutely false. It appears that both the parties have taken legal action against each other. The incident did not appear in the presence of the court. Hence, I am of the concerned view that except for observing that the public prosecutor is an officer of the court, no further orders are required.” On October 12, the court had issued summons to the CBI officer and observed that the allegations of the prosecutor were "very serious". The prosecutor had alleged that he was called by the DIG for discussing the present matter on October 9, when he was beaten up by the DIG, who also tried to strangulate him. “This is a very serious allegation levelled by the public prosecutor. The DIG shall appear in person on the next date of hearing to explain his conduct,” the court had said in its previous order. The prosecutor alleged that the actions meted out to him were over the delay in framing of charges against Rajender Kumar, former principal secretary to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in a corruption case. The prosecutor said that he was asked why charges “have not been framed in this case so far and that a departmental inquiry shall be initiated against him if charges are not framed” on October 12. The CBI had charged Kumar, a 1989 batch IAS officer, along with eight other persons and his front company - Endeavour Systems Private Limited (ESPL) - for allegedly running a “systematic” information technology-related corruption scandal worth Rs 57 crore for nearly nine years from 2007 to 2015 in which he and his accomplices received a bribe of Rs 3.3 crore. Kumar was charged with cheating, criminal conspiracy, forgery and offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The CBI claimed that due to corruption by Kumar and his associates, the government exchequer suffered a loss of Rs 12 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/assault-charge-false-cbi-dig-to-court/articleshow/78758034.cms||Aamir Khan
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Covid patients taking longer to test negative, docs advise antibody test||JAIPUR: A 72-year-old jeweller, who tested positive for Covid-19 more than two weeks ago, tested positive for the third time on Monday. A resident of Tonk Road, the jeweller decided to undergo the antibodies test, which was advised by his treating doctor, to ascertain that if he had developed enough antibodies for the virus, which indicate that he had recovered. His doctor suggested it was possible that he might test false positive repeatedly or he might take longer time for testing negative. In such a situation, a lot of doctors are now advising such patients to get antibodies test done. “I have advised him to get the antibody test done so that a clear picture could be drawn about his infectiousness. If he is found reactive to antibodies test, it means that the RT-PCR (common Covid test) shows false positive,” said Dr N Khippal, senior professor, department of pulmonary medicine, SMS Hospital and incharge ESI covid containment unit. Doctors are now surprised that a sizeable number of patients are not testing negative even after 14 days of getting infected. “One thing we need to know that in Covid positive patients, virus tends to be infective for about eight days and that’s the reason people are supposed to quarantine for 10 days if they have it. Even though they may still test positive, it’s not likely that they are shedding virus that could infect other people as they might detect positivity in RT-PCR test,” said Dr Khippal. Doctors treating Covid patients say there are now a lot of patients taking more time in testing negative for the virus. Jaipur’s SMS Hospital doctors say that a lot of Covid patients are not turning negative for the virus in tests conducted five days after first testing positive. “We have found that around 80% test negative for Covid after five days of the first test which shows that the patient is positive. Earlier, majority of the patients get cured of the virus within five days of first test,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS hospital. “The cause has not been found but it could be that the virus might be multiplying more rapidly than earlier,” said Singh. Since a lot of patients are taking longer to test negative even after their symptoms vanish, the health department has issued guidelines recently mentioning that the patients under home isolation do not require to undergo Covid tests to declare cured. The doctors on the basis of the symptoms declare them cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-patients-taking-longer-to-test-negative-docs-advise-antibody-test/articleshow/78756857.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Finally, some action on 9-year fight to get waterbody back||NEW DELHI: It has been nine years since residents began the struggle to transform the eyesore into a lake park. The two-acre land and johad, or pond, near the bus stop in Aya Nagar in southwest Delhi is finally fenced and dumping of garbage and sewage there disallowed. South Delhi Municipal Corporation began work two weeks ago to clean the water and develop a 2,000-square yard park centred on the lake. The redevelopment plan involves cleaning the water, developing a green patch with trees, shrubs and grass, installing benches, gyms and gazebos, and creating a walking track. Area councillor Ved Pal said the restoration battle hasn’t proved easy. “Due to a multiplicity of civic agencies, we couldn’t begin the all-round development of the pond simultaneously,” he revealed. “In fact, we went to court three times to get work started, yet we were back to square one after some time. I finally had to request Delhi government’s revenue department to transfer the site to the municipal corporation to enable me, as area councillor, to restore the lake.” Pal continued, “SDMC started cleaning the pond two weeks ago. We have called labourers from Madhya Pradesh to clear the wild growth and will give them boats and machines for deep cleaning. We didn’t have enough funds for desilting the johad, but fortunately received financial help from an NGO.” An SDMC official said development of the plot into a recreational facility for villagers and residents of the unauthorised colonies in the vicinity requires swings and seats to be installed and a jogging track created. “At the moment, construction of a walkway and levelling of the land around the pond are under way,” the official said. Some tiling work was done and gym equipment installed in one section by the AAP MLA sometime back. Officials said it would take 6-7 months for the work to finish. When TOI visited the place on Monday, there was garbage dumped at numerous spots and a foul odour hung in the air. Impervious to this, labourers were busy at work. The development of the lake park is part of SDMC’s aim to develop green spaces in villages and informal residential colonies on gram sabha land. Twenty-one plots of this sort, totalling 27 acres, have been transferred to the civic body by the revenue department. Redevelopment of 15 of these 21 locations has been completed. These include sites in Papravat village, Sekarpur, Mundhela Kalan, Kajipur and Bakkarwala. Around 700 metres from the johad, a 4.5-acre land at Khel Parishar near Hansa Chowk, one of the 21 acquired sites, has turned into a public recreation area. “Last year, the horticulture department took up the task for converting this plot into an open space for people. We levelled the site, created an open-air theatre, gym, playing area for children, space for cultural activities and an artificial pond for submerging Durga and Ganesh idols,” said Pal. An area resident Anita Kumar, however, reported, “The maintenance of this place is declining because plants are not watered regularly, neither is sweeping done.” The toilet blocks constructed in the park were also locked. Asked about these, an SDMC official assured the shortcomings would be addressed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/finally-some-action-on-9-year-fight-to-get-waterbody-back/articleshow/78758050.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||102 new cases, 100 discharged||Vadodara: With 102 new cases being reported in the city and district, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 13,910. The new cases were identified from 3,844 tests conducted since Sunday evening. Out of the 102 new cases, 42 were from parts of the district outside Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits while the remaining 60 are from within the city limits. The trend over the last one month has revealed that the number of cases in the city has gone down even as the numbers outside the city limits have stagnated. Due to this situation, there has been an overall reduction in numbers largely due to the lesser number of cases reported in the city. With no new deaths being confirmed by the VMC, the death toll due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death remained at 209. These deaths do not include cases where persons who tested positive for Covid-19 died due to other comorbidities. As many as 100 persons were discharged from home isolation or hospitals after they recovered from the viral infection. This left 1,597 under treatment including 62 on ventilators or BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/102-new-cases-100-discharged/articleshow/78755540.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab rights body red-flags missing saroops probe report||AMRITSAR: The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) has raised doubts of tampering with the advocate Ishar Singh’s probe report, which looked into the case of 328 missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib, before uploading it on the SGPC website “Normally all pages of every investigation report bear the signature of all the members of the investigation team, which is not the case in this investigation report,” PHRO principal investigator Sarabjit Singh Verka told TOI on Monday. He said the report submitted by the investigation team bore the signatures of all three members of the team comprising Ishar, Harpreet Kaur and Harleen Kaur, only on the last page. Raising a finger of suspicion on the 10-page report uploaded on the SGPC’s website, he said, “Page 9 of the report talks about a document referring to Paramdeep Singh which was submitted on August 24, whereas the report was signed on August 23.” Verka said that in the second last paragraph of the investigation report, the team members wrote that they were not fully apprised with the Punjabi language. “If there had doubts about their own knowledge of Punjabi language, the team should have taken the services of an expert, which didn’t happen in this case,” he added. SGPC employee Kanwaljit Singh, before his retirement in May, had hinted at missing of 267 saroops and the issue was immediately picked up by Justice (retd) Ajit Singh Bains-led PHRO in June. The PHRO had also claimed that 80 saroops were damaged in fire and water on the May 18, 2016, night after a fire broke out in the Golden offset press at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib. However, advocate Ishar Singh’s report released on August 24 states that the number of missing saroop was 328, not 267.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-rights-body-red-flags-missing-saroops-probe-report/articleshow/78758052.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 20, 2020||Amritsar||Baba Farid Society chief's sons fight over property, 2 held||BATHINDA: In a property dispute between two sons of Baba Farid Society chairman Inderjit Singh Sekhon, one of his sons and a grandson have been arrested by the Faridkot police for firing at another grandson Maheepinder Singh Sekhon. Maheepinder has been admitted at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot. The police have registered a case on charges of attempt to murder, criminal intimidation and under the Arms Act against Inderjit’s elder son Simrajeet and grandson Gurjap Singh. Maheepinder is the son of Inderjit’ younger son Kulinder Singh Sekhon. Simrajeet and Kulinder have been engaged in a property dispute since long. Inderjit, 93, is the founder member of Baba Farid Society, which has been organising Baba Farid Aagman Purb for the last 51 years. According to Maheepinder, he along with father Kulinder and brother Amaninder Singh was at his office when his uncle Simrajeet Singh and cousin Gurjap came there and Gurjap fired three rounds from a pistol at him and his father. Then they took out a 12 bore gun and fired two more rounds. He sustained injury below his eye. Faridkot City police station SHO inspector Gurwinder Singh said both Simarjeet and Gurjap have been arrested and the pistol used in the crime has been seized, whereas the gun is yet to be recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/baba-farid-society-chiefs-sons-fight-over-property-2-held/articleshow/78758043.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||When only videos were viral: Just nostalgia dances||AHMEDABAD: A round of garba dancing lifts the spirits of Gujaratis at any time of the year. We’ve seen revellers wearing raincoats over their traditional attire and helmets and dancing; a group of Gujarati tourists doing garba near the Eiffel Tower in Paris; people enjoying garba on terraces on the evening of Uttarayan and we’ve seen Covid-19 patients in hospital wards doing garba while wearing PPE kits just to keep their enthusiasm going – that’s how much it matters to them. But now, thanks to the pandemic, there’s no permission to hold garbas be it at local level or at commercial venues and all Navratri enthusiasts have is nostalgia. “All I’ve been doing is revisiting pictures and videos from last year’s Navratri, posting pictures on social media and playing garba songs at home so that I can just relive the good times of yore,” said Anita Shah, a professional. While many are reliving their memories on social media, there are others who are just trying to get festive feels by dressing up in traditional attire. A group of friends in Jodhpur area of the city got together, all decked up in chaniya-choli and traditional attire and made merry over a meal, just to keep the Navratri spirit alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/when-only-videos-were-viral-just-nostalgia-dances/articleshow/78758623.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Varanasi||Malhani by-poll: Wives of Dhananjay, Lucky withdraw||Varanasi: As Samajwadi Party candidate Luky Yadav wife Pushpa Yadav and muscleman politician and Independent candidate Dhananjay Singh’s wife Shrikala Singh withdrew their nomination papers, 16 candidates are left in the fray for Malhani assembly by-election in the district. SDM Sadar and returning officer for Malhani by-poll Nitish Kumar confirmed that two nominations of Pushpa Yadav and Shrikala Singh were withdrawn, after which final list of candidates with allotment of symbols was released. As many as 22 candidates had filed their papers by October 16 when nomination process concluded, he said adding, nomination off four were cancelled on technical grounds. After the death of former minister and sitting MLA Parasnath Yadav, by-poll became inevitable at Malhani seat. SP decided to field late Parasnath’s son Luky Yadav on its ticket while former MP and muscleman politician Dhananjay Singh decided to contest for this seat as an Independent. After their nomination filing, their wives had also filed their papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/malhani-by-poll-wives-of-dhananjay-lucky-withdraw/articleshow/78755331.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Goa to London direct flight twice a week from November||Panaji: Air India has started a direct flight between Goa International Airport and London Heathrow Airport under the air bubble agreement between India and UK. While the long-haul flight will operate once a week in October, from November onwards, it will operate on a bi-weekly basis. The first direct flight departed for London early Monday morning with 229 passengers. The Air India Boeing Dreamliner 787 had flown in from London with 231 passengers as a Vande Bharat flight. “Goa connects to London directly now as Air India has started its direct flight,” Goa Airport director Gagan Malik said. “The schedule, till March, has come for this flight.” Prior to this, Goa was connected to London through an Air India flight that had a stopover in Delhi. “The impact this flight will have is significant. It will be a big boon for Goa’s populace,” said Malik. Goans, using the Portuguese nationality route, have gained access to the UK job market. Several Goans also study in the UK while for the Britishers, Goa is a traditional holiday destination. The Union ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has entered into air bubble arrangements with several countries even though international passenger flights remain grounded due to the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Scheduled international passenger flights were suspended in India since March 23 due to the pandemic. Meanwhile, GoAir, Vistara, IndiGo, SpiceJet and AirAsia are likely to start additional domestic flights from Goa connecting to Tier I and Tier II cities, after October 25. IndiGo has started a flight to Jodhpur with a stopover at Delhi. Officials say domestic airlines have sought more check-in counters to handle the increase in passengers and to ensure social distancing is maintained. On Sunday 6,000 passengers passed through Goa International Airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-london-direct-flight-twice-a-week-from-november/articleshow/78758327.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||More scrapped currency seized in Godhra, two held||VADODARA: Another stash of demonetised currency with face value of Rs 16,61,000 was seized from Godhra in Panchmahal district on Monday. This is the third seizure of its kind made in the district in the recent past. The notes included 561 scrapped currency notes of Rs 1,000 denomination and 2,200 currency notes of Rs 500 denomination. The accused were identified as Dhanraj Parmar and Ketan Rakhadiya, both resident of Ghoghamba. Parmar was a gym trainer while Ketan Rakhadiya was a tea vendor. The town had made headlines in the end of July when a massive seizure of demonetised currency amounting to Rs 4.76crore was made by the anti-terrorist squad and Panchmahal police. It led to the detention of three people. More recently, a man was nabbed from the Pavagadh road in Halol with scrapped currency notes amounting to Rs two lakh. The accused was a man from Vadodara and it is believed that he was to meet other accused. The seizure on Monday was made based on a tip off that some persons were going to come with demonetised currency to Godhra from Ghoghamba, also in Panchmahal district. The police stopped a car in which the suspects were travelling and recovered the scrapped currency with face value of Rs 16,61lakh. Sources said that Parmar’s family was in politics since three or four generations. His great grandfather was an MLA while his grandfather and father were still active in politics. The police is yet to ascertain if the three seizures were linked with each other. Sources, however, said that the role of a ‘tantrik’ was also being looked into in to the last two seizures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-scrapped-currency-seized-in-godhra-two-held/articleshow/78755507.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||21 pull out, Limbdi has most in fray at 14||GANDHINAGAR: As many as 21 candidates withdrew their nominations for the byelections to eight assembly seats on Monday, the last day for withdrawing nominations. With this, 81 candidates are now in the fray for eight seats. Limbdi has the highest number of candidates, 14. Ten candidates are vying for the Abdasa seat, 12 for Morbi, 11 for Dhari, 12 for Gadhada, nine each for Karjan and Dang, and four for Kaprada. During scrutiny of papers last Saturday, 102 nominations were found valid and 33 were rejected, a release from the state chief electoral officer said. Some 135 forms were scrutinized in all. Nominations of candidates of the BJP and the Congress, of most independents, and of those from lesser known outfits have been validated. These outfits include Bahujan Mukti Party, Bharatiya Jana Parishad, Bahujan Maha Party, Vyavastha Parivartan Party, Yuva Jan Jagruti Party, and Rashtravadi Jan Chetna Party. Chhotu Vasava’s Bharatiya Tribal Party has fielded Mahendra Vasava and Babubhai Gavit from Karjan and Dang, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21-pull-out-limbdi-has-most-in-fray-at-14/articleshow/78758618.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||BBA student, widow, several sole breadwinners among sacked VNIT guards||NAGPUR: Bhavika (23), a final-year BBA student, had been working as a security guard at VNIT for five years. She joined following her father's untimely death, as she had to assist her mother in running the household and raising two siblings. She is among the guards protesting their removal from service. For the last 15 days, she has been coming to the protest site to mark her presence and leaving to search for a job. Fluent in English, Bhavika says she has not found one so far while the demands of the guards to be retained at VNIT have also fallen on deaf ears. Mamta Bhende (40), a widow, has defaulted on this month's house rent. She is ready to work as a housemaid too but says no one has offered her even that work. “I am the only earning member in the family,” she said. Like Bhende, Chanda Rangari (42) too is the only earning member at home as her husband is ill. Similarly, Vivek Dhawal (28) and Harikrishna Vise (30) who remain present at the protest need the security guard’s job to avoid extreme financial crisis. “My mother and I are running the household. We live in a rented house. I have one brother and two sisters. I am the eldest. I wish to study further and hence need a job,” Bhavika said. All of these were earning between Rs 18,000 to Rs24,000 a month and sustaining their families from the 8-hour guard duty at VNIT. They are among the 140 guards protesting at the VNIT entrance for last two months. They are worried there are no jobs due to lockdown and Covid-related issues, they said. “Organizations and establishments are telling us they don’t have anything to offer,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bba-student-widow-several-sole-breadwinners-among-sacked-vnit-guards/articleshow/78758093.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||India’s biggest cancer centre to launch OPD service in Lucknow today||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will launch the OPD service at the Super Specialty Cancer Institute (SSCI) in the city on Tuesday. When the institute gets fully functional with its 1,250 beds, the SSCI would be the biggest cancer centre in the country. It will be bigger than the National Cancer Institute of Jhajjar (Haryana) which has 700 beds. It will be twice the size of Tata Memorial Institute of Mumbai which has about 650 beds and it will be four times of Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute. On Tuesday, SSCI’s main OPD block will be dedicated by the chief minister in a virtual ceremony in the presence of Union defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh. Minister of medical education Suresh Khanna and his deputy Sandeep Singh will also be present at the event which marks the beginning of out-patient services like day care, radiation oncology and surgical oncology. After this, 750 beds would be made functional in the first phase and 500 in the second. “Besides being a benchmark in patient care by providing state-of-the-art and affordable services, SSCI will serve as the apex state cancer institute for capacity building. It will also start a population-based cancer registry for the state capital,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. The institute will follow the DMG format. Under this, specialists of all disciplines sit in a room along with the patient who sits just opposite them as is witnessed in high profile interviews. Experts listen to medical issues of the patient and finalise the treatment line. Government insiders revealed that CM Yogi Adityanath wants the facility to get functional at the earliest to save scores of poor people in the state from selling their assets and belongings to afford cancer treatment in big cities. The facility will not only benefit people in UP but also those from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Notably, one in three patients reporting at the Indian Council of Medical Research’s national cancer registry is from these three states. Numbers suggest that UP desperately needed a state-of-the-art facility with all services under one roof. A 2017 report on cancer showed that UP was among the worst-affected states. In 2016, Uttar Pradesh saw 6.7 lakh of the 39 lakh cancer cases reported in the country. Likewise, a Lancet analysis of 9.7 million deaths reported in India in 2017 investigated reasons for disability-adjusted life years. It noted that UP stood prominently among states accounting for 44% of India’s cancer burden. The others were northeastern states, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Haryana, Assam, Gujarat, Kerala, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. Locally too, the centre would be of great help. Long waiting lists at the available centres like KGMU, SGPGI and RML Institute speak for the dire need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/indias-biggest-cancer-centre-tolaunch-opd-service-in-city-today/articleshow/78758577.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 20, 2020||Goa||World Bank sanctions Rs 3 crore for Goa to develop India’s first sand dune parks||PANAJI: It is not uncommon to find videos online of tourists or locals driving their vehicles on the state’s beaches. Many beach stretches are suddenly devoid of vegetation. In places where there is some greenery, visitors are often seen trampling it or discarding trash there. This sand dune ecosystem, so far neglected, is set to get a new lease of life in Goa. World Bank has approved a project proposed by the Goa state biodiversity board that will see India’s first sand dune parks and interpretation centres developed along select stretches. Around Rs 3 crore has been sanctioned to the state under the programme, and will see interventions like interpretation centres to educate locals and tourists on the importance of the sand dune ecosystem. Bridges made of nature-friendly material will also be constructed to reduce trampling on sand dune vegetation. This is not all — even nurseries of sand dune vegetation will be set up, which will enable its replantation on beach stretches where vegetation has gone extinct. Board member secretary Pradip Sarmokadam said that the Morjim and Galgibaga beaches, known for their turtle-nesting sites, are among the stretches that will get sand dune parks. The idea of parks to preserve sand dunes was first mooted by former NIO scientist and ex-member of the GSBB Antonio Mascarenhas, who will now act as principal investigator for the project, with Sarmokadam as co-investigator. “Preserving sand dunes is important because they are the first line of defense from phenomena like tsunami, tall waves, storms or high winds, which hit the coast first,” said Sarmokadam. “The vegetation on sand dunes is an important part of this ecosystem, which few are aware about. The project will also see us regularly monitoring flora and fauna on sand dunes.” He added that the project is part of the effort to create Goa’s integrated coastal zone management plan. He also said that consultations between the Morjim biodiversity management committee (BMC) with stakeholders has already begun on the project. “We observed in Morjim that there was trash thrown in the vegetation, besides uncontrolled footfalls on it,” Sarmokadam said. “Visitors were unnecessarily stepping on areas they could avoid. Under the programme, interpretation and thematic centres will be developed where visitors will be educated and sensitised about the importance of the sand dune ecosystem.” He also said that BMCs would act as nodal agencies to help restore degraded sand dunes, and this will ensure the involvement of local stakeholders so that the projects’ benefits continue much after the World Bank-funded programme ends. Sand dunes are geological deposits formed by the action of wind. These geomorphic features act as nature’s first line of defense from the forces of the ocean. This fact has been accepted globally. Sand dunes are extremely important because of their inherent properties; both by providing a barrier to inundation and by releasing sand during storm conditions to reduce wave action. Sand dunes act as sand banks to maintain the sedimentary and dynamic equilibrium of the dune beach ecosystem. This natural coastal defense is hugely cost-effective compared to any other artificial means which need huge expenses in maintaining the alternative hard structures such as sea-walls and other coastal defenses. Dune belts are often far more efficient. Sand dunes which generally create protective interface between waterfront, beach and human habitation are features of extreme fragility and sensitive to anthropogenic stress. The fragile sand dune ecosystem in Goa has been deteriorating and the floral sand dune vegetation or psammophytes too is depleting at an alarming rate Notification of sand dune parks in Goa would be the first of its kind in India as restoration, conservation and management initiatives of coastal sand dunes are rarely attempted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/world-bank-sanctions-rs-3cr-for-state-to-develop-indias-first-sand-dune-parks/articleshow/78758423.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Shun blocking others’ rallies: Anil Vij to protesting farmers||AMBALA: After BKU (Charuni) issued an ultimatum to the Haryana government to withdraw the murder case registered against farmers latest by October 29, state home minister Anil Vij on Monday advised the protesting farm bodies to refrain from blocking others’ rallies taken out in a democratic manner. After BKU (Charuni) members on October 14 blocked BJP’s tractor yatra in Naraingarh and a farmer died during the blockade, the Ambala police registered a case on charges of rioting, public mischief and murder against several farmers. Asked about the ultimatum served by BKU and the possibilities of withdrawing the case against the farmers, Vij at his residence here told the media, "The law does its work. The farmers have a right to agitate and we have no objection to it, but they should refrain from taking law into their hands. “There are two types of beliefs among the farmers — while some feel that these bills are wrong and they are protesting against the same, some others say that these bills are right and they are also holding tractor rallies in support. Both can take out their separate rallies and one does not have the right to block others’ protest programme." Asked if the farmers intensify their agitation, how the government would tackle the same, Vij said, "Our officials and police are fully alert and they know how to tackle."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shun-blocking-others-rallies-vij-to-protesting-farmers/articleshow/78758591.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP politicising supporter’s death: Charuni||CHANDIGARH: Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, on Monday, alleged that in an attempt to suppress farmers agitating against the three agricultural laws, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Haryana is politicising the death of its supporter. Bharat Singh of Baragarh village of Ambala district died during BJP’s tractor yatra in Naraingarh on October 14, after which several farmers associated with BKU (Charuni) were booked under murder charges by the Ambala police. Charuni alleged, “As per our sources, BJP had no permission to conduct the tractor yatra in Naraingarh and it was given under the government’s pressure on the same day on October 14, after the incident of Bharat’s death during the rally.” Addressing a press conference at Press Club, Chandigarh on Monday, Charuni said, “Bharat Singh suffered a heart attack during BJP’s tractor yatra and the protesting farmers were not violent with him or anyone else on that day.” Charuni said the permission given by Ambala district administration for BJP’s tractor yatra in Naraingarh did not mention the number of persons allowed for the rally, which is important as per Covid-19 guidelines. Charuni pointed out that one of the conditions of the permission for the tractor rally, point number 13, given to Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini’s personal secretary, clearly states, “Organisers will be responsible for all types of accidents.” The farm leader decried lodging of a murder case against farmers and alleged that the government politically pressurised the police and Bharat’s family to slap murder charges against them. Charuni said, “BJP MPs, who brought a senior citizen with a history of heart attacks to their rally in which loud music was being played on tractors, should have been booked. Bharat was sitting on the side of the a tractor and loud music was being played on it, which is harmful to a heart patient.” Sources said in the case of Bharat’s death, medical officers at the civil hospital, Naraingarh are yet to make any opinion to highlight the exact cause of death and his viscera has been sent for forensic examination to the state laboratory at Madhuban. The report is awaited. Police have not made any arrests in the case yet. Charuni said, “The viscera has been sent to a forensic laboratory in case of mysterious or poison-related deaths and we have a suspicion that the government may tamper with the forensic and postmortem reports in this case. We demand that the case be investigated by some independent agency having no influence of BJP.” The case has only fuelled the resistance. Charuni said, “We have given a call to farmers and people throughout the state to welcome BJP leaders with black flags in protest against the agriculture laws. Effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be burnt on Dussehra on October 25. With regards to this murder case, a mahapanchayat has been called at the grain market, Ambala Cantt on October 29 and if the government does not cancel the false case registered in Naraingarh, it should be ready to face an intensified protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-politicising-supporters-death-charuni/articleshow/78758576.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Agra||Seven-year-old boy accused of raping girl, 5, in Aligarh||AGRA: A five-and-a-half-year-old girl was allegedly assaulted sexually by her 7-year-old neighbour in Aligarh. Police registered an FIR under section 376 (rape) of IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act at Kawarsi police station. Talking to TOI, SP (crime) Arvind Kumar said the boy will be produced before the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Board on Tuesday. In her statement to the child welfare officer, the girl stated that she was sexually assaulted by the boy when she had gone to her neighbour’s house to take her ball. According to the complaint filed by the girl’s mother, the incident took place on October 12. “My daughter had gone to the neighbour’s house to pick her ball, which had accidentally gone there, when she was playing on the terrace. She was then grabbed by the son of the neighbour’s tenant,” the FIR said. Though the boy’s age was not mentioned in the complaint, the medical examination had revealed he is seven, said police. The boy is presently with his parents. Notably, section 83 of IPC offers partial immunity to children between the age of 7 and 12 stating, “Nothing is an offence which is done by a child above seven years of age and under twelve, who has not attained sufficient maturity of understanding to judge of the nature and consequences of his conduct on that occasion.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/seven-year-old-boy-accused-of-raping-girl-5-in-aligarh/articleshow/78755555.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Plea in Delhi HC over move to name special counsels for riots||NEW DELHI: An association of prosecutors working in various city courts on Monday moved Delhi High Court challenging Delhi government’s decision to appoint special public prosecutors (SPPs) in cases relating to northeast Delhi riots. Earlier this year, President Ram Nath Kovind had cleared the names of SPPs recommended by Delhi Police, including solicitor general Tushar Mehta. The petition by Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association has challenged the appointment of SPPs by the state government, on the recommendation of Delhi Police, arguing that it violates the scheme provided under CrPC for separation of investigation and prosecution to ensure free and fair trial. It seeks quashing of Delhi government’s June 24 notification appointing the SPPs and wants the high court to direct that independent SPPs be appointed instead or the cases be assigned to public prosecutors working with the directorate of prosecution. The association has pointed out that the names of the SPPs were recommended by Delhi Police and then after a tussle between the lieutenant governor and AAP government, these names were subsequently approved by the President. “The appointment of the SPPs on the recommendation of Delhi Police is divergence from the principles of free and fair trial which is part of Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the petition argues, adding that “there is no criteria provided as to how these advocates are chosen or if they have experience in conducting the riots cases or if they have conducted sufficient number of cases earlier or what experience are they having. Certain names were not even approved by Delhi Police as those advocates were not having the experience of at least 10 years at the bar, which is the primary condition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-in-hc-over-move-to-name-spl-counsels-for-riots/articleshow/78758056.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pandemic weighs down Dev’s Europe plan||AHMEDABAD: The Covid pandemic, which has again gripped many parts of Europe, has hit the preparation plans of Dev Javia, the upcoming tennis star from Gujarat.  Dev, an 18-year-old from Ahmedabad, played in the French Open Juniors last week and showed he has the potential to go all the way. As things stand, Dev is struggling to collect points because he is not able to play in ITF Futures, Challengers and ATP events. This threatens his dream of playing a Grand Slam in the men’s category. Dev won the qualifiers in the junior section but lost in the first round in singles. He, however, entered the second round in the junior boys’ doubles category with his Chinese partner Li Hanwen. “My aim is to prepare for the men’s category and start playing in the Futures circuit,” said Dev in a text message from Alexander Waske Tennis University near Frankfurt, where he has been currently training. “I need to strengthen physically, add new skills and boost overall play with more maturity,” he said. “The pathway is the same as juniors. I start with Futures tournaments and depending on my progress I play higher grade tournaments,” added Dev. He is sponsored by the Sports Authority of Gujarat (SAG) under the Shaktidoot Scheme. Waske, the director of the Alexander Waske Tennis University, said in a text message: “Dev has good attitude and has shown willingness to get better. As a team we are willing to support him to achieve his dreams.” Waske added: “Veterans Prajnesh and Shriram Balaji who have been representing India in the Davis Cup are willing to help and guide him here.” Vipul Javia, Dev’s father, is confident that the teenager will do something big in the coming years. “Seeing his potential the All India Tennis Association (AITA) has chosen him as a probable for the Indian squad for the 2024 Olympics,” said Vipul Javia. “So Dev must get international exposure, especially in Europe.” Credit for Dev’s rising graph should also be given to Shrimal Bhatt, who has been coaching Dev since he was 12. “He has a deceptive game and is capable of thinking on his feet,” said Bhatt. “He is an all-courts player but needs to get stronger physically.” Bhatt added: “The European circuit offers good competition and the experience will help him.” Bhatt went on to say: “By getting into the Top 100 in juniors he could claim a wildcard entry into the main draw of ITF Futures and earn the much needed exposure and experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pandemic-weighs-down-devs-europe-plan/articleshow/78758620.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Unidentified body found in floodwater||Hyderabad: An unidentified decomposed body, which seems to have been washed away in floodwater, was found by Chandrayangutta patrolling police on Monday. The deceased is suspected to be around 45-year-old man, who might have been washed away during the heavy rainfall that led to floods in the areas of Al Jubail Colony. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital mortuary and a case of suspicious death case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unidentified-body-found-in-floodwater/articleshow/78758063.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Surat||Diamonds ‘snatched’ from a crowded shop in Surat||SURAT: In a sensational incident of snatching diamonds witnessed for the first time in the city, two persons grabbed away as many as 25 packets of rough and polished gems from a shop in Varachha area and disappeared in the crowded area, on Sunday. The diamonds are estimated to be worth at least Rs 15 lakh, but the complaint registered by the victim Parsottam Parmar mentions one packet of 22.5 carat gemstones worth Rs 2.20 lakh. Two persons came to Parmar’s shop in Varsha Society posing as buyers and asked him to show polished diamonds. After checking some packets, the duo asked Parmar to show some high-quality gems. Parmar then took out a packet of 22.5 carat diamonds worth Rs 10,000 per carat. They selected the diamonds and told him that they will call their partner with money for payment. The duo sat outside the shop for some time pretending to wait for their partner. After some time they went inside and asked Parmar to show them the diamonds again. Parmar had kept the packet in his vest’s pocket with other packets of costly diamonds. He took out the bundle of 25 packets and was about to show the selected one, when they snatched the entire bundle and fled before Parmar could realize anything. “Incidents of chain or mobile snatching are common. But this is an unusual case of diamonds snatching. No such incident has been reported in the recent past,” said a police officer at Varachha police station The incident sent shock waves in the diamond cutting and polishing hub as this is the first such incident where miscreants have successfully snatched away parcels from a shop in a crowded area. So far, theft or loot have been reported Varachha and Mahidharpura, but this is the first complaint of snatching registered. Police are yet to ascertain the value of the diamonds, but sources said it could be anywhere between Rs 15 lakh to 20 lakh. Parmar, a native of Bhavnagar, claimed that he doesn’t have any papers for the looted stock as the packets were untouched due to bleak business since last Diwali. He runs the shop in a rented space. Police have recovered CCTV footage in which the two are seen escaping from the shop. Parmar purchases rough diamonds from suppliers and sells it to individual buyers or brokers after getting them polished in units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamonds-snatched-from-a-crowded-shop-in-surat/articleshow/78755584.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 20, 2020||Goa||Tourism activities should continue but maintain social distance: Goa CM||PANAJI: A day after social media was flooded with videos of people flouting rules and SOPs at Saturday night parties, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said tourism activities should continue by maintaining social distancing. “At this moment when tourism has just started, instead of holding parties, they should carry on with tourism activities by following social distancing,” Sawant told reporters, adding that the home department will issue instructions to them to maintain social distancing. The photos and videos which circulated on social media show locals and tourists violating all norms set by the Centre and state government, as well as cautionary advise by public health authorities. Goa is one of the few states that has removed all restrictions for entering the state and is fully open for business, tourism and leisure. Reacting to the viral photos and videos of parities, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Sunday called for action against these club owners, including cancellation of licences. This is not acceptable,” Rane had said. “The licences of these clubs should be cancelled. I will be meeting the chief minister and my recommendation is that these nods should be cancelled for violation of the Epidemic Act, which is in force. Every permission given to them should be withdrawn.” On one side, doctors and healthcare workers are putting their lives at risk to save the people of Goa, and on the other hand, these youngsters are being encouraged to go to nightclubs where there are all kinds of violations, and no SOPs are followed. This is taking the law for granted,” Rane had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-activities-should-continue-but-maintain-social-distance-cm/articleshow/78758334.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Trader’s finances hit, court cuts penalty||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court has reduced the penalty in a cheque-bounce case after a request from the accused saying that the Covid-19 pandemic had worsened his financial condition and he would not be able to bear the burden. A Maninagar resident who has a mobile phone shop, Chirag Prajapati, was sentenced to two years in jail and had to pay Rs 1.9 lakh compensation to one Naman Shah as a metropolitan court convicted him in a cheque return case in 2018. The dispute arose in 2015 when Shah could not realize cheques issued by Prajapati due to insufficient funds in the latter’s account. After the court convicted Prajapati, he paid compensation to Shah and settled the dispute. Prajapati filed an appeal in the sessions court and asked the court to pardon him as he had already paid the compensation and reached a compromise with the complainant. Prajapati speasked the court to spare him the penalty because he suffered losses due to the pandemic. Hearing Prajapati’s case, the court said that the Supreme Court has laid down a criterion that in a case of a settlement in a cheque return dispute under the Negotiable Instruments Act, the accused is liable to pay at least 15% of the disputed sum. Thus, Prajapati was to pay Rs 28,500 as penalty though his jail term was scrapped due to the settlement. The court further said, “Looking at the contentions raised by both parties as well as social and economic condition of the present accused (Prajapati) and also considering the pandemic situation, this court is of the humble opinion that a penalty of Rs 5,000 be imposed on the applicant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/traders-finances-hit-court-cuts-penalty/articleshow/78758621.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Institute strives for affordable, compassionate cancer care’||Touted to be the country’s biggest, the Super Speciality Cancer Institute (SSCI) is working to create systems and work culture that empower the common man in north India, says director Prof Shaleen Kumar in an interview to Shailvee ShardaQ1: What is the vision behind SSCI?A: Medically, while a good number of medical colleges are working to diagnose and manage cancer, the services were scattered, making it cumbersome for patients. There is lack of coordinated effort for diagnosis. This prevents the opportunity to zero in on the best management strategies for patients in real time. The socio-economic burden of cancer is depressing. People sell homes, land to meet the cost of treatment in big cities. Families stay like migrants in patient waiting areas. Children may be compelled to quit studies due to the burden; people start to wait for miracles. The vision of SSCI is to provide a solution to these issues. Q2: What makes SSCI unique? A: The motto of SSCI is ‘affordable, pragmatic, cost-effective, compassionate cancer care’ and palliative care for terminal patients. The processes to turn this guiding principle true are what make the institute unique. Firstly, SSCI will be a one-stop solution to all kinds of cancer diagnostics and therapeutic modalities. Secondly, every patient would be attended to through the disease management group approach—a method followed in some of the best centres of the world and occasionally in SGPGI Lucknow. This will eliminate any scope for issues like myopic vision to a problem and dilution of care and management. Thirdly, SSCI will provide mental health care and end-of-life care services to make it easier for those transitioning to the onward journey. Q3: What kind of research will be undertaken here?A: Our research and ethics committees are already in place and studies will pick up slowly. But in addition to scientific researchers, SSCI will engage in health technologies assessment to develop cost-effective models for patient care which will empower governments to put public money to better use. Q4: Public sector medical institutes are the best training ground. Still, private sector is able to pull the best brains. What are you doing to attract and retain talent here? A: Those with academic bent and desire to serve the people always stay while those who want bigger salaries, bigger cars and so on eventually move on. The first group will stay and acquire their satisfaction from here. Q5: The journey has begun with formal launch of the OPD complex. What is next? A: We would immediately get down to augment, intensify and activate systems to make our main OT complex functional so that more cancer surgeries may be taken up. We will also start facilities like brachytherapy (radiation) at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/institute-strives-for-affordable-compassionate-cancer-care/articleshow/78758615.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 20, 2020||Goa||Obscene clip sent from Goa deputy CM’s phone, minister claims he was asleep, mobile hacked||PANAJI: An obscene video allegedly sent from deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar’s mobile to a WhatsApp group caused a flutter on social media and in political circles on Monday, with GFP, a former alliance partner of the ruling BJP, filing a complaint accusing the senior minister of sexual harassment and outraging women’s modesty. Kavlekar himself claimed to have been “fast asleep” and “nowhere near the phone” at the time the message was sent. He also filed a complaint with Goa police's crime branch that his mobile was “hacked” and used to post obscene material on social media. “It may be noted that the message was sent to only this group out of the many WhatsApp groups where I am a member,” Kavlekar said, adding that it was “intentionally masked” in his name with criminal intention. The video was sent to the ‘Villages of Goa’ WhatsApp group. GFP's women's wing said it was "seriously aggrieved" by the clip, and said that it amounted to sexual harassment since women, activists and government officials are members of the group. They demanded he be booked under Section 67 and 67A of the IT Act, 2000, and Section 354A of the IPC, as he shared sexually-explicit content with women. “We cannot have leaders like this in the state. By remaining silent, BJP women leaders are endorsing leaders like these to run the state,” said state general secretary Clara Rodrigues. Kavlekar said that there have been many such attempts in recent times to defame him, and project a "wrong image" of him before the public. “I demand strong action against all such miscreants and unscrupulous individuals who have criminally hacked or tampered with my mobile phone and uploaded and transmitted obscene material,” he stated. GFP, meanwhile, demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/obscene-clip-sent-from-dycms-phone-min-claims-he-was-asleep-mobile-hacked/articleshow/78758288.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Goa CM: Moved IIT from Sanguem as MLA didn’t hand over land to government||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday hit back at Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar, stating that Gaonkar was busy in “land deals” and that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) project had to move to Sattari as he failed to provide the land for it “Gaonkar was busy in land deals and because setting was not done properly he first refused to hand over the land to the government. We would have not shifted IIT from Sanguem to Sattari,” Sawant told reporters. Refuting Gaonkar’s charge, the chief minister said the government was ready to buy a property, but Gaonkar was not ready to transfer the land as apparantly his “settings” had failed. “If the land title was not clear then how would they give the land, and that is the reason we had to shift IIT-Goa,” he said. When asked that Gaonkar said that there was three sites in Sanguem, Sawant said it must have been Gaonkar’s settings. “ No single site with clear title was shown by the MLA,” he said. Sawant also hinted that Gaonkar is making statements against the government as he has not got what he was expecting from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-moved-iit-from-sanguem-as-mla-didnt-hand-over-land-to-govt/articleshow/78758516.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kanpur||Few schools open in Kanpur amid thin attendance of students||KANPUR: After a long hiatus of seven months, schools re-opened in the city on Monday, following the Covid-19 protocols laid down by the Health department and the Home Ministry. Jugal Devi was one such school, which re-opened but there was thin attendance of students. And teachers also did not remain behind in teaching them. Students were made to sit at distance from each other to ensure social distancing. They were also instructed to keep their masks on their face as per the Covid protocols. However, some prominent schools kept closed since parents’ had not agreed on sending their children to school during the pande mic. One such prominent school is Sir Padampat Singhania Education Centre (SPSEC), which did not open keeping in view the existing pandemic. One of the parents whose child studies at SPSEC told TOI that the school was closed as there was no intimation from their side about its opening. He said that this may be since parents would not have consented to send their children to school. He added that this is due to fear of Covid. However, the situation has improved in past few weeks. Mercy Memorial School in south city also remained shut. School vice principal, Mr Tom on being contacted said that school for students of classes 9th to 12th is likely to open next week on Monday but only if conditions are favourable. He also added that consent from only 25 percent of parents have come who have agreed to send their children to school. The government schools in the city also did not witness students coming in. However, teachers marked their attendance but students were missing. Parents are sceptical as they don’t want their children to contract Covid-19. One such parent Rohit Srivastava told TOI that his child is in his class 8th and there are no directions for students below class 9th to attend school but had there been some directions for students of class 8th or even his son would have been in class 9th he would not have send him to school under prevailing conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/few-schools-open-in-city-amid-thin-attendance-of-students/articleshow/78755372.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
October 20, 2020||Kanpur||Another FIR lodged against slain Bikru gangster, 2 aides||Kanpur: More misdeeds of slain gangster Vikas Dubey continue to come to light as police registered another FIR on Sunday against Dubey, his aide Mahesh Dikshit and latter’s wife Vijay Lakshmi more than 100 days after the Bikru bloodbath. The FIR was lodged at Kotwali police station on the complaint of an elderly woman who accused Dubey, Dikshit and latter’s late wife of forging documents of her house in Swarup Nagar, besides holding them responsible for her husband going missing 15 years ago. Inspector Kotwali police station Sanjivkant Mishra said, “The complainant Kamla Devi said Mahesh Dikshit, a dairy owner, and his late wife Vijay Lakshmi showed her forged registry documents of her house built on 230 square yard by her husband Shatrughan Lal in Swarup Nagar. She said they claimed her husband had sold the house to Vikas Dubey and Vijay Lakshmi and told her to vacate it.” She also held them responsible for her husband going missing in 2005 and remaining untraced, he added. “We registered an FIR under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of IPC after receiving a complaint from her on Sunday and launched an investigation,” Mishra added. Eight policemen, including a deputy SP rank official, had been brutally killed in the ambush by Dubey and his henchmen on the night of July 2 and 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in Bhauti area of Sachendi on July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, his five associates were killed in separate encounters, while 44 other accused were identified out of which 37 were arrested and sent to jail, while one is still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/another-fir-lodged-against-slain-bikru-gangster-2-aides/articleshow/78755355.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Publishing JEE answer keys will result in more litigations, says HC||Madurai: Observing that granting relief to publish answer keys will amount to multiplicity of litigations, the Madras high court has dismissed a plea moved by an engineering aspirant who sought to publish the answer keys for the drawing test for B.Arch in JEE main exam which was conducted in April this year. The petitioner, T Kavinraj who had completed his higher secondary attended the JEE Main exam. The petitioner sought to publish the answer key drawing test to challenge the marks awarded in the same. Assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri submitted that the mode of examination prescribed for B.Arch, more particularly, drawing test is by way of pen and paper based offline mode to be attempted on a drawing sheet. Since such conduct of examination is offline mode, the key answers will not be available and the petitioner cannot insist that there should be a guideline for the experts to award marks in stages, she stated. She submitted that the petitioner who participated in the previous examinations in January 2020, is aware of the system of conduct of the exam as there was no key answer for the subjective paper. She further submitted that the evaluation of drawings is being verified by two subject experts independently and if the scores differ by more than 25%, they are scrutinized by a head expert/examiner and if the difference between the raw marks given by the two examiners is less than 25%, then average is taken. She further contended that Delhi court alone is having jurisdiction to entertain such petitions. Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice S Vaidyanathan observed that it is crystal clear that the petitioner is aware of the procedures for allotment of marks in the exam. “If the relief sought for by the petitioner is granted, it will amount to multiplicity of litigations and the attempt to change the rank list at the eleventh hour which will definitely create a great repercussion throughout India,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/publishing-jee-answer-keys-will-result-in-more-litigations-says-hc/articleshow/78758130.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-positive cases drop to 157; housewives, students comprise 30% of infected||Bhopal: As many as 28 housewives were diagnosed with COVID-19, with only five reporting any symptoms of the infection. Fourteen of them have been hospitalised, according to health department reporting. Besides, 14 students tested positive for the infection. Both groups, put together, accounted for about 30% of the 157 diagnosed in the state capital on Monday. While the number of COVID-19 positive cases has dipped, the health department report did not mention the number of tests conducted. Eleven of the people diagnosed with COIVD-19 on Monday were under 14. Most number of infections were reported from Shahpura (13), followed by TT Nagar (11), Kamla Nagar (9), Misrod (9), Kolar Road (8) and Koh-e-Fiza (7), among other places where COVID-19 was diagnosed. Five of the infected were linked to the police department. Four family members were diagnosed with the infection in Arera Colony. The infected in E-7 includes a preteen. Interestingly, all the infected are females and two have been hospitalised, as per health department reporting. Health experts are relating to the change in infection spread with increased movement. One of the infected was diagnosed after a visit to Kolar. Two housewives and two kids under 8 years of age were among six infected in a TT Nagar family. All six of them have been hospitalised. The location of house is located near a well-known commercial area. Containment of the household has taken place. It was not clear if the commercial market space has been declared a no-go zone too. A 70-year old has been hospitalised as a precaution in Minal Residency. The household has reported five cases of the infection. All are males above 30. Since the pandemic began, Bhopal has reported over 22,700 COVID-19 confirmed cases. Around 448 have died due to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-positive-cases-drop-to-157-housewives-students-comprise-30-of-infected/articleshow/78755590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Daily Covid case count drops to less than 300||Coimbatore: On a day when Covid-19 case count of Coimbatore surged past the 40,000-mark, the third district to cross the numbers in Tamil Nadu, there was something for health workers to heave a sigh of relief.The number of fresh Covid cases dropped to less than 300 on Monday as the district recorded only 290 cases.The rate of increase has slowed down further as it took more than two days for the district to add the latest 1,000 fresh cases unlike the past few weeks.With 208 patients getting discharged from isolation in hospitals, Covid care centres and homes, the number of active cases stood at 3,895. This also took the total number of people recovered to 35,689 taking the recovery rate to an all-time high of 89%. The district also recorded one more death taking the toll to 524.The lone victim to the virus was a 73-year-old hypertensive woman who was admitted with low saturation and breathlessness to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on October 14 and tested positive on October 15. She died on Saturday of bilateral broncho pneumonia and her brain had gotten affected due to oxygen deprivation. The death rate also fell to an all-time low of 1.3%.Increase in testing, testing of about 10 to 15 contacts per positive person and early treatment is attributed for fall of Covid numbers. The early treatment has also resulted in number of deaths falling to around 15 a day and death rate dropped drastically. “Even as we were working to arrest the spread, we decided to focus on reducing the mortality rate,’’ deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. And by increasing the samples being tested in districts like Coimbatore, the positivity rate which was 11% in August-mid reduced to 8% in September-mid.“We were constantly in touch with doctors abroad as well as those in Mumbai and Chennai to give advice on adopting best prevention and treatment practices,” Ramesh Kumar said.The death rate has reduced by a third from 0.25% to 0.08%. “Though many districts in the region saw a spike in cases and deaths at different phases, almost all the districts are seeing cases decrease,” former director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy said. “Now that all the hospitals, health department staff and corporation have breathing space, if they capitalize and quickly isolate the fresh cases coming up, the curve will flatline in another month or so,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/daily-covid-case-count-drops-to-less-than-300/articleshow/78758103.cms||Mayilvaganan
October 20, 2020||Rajkot||Chaos rules last general board meeting of RMC||Rajkot: The last meeting of the general board of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) before its term ends on December 14 remained stormy with ruling BJP and opposition Congress trading charges at each other on Monday.While the Congress members alleged that they were not given the opportunity to discuss crucial issues, the standing committee listed work done in the last five years.As the RMC commissioner Udit Agarwal began his speech listing the work done during the last five years, the women Congress corporators interrupted asking him not to waste time in providing statistics. This triggered a verbal spat between the Congress and the ruling BJP members, who accused the opposition of interrupting board meeting.The opposition Congress members raised questions regarding RMC’s work in fight against Covid-19, water scarcity in chief minister Vijay Rupani’s constituency, potholes on the roads during monsoon and other issues. However, none of them was discussed.The meeting entered into chaos with allegation and counter-allegations between the two parties and no civic issues being discussed. Deputy leader of opposition Mansukh Kalariya said, “The ruling party has made it a habit to create uproar and make the allegation on the opposition when we ask specific questions. This is their strategy to avoid giving replies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/chaos-rules-last-general-board-meeting-of-rmc/articleshow/78755608.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Vigilant tehsil admin recovers Rs 1.23 crore fine from sand mafia||CHANDRAPUR: Continuing its crackdown on illegal sand mining in the district, the tehsil administration has registered eight offences and recovered penalty to the tune of Rs1.23 crore from sand smugglers in the last one year. Chandrapur tehsildar Nilesh Gaud said the administration has also seized 126 vehicles involved in ferrying sand excavated illegally. With ghat auctions held-up for the last two years, smuggling of sand has increased in the district. Excavation of sand from the ghats is prohibited as the process of auctioning of the ghats is still underway at the administrative level. Taking advantage of this, sand mafia are involved in massive illegal mining and smuggling of the sand to cater to the growing need in construction activities. There are seven sand ghats in Chandrapur tehsil and four are now eligible for auctioning. The bidding process will take place as soon as the government gives a nod. Gaud formed special teams and carried out many raids to keep check on the illegal sand mining. While 87 vehicles were seized during raids last year, penalty amounting to Rs80.26 lakh was recovered from those involved in illegal excavation and transportation of sand, said Gaud. Moreover, auctioning the seized sand has earned additional Rs18.53 lakh for the government exchequer since September last year, he said. This year, tehsil officials have seized 39 vehicles loaded with illegal sand and have recovered Rs43.41 lakh against it. The seized sand was auctioned and Rs43,500 was earned through it. Tehsil office has filed five complaints for obstructing officials from performing duties in the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vigilant-tehsil-admin-recovers-rs1-23-crore-fine-from-sand-mafia/articleshow/78758110.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 20, 2020||Kanpur||Unnao kidnapping case: Courtallows polygraph test of accused||Kanpur: The court has allowed the police, looking into the October 2 case of the missing minor nephew of the Unnao rape victim, who was allegedly set ablaze by some upper caste men, to conduct a lie-detector test on the accused. Additional superintendent of police Unnao, Vinod Kumar Pandey, on Monday confirmed to TOI that family members of the kidnapping accused had given their consent to conduct a lie-detector test on them. “Following which, we have moved an application, and now the court has given permission for a lie-detector test on the accused,” Pandey said further. “The accused will now be taken to the state forensic science laboratory in Lucknow in this regard,” he added. However, on being questioned over the lie-detection test of the victim’s family members, the ASP said, “As of now, no such permission has been given.” A lie-detector test measures and records blood pressure, pulse and respiration of a person when experts ask him/her to answer a series of questions. On Sunday, the families of those accused of kidnapping the six-year-old nephew of the rape victim, while staging a dharna near Jhaadi Baba Mazar close to the Collectorate, had pleaded justice for the accused while calling the allegations against them as ‘baseless’ and ‘fabricated’. They had demanded a lie detection test of the accused as well as the family members of the kidnapped minor boy. The family of the child had lodged a complaint at Bihar police station against five people, Captain Bajpai, Saroj Trivedi, Anita, Sundara Lodh and Harshit Bajpai, all of the same village. These five are related to accused Shubham Trivedi, Shivam Trivedi, Harishankar, Umesh and Ramkishore, who had allegedly poured petrol on the rape survivor and set her ablaze to prevent her from going to Baiswara railway station where she was supposed to board a train for Rae Bareli for meeting her advocate in December last. The police had later arrested the kidnapping accused, and after lodging a case under section 364 of the IPC, sent them to jail. Their family members, meanwhile, said they have faith in the test and hoped that it would end the prevailing confusion regarding the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unnao-kidnapping-case-courtallows-polygraph-test-of-accused/articleshow/78755409.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Disappointment galore as NMR train fails to chug||Coimbatore: The decision to not restart operations of the Nilgiris Mountain Railway ahead of the puja holidays has left several parents and families, who were looking for a travel break to the hills, disappointed. Though Covid-19 cases are dipping, many parents, who are still hesitant to travel out of the district or state, had made plans to take their children out for a ride on the NMR during the puja holidays. But the Salem division, which operates the NMR, said it is yet to green signal the favourite mountain railway.Ten days back, the Salem division had issued a clarification that there was no plan to restart the service even between Ooty and Coonoor. There was no mention of the service from Mettupalayam. The spokesperson for Salem division said they must get a clearance from the Railways in New Delhi. “NMR, unlike other trains, comes under hill trains of Indian Railways, so any decision to restart it has to come from there,” said a spokesperson from the division. Sources say, the Ooty district administration, which was extremely hesitant to allow tourists, has also given the go-ahead to restart the train services.“Since the weather is pleasant, we thought we could take our children to the Mettupalayam station for a day trip, show them the NMR museum and take them on the train, if they restart the weekend services, upto Coonoor or Ooty,” said Ajay Kumar ,city-based entrepreneur and a father of two.Many families said they want to make the most of this time when Covid-19 cases seem to be dipping. “Now that cases are reducing, the chances of us getting infected if we take precautions is less. But we are scared of projections that November will see another spike because of drop in temperatures. Then we will again be stuck indoors for months. The children need an outing or a change of scene,” rued Radhika N, another parent of a five-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/disappointment-galore-as-nmr-train-fails-to-chug/articleshow/78758126.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Only 60 new Covid-19 cases recorded in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Showing a declining trend in the past one week, the Nilgiris district recorded only 60 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 6,149, even as 129 patients recovered and were discharged.The district also recorded a Covid death. An 80-year-old woman from Aruvankadu succumbed to the virus at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. With this, the toll stands at 36.The hill district has seen 5,554 Covid patients recovering so far. As many as 559 patients are still under treatment at various health facilities. While 19 patients are being treated at ESI hospital and CMCH, six patients are taking treatment at private hospitals. The number of patients kept in home quarantine stands at 68. The remaining cases are treated at government facilities in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, besides Covid care centres.Among the new cases, 20 people tested positive after travelling to other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-60-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78758107.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Raw material shortage may put brakes on cycle industry||LUDHIANA: After disruption in the transport of garments from Ludhiana to other states, the ‘rail roko’ agitation of the Punjab farmers has now hit the city’s engineering goods manufacturers hard, particularly the bicycle industry. According to the business community, the cycle industry is facing shortage of raw materials used for manufacturing of the rims and pipes, while the sewing machine industry too is complaining of pig iron short supply. The city businessmen have also told the state government that if the farmer unrest in the state is not resolved at the earliest, it would dent the investor-friendly image of Punjab. Speaking on the issue, Pankaj Munjal, chairman and managing director of Hero Group said, “Rail Roko has created a serious shortage of inputs for the bicycle industry and manufacturing has been hit hard. Bicycle manufacturers already had huge pending demands post lockdown and now the situation has worsened due to the supply crunch. We request the government to intervene urgently and resolve the situation to ensure that freight trains and supplies are able to move unhindered.” Munjal said they are also concerned about the fallout of this situation on Punjab’s image as a business destination. The government must take necessary measures urgently so that the agitation does not hinder business and manufacturing in the state, he added. Echoing Munjals’s views, Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “Raw materials reach Ludhiana from other states via rail network, especially for cycle, sewing machine and other engineering industries. But, due to the current blockade, big bicycle companies of Ludhiana are facing the raw material crunch and as a result, the local units, which supply finished parts to them, are also staring at the risk of their orders being cancelled. Who will take the parts from them when all inputs for making bicycles will not be available to them? Therefore, both state and central governments must take notice of this situation and resolve it at the earliest.” Narrating the ordeal being faced by the sewing machine parts manufacturers, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “Our industry is also facing huge problems. The supply of essential raw material for sewing machine industry, pig iron, has now gone scarce and its rates have shot up by almost Rs 3-5 per kg, as trains are unable to enter Punjab and the material is being unloaded in other states, from where it is coming to Ludhiana via trucks which adds to the transportation cost.” BOX Cycle valley project may be impacted: Hero Cycles In a statement issued by Hero Cycles, the bicycle giant has said, “Hero Cycles’ manufacturing units are facing severe shortage of inputs and material used in manufacturing rims and pipes for bicycles. With reports suggesting that the state’s power plants do not have sufficient coal reserves, the possibility of power shortage is also real. Coming at this time, the supply disruption caused by the farmers’ agitation is the last thing the bicycle industry needs. The disruption also sends out a negative signal to international companies looking to invest in Punjab where the ambitious International Cycle Valley project is opening early next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/raw-material-shortage-may-put-brakes-on-cycle-industry/articleshow/78755609.cms||Mohit Behl
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur metro launches mobile app for auto rickshaw booking||NAGPUR: In order to improve its feeder service, MahaMetro has launched a mobile app to enable passengers to book auto-rickshaws. The App – Bharat Rides - was launched on Monday. It can be downloaded from Google Playstore. It functions like Ola or Uber apps. A metro rider can use the app for booking auto rickshaws for coming to or going from Metro stations. Even if they have not booked an auto beforehand, they can still ride one with the app’s offline booking feature (wherein auto rickshaws connected with Bharat Rides can start a ride on their own). In the second phase, Metro riders would be able to book Metro tickets too through this app. Riders can also see nearby amenities like public toilets, pharmacies, restaurants, tourist places, Metro stations, bus stops, and much more information. MahaMetro recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bharat Rides, a mobility start-up founded by two young entrepreneurs of Nagpur Mithilesh and Rajendra Jindal. MahaMetro has also joined hands with Tiger Auto rickshaw Sanghatana to provide better transport services in Nagpur to its citizens. A meeting to that effect was held today at Metro Bhavan, which was attended by representatives of auto rickshaw bodies and Metro officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-launches-mobile-app-for-autorickshaw-booking/articleshow/78758135.cms||Ashish Roy
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Three men held for burying elephant||Udhagamandalam: The forest department arrested three people on Monday after it came to light that they had buried the carcass of a male elephant in their farm land at Benthatti village in Ooty taluk. The elephant was electrocuted when it came into contact with a high-voltage electric fence erected by the trio around the field, sources said. The accused were identified as S Vigneshvaran, 40, S K Gopalakrishnan, 20 and G Ajithkumar, 18, residents of Benthoor village.Forest department’s field staff, who came to know about the incident, had informed senior officials. The male elephant was 20 years old, assistant conservator of forests Saravanakumar said. “We suspect the cause of death to be electrocution. The carcass was exhumed. Two tusks were found intact. A thorough inquiry is under way,” he said.The owner of the land, a Coimbatore resident, had leased it out to the trio, who cultivated potatoes there. They installed an electric fence to protect the crop from wild animals, Saravanakumar said. “Postmortem will be conducted on Tuesday. The three accused will be remanded in judicial custody after inquiry,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-men-held-for-burying-elephant/articleshow/78758121.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Covid-19 infection, mortality higher for males than females in district||NAGPUR: More males were infected and more also died compared to females in Covid-19 pandemic in the district. Even the case fatality rate (CFR) is higher in males compared to the fairer sex. Data released by the district office of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) said there were 90,675 positive cases and 2,947 deaths in the district as on October 18. Of total positive cases, 54,803 (60.47%) were men and 35,845 (39.53) were women, a huge difference. The ratio differs in age-wise male and female patients. In age group of 0-15 years, 55.55% were male and remaining 44.45% female. Ratio of men in age group of 16-30 years was 56.94% whereas 43.06% for the fairer sex. Huge difference is in age group of above 31 years. Here, 62.24% were male and 37.76% were female in age group of 31-50 years. Above 51 years’ age group, 62.21% patients were men and remaining 37.79% were women. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, who has been working in Covid-19 for last seven months, told TOI, “There are many factors behind men contracting the disease more than women. It is seen that more men came out in full lockdown and unlock period than women, due to job, business, purchasing essentials or non-essential products etc.” He said most families preferred women to be indoors in the pandemic. The difference was even clearly seen in labour class, where both males and females usually work. “Immunity levels of males are said to be weaker than females due to various things. In gender-wise comparison, women take more care of their hygiene than men. Women are also very sensitive towards changes in their health compared to men and take various of precaution. Also, social factor of male exposure being more than females,” he said. The ratio of the state is more or less similar to that of the district. In state, 61% of total positive patients were male and remaining 39% were female. In Covid-19 deaths, the difference between male and female is even higher. Among 2,947 deceased, 2,061 (69.94%) were male and remaining 886 (30.06%) were female. So, in males, 2,061 of 54,830 infected died for a CFR of 3.76%. CFR is 2.47% in females with 886 of 35,845 infected dying. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Overall immunity level in women is better than men. T cell immunity level in females is higher than males. This type of immunity is first responder in the infection of novel coronavirus. T cell response of men in their 30s and 40s is equivalent to that of a woman in her 90s.” Dr Shinde added most women respond better even if they have severe diseases. “In Covid-19, fewer of them tend to have long haul,” he said. Joshi said, “Comorbidities, especially diabetes, hyper tension and obesity, which are very dangerous in Covid-19 are also higher in males than females. Lifestyle of females is better than males when it comes to eating and drinking habits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-infection-mortality-higher-for-males-than-females-in-district/articleshow/78758158.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Ruckus as police team raids Dugri house, ASI held captive, thrashed||LUDHIANA: A rumpus started at LIG flats, Dugri, on Sunday night when a police team reached there to conduct a raid on a tip-off about betting on a cricket match between Mumbai Indians and Kings XI Punjab in the ongoing Indian Premier League. According to the police, the accused called their accomplices, attacked the cops, and confined and thrashed the in charge of Basant Park police post, ASI Ranjit Singh. Following this, the Dugri police reached there and rescued him. Dugri SHO inspector Surinder Chopra said the Sadar police had got the tip-off about betting in a Dugri flat. A team led by ASI Ranjit Singh raided the place, while Dugri police were preparing to go there. The main accused, Sumit, along with his accomplices — Himanshu, Jassi, Arjun and Ramu — was accepting bets at his house when the police arrived there. Sumit’s family obstructed the cops and also took away the laptops and mobiles of the accused that were being used for betting. “The accused then called their 25 accomplices, some of whom were identified as Tiger, Sonu, Gulati and Manpreet. They attacked the police team and created a ruckus. Sumit, his father Narinder Singh, sister Gurcharan Kaur, mother Renu and some neighbours confined the ASI in their house. They also thrashed the ASI. Soon, the Dugri police reached there and rescued him. The police have arrested Sumit, Himanshu and Jassi,” said the inspector. Sumit was already facing cases of illegal lottery and gambling and he had started accepting bets from his house recently. The police were trying to identify the other accused, who would be arrested soon, he added. Meanwhile, in a video, the family of Sumit is seen thrashing ASI Ranjit Singh. Sumit’s sister is also seen beating the cop with her slipper. In the video, the family is alleging that the ASI is drunk and attacked them. Sumit’s father Narinder alleged that the cops thrashed him. Asserting that the ASI was not drunk, the SHO said, “In the video it can be seen that the accused are thrashing him, but he is not even hitting them back. The ASI kept calm till the force reached there.” The police have registered a case against 13 identified and 25 unidentified accused under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ruckus-as-police-team-raids-dugri-house-asi-held-captive-thrashed/articleshow/78755620.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC tells smugglers to donate rice to old age home, school||MADURAI: Granting bail to two people who were in illegal possession of PDS rice in Trichy district, the Madras high court directed them to donate rice bags to a special school and old age home in Madurai district. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Ayyappan, who was arrested by the civil supplies CID police in Trichy on September 15, for offences under Essential Commodities Act. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances, justice G K Ilanthiraiyan granted bail to the petitioner on certain conditions. The judge directed him to donate 15 bags (50kg each) of branded ponni rice to Anbagam, a special school for intellectually challenged children at Madurai. Similarly, in another case, a person Vinothkumar was arrested by the Civil Supplies CID police in Trichy district on September 23, for offences under Essential Commodities Act. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner was in possession of 60kg PDS rice illegally. Hearing the bail plea, justice Ilanthiraiyan granted bail to the petitioner by directing him to donate 25 bags (50kg each) of branded ponni rice to Rojavanam, an old age home at Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-bail-to-2-directs-them-to-donate-rice-bags/articleshow/78758136.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Surat||Missing businessman’s body found on river bank||SURAT: Body of a 48-year-old textile unit owner, who was missing since October 8, was found dead on the bank of Tapi River in the limits of Hazira police station on Monday. A note found on the body of Ketan Sopariwala, a resident of Adajan, mentioning that that he had a debt of Rs 3.5 lakh. There were no injury marks on the body. Sopariwala owns textile weaving units and has an office on Ved Road. Sopariwala had left his office on October 8 afternoon and his father Harishchandra filed a missing person report in Chowk Bazar police station as he could be traced till evening. He had left his mobile phone in his office. “The body is partially decomposed and it seems that he died sometime in the last two days,” said a Hazira police station officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/missing-businessmans-body-found-on-river-bank/articleshow/78756974.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||54-yr-old man killed over suspicion of phone theft||Coimbatore: One person was arrested on Monday for killing a 54-year-old pavement dweller in what appears to be a case of phone theft.The deceased, identified as M Balakrishnan, 54 of Dindigul district, was working as a cook and used to live on the pavement near Christ King Church on Dr Nanjappa road here. Police said Balakrishnan had allegedly stolen a mobile phone belonging to Thangapandian, 36, a wall painter who was also sleeping on the pavement on Sunday night. Balakrishnan was under the influence of alcohol and had a argument with Thangapandian when asked about his missing phone. In a fit of rage, Thangapandian assaulted Balakrishnan with a stone and left the place. Balakrishnan sustained severe head injuries and was spotted lying in a pool of blood by taxi driver S Mahamuni, 27, of Pazhaiyur in Pappanaickenpalayam. The driver informed Katoor police, who rushed to the spot and admitted Balakrishnan at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where he died without responding to treatment on Monday at around 8.30am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/54-yr-old-man-killed-over-suspicion-of-phone-theft/articleshow/78758133.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold, cash stolen from locked house of Covid-19 patient||Coimbatore: Unidentified persons broke open a house belonging to a Covid-19 patient at Dhandapani Street at Pappanaickenpalayam here and took away around nine sovereigns of gold ornaments, 1.6kg of silver articles and Rs 2,300 cash from the house. The burglars also stole around eight sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs 12,500 from another house in the same building. The incidents came to light on Sunday when neighbours noticed that the houses were forced open. Since October 12, the houses were kept shut and residential area was cordoned off with metal sheets. N Murali, 50, a businessman, and his family members were tested positive for Covid-19 and were admitted to a private hospital on October 12, the Race Course (crime) police said. Health workers had placed metal sheets in front of the house.On the same day, K Keerthivasan, 35, a lawyer, and his family members, who were staying in a house on the first floor of the building, left for their relative’s house at Gobichettipalayam, fearing the spread of infection in the area.Meanwhile, Murali and his family members were discharged from the hospital on October 16 and went to stay with their relatives in Trichy. In the intermediate time, the crime was carried out. The neighbours noticed it on Sunday and alerted Murali and Keerthivasan. They returned to Coimbatore and each filed a complaint with the police. Race Course police registered cases against unidentified persons under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house etc.,) and Section 457 (lurking house or trespass house or house breaking by night in order to commit offence) of the Indian Penal Code.Police inspector Sujatha and team as well as forensic experts visited the crime scene. A special team was formed to nab the burglars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-cash-stolen-from-locked-house-of-covid-19-patient/articleshow/78758138.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Army, NDRF on standby as flood toll rises to 70 in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday put the Army and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) helicopters on standby anticipating more rains triggered by another low pressure as the flood toll rose to 70. Municipal affairs and urban development minister KT Rama Rao said 33 people died in Hyderabad and the rest in districts. Now with the IMD saying that heavy rains are expected if another low pressure grows in strength, authorities in Telangana said they are gearing up for a bigger evacuation. “Chances are high for further strengthening of the system to the next level. It’s too early to say if it would become a depression,” said S Stella, IMD director for Andhra Pradesh, while her Telangana counterpart K Nagaratna said Hyderabad and the state will get more showers. Telangana is now procuring additional boats for evacuation as the IMD said the southwest monsoon may extend its stay till the last week of October. With new weather systems forming over the Bay of Bengal pushing back the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon further, KTR said the government was gearing up to tackle another crisis. “GHMC has 18 boats, our chief secretary Somesh Kumar spoke with the Andhra and Karnataka chief secretaries and they have promised us 15 boats each. The boats will reach the state by late evening. Overall 50 boats will be on standby,” said MAUD minister KTR. “We also spoke to the Army, we alerted them and said that their services might be required at any moment. We spoke to NDRF and asked them to keep helicopters on standby,” he added, emphasising how after 104 years such a heavy downpour was witnessed in the city. Pointing towards the IMD prediction for the next three days, the minister appealed to people, asking them to move to safer places. “I appeal to the people staying in low-lying areas not to risk their lives. Please don’t be under any illusion that people on higher floors of the building are safe, though the structure might be fit. There are chances of electrocution,” said the minister pointing out towards an incident in Moosarambagh ward (Malakpet circle) where a person lost list life due to electrocution. The Telangana government has already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking Rs 1,350 crore immediate relief. “We are expecting a positive response. Our chief secretary is in touch with the secretary, home affairs,” KTR added. He also said that 80 special officers have been appointed to tackle floods in the state and thanked Tamil Nadu chief minister EK Palaniswami for expressing solidarity and announcing Rs 10 crore for Telangana flood relief. Heavy rains swamped more new areas as Hafeez Baba Nagar, parts of Ramanthapur and Uppal got inundated on Monday. People were waiting for boats to rescue them and several people who headed to the Old City via Charderghat bridge were stuck in water for hours. Residents in Bowenpally area of Secunderabad Cantonment are also having a harrowing time with many houses underwater and a nearby lake inundating the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-ndrf-on-standby-as-flood-toll-rises-to-70-in-state/articleshow/78758683.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||61 of 100 JEE toppers choose IIT-B, 30 Delhi||Mumbai: The top 100 JEE rankers seem to have made two clear choices: IIT Bombay, where 61 of them blocked a seat, and IIT Delhi, which 30 others picked. Seven signed up for IIT Madras while two, Chirag Falor (rank 1) and Muhender Raj (4), have chosen to pursue education in the US, reports Hemali Chhapia. Options exercised by the top 100 rankers show Kharagpur and Kanpur, once considered amongst the best, have dropped in popularity. Last year, 64 of the top 100 opted for IIT-Bombay and 33 Delhi. About 30 years ago, IIT-Kharagpur was the pre-eminent centre for engineering. The oldest of the IITs, it did not receive a single student from the top 100 this year. At close of round one of admissions, a look at the options exercised by the top 500 or 1,000 students, reveals that again Bombay, Delhi, Madras make up the top three in the same order though Kanpur and Kharagpur have a sizeable representation in this club. Apart from the two in the top 10 who opted out of IIT, two more – one between ranks 301 and 400 and another between ranks 401 and 500 – have declined a seat. Of the top 1,000, nine are pursuing other options. “Students, who are clear about streams they want to join, opt for an NIT or an IIIT if they don’t secure a place in any of the IITs for that particular branch,” said a JOSAA faculty. “We know toppers opt for IIT Bombay because of the quality of education they get here. This is a melting pot, attracting students from across the country; the academic ambience, the rigour and the research make academic life here competitive and we see that since the last 8-10 years similar number of toppers come to our campus,” said IITB director Subhasis Chaudhari. IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao said, “It is difficult to tell why students make the choices they make, but many follow previous year trends.” A former JEE chairman said, "While Bombay and Delhi were still building themselves, Kharagpur's students had already occupied top positions in big companies. Students looked at Kharagpur's illustrious alumni and rushed there. Now this has changed." Among the rest, Roorkee, Guwahati and Hyderabad have also quite a few takers from the top 1,000. There are 23 IITs in all with roughly 16,000 seats. Hyderabad, which has launched a cutting-edge BTech programme in artificial intelligence and machine learning, is a relative newcomer in the top 1,000 matrix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/61-of-100-jee-toppers-choose-iit-b-30-delhi/articleshow/78758667.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Late NRI’s dream fulfilled as village gets all-woman park||CHAKAR (Jagraon): In a unique gift to the womenfolk of Chakar, some NRIs, together with some villagers, have got an all-women park constructed for them. With this, the dream of an NRI, who lived in Canada until he passed away, has been fulfilled. Incidentally, this village has a sizeable number of NRIs and the place is known for various infrastructures developed by them, including an artificial lake, an NRI guest house, gates having sitting facility at the entry and exit points of the village and much more. Chamkaur Singh, a 50-year-old villager, said their village is known for the infrastructure developed by the villagers and an NRI Sidhu family, who do not bank too much on government support. After developing two sports stadiums, including football and boxing stadia, which produced international boxer Mandeep Kaur, three water treatment plants, sewerage system, plantation work, waiting halls at entry and exit points of the village and the NRI guest house, now the villagers have constructed this all-women park on the land donated by the NRI family. “The deceased NRI had dreamt of such a facility for women. The park has cemented footpath, chairs, colourful lights, exotic plants and grass, and slides for children, among more. Around Rs 4 lakh was spent on the park that got completed around three months ago,” said Chamkaur Singh. He added that park witnesses around 40-50 women and girls coming for morning and evening walk. Panchayat member Gurmail Singh, who is also a member of the ward where the park is located, said it has been built on the land provided by the NRI family and the villagers also contributed to the construction of the facility. “There is another park in the village around the canal, where both males and females can go, but we needed a space where only women can go and spend quality time. With such a nice ambience, it is a perfect place for us,” said Amandeep Kaur, a teacher of the village. Ashpreet Kaur, a sixth standard student from the village, said, “Apart from grass, plants, chairs and colourful lights, the park also has a slide where we can play. After studying I relax in the park.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/late-nris-dream-fulfilled-as-village-gets-all-woman-park/articleshow/78755655.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Corruption emanates from revenue dept: HC||Madurai: It is saddening to state that the emanation of corruption begins with the revenue department, where many officials like tahsildars, surveyors, district revenue officers, revenue divisional officers indulge in manipulation of maximum records and amass wealth, the Madras high court has said. Justice S Vaidyanathan said that it is pertinent to mention here that many district registrars, sub-registrars and their subordinates in the registration department also indulge in such practices and under the table dealing always revolve around in the registration department. Even though CCTV cameras are fixed and happenings are now videographed, the document writers are playing the role of agents to receive bribes, the judge said. “The officials of various corporations in the state cannot be underestimated, as they are also in equal competition with the revenue and registration departments. If vigilance is set in motion, the property of those persons, who possess property disproportionate to their income will come to light,” observed the judge. The judge made the observations while hearing a petition filed by M Senthil, who sought to rectify the survey number in his patta in Karur district. The judge observed that on perusal of the records, the Manmangalam tahsildar in 2018 had sent a communication instructing the block development officer (BDO) of Thanthoni to ascertain the details and submit a report. The judge sought for the records regarding the steps taken by the BDO in response to the communication sent by the tahsildar as nearly two years have gone by. The judge observed that if the court finds that no action was taken by the BDO so far, it may direct the authorities to initiate departmental action against the said BDO and would also recommend for entry of adverse remarks in his service register that may hamper his future prospects. The judge directed the authorities to produce the name of the BDO who was working in 2018 along with his mobile number and Aadhaar card details during the next hearing on November 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corruption-emanates-from-revenue-dept-hc/articleshow/78758152.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 20, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims life of Dugri woman, infects 28 in district||LUDHIANA: A Ludhiana woman died of Covid-19 and 28 tested positive on Monday. As per the local media bulletin, the 73-year-old woman, a resident of Dugri who died at a city hospital, was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The day also saw 13 from outside the district testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana death count has increased to 820 and that of outsiders to 298. To date, 3,55,330 persons have been tested. Of the 28 positive cases, 13 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), four positive cases’ contacts, eight from OPD, two through tracing process, and one severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) case. The local health department said the district case count now stood at 19,701 and that of outsiders at 2,609. So far, 18,605 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.43% of the total cases. There are 273 active cases. As many as 1,501 persons are home quarantined. On Monday, 74 persons were quarantined and 3,822 samples were collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Nineteen patients, including nine from Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-life-of-dugri-woman-infects-28-in-district/articleshow/78755668.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Couple from tribal settlement die after jumping into well||COIMBATORE: A 25-year-old man and his 22-year-old wife committed suicide by jumping into a well at Thevampadi Valasu near Vadakkipalayam on the city’s outskirts on Sunday night. The Vadakkipalayam police identified them as T Prabhukumar and P Nandhini, from the Saralipathi tribal settlement in Anaimalai. “The couple had been married for five years and has a three-year-old son. They were working as farm labourers at the farm of G Muruganandam at Thevampadi Valasu near Vadakkipalayam and were staying in a house in the farm,” a police officer said. The couple used to have drinks together. “On Sunday night, a fight broke out between them after a drinking session. Nandhini came out of the house and jumped into a well. Prabhukumar followed her,” the officer added. Fire and rescue service personnel retrieved the bodies from the well on Monday morning. They were handed over to the family after postmortem. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-from-tribal-settlement-die-after-jumping-into-well/articleshow/78758141.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Pune collector pledges district plan for vaccination by October-end||PUNE: District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Monday said the vaccination plan for the priority population would be ready by the end of October as directed by the state government and the Centre. India has started identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries, including high-risk population and first responders who are likely to receive an estimated 60 crore vaccine doses. Front line health workers, nurses and supervisors, medical officers, paramedical staffers, scientists and research staffers, students and support staff, clerical and administrative staff will be part of the data of the “priority population” to be included in the vaccination plan from the government and private sectors. Deshmukh told TOI that the administration has received the orders and the data would have to be compiled with the help of the state immunization officer and district health officials before October-end. He said this was a data compilation process and, as per the expert group disclaimer, it did not give any right for the vaccination. The Union health ministry has told the states to submit lists of priority population. “The government is working round the clock to chart out a mechanism of step-by-step vaccine distribution. The data will be useful for the purpose,” a health official from the central government said. A letter issued on October 16 to all states by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan mentions that the data compilation is a preparatory activity by the states and they should complete it by October-end. State immunization officer DN Patil, who received the letter on Monday, said he planned to hold a series of meetings with all the districts. Once the data are received from the districts, it would be uploaded on the under-development Covid-19 vaccination beneficiary management system. “The healthcare workers involved in the Covid-19 vaccination drive will utilize the database to identify the beneficiaries,” he said. The national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 is guiding prioritization of population groups for vaccinations, vaccine inventory management and tracking, monitoring of the implementation process and identification of the vaccine delivery platforms. The Covid Vaccination Beneficiary Management System is being created as an extension of existing the electronic vaccine intelligence network module to track all the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/collector-pledges-dist-plan-for-vaccination-by-oct-end/articleshow/78756975.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Train govt school students to clear NEET hurdle, say teachers||Coimbatore: Coaching classes to crack competitive exams are a must to help government school students shine in tests like NEET, teachers said.While the coaching sessions offered in government schools are focussed more on finishing a particular syllabus of the competitive exam, they should focus on conceptual learning coupled with solving more question papers and learning the tricks of cracking a competitive exam, according to the teachers.In NEET coaching classes, teachers teach subjects as they do in normal classes, a biology teacher said. “However, we need to do give students the test’s model question papers and ask them to solve them. Based on how they solve the papers, we have to give them further inputs and improve them in the areas they are weak. Only if we do that, government school students would get the knack of facing competitive exams,” she said.T Arulanandam, state auditor of the Tamil Nadu High Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association (TNHHSSGTA), echoed this. “Now, teachers get prepared in the concepts and teach it in the class. Even if it is a small topic, they explain it elaborately. But students need to be given NEET materials such as previous years’ question papers and answer keys. Students getting coached in private centres get all these materials. If government schoolteachers and students are also given such materials, we could hope to see more government school students cracking the test,” he said.There need to be exclusive classes regularly post school hours to train students solve question papers and improve their skill, said a government schoolteacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/train-govt-school-students-to-clear-neet-hurdle-say-teachers/articleshow/78758149.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt offers free online courses to unemployed youth||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) has entered into a partnership with a US-based firm to provide free courses to unemployed people in the state.A communication from the district collectorate said TNSDC has entered into a partnership with Coursera, a massive open online course provider. “The government seeks to offer free short-term online courses for 50,000 unemployed people. More than 4,000 courses will be offered under 11 streams,” the communication said. The certificate courses will be in streams such as Engineering, Machine Learning, Mathematics, Commerce, Computer Science, Digital Marketing, life sciences and social sciences. The courses will be conducted by resource persons from leading institutions and industries. Those who are 18 years or older and are currently unemployed, can sign up for the course at www.tnskill.tn.gov.in before October 31. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-offers-free-online-courses-to-unemployed-youth/articleshow/78758154.cms||---
October 20, 2020||India||ED questions Farooq Abdullah in JKCA laundering case||SRINAGAR: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioned former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah (pic) on Monday in connection with alleged irregularities of more than Rs 100 crore in the J&K Cricket Association while he was its president. Abdullah, who is being investigated in a money laundering case, spent more than five hours at the ED’s Srinagar office, reports Saleem Pandit. “I am quite clear. I will always face them," the National Conference chief told journalists after he came out of the agency’s office, and rued that he missed his lunch due to the extended questioning session”. Abdullah’s second interrogation came soon after he held an all-party meeting on October 15 at his residence and announced the formation of the People’s Alliance to fight for the restoration of Article 370 in the erstwhile state. All major parties of J&K, including the People’s Democratic Party and People’s Conference of Sajad Lone, CPM and the Awami National Conference, have joined the front. The NC chief, however, refrained from commenting when asked if the summons was in any way connected to the formation of the new political front. “Don’t bring the Gupkar declaration into this,” he said. Both PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah of the NC called the ED summons “vindictive politics” intended to “browbeat mainstream parties in J&K”. Omar was more forthcoming and blamed the ED action as “nothing less than political vendetta coming days after the formation of the People’s Alliance”. In February, the ED had attached assets of Rs 2.6 crore of Ashan Ahmad Mirza and Mir Manzoor Gazanffer, close associates of Abdullah, in the money laundering case for alleged misappropriation of funds of JKCA. Sources said between 2002 and 2011, JKCA received Rs 112 crore from the BCCI. Farooq Abdullah, then its president, “appointed” Mirza as “treasurer” in 2003 though he was not elected at that time and through him, allegedly laundered the money of JKCA.The ED has al so claimed to have unearthed several transactions where JKCA funds were “illegally” transferred into Mirza’s personal accounts. The agency claimed that the former CM had allegedly used Mirza to open several accounts in J&K Bank using “fictitious documents” to launder funds. Abdullah had made Mirza the signatory to cheques issued in the name of JKCA. The role of a senior executive of J&K Bank, now retired, is also under scrutiny for helping Abdullah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-questions-farooq-abdullah-in-jkca-laundering-case/articleshow/78759126.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||0/720 in Neet! Shocked Amt girl moves HC, seeks revaluation||Mumbai/Nagpur: The controversy over this year’s NEET refuses to die down. Some aspirants have claimed that their final scores do not match with the one they calculated from their OMR (optical marking response) sheets. A student from Amravati has already moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court after getting ‘zero’ out of 720 in her results. Another student is in the process of filing a petition after scoring 212, which he alleged is much lower than what he calculated from his OMR sheet. Stressing that she was expecting a score of over 600/720 , petitioner Vasundhara Bhojane from Amravati, through her counsel Ashwin Deshpande, contended that she had an excellent academic record with a score of 93.4% in class 10th and 81.9% in class 12th. According to her, on account of some technical discrepancy, it’s likely that she got zero marks. Bhojane has sought a revaluation of her answer sheet. Her counsel demanded directives to the National Testing Agency (NTA) to produce original copy of her ‘OMR’ before the HC and an interim stay on medical admission process till pendency of the petition. While issuing notices to respondents including the NTA, a division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryavanshi kept the petition for final disposal on October 26. NTA has been asked to file their response before the next hearing. Another student from Buldhana, who scored 212 out of 720 marks, alleged that his score has drastically dropped from what he had calculated from the OMR sheets. “When my son calculated his scores using the provisional answer key released by the NTA, he expected to score over 700. He was shocked to get his results last week,” said the father. He is now planning to seek legal recourse. In a letter written to the NTA , he has sought the original copy of his OMR sheet. He claimed that he should have got more than 700 marks. NTA’s director general Vineet Joshi said that they have verified every single claim they received before the results were announced and even after that. “Even now, we are allowing students to check their OMR sheets. None of the claims made so far were proven right,” he said, adding that they would file their affidavit, if any student has moved court. A government official said that there have been cases in the past, where students under pressure of doing well in the exam, tamper with their OMR sheets. Cases have gone to the court, and have been withdrawn later. Ruiee Kapoor, a parent representative, said that many students felt that their OMR sheets have been manipulated. “The NTA should recheck their original OMR and give them their rightful scores,” she said. Another parent representative, Sudha Shenoy, said that around 60 responses of a student was not recorded by the software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/0/720-in-neet-shocked-amt-girl-moves-hc-seeks-revaluation/articleshow/78758166.cms||Yogita Rao
October 20, 2020||Pune||Micro clusters in PMC limits reduced to 33||Pune: The micro-containment zones reduced from 59 to 33 in the Pune municipal limits on Monday, accounting for around 4sqkm or 2% of the total municipal area. In the previous revision on October 5, micro-containment zones had come down to 59 from 71, occupying about 3sqkm (2%). There are no micro-containment zones in the areas under the Aundh-Baner and Shivajinagar ward offices. The Hadapsar ward office areas have the maximum number of five micro-containment zones. Kothrud, Ahmednagar Road and Dhankawdi ward offices have four micro-containment zones each. Prior to October 5, PMC had revised the micro-containment zones on September 19 when the number dropped to 71 from 73. “The decision on the inclusion or exclusion of areas from micro-containment zones is taken on the basis of the number of positive cases and deaths in that particular location,” a senior civic official said. “The new zones came into force from midnight of Monday and will remain so till any further revision.” civic chief Vikram Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/micro-clusters-in-pmc-limits-reduced-to-33/articleshow/78757033.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Civic budget today, corporators want health infra strengthened||Nagpur: Corporators cutting across party lines have said that the standing committee’s budget should put more focus on strengthening the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) healthcare infrastructure.“Covid-19 has exposed NMC’s poor health infrastructure in civic-run hospitals, which need to be upgraded,” said senior Congress corporator Sandip Sahare while speaking to TOI on the eve of standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke’s civic budget to be presented for 2020-21 on Tuesday through video conferencing. Discussion on the budget may be held after a couple of days.Corporators said instead of announcing any new projects, Zalke should provide funds to execute work orders which were not taken up due to lack of funds.Senior independent corporator Abha Pande said with less than four months left for the end of the current financial year, old and pending works should be the priority in the budget. She also reminded the civic body to implement its promise to give 50% rebate in both property tax and water bills by announcing this in the budget.Ruling party corporator Parineeta Fuke said the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had stopped many sanctioned works and did what he felt. “If I’m a corporator, I should be taken into confidence while taking up any work in my constituency, which Mundhe never did,” she said.“It has affected many emergency works in ward areas, which need to be considered during this ‘short-term’ budget,” Fuke said, adding, “Mundhe had already upgraded civic-run hospitals. So, the NMC don’t need funds for health.”Congress corporator Darshani Dhawad expressed anguish over delay in presenting the budget. “When online classes are being conducted since lockdown, and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi is promoting digital working, then why the BJP in the NMC is shying away from following his orders?” she said.“Had the NMC followed Modi’s instruction, the civic budget could have been presented in May itself. There is no reason for such latency,” she added.“This casual approach of the ruling party has hampered the city’s development worsk,” Dhawad said, demanding that the budget should not ignore city’s outskirts where basic civic amenities like sewerage network, streetlights etc are still a distant dream.“The pandemic has taught the public that government hospitals are the most reliable, but one cannot rely on NMC-run hospitals. The common man does not want to go there and get treated. The condition of NMC hospitals is pathetic,” she said.“If there is a doctor, there is no equipment and somewhere there is no sign of cleanliness, which needs immediate attention,” Dhawad added.Pande stressed the need to improve manpower in NMC-run hospitals. “If NMC cannot appoint permanent doctors or paramedical staff, it should go for contractual method to improve medical facilities in its hospitals,” she said. No face-to-faceStanding committee budget through video conferencing at 12 noon on Tuesday at Panjabrao Deshmukh Sabha Gruha in Civil LinesChairman Vijay Zalke to present revised budget to mayor Sandip Joshi at a special general body meetingEx-municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had presented Rs2,574 crore budgetCorporators will attend video conferencing in either zonal offices or from their homesMeeting links will be shared in the morningBudget copy will be sent to all 10 zonal offices from where it will be distributed among corporators, officialsSome key elected office-bearers and senior officials will be present at NMC headquarters during the meetingOther elected members can attend meetings from either zonal officers or homes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-budget-today-corporators-want-health-infra-strengthened/articleshow/78755681.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Cardiac issues five times deadlier in poorer nations||CHENNAI: Heart attacks and deaths are higher in low-income countries, particularly among those with diabetes, but scientists say lifestyle changes and drugs are not making a significant impact, either because they are not prescribed at the right time or not taken in correct doses. The Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology (PURE) study that enrolled 1,43,567 adults in the 35–70 age group from four high-income countries (HIC), a dozen middle-income countries (MIC), and five low-income countries (LIC), found that cardiovascular events such as heart attacks were nearly 24% higher among individuals with diabetes in LICs compared to those in the HICs. Deaths caused by cardiovascular events were nearly five times higher in poor countries compared to rich nations. The study was published recently in the medical journal Diabetes Care. In the four HICs — Canada, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, and UAE — the cardiovascular event rate was 3.4 per 1,000 person years (the number of events divided by the amount of person-time observed) in among non-diabetics and 8.3 per 1000 person years among diabetics. In MICs such as Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia and Iran it increases to 4.0 among people without diabetes and 9.2 in those with diabetes. In the LICs, the event rate is 5.3 among people without diabetes and 10.3 among those with diabetes. The cardiovascular mortality rate among those with diabetes was 1 per 1,000 person years in HICs, 2.2 in MICs and 5.7 in LICs. “The huge difference in deaths could be because people don’t get proper access to healthcare in LICs. But it was more shocking that lifestyle adjustments and drugs do not seem to make a big difference in a country like India,” said study’s first author Dr R M Anjana, senior diabetologist and researcher from the Madras Diabetes Research Foundation. For instance, with lifestyle adjustments the risk of cardiovascular events in HICs came down from 2.13 to 1.84, and drug usage further brought it down to 1.59. Among the LICs, the risk dropped from 1.94 to 1.86 with lifestyle adjustments and to 1.82 with drugs usage. Analysis showed that adherence to drugs for diabetes and hypertension was poor in LICs. For instance, 12% of people in rich countries used insulin compared to 2.8% in LICs. Among people with diabetes, nearly 42% of people in HICs took BP-lowering drugs and cholesterol-lowering drugs. In the LICs 10% of diabetics were on BP lowering drugs and 2% on those for lowering cholesterol levels A combination of reasons including inadequate doses of medications prescribed at suboptimal time, financial reasons and patient/provider beliefs regarding drugs could be a reason for drugs being ineffective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cardiac-issues-five-times-deadlier-in-poorer-nations/articleshow/78757035.cms||Pushpa Narayan
October 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Jyotiraditya Scindia calls on public to teach Kamal Nath a lesson||BHOPAL: Changing the poll strategy from development to personal attack, the BJP has successfully turned the Congress' gamechanger plan to a one-on-one battle between former chief minister Kamal Nath and Shivraj Singh Chouhan. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who has restricted himself to limited rallies, addressed poll meetings in Sanchi, Surkhi, Mungaoli and Ashoknagar assembly constituencies after a gap of almost a week. Addressing the public, Scindia attacked Congress leader Kamal Nath over his alleged remarks against cabinet minister Imarti Devi and appealed to the public to teach such leaders a lesson. "Gods live where the women are worshiped. This is our culture. But nowadays many leaders are using derogatory words towards women. Any leader who commits such a crime should be removed from politics and the time has arrived," said Scindia. Recalling the failures of previous Congress rule, he said, "When the Congress government was formed in 2018, it was thought that the government would draw an even longer streak of development than the BJP had drawn in 15 years. But the pair of Digvijaya Singh and Kamal Nath made Vallabh Bhavan (secretariat) the center of corruption," he said. "We thought that Kamal Nath is an industrialist, he will bring industry and investment to the state. But he started the transfer industry. There were four transfers of an officer four times. The liquor industry, illegal mining flourished for which a cabinet minister apologised with folded hands saying that our government could not ban illegal mining of sand," Scindia attacked. Responding to Congress' traitor jibe, the BJP leader said that what Congress had promised in the assembly elections, nothing got implemented. Neither the farm debt was waived off, nor the chief minister changed. "Shivraj Singh Chouhan used to give Rs 25,000 in Kanyadan Scheme, Kamal Nath said, we will give Rs 51,000. Hundreds of daughters got married, had children, but none got money. They used to say only one thing, there is no money," he recalled. Scindia said that when MLAs and ministers used to meet Kamal Nath, he would close the doors on their mouth. It was an insult to the public. Now you have to answer this by slamming the door on the face of Congress leaders, Digvijay Singh and Kamal Nath, during this by-election. "This by-election is an opportunity to reply to those who committed corruption and betrayed 7.5 crore people of the state. You have two options to choose— one the pair of traitors Digvijaya-Kamal Nath, the other Shivraj ji and me,” said Scindia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-calls-on-public-to-teach-nath-a-lesson/articleshow/78755687.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||1.7 lakh people registered for Char Dham Yatra this yr, 9k used chopper to Kedarnath||DEHRADUN: A total of 1,71,099 people have registered for the Char Dham Yatra this year, according to the data available with the Char Dham Devasthanam Board. Of these, around 1.3 lakh have already visited the Char Dham temples. Among the Char Dham shrines, the maximum bookings were received for the Badrinath temple. Also, more than 9,000 people took a chopper ride to the Kedarnath shrine in the first 10 days of the start of the service this year. BD Singh, additional chief executive officer of Devasthanam Board, said that as many as 1,71,071 passes for Char Dham Yatra were issued by Devasthanam Board since July 1, the day when the yatra started in Uttarakhand. “Of the 1,71,071 passes issued for all four temples of Char Dham yatra, 1,21,924 were issued only for Badrinath and Kedarnath and the remaining 49,000 for Yamunotri and Gangotri. Badrinath hosted the maximum number of devotees this year,” said Singh. A senior official from Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA) said that 9,582 people have used the chopper service to Kedarnath temple so far this year. “Around 1,000 people are estimated to have made bookings on the spot as well. The eight choppers from four different locations have done around 1,800 shuttles in 10 days to pick and drop the pilgrims,” he added. Earlier in 2019, a record 34 lakh pilgrims had visited the Char Dham temples of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-7-lakh-people-registered-for-char-dham-yatra-this-yr-9k-used-chopper-to-kedarnath/articleshow/78755680.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 20, 2020||Madurai||With four deaths each, Covid cases on decline in south, central Tamil Nadu||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Monday reported 382 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in nearly four months. All the four deaths reported in the region are from Madurai district and were people with comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 347 fresh cases taking the tally to 62,277, which include 3,223 active cases. The region also recorded four deaths pushing the death toll to 820. All the four patients had comorbidities. All the districts in the south recorded less than 70 fresh cases. Kanyakumari (69) recorded the highest, followed by Madurai (64). The eight other districts recorded less than 50 cases with Tenkasi (22) recording the lowest, followed by Ramanathapuram (23), Virudhunagar (25), Sivagangai (25), Theni (32), Tirunelveli (36), Dindigul (40) and Tuticorin (46). Active cases declined to 3,896 in the region. The number of active cases in the eight central districts has also declined as the region reported 58,234 recoveries so far. While Tiruvaur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam recorded 500-plus active cases, Trichy reported 600 active cases as on Monday. Perambalur (81) recorded the lowest number of active cases. Thanjavur registered 83 cases pushing the district tally to 14,560. It was followed by Tiruvarur (74), and Trichy (59). A 45-year-old woman from Nagapattinam was among the deceased on Monday. She had the conditions of left lung collapse, bilateral pleural effusion and lower limb DVT besides Covid-19. Of the three other patients, diabetes was the common comorbidity. Thanjavur (212) is leading in the death toll in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/with-four-deaths-each-covid-cases-on-decline-in-south-central-tn/articleshow/78758164.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Centre to import one lakh tonnes of liquid med O2 over 3-month period||Pune: The Centre has decided to import one lakh tonnes of liquid medical oxygen over a three-month period, anticipating the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 in the country during winter, the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association stated on Monday.The All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA) oversees oxygen supplies in India. Association president Saket Tiku, who has been appointed member of the committee set up by the ministry of commerce and industry to ensure adequate supply of medical oxygen in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, told TOI that tenders have been floated for the import. Since Maharashtra was the worst affected in terms of Covid-19 cases as well as shortage of liquid O2 when the pandemic peaked, he said, the state was likely to get a share from the 1 lakh tonne of the gas to be imported. “Maharashtra’s liquid medical O2 use has already dipped to 370 tonnes a day from over an average of 600 tonnes a day after Covid cases reduced recently. But the plan to import medical O2 is to rule out any possibility of shortage if a second wave of the pandemic is witnessed during winter,” he said.“We now have enough medical oxygen. But the Centre does not want to stop oxygen supplies to industries if cases multiply during winter. This is the first time ever that India will import oxygen,” Tiku said. The worst hit among industries in the country due to the lack of industrial O2 supplies are currently in Maharashtra. The state is still supplying 20% of O2 to industries and 80% to medical facilities.An official from HLL Lifecare Limited, a Government of India enterprise procuring O2 from other countries on the health ministry’s behalf, said, “The allocation for the states from the 1 lakh tonne O2 to be imported will be decided later. The allocation will depend on the basis of the requirement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centre-to-import-one-lakh-tonnes-of-liquid-med-o2-over-3-month-period/articleshow/78756993.cms||Neha Madaan
October 20, 2020||Pune||2,191 recover, day’s tally least in four months||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday reported 2,191 recoveries. This was nearly four times the 549 fresh patients, least single-day tally since June 23, reported in the same 24-hour window. The total number of recoveries reached 2.88 lakh, while the progressive caseload climbed to 3.15 lakh. The rural areas and the cantonments reported the highest number of recoveries, at 1,272. As many as 505 patients were discharged in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, while Pimpri Chinchwad reported 414 recoveries. Officials attributed to this sharp drop in fresh positives to lower testing over the weekend. For the past three days, the region has reported fewer than 1,000 new cases. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 4,455 samples were tested in the region on Monday. Of the 549 new patients, 214 were from PMC limits. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 159 new patients, while rural areas, municipal council areas and cantonments accounted for the rest. As of Monday, there were 18,740 active cases in the region — 9,328 in hospitals and 9,412 under home quarantine. Meanwhile, 42 people succumbed to the contagion in the region on Monday, with PMC reporting the highest number of fatalities at 18, followed by eight in Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2191-recover-days-tally-least-in-four-months/articleshow/78757049.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Festival special trains to be operated from Oct 23||Madurai: In view of the festival season the Railway Board has approved five more pairs of daily festival special trains including the below mentioned three pairs to the southern and central districts of Tamil Nadu. They will be operated as fully reserved trains. Train No 06235 Tuticorin – Mysore express will be operated from October 24 to December 1 and Train No 06236 Mysore – Tuticorin express from October 23 to November 30. These trains will run according to the chart of Train No 16235/16236. Train No 06525 Kanyakumari to KSR Bengaluru express will be operated from October 25 to December 2 and Train No 06526 KSR Bengaluru to Kanyakumari express from October 23 to November 30. The trains will run according to the chart of Train No 16525/16526. Train No 06231 Mayiladuthurai – Mysore express will run from October 26 to December 1 and Train No 06232 Mysore – Mayiladuthurai express will run from October 25 to November 30. It will run according to the chart of Train No 16231/16232.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/festival-special-trains-to-be-operated-from-oct-23/articleshow/78758168.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||30% of Covid-19 deaths in 61-70 age group: Analysis||Pune: People in the age group of 61-70 years have emerged most susceptible to Covid-19 complications in Pune district, accounting for the highest 30% of casualties among all age brackets.This has been revealed in the death analysis report prepared by the Pune district administration. The report was released on October 15. As per the analysis, 81% of the total fatalities in the district had associated risk factor, such a hypertension and diabetes.Across the country, 47% of Covid-19 deaths have been recorded in among people below 60 years. A month-wise analysis revealed that September recorded the largest number of deaths, followed by August, in the entire country. As for Pune district, the state government has directed the health authorities in Pune to work on measures to bring down the mortality rate below 1%, which currently stands at 2.3%.State task force member Dr Subhash Salunkhe said all efforts were being taken to ensure early detection and treatment of cases to prevent mortality. “We have had two round of meetings with local health authorities. During the meeting, a detailed analysis of all the deaths in the Pune district was undertaken, besides the preventive measures that have been employed. Early detection is the key factor and that has been stressed on by the task force,’‘ Dr Salunkhe said. He said the ongoing “My family, my responsibility” drive, which entailed door-to-door surveillance too, was helping in early detection. “From ramping up facilities at rural hospitals, ensuring adequate oxygen supply, good technical support of doctors and even awareness among people is being followed,’‘ he said. Health expert R Jotkar said the age group of 41-80 years accounted for a lion’s share of Covid-19 deaths in Pune district, with male gender dominating the toll and this is more or less ion par with the rest of state and country. “The cases with associated risk factors dominate significantly high in toll profile in the district and the toll has increased from May onwards,” Dr Salunkhe said.Of the total 7,335 deaths registered in Pune district till October 15, as many as 324 are of patients outside the district. Among months, the maximum deaths were registered in September (2,306), followed by August (2,177) and July (1,542). From April onwards, the data analysis shows that the maximum deaths occurred in the 24th and 25th week, which is in the month of September.October, according to the data, has accounted for 420 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-of-covid-19-deaths-in-61-70-age-group-analysis/articleshow/78757087.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Train to Bangladesh delayed, now set for Dussehra flag off||Nagpur: The maiden train carrying oranges from Warud in Amravati district to Benapole in Bangladesh, which was slated to be flagged off on Tuesday, has been put off till October 25.A rake of 20 parcel wagons with 460 tonne citrus fruits was to leave on October 20. However, as the shifting of the produce till parcel vans has been delayed due to bad roads, the date has been deferred.Ramesh Jichkar, chief executive officer (CEO) of Shramjivi Nagpuri Orange Producers Company, Warud, said, “Roads were badly damaged due to rains. On October 16, when we tried to push an empty truck towards the track, it got stuck. Pushing loaded vehicles would have been risky.” Hence, the date for the Benapole train was deferred in a joint meeting of railway officials led by senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil and traders.Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “If roads were one reason, due to rains harvesting was also affected. Secondly, there was a logjam on Bangladesh border and therefore the maiden run was deferred. The train to Bangladesh will leave via Nagpur.”In another development, the Orange Kisan Rail that was flagged off on October 14 by Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari has evoked good response and its with its second trip to Delhi all set to chug on Wednesday.“Of the 10 parcel vans in which the fruits are to be sent to Delhi, eight have already been booked. Railway officials are working to ensure more vans are booked,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/train-to-bangladesh-delayed-now-set-for-dussehra-flag-off/articleshow/78755694.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 20, 2020||Madurai||8 Hindu outfit members held for vandalising cemetery in Nellai||Tirunelveli: Eight cadres and functionaries of Indu Makkal Katchi (IMK) were arrested on Monday, for vandalising tombs and destroying cross symbols at the cemetery of the Sacred Heart Church at Udayarpatti in Tirunelveli city, late on Saturday night. While the church claimed that 86 tombs were damaged, police said that only around 40 were damaged.The incident, in which the compound wall of the cemetery was also damaged, created communal tension. While the presence of the cemetery near a temple is cited as reason behind the incident, it is learnt that it has been there for four decades. Police inquiry revealed that there was a dispute between people from both communities over this, for the last three years.Locals said the vandalism was the handiwork of IMK aimed at creating divide between the two communities and demanded stringent action against the antisocial elements.A senior police officer in the city said that they have registered a case against 10 people including the prime accused Udaiyar, district secretary of the IMK, under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 297 (trespassing), 427 (mischief causing damage), 294(b) (reciting obscenities in a public place), 353(A) (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.The arrested have been identified as Udaiyaar, K Muruganantham, 48, T Sankar, 52, R Sabari Rajan alias Ayyappan, 50, A Sermadurai, 43, A Kandan, 38, Radhakrishnan, 58, and S Subramani alias Soda Mani, 49. Search is on for two more people. Police said they have collected scientific evidences and seized six hammers and crowbars used by the accused.An all-party meeting was convened by the church to condemn the attack. Representatives of the church petitioned district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish seeking detention of all the accused under the Goondas Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-hindu-outfit-members-held-for-vandalising-cemetery-in-nellai/articleshow/78758172.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 1 lakh for houses totally damaged, Rs 10,000 for every family affected by floods||HYDERABAD: Telangana government has announced a financial assistance of Rs 10,000 to each of the flood- affected families as immediate relief. The amount will be disbursed to the families from Tuesday. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that the government would be releasing Rs 550 crore to the municipal administration department for relief and rehabilitation of the affected people. This would include Rs 1 lakh each for houses, which were completely damaged in the heavy rains and floods. For partially damaged houses, Rs 50,000 each would be given. The chief minister also asked officials to repair and restore all the roads on a war-footing. The CM, who reviewed the flood situation in the state, especially in Greater Hyderabad, as many colonies were still in floodwaters, said the government would rescue the affected people. Many of them were facing hardships, including losing essential commodities. KCR had stated recently that Telangana would need at least Rs 5,000 crore to make up for the damage and asked the Centre for Rs 1,350 as immediate relief. “Hyderabad has seen heavy rains it had never experienced in the last 100 years. People, especially the poor in slums and low-lying areas, have suffered a lot. It is the responsibility of the government to help them. Hence, we have decided to extend Rs 10,000 aid to each affected household,” the CM said on Monday. District collectors of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri have been directed to deploy the teams on the field to start distributing the amount. The CM instructed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to monitor financial help distribution programme by pressing 200 to 250 teams into affected areas. He said ministers, MLAs, corporators, mayor and deputy mayor in Hyderabad should actively participate in the distribution of the amount. The CM also urged the TRS leaders and workers to actively participate in the programme and ensure that the deserving poor receive help. KCR also urged industrialists, traders, business establishments and others to come forward to extend their help to the affected people and asked them to donate generously to the CMRF. Following his request, Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) responded and announced Rs 10 crore to the CMRF. The amount would support the government in relief efforts, MEIL representatives said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1l-for-houses-totally-damaged-rs-10k-for-every-family-affected-by-floods/articleshow/78758688.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||100% rain deficit in first fortnight of October in Uttarakhand: Met||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand has received no rainfall in the first fortnight of October — which is the first month of the three-month-long post-monsoon season — resulting in a 100% rain deficit. According to the regional meteorological centre, Uttarakhand recorded zero mm rainfall against the normal of 22.3 mm rainfall with none of the 13 districts receiving any showers since October 1. Speaking to TOI, Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, said, “There has been no rainfall in the state in the month of October, causing a 100% rain deficiency. There are no signs of rain in the coming days as well and dry weather is likely to prevail at least for the next five-to-six days.” Due to continuous dry weather, the temperatures, especially the maximum levels, are settling above normal in both the hills and the plains, according to the Met office. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 32.7 degree Celsius, four notches above normal, while the minimum remained at 16.7 degree Celsius, two notches above normal. The hill town of Mukteshwar also experienced rising mercury levels with the maximum temperature settling at 23 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/100-rain-deficit-in-first-fortnight-of-october-in-ukhand-met/articleshow/78755697.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Violating rules, ministers seek to influence forest department transfers||NAGPUR: Despite rules against it, political interference in transfers and postings is alive and kicking in the state forest department. Papers in possession of TOI reveal that ministers and VIPs continue to influence the transfer of forest officials. Among the VIPs who have recommended transfer of officials to choice postings include home minister Anil Deshmukh, assembly speaker Nana Patole, medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, social welfare minister Dhananjay Munde, MLAs Sangram Thopte and Indranil Naik, and other local and state leaders. Based on their recommendation to forest minister Sanjay Rathod of Shiv Sena, the state forest ministry had on October 9 asked APCCF (administration-subordinate cadre) Vikas Gupta to submit proposals and service books of the range forest officers (RFOs). Gupta was unavailable for comments. The VIPs’ recommendations came between June and August, when transfers were being planned by the forest minister. Rathod, in his remarks, had asked an additional chief secretary (ACS, forest) to examine the requests and propose transfers accordingly. But it seems then ACS Manu Kumar Srivastava did not budge, and was shunted out in less than six months. Principal secretary (forest) Milind Mhaiskar said, “We will verify these proposals and only then proceed. Those transferred earlier were routine transfers.” All the RFOs who approached VIPs want postings in the territorial wing, considered to be a lucrative post. On July 27, Patole recommended the names of three RFOs, Chhaganlal Rahangdale (Hingna), Sadashiv Avgan (Pitezari), and Kailash Dhondane (Delanwadi), who wanted postings at Sakoli, Lakhandur, and Gothangaon territorial ranges in Bhandara and Gondia districts. Similarly, Anil Deshmukh recommended postings of four RFOs — Manoj Gadhwe (Wardha), PS Tadas (Arjuni Morgaon), Kanteshwar Bolke (Ramtek), and Ghanshyam Thombre (Kuhi), to territorial ranges in Wardha, Narkhed, Katol, and Nagpur respectively. All wanted postings in territorial areas. Similarly, other leaders too forwarded their requests to the minister seeking choice postings for their candidates. In August, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil had, in a press conference, alleged a transfer scam in Maharashtra and demanded a CID inquiry. Patil had charged the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers with collecting money for prime postings. The ministers are influencing transfers despite the Maharashtra government, in another case of transfer of an employee through influence, promising the Bombay high court that recommendations made by political leaders, members of political parties or ministers who are not part of the transfer process won’t be allowed to influence transfer of government employees. The state government also told the court that the Maharashtra Government Servants Regulation of Transfers and Prevention of Delay in Discharge of Official Duties Act (2005) will be followed strictly. However, considering the recommendations with TOI, the assurance seems to be only on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/violating-rules-ministers-seek-to-influence-forest-dept-transfers/articleshow/78758175.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Engineering colleges hope for a good placement season||CHENNAI: After a gloomy start to the placement season, a gradual increase in hiring by recruiters over the past two months have raised hopes of a normal placement season amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While IT majors such as Cognizant, TCS, Wipro are still screening candidates through tests, IT product companies have hired students virtually and handed offer letters to many. The recruitment process was slightly delayed this year as the Centre took time to waive exams for pre-final year students and promote them to next semester. “Compared to the grim situation in March and April, colleges are heaving a sigh of relief. The pandemic has impacted the number of offers and number of companies recruiting via campus placements this year. But the situation is improving and we are hopeful of a good placement season,” principal of a city engineering college said. “23 recruiters, mostly IT product companies, have completed hiring at Sri Sairam Engineering College. We expect around 100 companies to hire from our campus this year,” said L Arunachalam, dean (training and placement) at Sairam Group of Institutions. Last year, 123 companies visited the college for recruitment. Anna University sent out invitations to around 500 companies for campus placements. The university started campus placement at the end of August. “Despite the pandemic, the recruitment process is going on as usual. Around 60 companies have recruited our students so far and bulk hiring will take place in the coming weeks,” said S Iniyan, director, centre for university-industry collaboration, Anna University. Students from computer science and IT streams are getting placed in IT companies. “Though we feared impact of the pandemic on recruitment at the beginning, it has been good so far and we have a steady stream of recruiters,” said Sriram Padmanaban, director of the career centre at SRM Institute of Science and Technology. He said none of the major recruiters have backed out but acknowledged a slight drop in recruitment. “I think, from January, many companies will visit campuses for hiring with travel restrictions eased,” he said. V Samuel Rajkumar, director (placement and training), Vellore Institute of Technology, said the deemed university has received at least 2,000 offers from more than 250 companies. “Covid-19 had an impact on recruitment and VIT is an exception where several companies recruited students despite the pandemic. It is almost similar to last year’s placement season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engg-colleges-hope-for-a-good-placement-season/articleshow/78757094.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Rajkot||Only Sainik school of Gujarat to admit girls||RAJKOT: The year 2021 will mark an epoch-making event at Sainik School Balachadi as the 60-year-old institution will open its doors for girls, enabling them to make illustrious careers in the Indian armed forces. Till date, the school, 32 km from Jamnagar, which was set up to train young ones for admission to the National Defence Academy (NDA), was open only for boys. But, beginning next academic session, 10 girls will be given admission and the number of seats for them will be increased later looking at the response, officials said. Also, 67% of these seats will be reserved for school girls from Gujarat. It was around two years ago that the ministry of defence had taken a decision to allow girls in four or five out of the total 33 Sainik Schools in the country. The residential school enrols students from Class VI and they are given special training to prepare them for NDA, besides the regular syllabus up to Class XI. Group captain Ravinder Singh, principal, Sainik School Balachadi, said, “According to the rule, 10% of total vacancy or minimum 10, whichever is more, will be reserved for girls. We have nearly 60 vacancies every year, so 10 girls will be enrolled from the next academic year. There will be 67% reservation for Gujarat and other reservations for SC, ST, OBC will be applied as per the rules.” Stating that this was a futuristic step, Singh said it will take around seven years for the girls to get prepared for NDA, which may also start inducting women over the coming years. At present, the school has 570 students on the sea-side camps sprawling nearly 426 acres. “An exclusive hostel for girls will be built on the campus. Along with studies, military training will be given to girls in the same manner as it’s being conducted for boys enabling them to join as bright defence officers in the armed forces,” the school said in a statement. “We are optimistic that women will be inducted in combat groups in the future,” said Singh. The online admission process for next academic session will start today and will continue till November 19, 2020. The entrance examination will be held on January 10, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/only-sainik-school-of-guj-to-admit-girls/articleshow/78755743.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 20, 2020||Goa||Tanaji Halarnkar, man who dedicated 12 years to Konkani encyclopedia, dies at 77||Panaji: Tanaji Halarnkar, a prominent presence in the Konkani agitation of the 80s, passed away on Monday at the age of 77. A Konkani writer, he dedicated 12 years of his life in preparation of the Konkani encyclopedia. Halarnkar took ill last week, after which he was hospitalised. His family members said the final rites will be conducted only amidst the presence of close relatives due to Covid-19 restrictions. Other than spending 12 years, editing four volumes of the Konkani Encyclopedia for Goa University, Halarnkar also helped the Union human resource development ministry’s administrative terminology commission to develop scientific and technical terminology in Konkani. If he had to dedicate the same amount of time to his own writings, Halarnkar would have had several awards of the likes of Sahitya Akademi to boast of. However, he felt it was more important for the future of Konkani to create scientific, legal and technical terminology. “At some point, the user of Konkani will say that literature and everything is fine, but do you have legal terminology in the language? If not, than I will go ahead and use English,” Halarnkar had told TOI in 2016. Born in Bandora in Ponda, Halarnkar preferred writing essays, though he has penned short stories, poems and dramas as well. After finishing schooling in Ponda, Halarnkar began working as a teacher in his neighbourhood school, later moving to Panaji’s Progress High School, as it allowed him to pursue higher studies in economics and political science in Dhempe College. Later he earned his doctorate from Bombay University, with the thesis ‘Gram Panchayats in Goa – A Critical Study,’ which is among the few of its kind in the subject. Halarnkar is survived by his wife Vaishali, a retired customs officer and children Tushar and Siddhi. He had served as vice-president of Goa Konkani Akademi, honorary director of Konkani Bhaas ani Shikshan of World Konkani Centre at Mangaluru, had won the Goa State Cultural Award for 2012, Goa Konkani Akademi Sahitya Pradnya Puraskar and the Thomas Stephen Konkani Kendre’s Konkani Puraskar for 2011 among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tanaji-halarnkar-man-who-dedicated-12-years-to-konkani-encyclopedia-dies-at-77/articleshow/78758205.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Man set on fire over previous enmity in Madurai||MADURAI: A 29-year-old man was set ablaze by four people due to previous enmity on the city outskirts on Sunday night. The critically injured man has been admitted at the Government Rajaji Hospital. The man was identified as P Manikandan, from Koozhapandi village near Oomachikulam. Manikandan had got into a dispute with Alagar from the same area a few days ago. They left the place after some people pacified them. Alagar had also threatened Manikandan. Police said that Manikandan was consuming liqour in a Tasmac shop in Thirupalai on Sunday when Alagar went to the spot with three of his accomplices. He took out a container and poured petrol over Manikandan, set him on fire and escaped from the spot. Manikanadan was rushed to the hospital by passersby. On being alerted, the Tallakulam police reached the hospital and recorded a complaint from Manikandan. A case was registered under various Indian Penal Code sections including attempt to murder against Alagar and his friends. Police said that the victim suffered close to 90% burns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-set-on-fire-over-previous-enmity/articleshow/78758174.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Three killed in accidents in Madurai||Madurai: Three people were killed in three separate accidents in the district on Sunday. A 55-year-old woman from Yagappa Nagar in Madurai city was killed on the spot and her two relatives suffered injuries when a truck knocked the two-wheeler in which she was travelling on the Koodal Nagar Railway Bridge on Sunday. The victim has been identified as R Sushila, 55. She was riding pillion with her grandson Darshan Kumar to attend a relative’s function. Her son-in-law M Muthukrishnan, 40, was riding the bike. Muthukrishnan and his son escaped with minor injuries. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the traffic investigation wing police. Karthick Prasath, 27, from Kulamangalam on the city outskirts was killed in an accident involving a bike and an auto rickshaw on Sunday. He was travelling towards Madurai city, when the auto rickshaw coming in the opposite direction hit the vehicle. Karthick Prasath was thrown off the bike in the impact and died on the spot. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with the Alanganallur police station against auto rickshaw driver M Murugesan of Bibikulam. P Maruthayee, 65, from Chinna Ulagani village near Kallikudi, was hit by a two-wheeler while he was crossing a road on Sunday. She was rushed to Thirumangalam government hospital, but died on the way to the hospital. Based on a complaint from her daughter R Pandiammal, a case was registered against two-wheeler rider Guruvaiah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-killed-in-accidents-in-madurai/articleshow/78758176.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chennai||23% Chennai Metro users buy tokens despite Covid-19 spread risk||CHENNAI: Around 23% of the city’s metro rail commuters use tokens for their commute despite the risk of virus spread, as they do not want to pay more money than needed for the trip and buy a smartcard. The rechargeable smartcard costs Rs 50. Staff at the metro stations are told to encourage commuters to purchase smartcards for a contactless travel but end up issuing tokens when people refuse to buy cards, as many of them are either one-time users or rarely commute in metro trains. Metros in Bengaluru and Delhi have stopped issuing tokens since operations started in September post-lockdown, due to fear that reuse of tokens could be a source of Covid-19 spread. According to CMRL, of 6.8 lakh passengers who travelled in metro trains between September 7 and October 15, more than 1.5 lakh passengers purchased tokens for their commute, while 4.9 lakh used smartcards, about 10,461 bought group tickets and 21,933 purchased QR-code tickets. This means passengers buying tokens also end up spending more time at the ticketing levels of the stations, likely with other passengers, and also interact with the station staff. “Passengers mostly do not want their money blocked in the smartcard. Some do not want to carry a smartcard at all and do not mind purchasing a token at the counter and some use metro trains rarely and do not want a card,” a metro rail official said. “If they insist, we have to give them a token, which we sanitize after every use. We can’t send them back. Our footfall is already low,” the official added. At present, the average daily footfall is at 25,000 compared to 1.16 lakh pre-covid period, which was also less than the estimated daily average patronage of 7.76 lakh. CMRL says their regular commuters are IT employees and college students, who now work and attend virtual classes from home. Further, one-time users also take the metro train only if their origin and destination are closer to the stations, as first mile and last mile connectivity is mostly not available. “I do not use metro service regularly because the station is at least a kilometre away. So even if I spend Rs 50 to buy a card and travel two stations away, I may still have balance money in the card which I may not use any time soon,” said When services resumed on September 7 after a five month break, CMRL introduced readers to validate a recharged smartcards and QR-code ticketing facilities, where tickets can be purchased through CMRL app to encourage contactless travel. Commuters are also offered discounts on smartcard and QR-code tickets while the balance amount on smartcards are fully refunded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/23-metro-users-buy-tokens-despite-covid-19-spread-risk/articleshow/78757099.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||PV Sindhu quits national camp over personal issues, reaches London||HYDERABAD: In a move that has taken many in the badminton world by surprise, world champion P V Sindhu has left the ongoing national camp for Olympic hopefuls and landed in London. Her Instagram account said on Monday that she had travelled to the UK to work on her recovery and nutrition. Sources said she has been in the UK for at least 10 days now. Apart from it being unusual for a top Olympic medal hopeful to leave a national camp midway, this is also the first time that the 25-year-old has travelled abroad without being accompanied by either of her parents. Sources said that she is being monitored by a team of experts, including Rebecca Randell of the Gatorade Sports Science Institute. The former world No.2 is expected to be in the UK for the next two months. Sources told TOI that Sindhu has left the country in a huff, apparently after tensions in her family. Before she left Hyderabad, Sindhu informed the coaches at the Pullela Gopichand Academy that she will not return to India for the next eight to ten weeks. While Sindhu could not be contacted on her phone, her father, P V Ramana, did not accept calls or reply to messages. “She was upset with a few things. Efforts are being made to convince her to return home,” a source told TOI on Monday. “She is unlikely to return anytime soon. At this stage of her life, she wants to be on her own and not be controlled. Maybe being at home during the lockdown took its toll and she wanted some freedom. We hope she enjoys the break and comes back”. It’s also learnt that Sindhu will soon start training with the England team. “She will train with the English players for a while. Otherwise her game would be affected. She has a few friends in England,” another source said. On Monday, Sindhu tweeted: “Happy to be in England and working with GSSI over the next few weeks on my nutrition and recovery with @rrandell86! 3 months to Asia tour and this is best chance to work on this and improve!!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sindhu-quits-national-camp-overpersonal-issues-reaches-london/articleshow/78758691.cms||Manne Ratnakar
October 20, 2020||Pune||CoEP makeshift hospital finally ready for full-capacity operations||PUNE: The civic body’s makeshift jumbo facility on the College of Engineering, Pune, (CoEP) grounds is now ready to operate at its full capacity and cater to 800 patients. Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said though the infrastructure for 800 beds at the jumbo hospital was ready, the facility was operating at the 600-bed capacity in the wake of the drop in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. She said, “The intake capacity of the facility has been fully achieved, but we have not given the fresh work order because it saves money for the administration.” An official from the private firm managing the CoEP jumbo unit said with the availability of beds for critical Covid-19 patients, the Sassoon General Hospital could concentrate on treating the non-Covid patients. The jumbo hospital in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits had achieved its 100% bed capacity in September. The facility now has 75% vacant beds because of the reduction in the number of patients. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said they had ramped up the facility to 100% capacity by the third week of September. The facility helped a lot in easing the burden from the tertiary care facilities such as Sassoon General Hospital and Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH). It has till date discharged 1,396 critical and symptomatic patients. He said though the facility had 75% vacant beds on Monday, the civic body was not thinking of downsizing its staffers as of now. “We will take a call about downsizing or the future of the jumbo facility by the last week of November when the contract with the private firm ends,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-makeshift-hospital-finally-ready-for-full-capacity-operations/articleshow/78757096.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur HC: In law, there’s no reservation category known as ‘open’||NAGPUR: Granting respite to a woman and ordering her appointment to a government job, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has observed that in law there’s no reservation category known as ‘open’. “Seats in the open category can be filled up by considering all candidates, irrespective of their backward class, caste, special class, in accordance with merit,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Rohit Deo said. Petitioner Shantabai Doifode, who hailed from NT(D) category, had applied for binders’ posts advertised by director of printing and stationary. Of the 10 posts, two were reserved for open category and one for NT(D). After clearing a written test, she was placed lower in merit for NT(D), but was higher in the open (women’s) category. The director, however, refused her appointment stating that she can’t compete in the open category as it was reserved for those from unreserved communities. He then appointed a male candidate treating the reservation to have lapsed. She challenged this decision in the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT), which too dismissed her case, ruling that reserved category women can’t enter in fray for open category which is meant for those from forward classes. The petitioner then challenged MAT ruling in HC through counsel Mohan Sudame, contending that open is not a reserved category. “When in an open category, horizontal reservation is provided for females, the category would be available to be filled up from among all women candidates irrespective of their social reservations,” Sudame contended. Quashing the MAT verdict, the HC directed respondents to consider Doifode’s claim for binder against open category and issue her appointment order within four months. The HC also asked the director to issue a new appointment order for a man, who was appointed on petitioner’s post, in the ex-servicemen’s category. After referring to various Supreme Court judgments, the judges laid down appropriate course for filling up open, social reservations and horizontal reservations category seats. “First, open category seats should be filled up among all candidates, irrespective of social reservation categories and on the basis of relative merit. In case, some candidates selected in the open category belong to social reservations, they should not be considered for social reservation category seats. The seats shall be additionally available for being filled up from among candidates belonging to that category, in accordance with inter-se merit.” The judges said in case special reservation for women, physically handicapped and others is horizontally made within SC, ST and Other Backward Classes (OBC), the first step would be to fill up all seats in respective categories by selecting as per merit. “The second step would be to find out how many candidates selected in each of the social reservations categories would qualify to fill up seats reserved for special category candidates. If it’s found that candidates already selected also qualify to fill up quota horizontally within such reserved category, there would be no need to disturb the list of selected candidates,” the HC said. The judges added that when horizontal reservation for women is made within the open category, the seats would have to be filled up by selecting women irrespective of their caste, creed or backward class. “Ideally speaking, horizontal reservations meant for special category persons provided for in terms of Article 16(1) or Article 15(3) should be made within the respective social reservation categories,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-law-theres-no-reservation-category-known-as-open-hc/articleshow/78758181.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 20, 2020||Madurai||Widow of murdered man seeks cop’s arrest||Tuticorin: The widow and kin of S Selvan, 30, of Chokkankudiyiruppu village in Tuticorin district submitted a petition to district collector Sandeep Nanduri on Monday demanding the arrest of former inspector of Thattarmadam police station Harikrishnan for his involvement in Selvan’s murder. Selvan, a water distributor, was knocked down from his bike by a gang on a four-wheeler. They abducted him in the same vehicle, murdered and abandoned his body near Thisayanvilai in Tirunelveli district. The murder was the fallout of a dispute between Selvan and his family with A Thirumanavel who was then with the AIADMK. The Thisayanvilai police registered a case against seven people. Selvan’s widow Jeevitha, who came to the collectorate with her baby and kin, said that police had arrested six people while the inspector, who is the prime accused, had not been arrested till date. Seeking his immediate arrest, they also urged the government to fulfil its promises of a government job for a kin, free house site patta for Jeevitha and a free house under the green house scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/widow-of-murdered-man-seeks-cops-arrest/articleshow/78758180.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||In many states, H1N1 numbers just 5% of last year’s count||PUNE: Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh have been reporting a dramatic drop in the number of H1N1 (swine flu) cases this year, as low as 5% when compared to incidence data from the last two years. Till September 30 this year, Maharashtra has had just 121 H1N1 cases and three deaths. Last year, the state reported over 2,287 cases and 246 deaths, latest data from the National Centre for Disease Control shows. Gujarat, which had over 4,000 cases in 2019, has reported just 55 cases this year. Many experts believe precautionary measures enforced to curb Covid-19 may have had an unintended impact on the spread of other communicable illnesses. Worldwide too, masks and physical distancing seem to have stopped infectious diseases dead in their tracks. Taiwan, which began to use masks as early as January, now has the lowest influenza numbers in six years. In China, influenza cases have dropped 90% to 23,000 from an average of around 2.9 lakh cases a month. The incidence of measles and mumps has dropped too. The pause in H1N1 cases, which had triggered a pandemic in 2009 and which has persisted in India, seems to be the result of multiple factors, experts said. Maharashtra’s chief epidemiology officer Dr Pradeep Awate said a drop in H1N1 cases was observed in 2011 too. Now, hospitals are now first conducting Covid-19 tests on all patients with influenza-like illnesses, he pointed out. In most cases, reports have returned positives. “If this Covid test comes back as negative, then we go for other tests. But those have been very few,” he said. Other experts, however, suspect there may have been drastic drops in H1N1 testing because of the increased focus on Covid-19. Maharashtra’s technical health advisor Dr Subhash Salunkhe felt a drop of over 90% in the number of H1N1 cases was not realistic. He said a closer look at the number of all influenza-like cases might provide a better picture of the situation. Several doctors said they have not been handling as many H1N1 patients as they normally do. But they were quick to add that H1N1 cases usually emerge after August and peak through the winter, so a clearer picture will likely emerge later this year. Dr Kedar Toraskar, chief of critical care at Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai Central, said the number of patients with H1N1 has indeed dropped. But with all attention on Covid-19, there are hardly any other tests being done, he said. “There are multiple factors at play here. Covid-19 has such virulence that other viruses haven’t spread much. Secondly, physical distancing, hand washing and masks may have curbed H1N1 and other communicable diseases. Finally, there haven’t been as many H1N1 tests this year compared to pre-Covid levels. So it’s difficult to say what exactly has happened. But we have definitely seen fewer patients with H1N1,” he told TOI. In states that have registered overall drop in disease rates, doctors said they are seeing a greater awareness around health and hygiene. A general physician in Kochi said, “I do believe physical distancing and use of masks have had far greater impact on society than just Covid control. Pushing and shoving have stopped and people are spending more time indoors. The full analysis of H1N1 drop will only come later, of course. For now, we have just become more disciplined.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-many-states-h1n1-numbers-just-5-of-last-years-count/articleshow/78757104.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||CM inspects work on Shivamogga airport||SHIVAMOGGA: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday visited the under-construction Shivamogga Airport at Sogane on the outskirts of the city and reviewed its progress. He said the project is expected to be completed by the end of next year and start commercial operations by February 2022. According to him, initially the Airports Authority of India had planned to construct a 2,050-metre runway. Following suggestions from experts, the length of the runway is being extended to 3,200 metres to operate wide bodied aircrafts, he said. Yediyurappa said the project requires Rs 70 crore, which will be allocated in the next budget. Meanwhile, the CM inaugurated several works, mostly irrigation projects at Shikaripura, his constituency. He said he would tour flood affected areas in north Karnataka from Wednesday and later approach the Centre for funds to help affected people. “I have already spoken to PM Narendra Modi and explained the situation in north Karnataka. I will conduct an aerial survey and inspect flood-hit areas. After the tour, I will send a detailed report to the Centre to get maximum compensation,” he said, adding that the state government has released compensation to flood hit districts. He refused to speak about the demand to make the report on caste-based census public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-inspects-work-on-shivamogga-airport/articleshow/78756598.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Perturbed after father’s death, minor stabs one to death in road rage||NAGPUR: A 17-year-old had to abandon his father’s funeral midway after he was rounded up by police for his alleged role behind stabbing a man to death following a road rage in Joshi Nagar on Sunday. The minor had lost his mother around a fortnight ago. It’s learnt the teenager was heading to market to purchase materials required for his father’s funeral when he had a tiff with the victim, Raju Rambhad, over a dash of their two-wheelers. Rambhad was explaining an address to a man when the minor and his pillion rider Shubham Wanjari were left miffed as their way was being obstructed. Wanjari too has been made co-accused in the case. The minor and Wanjari do not have past criminal records. After asking Rambhad to move his vehicle aside, the minor tried to go past him but their two-wheelers got grazed which lead to a heated argument. The minor, who had found a small knife near his late father’s pillow, used it to assault Rambhad before fleeing from the place. Rambhad succumbed to the injury and was declared brought dead at Mayo hospital. After learning about the incident, Yashodhara Nagar police zeroed down upon the minor who was preparing to leave for the crematorium to perform the last rites of his father. In another incident, externed goon Deepak Rajput was repeatedly stabbed to death at a desolate place near Uppalwadi by his friend-turned-foe Tushar Gajbhiye and Premchand Marotkar. This murder too had taken place on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/perturbed-after-fathers-death-minor-stabs-one-to-death-in-road-rage/articleshow/78755751.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Private schools teachers insist on online classes from campus||MYSURU: After temporary suspension of the Vidyagama scheme implemented in the government schools, now the private school teachers want the state government to ban all kinds of school level activities amid the rising number of Covid infections among teachers in the state. They allege teachers are asked to turn up for duty for online classes resulting in them catching the infection. However, department of public instruction (DPI) authorities maintained that they have not received any complaints yet. According to the teachers, they are asked to report to the duty and asked to conduct online classes from the schools. “Many times, students and their parents also turn up seeking clarifications etc. Several teachers are getting infected in the process. However, the school managements are insisting that all teachers report for duty. It’s causing more Covid-19 cases among teachers. The government must look into the issue and ask the school managements not to insist teachers to hold online classes from schools,” said a teacher requesting anonymity. Mysuru DDPI Uday Kumar (incharge) said the department has not received any complaints from teachers on the issue. The private school managements are divided over the issue. According to Santosh Kumar, district representative of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (KAMS), several schools are now insisting that the teachers attend duty and hold classes online from the schools. “The online classes can be conducted from their home. In this hour of crisis, it’s not right to ask teachers to turn up. DPI must look into this issue,” he said. R Manjunath Srivatsa, joint secretary, and legal cell head, the CBSE, ICSE & State Board Private School Managements Association (CISPMAM) said most of the schools are allowing the teachers to hold online classes from their residence. “Despite that, many are visiting schools due to the lack of good gadgets to record the classes at their home. Schools can’t be held responsible for that,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pvt-schools-insist-on-online-classes-from-campus-teachers/articleshow/78757923.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 20, 2020||Madurai||As Madurai crosses 18K cases, officials wary of fest season||Madurai: Even though the district is reporting close to 100 Covid-19 cases daily, it crossed 18,000 cases on Sunday as health officials are vigilant with the approaching festival season and monsoon. District officials are looking to strictly enforce safety precautions like wearing masks, social distancing and hand sanitisation. “With the festival season approaching, there is a need to be cautious. District officials have been directed to work out a plan for the next two months to ensure enforcement of Covid-19 safety norms. The public must cooperate in following measures,” said B Chandramohan, Covid-19 special officer for Madurai. The official added that the district is testing around 3,000 samples per day and the positivity rate is currently at 2.7%. Despite low positivity, the number of days taken to reach 1,000 cases in the district has come down. It has taken around 13 days each for the last 1,000 cases. Though there is no drastic decline, fresh Covid-19 cases per day has been consistent around 80 cases. A senior general physician said that there continues to be instances of patients showing lung congestion in CT scans and clinical symptoms but either test negative for RT-PCR or avoid testing. “The onus is on the individual. There is enough awareness about Covid-19 among the public. Any person with Covid-19 symptoms must isolate on their own at the earliest to prevent spread,” he said. The special officer also added that district officials are doing their best in creating awareness, providing counselling and that there is no need to fear Covid-19. He further said that sero surveillance is also being carried out in the district to assess the spread of Covid-19 in random population. Covid-19 deaths in the district have also crossed the 400 mark. More than 90% of Covid-19 deaths were patients with various comorbid conditions with diabetes, hypertension and kidney and heart diseases being most prominent. The district death rate is at 2.2%, higher than the state average. However, it has come down from over 2.5% in the previous months when cases were peaked in Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-madurai-crosses-18k-cases-officials-wary-of-fest-season/articleshow/78758183.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Mudra disbursals fell by 36% in April-August||AHMEDABAD: Thanks to the slowdown faced by businesses during the pandemic, the disbursals of loans under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY), declined by 36% from April to August in 2020-21 against the same period last year. According to the latest report by the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), released last month, the disbursals for Mudra Loans declined by 36.4% from Rs 3,108 crore in April to August 2019 to Rs 1,920.29 crore during the same period in 2020. According to experts, micro enterprises which typically avail Mudra Yojana were the worst affected due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus infections since March-end. Bankers said that due to the lockdown there was a deceleration in the banking services due to which fresh disbursals were halted, as essential services were operating. “After the lockdown, fresh investments and upgradations came to a standstill as businesses were grappling to sustain operations amid a demand slowdown, labour shortage and disrupted operation cycle. Due to this, the demand for loans also went down,” said Chintan Thaker, co-chair, Assocham Gujarat state council. SLBC data also suggests that the number of accounts opting for Mudra loans also went down by 39.3%, declining from 4.43 lakh from April to August 2019-20 to 2.69 lakh accounts in the same period of 2020-21. While the disbursals went down, NPAs for Mudra loans also went up significantly by 24% in the first quarter of 2020-21. According to the SLBC report, NPAs rose from Rs 450 crore in 2019-20 to Rs 556 crore in 2020-21 during the first quarter. “Low cash generation in the wake of the pandemic, lockdown and decline in demand across various manufacturing and services sector was one of the key reasons why the loan repayments suffered, thus adding to the bad loan burden,” said M M Bansal, convener, SLBC, Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mudra-disbursals-fell-by-36-in-apr-aug/articleshow/78758557.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Conceived in India, born in Pakistan, baby stranded away from father||NAGPUR: Kailash Udasi is eager to hold his two-month-old son Riyansh. Conceived in India and born in Pakistan, the child’s repatriation to India is mired in Covid restrictions and protocol between the two nations. Riyansh was born on August 24, 2020, to Kailash and Sonal, who are Indian and Pakistani citizens respectively. After being stranded in Pakistan since March due to Covid, the father — Kailash — returned home to Jalgaon in June in the first batch of Indian citizens sent back. His wife Sonal, who is a Pakistani citizen, was not allowed entry then. Sonal was two-month pregnant when she went to Pakistan on a no-objection to return to India (NORI) visa to attend a marriage in February. In September, when stranded NORI-holders were let in, Riyansh had already been born, and was technically a Pakistani citizen. The Indian embassy said, to an email query put in by the family, the child will need a passport for repatriation. This means he will have to get a Pakistani passport first and then return to India. With Kailash already back to India, getting a passport for Riyansh remains held up for want of documents, says the family. NORI visa, under which Sonal went to Pakistan, is granted to Pakistanis living in India under long-term visas (LTVs), for brief visits back to their country. Those coming after marriage begin with LTVs and are later granted citizenship. Kailash and Sonal had originally gone to Pakistan for a month for a wedding. They were stranded as the borders were sealed due to the pandemic. Being a Pakistani citizen, Sonal had gone on a NORI visa. Kailash secured a visit visa meant for Indians. “I came back when the first batch of Indian citizens returned. I thought it would be right to leave as extending the stay may invite action,” said Kailash. The requests to send back NORI holders continued. Finally, a list of 370 odd NORI holders was released in August 27, by which time Riyansh had been born. The exit was later extended to September first week. Sonal’s name was in the list. “However, when a clarification was sought on the child’s status, the embassy replied he will need a Pakistani passport,” he said. To get a passport for Riyansh, a declaration by both parents saying he is their child will have to be put up. However, this is not as easy as it seems, say family members. Sonal will have to add her documents, which include Pakistani passport and National Identification Card (NIC). She has her maiden surname and father’s name in the documents. “If papers don’t have Kailash’s name, the affidavit on parentage will be rejected,” said a kin. If the correction is made to add Kailash’s name, then Sonal’s repatriation will be affected when the second list of NORI holders is released, said a kin. With changed name, she will be considered as a fresh case. She will have to get a fresh visa to enter India then. Fresh visas are not being granted these days due to Covid. To be included in the list of NORI holders, the old documents will be needed as they are. “It’s a Catch-22 situation and we can only hope that the matter is resolved at the earliest,” said Sonal to TOI over phone from Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/conceived-in-india-born-in-pak-baby-stranded-away-from-father/articleshow/78758207.cms||Shishir Arya
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||Will soon finalise on college reopening in Karnataka: CN Ashwathnarayan||MYSURU: Deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan, who holds higher education portfolio, announced on Monday that the state government will soon take a decision on the reopening of colleges in the state. “As per the Unlock norms prescribed by the Centre, offline classes at colleges. In Karnataka, we will take a decision in this regard after a discussion with all the stakeholders, including chief minister BS Yediyurappa,” he said. “Virus is among us. So, we need to be very careful. There is a difference between opening theatres and colleges. Now, online classes are being conducted and the response is good,” he said. He also stated that NEP 2020 will be implemented in the state in 2021. Requesting opponents to not politicise the flood relief fund from the Centre, he said: “Money is released as per NDRF guidelines. We know how Siddaramaiah-led government responded at the hour of the flood crisis. He has no moral right to seek CM BS Yediyurappa’s resignation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-soon-finalise-on-college-reopening-in-ktaka-dy-cm/articleshow/78757909.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP teen’s Covid drug work wins US award||VIJAYAWADA: Anika Chebrolu, a 14-year-old Indian-American from Guntur, on Monday won the 2020 3M young scientist challenge for developing a potential treatment process for Covid-19. Anika won the $25,000 award for her research on protein spikes in the novel coronavirus. 3M, an MNC, announced Anika’s achievement on the competition website www.youngscientistlab.com. Apart from Anika, three other Telugus -- Samhita Pokkunuri, Harsha Pillarisetti and Samvrit Rao – also left their mark in the competition. Describing Anika’s achievement, the website said: “Anika used in-silico methodology for drug discovery to find a molecule that can selectively bind to the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 virus to find a cure for Covid-19.” Interestingly, Anika was hoping to find a cure for influenza and ended up discovering the anti-viral drug for the pandemic. “After spending so much time researching about pandemics, viruses and drug discovery, it was crazy to think that I was living through something like this,” she was quoted as saying to the young scientist website. An eighth grade student at Nelson Middle School in Texas, Anika’s aim is to become a medical researcher and professor. Speaking to a TV channel in the US, Anika said that she was in awe of science experiments since her childhood and had been drawn towards the discovery of cures for influenza after undergoing a spell of infection in 2019. Samhita, another challenger, reached the finals for designing and programming multiple robots to mimic swarm intelligence to be used to accomplish complex tasks and collect data and information in the aid of healthcare, agriculture, construction, security and military operations. While 13-year-old Harsha identified an alternative, low-cost approach to reducing indoor air pollution using leaf-like structures inside the home. Samvrit Rao, who also made it to the finals, developed BOREAS, an affordable telemedicine-based solution, which captures and relays breath sounds along with symptomatic data to physicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-teens-covid-drug-work-wins-us-award/articleshow/78758697.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Resume Aapli Bus service: Cong MLA to civic chief||Nagpur: City Congress president and MLA Vikas Thakre has urged the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B to resume Aapli Bus service. He said non-resumption of the city bus service has hit the weaker income group and middle class as they don’t have private vehicles and cannot afford exorbitant fare charged by autorickshaws.In a letter to municipal commissioner on Monday, Thakre said now that the workplaces have reopened, travelling without city bus service has become a nightmare for most of the working class heavily relied on buses.TOI has been highlighting though municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B continues to withhold the city bus service citing spike in coronavirus cases, sources said it is not Covid-19 fear but lack of funds that is deterring the cash strapped NMC to resume the Aapli Bus service.“Due to the closure of city bus operations, people are being forced to use private vehicles and autorickshaws and have to bear more financial burden. Women are facing the biggest problem as the bus is closed. Moreover, those who go to work in industrial estates have to pay more to reach their destinations,” Thakre said in his letter.The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation has already started its bus service across the state and with full capacity. Even private buses also began services not only within the state but also interstate, he pointed out. The World Health Organization and the union ministry of health have allowed all services to be started by following Covid-19 guidelines. “So it is okay to start Aapli bus service in the city following the rules during the corona period. Many workers from Nagpur are employed in Butibori, Hingana, Kalmeshwar industrial areas of the city,” he said.The pandemic has already slowed the economy, which forces many management to halve the salaries of their employees and industrial estates in the city and district are no exception. In addition, there is a big problem of subsistence as with no public transport the regular commuters have to remain dependent on autorickshaws who are charging exorbitant fares.Thakre asked the civic chief to resume the Aapli Bus service in a phased manner by following the guidelines issued by the state government. “Currently, the use of private two-wheelers and autos have increased in the city and also resulted in an increase in road accidents. In addition, the rising cost of fuel has become unaffordable to the common man. Commuters need Aapli Bus as its fare is reasonably low. The civic administration should take these points into consideration,” urged the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/resume-aapli-bus-service-cong-mla-to-civic-chief/articleshow/78755778.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Paikpara death: Cop, two others held||KOLKATA: Hours after a wanted criminal from Hooghly — Abdul Hussein alias Sentia — was found dead inside a posh condominium in Paikpara, local cops arrested a Kolkata Police constable, along with two others, for being allegedly involved in the molestation and hurt incident that reportedly resulted in Hussein falling from the third floor of a building in the complex while trying to flee. Cops from Chitpore police station had reached the spot in response to an SOS received from the complex. The arrests were made based on the complaint lodged by two women who had been reportedly hired for the night and witnessed the entire incident. The accused cop was identified as Sk Ijaz Ahmed posted with the 2nd Battalion. Investigation revealed that Sentia posed as a private guard of the husband (also a politician) of an influential woman politician from Malda’s Ratua. Two others arrested were identified as Jakit Sk alias Sk Jakit and Md Raja, driver and cook of the politician. According to police sources, the politician, presently in Ajmer, is likely to be questioned on his links with Sentia who had six cases, including murder and extortion, pending against him in Hooghly and North 24 Parganas. He was also involved in a case in the politically sensitive Titagarh-Bhatpara area. “We have arrested the accused and charged them under IPC sections pertaining to criminal conspiracy, wrongful restraint, extortion, hurt using dangerous weapons, molestation and outraging the modesty of a woman,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar, adding that all the three were taken into custody. Preliminary investigation has revealed that Sentia, Jakit and Raja were joined by Ahmed at the residence of the politician on Saturday morning. The two women joined them in the evening. The victim Sentia got into an altercation and started fighting with the others present there. Both Raja and Jakit got injured and a woman cut her forehead and began bleeding profusely. As she cried for help, flat residents gathered and someone informed local police about the matter. Sentia broke an alcohol bottle and attacked the cook, nicknamed Motu, who was bleeding from his hands. As Sentia realised that he might get caught by the police, he tried to flee, tied up two curtains and jumped off the third floor of the complex. “He was under the influence of alcohol and lost his balance and fell about 37-feet below. He was declared brought dead at the hospital,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/paikpara-death-cop-2-others-held/articleshow/78757181.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: I’m a thug, says biker during check; turns out to be goat thief||CHENNAI: A bike rider, arrested after he claimed to be a thug and dared a policeman, who intercepted his vehicle for a check, to stop him, at Mappedu near Tiruvallur on Sunday. He later confessed to stealing goats and was booked for that too. Police said Vignesh, 23, of Vyasarpadi, stole goats in the neighbourhood and that a team seized about 20 goats from near his house based on his confession. On Sunday, a police team attached to the Mappedu police station led by head constable Neelamegam, was conducting vehicle checks on Sunday when they intercepted Vignesh. “Vignesh refused to reveal his identity and tried to intimidate Neelamegam by claiming to be a thug when questioned. He created a ruckus, following which he was detained,” a police officer said. Vignesh during inquiries confessed to sealing goats, after which he was arrested and booked for two separate cases — one for stealing goats and the other for preventing a government servant from discharging his duty. A magistrate court in Tiruvallur remanded him in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/im-a-thug-says-biker-during-check-turns-out-to-be-goat-thief/articleshow/78757157.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||At 996, Gujarat reports fewest new cases in 92 days||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, Gujarat added 996 new Covid-19 cases, taking its total number to 1.6 lakh so far. This was the lowest one-day tally of cases in 92 days for the state, as the number of new cases fell below 1,000 for the first time in 91 days. The new cases included 227 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 112 from Vadodara, 83 from Rajkot, and 71 from Jamnagar. The total number of cases in Surat crossed 34,000, while the tallies for Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 40,473, 14,437 and 11,636. Analysis of the cases reveals that the share of the five major districts — Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Jamnagar — remained at 67% with 671 cases, indicating that the fall in cases is primarily outside the five districts. From October 1 to 19, the state has seen its average daily case tally drop by 26.3%. The deaths of eight Covid patients was reported in these 24 hours — three each from Ahmedabad and Surat, and two from Vadodara — taking the death toll so far to 3,646. The death tolls of Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 1,876, 822 and 206, respectively. Some 1,147 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of discharges in the state to 1.42 lakh. The discharges included 257 from Surat, 190 from Ahmedabad, 114 from Rajkot, and 100 from Vadodara. The number of active cases in the state reduced to 14,277. The shares of active cases, discharged and deceased patients are 8.9%, 88.8% and 2.3%, respectively. Against the month’s daily average of 53,083 tests, Gujarat in these 24 hours carried out 52,372 tests. The total number of tests carried out in Gujarat is 54.26 lakh, IIPH-G to organize webinar on healthcare workers’ well-being Ahmedabad: Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) in collaboration with UNICEF Gujarat has organized a bi-weekly webinar on ‘Addressing safety and well-being of health care workers and continuity of essential health services during COVID-19.’ The webinars, to be launched on October 20, is aimed at medical and paramedical staff from government and private sector and academic institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-996-gujarat-reports-fewest-new-cases-in-92-days/articleshow/78758231.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||2.5L Uttarakhand employees to not face 1-day pay cut for Covid fund from Oct, Governor gives assent||DEHRADUN: The state government employees will not have to suffer a one-day pay cut for Covid-19 fund from October onwards as Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya has given her assent to the government's order, which was issued by finance secretary Amit Singh Negi on Monday. From October, the one-day salary of only MLAs, IAS, IPS and IFS would be deducted for the Covid-19 fund whereas over 2.5 lakh employees would be given relaxation. On May 29, this year, the Uttarakhand government had issued orders, according to which, public employees were to face one-day salary cut per month for the Covid-19 fund, which was to be used for providing better treatment and health facilities to the people affected by the pandemic. However in view of the festive season, the Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on October 14, decided to exempt the government employees from one-day salary cut. “During festive season, the expenditures are bound to go up and considering this, the cabinet gave its approval for the proposal. There would be no one-day salary cut for the government employees for the remaining part of the financial year,” urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said. As per the government order, one-day salaries of Assembly Speaker, Deputy Speaker, chief minister, ministers, and officials of All India Services would continue to be deducted for Covid-19 fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-5l-state-employees-to-not-face-1-day-pay-cut-for-covid-fund-from-oct-governor-gives-assent/articleshow/78755780.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks upper limit for gatherings||Ahmedabad: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has challenged an ‘Unlock 5’ guideline which permits social gatherings of more than 100 persons but does not specify an outer limit for such a gathering, particularly in context of political rallies during Covid-19 pandemic. Sources said that the advocate petitioner, K R Koshti, contended in his petition that ‘Unlock 4’ guidelines had permitted gatherings of up to 100 persons. The new guidelines issued for social gathering in October said gatherings can have more than 100 persons, but is silent on how many persons at most can gather. The PIL, which is scheduled for hearing on Tuesday, is demanding regulation of gatherings at political events ahead of the bypolls for eight assembly seats next month. It seeks that political leaders and participants in political rallies be told to follow social distancing rules, and violators be fined. The PIL also demanded that there should be proper monitoring of political gatherings so that Covid-19 guidelines are followed properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-upper-limit-for-gatherings/articleshow/78758556.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Biker hits car door, crushed under truck||CHENNAI: A 23-year-old man died after he rode his bike into a car door that opened without warning before colliding with a truck near Poonamallee on Sunday night. Police identified the deceased man as Praveen of Irulaipalayam. An officer said Praveen, who was employed in a private firm, was returning home when the driver of an Andhra Pradesh registered car parked on the roadside suddenly opened the door and got out. Caught unawares, Praveen banged against the door and fell off his bike on the right side. He came under the wheel of a truck coming in the opposite direction. Though he was wearing a helmet, he suffered severe head injuries and was declared dead at the private hospital where he was taken to, the officer said. The helmet he had been wearing was broke. His body was later sent for postmortem. Several passersby and residents of the area who gathered at the spot blamed the car driver for opening the door without checking the vehicles on the road. The truck driver was booked for causing death due to negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biker-hits-car-door-crushed-under-truck/articleshow/78757115.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Rahul Gandhi promises help in Covid-19 fight||KOZHIKODE: Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi – who arrived on a three- day visit in his constituency– attended a Covid-review meeting at the collectorate in Malappuram on Monday. At the meeting, he promised help in implementing Covid-prevention measures in the district. Three assembly constituencies of Wayanad parliament constituency –Nilambur, Eranad and Wandoor – fall in Malappuram, which has been witnessing a spurt in Covid cases over the past few days. The district has been recording maximum Covid cases in the state for the past four days. The review meet discussed the rate of spread of Covid-19, treatment facilities and other arrangements which should be set up immediately in the district. Malappuram collector K Gopalakrishnan presented a report on Covid situation and expressed satisfaction over preventive measures and the treatment offered in the district. After the meeting, Rahul handed over the keys of the newly-built house to Kavya and Karthika, the sisters who lost five members of their family (including mother and three siblings) at Kavalappara landslide in August 2019. Rahul had known about their plight during his visit to the landslide site last year and he had directed local party authorities to build them a new home. The girls were staying at a hostel when the landslide swept away their home last year. Kavya has completed ayurveda nursing course while Karthika got a job after finishing a hotel management course. Earlier in the day, Rahul arrived at Karipur in a special flight from Delhi at 11.30am. He was received by KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala along with MPs PK Kunhalikutty, ET Mohammed Basheer, MK Raghavan, among others. After the meeting, Rahul proceeded to Wayanad by road. He had last visited the constituency in January. Youth Congress and Muslim Youth League workers gathered at various locations along the way with welcome banners. Rahul, who reached Wayanad at 6pm, is staying at Kalpetta government guest house. On Tuesday, he will attend the Covid review meeting at Wayanad collectorate and then he will also attend district development coordination and monitoring committee meeting. He will return to Delhi on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/rahul-promises-help-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/78755805.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bhopal||Mandals plan online garba, darshan for senior citizens||Bhopal: Durga Puja festivities have already begun. While fear of pandemic has put a dampner on the scale of festivities, there is no curbing the enthusiasm of the revellers, who have found ways and means to enjoy the fervour. Amidst all this, pandals and mahila mandals of the city are reaching out to the senior citizens, who have been feeling lost these past seven months due to Covid-19. Elderly have been advised to stay away from community pandals, which has depressed many. “This being a festive occasion, we can’t leave our elders alone,” said president of Shree Gujarati Samaj, TT Nagar, Sanjay Patel. He added, “We have made a special provision for a distance darshan for them with reserved hours. We have set up Maa Durga’s pandal in such a way that it is visible to people sitting even in their cars.” Since Garba is an integral part of Durga puja, it is an activity that senior citizens miss the most, said the secretary of Gujarati Samaj Mahila Mandal, Smita Chandarana. “Since public garba is banned due to Covid this time, we are organising family garba contests, wherein senior members will dance with their respective families, record a video and send it to us. We will later declare the winners; this is one activity that has generated a lot of interest.” President of Chandanwala Samaj Mahila Mandal, Sushma Gangwal, shared, “We are organising best dressed senior citizen contest and best senior citizen dancer contests online. We will judge the best few on the basis of the videos sent to us.” Quite excited to participate in these contests, Manuben Doshi, 75, said, “Age is just a number. With Ambe Ma’s blessings, I am looking forward to teaching a thing or two about traditional dance steps to these youngsters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mandals-plan-online-garba-darshan-for-senior-citizens/articleshow/78746485.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: MTC yet to fix glitch, sell Rs 1,000 monthly passes||CHENNAI: For two years, Metropolitan Transport Corporation hasn’t been able to fix a technical glitch and begin selling Rs 1,000 concessional monthly passes. Not much progress was made in preventing malpractice or impersonation. Miscreants with insider help continued to take photocopies of original printed tickets and sold them in black. Some MTC staff were arrested in connection with the Travel As You Please (TAYP) scheme scam, but the process remains unchanged. MTC, reeling under a severe financial crunch due to reduced patronage and increased operational cost, is incurring losses. MTC sells around 10 lakh such passes annually. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) Coimbatore recently fixed this and began printing high-security seasonal passes. Sold at Gandhipuram and Ukkadam bus stands, they have photos of with a unique barcode. “We have ensured that no one apart from the person concerned uses the pass,” said an official. TNSTC Madurai has also started printing the passes. Authorities struggled to identify right thickness of the paper on which photos could be printed clearly before fixing it. By next month, all Electronic Ticketing Machines with conductors will have scanners to read bar codes on tickets. This is to eliminate impersonation, with conductors having a count of how many used these passes, the official added, requesting anonymity. MTC Chennai, with higher patronage and sales of seasonal tickets, is not sure how to go about the issue. “It looks like the earlier proposal to improve security measures on printed passes has been shelved and talks are on with Chennai Metrorail and Southern Railway (suburban train) to have a common mobility card for using public transportation in the city,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtc-yet-to-fix-glitch-sell-rs-1k-monthly-passes/articleshow/78757182.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 20, 2020||Goa||Govt meets industry players to understand pain points||Panaji: Stung by criticism and the industry’s complaints about corruption, the government has initiated steps to improve the business environment in the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant has tasked IAS officer Ashok Kumar with holding comprehensive meetings with the industry and concerned departments to iron out differences. On Monday, Kumar met industry representatives from Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry and other groups to see how Goa Industrial Development Corporation’s (GIDC) functioning could improve. Kumar also met with GIDC officials earlier to understand their perspective. Simultaneously, the directorate of industries, trade and commerce (DITC) held a meeting with consultants E&Y (Formerly Ernst & Young) to identify why Goa’s position on the ease of doing business ranking failed to improve, this despite completing 90% of the objectives specified in the Business Reforms Action Plan (BRAP) prepared by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade. “The industry explained to the consultants that actual user experience is not good as there are various issues that continue to affect the industry,” an industry representative who was present at the meeting said. Instead of making significant progress in the ease of doing business (EODB) rankings, which placed Goa at no. 19 in 2018, the state slipped five places to 24 in a year, as it failed to bring in much-needed reforms to improve the investment environment. In 2019, DPIIT identified 187 reforms which states had to implement as part of the BRAP. The reforms covered 12 business regulatory areas such as access to information, single-window system, labour and environment. “We asked the department and the consultants to not only focus on the BRAP but also look at issues such as uncooperative staff, untrained staff, poor infrastructure and network connectivity problems,” the industry official said. The two critical meetings were held a week after Goa’s industry bodies submitted a joint representation to Sawant outlining 40 pain points for the private sector, including tourism and the mining industry. The consultants and DITC have asked industry stakeholders to identify five priority issues for each of Goa’s sectors, such as manufacturing, tourism, mining, information and technology, real estate and construction. “Once the top five issues of each sector are identified, the government will then tackle them one by one. Wherever possible, they will be resolved immediately,” said a government officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-meets-industry-players-to-understand-pain-points/articleshow/78758254.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Dip in demand for remdesivir, oxygen but winter threat looms||AHMEDABAD: The state has recorded a dip in oxygen demand and the demand for crucial remdesivir injection over the past few weeks. This may sound as music to many ears indicating declining Covid numbers. But health authorities have cautioned against any slackness. A second wave is feared during peak winters and with various Covid viral strains in circulation. Data shared by the state FDCA claims that oxygen demand for critical care has reduced from 240 metric tonnes per day to 170 on October 19. “Demand for oxygen has dipped and this may indicate fewer Covid patients are in critical units,” says food and drug commissioner H G Koshia. Koshia also pointed to declining demand for the anti-viral remdesivir. By mid-September more than 6,200 injections were stocked at government hospitals, while 23,000 injections were available at stores. These numbers have declined to 5,000 at government hospitals and 20,100 at pharmacies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dip-in-demand-for-remdesivir-oxygen-but-winter-threat-looms/articleshow/78758235.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Few opt for branch change: IIT-M on option being cut||Chennai: After suspending branch change option for the 2020-21 batch, Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, defended it saying only a small percentage of undergraduate students availed the option every year. On the other hand, a larger pool upgraded to interdisciplinary dual degree programmes in emerging areas including data science, bio-medical engineering, computational engineering and robotics — an option still available to the institute students this year. “IIT-M admits about 1,300 students a year and only 25 to 30 students get their branch changed, which is a really small number in comparison,” IIT-M dean (academic) professor Jagadeesh Kumar said, adding the suspension of that option would not be an impediment. “On the other hand, a student in the fourth semester or the fifth semester can upgrade to a large number of interdisciplinary programmes. This year, nearly 200 students upgraded to specializations which is a large number when compared with branch changes,” Kumar said. Students were allowed to upgrade their BTech courses into dual degree programmes in areas of interest. IIT-M suspended the branch change option to students in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The option is usually available for students who score more than eight CGPA at the end of first semester and students generally prefer to switch over to computer science, electrical and mechanical engineering branches. Citing that other IITs still have branch change option, IIT-M aspirants and parents urged that the institute reconsider its decision. In a release, IIT-M said it offers one of the best academic curriculum in the world and that its academic flexibility is unrivaled, even among IITs. “Students have the freedom to choose nearly 50% of course subjects, with only some restrictions,” the institute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/few-opt-for-branch-change-iit-m-on-option-being-cut/articleshow/78757189.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Doon-based doctor's licence suspended for 3 months||DEHRADUN: Registration of a city-based radiologist, working in a private pathology, was suspended for three months on the recommendations of the disciplinary committee of Uttarakhand Medical Council. The action was taken against the doctor after he allegedly gave a normal report in the case of a pregnancy case where the foetus was partially grown. Dr YS Bisht, registrar Uttarakhand Medical Council told TOI that a three-member expert committee of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS Rishikesh) have considered that the radiologist was at fault. “This matter came to us in which the complainant Pramod Pathak had alleged that his wife Babita was 19 weeks pregnant when the couple consulted radiologist Dr Lieutenant Colonel Malay Joshi between April and June 2018. As per the complainant, the radiologist kept telling them that the baby was fine, but when the child was born, the baby’s lips and palate were severed. Even the child’s heart was displaced. He was unwell too. The parents then approached the chief medical officer (CMO) in Dehradun who transferred the matter to us,” said Dr Bisht. Dr Bisht added that the Uttarakhand Medical Council created a team of expert panellist from the AIIMS who found that the radiologist must have gone for 3D ultrasound, in case he had doubts on the 2D one. “We have cancelled the registration of the doctor for three months which will be in effect from January 2021. Two months’ time has been given to the doctor in case he wants to approach the Medical Council of India (MCI). He has also been instructed to get radiology training again for one month from a competent centre as per his wish during the suspension period. At the same time, we have also directed the authorities of the concerned centre to appoint only skilled radiologists in its institute in future,” Dr Bisht added. Responding to the allegations, Dr Malay Joshi, in a statement, has said that he felt he has been wronged by the verdict which he feels is "illegal" on legal as well as scientific basis. “According to standard textbooks, the accuracy of antenatal detection of facial clefts is 16-93 percent. How can post natal detection of a cleft be constructed as negligence when the world literature says the image is never 100 percent,” said Dr Malay, who added that a doctor is liable for the punishment when there has been damage caused to the patient as a result of his act of omission or commission and both were not there in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-based-doctors-licence-suspended-for-3-months/articleshow/78755822.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 20, 2020||Pune||CM, Devendra Fadnavis spar over Centre’s aid to Maharashtra for flood relief work||PUNE: The war of words between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis continued on Monday during their visits to flood-hit Solapur district. While speaking to the media in Baramati, home town of Pawar family, Fadnavis said “It has become the current government’s habit to pass the buck on the Union government on every matter. The Union government will do whatever it is supposed to do but assistance to farmers is the primary responsibility of the state government.” Thackeray visited Bori village in Akkalkot taluka of Solapur district and without mentioning Fadnavis, Thackeray questioned what was wrong about seeking help from the Union government. “It is the government of the entire country, not some foreign country. The Prime Minister, himself, called me on Friday to assure me all the help. I am sure we will get it,” he said. The CM did not make any formal announcement on the assistance to the flood affected farmers, while adding that the government would take the decision after complete assessment of the situation. “I will not take any decision in hurry. Problem is not over yet. We have been warned of a heavy rainfall during the withdrawal of monsoon. We do not run a government that just makes announcements,” Thackeray said. Thackray was scheduled to visit Sangvi Khurd village in Akkalkot taluka. However, he meet the farmers from the village on a bridge on Solapur-Akkalkot road. The farmers showed him their damaged crop and submitted a memorandum. Earlier in the morning, Fadnavis strongly demanded that the state government should announce a package to help the affected farmers without waiting for Centre’s assistance. “Everybody can see the total damage to the crops. Panchnama should not be hurdle and the farmers want to know what the government is doing for them,” he said. Fadnavis also claimed the NCP chief Sharad Pawar is compelled to speak in favour of the government though there is largescale resentment about its functioning. Thackeray, without naming Fadnavis, said that he is a responsible politician of Maharashtra and should spend more time in his own state instead of Bihar. Fadnavis was recently appointed in-charge of the BJP’s election campaign in Bihar. The CM said that the opposition parties should avoid indulging in politics and use their goodwill to get help for Maharashtra from the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cm-fadnavis-spar-over-centres-aid-to-state-for-flood-relief-work/articleshow/78760221.cms||Satyajit Joshi
October 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Jose offered Rs 10 crore to backtrack from bar bribery case: Biju Ramesh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Bar hotel owner Biju Ramesh – whose allegations of bribery against former FM KM Mani that triggered the bar infamous bribery case – has now claimed that Mani’s son Jose had offered him money to backtrack from the allegations. Biju’s latest revelation assumes importance in the wake of Jose K Mani faction of KC (M) joining the LDF and the party’s probe report on the bar bribery case – which blamed Congress leaders, including opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, of conspiring against Mani – being reported by the media. On Monday, Biju told reporters that when he came up with charges against Mani, KC (M) leaders had threatened that he will be eliminated if he did not backtrack from the allegations against Mani. He alleged that later –during the meeting of bar hotel association members in Kochi –Jose spoke to him on the phone of another bar hotel association member, John Kallat, and offered him Rs 10 crore. He alleged that Jose also told him that if there are further demands, those could be met and that KC(M) leaders had bribed several bar hotel owners who stood with him then. He claimed that when CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had met him, he told that there was a move to bring KC(M) into LDF and because of the bar bribery allegations, it was dropped. Jose, who rubbished the allegations, said, "The allegations raised by Ramesh now is only a repeat of the cruel allegations raised without evidence against KM Mani. Those who were hunting my father then are now targeting me." He added that the people will realise the political motive behind the allegations raised by Ramesh. Biju also alleged that of the Rs 10 crore pooled from the bar hotel owners, Rs 2 crore was given at Chennithala’s office inside KPCC headquarters, Rs 25 lakh was personally handed over to MLA VS Sivakumar who was the then health minister and Rs 50 lakh was handed over to the then excise minister K Babu. He said that money was pooled and distributed for not increasing the bar licence fee. Biju said that for those who are into business, dealing with Mani was easy as everything was a deal for him. He said that even the budget was for sale, which is not the case with LDF. He claimed that had not the bar bribery come up then, UDF would have got a second consecutive tenure. Biju’s allegations –that KM Mani had accepted bribe for reopening bar hotels that were closed down –had caused a major political whirlwind that was politically used by LDF in the assembly elections against UDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jose-offered-rs-10cr-to-backtrack-from-bar-bribery-case-biju/articleshow/78755842.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 35 candidates withdraw nominations, 355 in fray||BHOPAL: A total of 35 candidates withdrew their candidature on Monday, the last day for withdrawal of nominations. Thus, 355 candidates are in the fray for 28 assembly in the by-elections which would be held across 19 districts of the state on November 3. Maximum 7 candidates withdrew their nomination from the Surkhi constituency in Sagar district from where minister Govind Singh Rajput is locked in a key contest with Congress’ Parul Sahu. Earlier, the forms of 67 candidates were rejected during scrutiny on October 17. The filling of nominations started on October 9 and October 16 was the last date for filing nominations while scrutiny of nominations were held on October 17. By polls will be held in 28 constituencies including Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra (in Gwalior district), Jaura, Sumaoli, Morena, Dimni, Ambah, (in Morena district), Sanchi (in Raisen), Anuppur (in Anuppur district), Suwasra (in Mandsaur district), Badnawar (in Dhar district), Mungaoli (in Ashok Nagar district), Bamori (in Guna district), Pohari (in Shivpuri district), Bhander (in Datia district), Bada Malhara (in Chhatarpur district), Mehgaon (in Bhind district), Agar (in Agar Malwa district), Sanwer (in Indore district), Mandhata and Nepanagar (in Khandwa district), Hatpipaliya (in Dewas district) and Surkhi (in Sagar district).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/35-candidates-withdraw-nominations-355-in-fray/articleshow/78755831.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram cops’ drive to stop minors from driving||GURUGRAM: Responding to calls from civil society, police have started a campaign to prevent underage drivers from taking the wheel with a warning-and-fines system that also makes parents of the minors accountable for the offence. Police will talk to minors through RWAs to educate them about the dangers of driving without formal training and before reaching the legal age to do so, but also issue challans to any teenager found driving, for which road safety officers have been trained and deployed at several points. Calls for a tough crackdown on minor drivers have been growing in the city since an accident near Cyber City in August led to the death of Alok Gupta, a finance executive with a private firm, whose bike was hit by an Ecosport being rashly driven by a teenager. Gupta’s family and friends have since held several protests against underage driving, seeking stronger laws. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) DK Bhardwaj told TOI road safety officers had been assigned to identify teenage drivers, stop and counsel them. “Officials of the road safety organisation (RSO) have been trained to identify the teenagers based on their physique and looks. They will then educate them about the perils of driving without a licence and how they put others in danger while doing so,” he said. Besides, wherever required, traffic constables and the RSOs will contact the parents of the teenagers found driving and also educate them about the dangers of a minor driving a vehicle. Bhardwaj said, “In extreme cases, we will issue fines to the parents according to provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.” He added that police have begun the drive and some teenagers have already been counselled. When asked about the role of CCTV cameras in the drive, he said that they were still exploring options. The amended Motor Vehicles Act has a provision under which guardians or parents of minors can be held accountable in case of an offence. They may face a penalty of up to Rs 25,000 or three years of imprisonment. The minors can stand trial before the Juvenile justice Board. Around three years ago, police had carried out a similar drive after school students were found driving without licence. Their parents were then called and told not to allow their children to drive as it is not only against the law but also dangerous. This time, the ambit of the campaign has been widened to involve RWAs, who have welcomed the move and are eager to participate. “We are more than happy to collaborate with police in this initiative as it would make our children as well as the city roads safer,” said Praveen Yadav, RWA president of Ardee City. Alok Gupta’s wife Mihika said that she was happy that the police were taking an initiative to stop teenage driving in the city and would volunteer for the cause. “Besides parents and the RWAs, we need to focus on schools. Road safety rules should be part of the syllabus where children are taught that it is illegal to drive without a licence,” she said. After her husband's death, Mihika and her friends and family took out several protests seeking stronger laws against teenagers responsible for road accidents. These protests, which are also a reason behind the Gurugram police’s campaign, were also held in Indore, Nagpur, Noida, Delhi, Lucknow and Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/counsel-warn-fine-drive-to-stop-minors-from-driving-make-parents-answerable/articleshow/78758248.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||CM, Devendra Fadnavis spar over Centre’s aid to Maharashtra for flood relief work||PUNE: The war of words between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis continued on Monday during their visits to flood-hit Solapur district. While speaking to the media in Baramati, home town of Pawar family, Fadnavis said “It has become the current government’s habit to pass the buck on the Union government on every matter. The Union government will do whatever it is supposed to do but assistance to farmers is the primary responsibility of the state government.” Thackeray visited Bori village in Akkalkot taluka of Solapur district and without mentioning Fadnavis, Thackeray questioned what was wrong about seeking help from the Union government. “It is the government of the entire country, not some foreign country. The Prime Minister, himself, called me on Friday to assure me all the help. I am sure we will get it,” he said. The CM did not make any formal announcement on the assistance to the flood affected farmers, while adding that the government would take the decision after complete assessment of the situation. “I will not take any decision in hurry. Problem is not over yet. We have been warned of a heavy rainfall during the withdrawal of monsoon. We do not run a government that just makes announcements,” Thackeray said. Thackray was scheduled to visit Sangvi Khurd village in Akkalkot taluka. However, he meet the farmers from the village on a bridge on Solapur-Akkalkot road. The farmers showed him their damaged crop and submitted a memorandum. Earlier in the morning, Fadnavis strongly demanded that the state government should announce a package to help the affected farmers without waiting for Centre’s assistance. “Everybody can see the total damage to the crops. Panchnama should not be hurdle and the farmers want to know what the government is doing for them,” he said. Fadnavis also claimed the NCP chief Sharad Pawar is compelled to speak in favour of the government though there is largescale resentment about its functioning. Thackeray, without naming Fadnavis, said that he is a responsible politician of Maharashtra and should spend more time in his own state instead of Bihar. Fadnavis was recently appointed in-charge of the BJP’s election campaign in Bihar. The CM said that the opposition parties should avoid indulging in politics and use their goodwill to get help for Maharashtra from the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-fadnavis-spar-over-centres-aid-to-state-for-flood-relief-work/articleshow/78754685.cms||Satyajit Joshi
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Ravana to wear mask, have sanitiser in hand instead of weapons this Dussehra||DEHRADUN: Instead of the usual bow and arrow adornments, effigies of Ravana, Meghnada and Kumbhakarna will hold bottles of sanitisers at this year’s Dussehra celebrations in the Premnagar area of the city. “At present, there is no bigger enemy than the coronavirus, which is why we thought why not spread the message of being careful till the vaccines arrive,” said Girish Bari, an artist whose family has been making Ravana effigies since Independence. According to Dussehra Samiti officials, because of the pandemic, the effigies which would normally stand anywhere between 52 to 55 feet have been reduced to 28 to 30 feet this year. Rajeev Punj, president of Dussehra Samiti, Premnagar, said, “The celebrations this year will not be as grand as before as no fair will be organised and people will be allowed to see the effigies only till 4 pm following social distancing norms. We are also exploring to arrange a live telecast of the ‘Ravan dahan’ through a local cable network. The arrangements have been made strictly in accordance with the guidelines issued by the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ravana-to-wear-mask-have-sanitiser-in-hand-instead-of-weapons-this-dussehra/articleshow/78755837.cms||Abhijeet Singh
October 20, 2020||India||UP schools reopen to 9% attendance||NOIDA/LUCKNOW: In seven months, the corner of the classroom where they huddled together to discuss chemistry notes had changed. They could no longer whisper to each other behind the teacher’s back — they were sitting so far apart, and would have to speak through a mask. The familiar “guard uncle”, who would sit on a stool in one corner as they rushed for their classes, stopped each of them to check their temperatures, dressed in a PPE kit. It was no longer the school they had left in March. It resembled a hospital, and smelt like one too. School was back in session on Monday, seven long months after the lockdown sent the academic year onli ne, across the state. It was mostly government schools that opened — for classes IX to XII. Private schools are expected to gradually follow suit, though it’s parents’ opinion that will decide when. A majority of parents have told schools they are not comfortable sending their children to school and exposing them to the pandemic. Parents’ unease reflected in Monday’s attendance. Less than 9% students enrolled between classes IX and XII across UP were present on the first day. UP has 1 crore students in these classes. Of them, 8.5 lakh students came to class. In Noida and Ghaziabad, attendance was slightly higher, hovering between 10% and 20% on an average. But student turnout varied widely from school to school and classroom to classroom. Noida DM Suhas LY said he had held a webinar last week to instruct all schools about the safety protocols that needed to be followed. “We have introduced all protocols to the schools. But sending their children for classes depends entirely on the parents,” he added. However, none of the 135 CBSE schools in Noida opened on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-schools-reopen-to-9-attendance/articleshow/78759134.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
October 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Mayawati demands apology for Kamal Nath’s remarks on Imarti Devi||BHOPAL: Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Monday hit out at the Congress leader Kamal Nath for his remarks against Madhya Pradesh minister and a Scheduled Caste leader Imarti Devi. She demanded an apology from the Congress veteran and party head Sonia Gandhi. In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the remarks made by the Congress leader are condemnable.  “The extremely anti-women obscene remarks made by senior Congress leader and former CM about Dalit woman contesting a byelection in Dabra reserve assembly seat of Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, are most-embarrassing and extremely condemnable. Taking cognizance of this, the Congress high command should publicly apologize.” The BSP leader further said that the comments made by Nath exposed the mindset of the grand old party towards the Dalit community. She appealed to the voters to vote one-sided for BSP candidates in bypolls in Madhya Pradesh. “There is also an appeal to the people of the Dalit community to teach the Congress party a lesson and to prevent it from further insulting women. It will be better if you give it to BSP candidates only in all the 28 seats of the assembly which are going into bypolls,” she said. BSP is contesting bypolls on all 28 seats and posing a tough challenge to the Congress and the ruling BJP in areas dominated by SCs and Other Backward Classes. BSP also claims to garner support of some upper caste voters in Morena and Bhind districts, where the party has a stronghold in some selected pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mayawati-demands-apology-for-naths-remarks-on-imarti/articleshow/78755843.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Families find retirement homes a safe haven||CHENNAI: Four months ago, in the middle of lockdown, as Covid-19 cases were peaking in the city, music composer Babu Shankar, 57, decided to pack up his Alwarpet home and move with his family to a retirement community near Mamallapuram. “We are waiting out the pandemic here,” says Babu, who stays in the model apartment he has taken on lease at Ziva, a retirement home. Babu’s daughter Manasa, the youngest resident, loves it in the ‘bubble’, with gardens to walk in, badminton courts and a swimming pool. “I love playing badminton with the thathas here. It’s easier on my parents because the sanitation protocol is maintained and meals taken care of. I just miss my pizzas,” says the medical college student. Though the community is open only to those aged 50 and above, Viraj Chatterjee, who is in his 40s, managed an early entry on account of being stuck in the city during lockdown. The Hong Kong-based landscape designer was in Chennai working on projects when India went into lockdown. As Ziva was one of the projects he was working on, he struck a deal with them to work out of there. “I’ve created a home office and use it as my base in India. I find working out of a retirement community is convenient both in terms of space, peace and and safety,” says Viraj. According to Mohit Nirula, CEO of Columbia Pacific Communities, which also focuses on senior living spaces, organic traffic to their website has quadrupled since March, when the lockdown was announced. “During lockdown, People even risked the pandemic and moved in here because of the controlled environment of the living space,” says Nirula, adding there is a waiting list of people who want to buy or rent properties inside communities. “After the unlock was announced, we have had 25 families moving in. The pandemic seems to have hastened the decision to move in,” says P Suresh, managing director of Arun Excello, which created Ziva. Reports from Anarock Property Consultant predict that amid the Covid-19 danger, more Indian seniors will seek out retirement homes and assisted living facilities and that the pandemic may reshape the senior living segment in the country. Region-wise, the report says, southern cities have a nearly 70% share of these projects. “A recurring theme of this pandemic has been seniors living alone, struggling for basics, managing without help and anxious about existing and potential medical issues. There is a need for homes in a setting where these factors are taken care of,” says Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/families-find-retirement-homes-a-safe-haven/articleshow/78757226.cms||Kamini Mathai
October 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Centre yet to release a paisa towards relief, slams Siddaramaiah||BAGALKOT/VIJAYAPURA: Former chief minister and Badami MLA Siddaramaiah on Monday slammed the central government’s apathy towards the plight of the victims of flood in North Karnataka districts. Siddaramaiah, on a visit to Badami in Bagalkot district, said that North Karnataka had suffered losses to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore owing to the flood. “But the central team has estimated the loss at Rs 1,365 crore, despite which the Centre has not sanctioned a single paisa. But the state government has been assuring the people of getting funds from the Union government. The state government does not have enough money to compensate people for the loss of cattle and sheep. It has reduced allocation of funds towards all the pro-people schemes that our government launched in the past,” said Siddaramaiah, who is also the leader of the opposition in the assembly. Prior to his interaction with the media, Siddaramaiah chaired a meeting with local officials and instructed them to expedite work on rehabilitation efforts in Badami. In Vijayapura district, meanwhile, the floodwaters are receding in Chadachan, Indi and Almel taluks. Nearly 30 villages in these taluks have been grappling with a flood-like situation for a week. Many of the displaced residents returned home and started work on setting things back in order on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/centre-yet-to-release-a-paisa-towards-relief-slams-siddaramaiah/articleshow/78757989.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Short-term repair plan for Kalighat Setu||KOLKATA: Kalighat Setu — an important bridge in south Kolkata, which has incurred structural damages — may have to be rebuilt in the next few years. As of now, the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) will draw up a short-term plan to repair the bridge. Officials said the pillars of the bridge have been corroded badly while its upper structure also needs to be overhauled thoroughly. “As part of the short-term measures to be taken up in a few months, the bridge will be repaired with retrofitting work and the pillars will be strengthened. However, as a long-term plan, the bridge may be reconstructed in a few years’ time as the existing structure may not take the increased vehicular load,” said a bridge expert. Earlier this year, KMDA had submitted DPRs for repairs of Baghajatin Rail overbridge, Ultadanga flyover and Kalighat Setu, seeking financial approval from the government. Last week KMDA got financial approval of Rs 40 crore for the revamp of Baghajatin ROB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/short-term-repair-plan-for-kalighat-setu/articleshow/78757208.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||NEP-2020 will ring in changes at the fundamental level: PM||MYSURU: The National Education Policy (NEP)-2020 is the central government’s attempt to usher in change at the foundational level – right from LKG, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, participating in the 100th convocation ceremony of the University of Mysore (UoM) on Monday. Highlighting his government’s commitment towards transforming the higher education sector into a more inclusive space, not merely in terms of ensuring representation of people from across the social spectrum but also equal participation of women, Modi added, “Youngsters must be ready to adapt themselves according to the changing demands of the world.” Exhorting people to integrate technology in their lives in such a way as to blend it with local culture, the PM said that the Centre was making every effort towards turning India into a global hub for higher education. UoM, Modi observed, had managed the successful synthesis of traditional values and modern aspirations. Emphasising UoM’s stature among institutions of higher learning in India, Modi hailed the efforts of Mysuru maharaja Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar and his Dewan Sir M Visvesvaraya for building the university. The PM also recalled, rather appropriately on the occasion, the first convocation ceremony of the varsity that had been chaired by Nalwadi. He made a special note of the Mysuru monarch’s pioneering role in encouraging education among girls in the erstwhile Mysore state. Meanwhile, Modi urged the administration of UoM to increase the varsity’s focus on innovation. He opined that the increased emphasis on innovation at UoM ought to be reflected in the number of incubation centres, technology development centres the varsity housed, in addition to gearing academics towards industrial requirements and renewing focus on inter-disciplinary research. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, UoM vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar and varsity registrar R Shivappa were among those in attendance at the ceremony, while governor Vajubhai Vala, also the varsity’s chancellor, participated in the event virtually. PM pledges aid to flood-affected families Acknowledging the devastation and damage caused by the flood in the state, particularly in North Karnataka, Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured all the people affected by the natural calamity of the central government’s support. “My thoughts are with the families of those affected by the flood. The state and central governments will extend all the necessary support to the families,” he added. Modi’s statements on Monday follow deliberations held with CM BS Yediyurappa on Friday on measures needed to be taken to mitigate the disaster. Modi also called on people to preserve the spirit of the festivals despite the inclement weather and the prevalence of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nep-2020-will-ring-in-changes-at-the-fundamental-level-pm/articleshow/78757960.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district reports 51 cases, 3 succumb to Covid||Kolhapur: The district reported 51 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the infection on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 47,427. The death toll has risen to 1,600. As many as 43,759 patients have recovered from the contagion. Around 131 patients were discharged on Monday, which led to a further decline in the number of active cases (2,068). Kolhapur city reported 15 cases on Monday, which is the lowest so far. The total number of cases in the city has reached 14,363 According to the health authorities, around 50% of the active patients are home isolated. Covid patients with mild or no symptoms are usually advised to stay in home isolation. Sangli reports 215 cases Sangli district reported 215 new cases and four deaths on Monday. The total number of cases in the district has reached 43,073, of which 2,591 patients are undergoing treatment. The total number of critical patients in the district is 406 The highest number of throats swabs collected every day is Sangli among the district in the region. 1,600 throat swabs are collected in Sangli everyday where as 200 throat swabs are tested in Kolhapur. Sangli district administration has made the rapid antigen test kits available in every public health centre in the district. 145 cases in Satara Satara district recorded 145 new cases and eight Covid deaths since Sunday late night. The district has a total of 43,656 Covid patients so far, of which 36,582 patients have recovered, 1,438 succumbed to Covid and 5,636 are undergoing treatment. Not a single patient was reported from Karad town till Monday evening. Many tehsils like Wai, Phaltan, Patan and Jawli have shown a decline in the number of new cases registered daily. However, Satara tehsil reported 41 cases. Of the deceased, including six men and two women, six were elderly. Solapur adds 263 patients As many as 263 patients were discharged on Monday in Solapur district while 128 fresh Covid cases were reported on Monday. Of the fresh cases, Solapur city reported 17 cases. The city also reported one Covid death and 38 patients were discharged from the hospital. The rural parts have reported 111fresh Covid patients and 215 patients recovered from the contagion on Monday. The death toll in the rural parts has risen to 833.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-district-reports-51-cases-3-succumb-to-covid/articleshow/78754731.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Book to showcase birds that lived in Kolkata 200 years ago||KOLKATA: Two hundred years ago, the city would wake up to chirps of hundreds of varieties of birds, who no longer live here. Many have become extinct while some have chosen to recede to greener, cleaner and quieter homes away from the city. British ornithologists, during the Company’s rule, took a keen interest in these tropical birds and studied them in great details recording their behaviour and movement. One such mammoth project was commissioned at the Asiatic Society, where the birds were drawn in colour in true likeness. These paintings lay preserved in the annals of the society’s archives for two centuries with hardly anyone having seen them. The society has finally decided to publish them. The project, “Flying Feathers”, will be published digitally on Wednesday and the physical volume will follow it. After studying the drawings present day experts have identified species that are no longer seen in the city. The Southern Grey Shrike, that was locally called Kashai Pakhi, is a bird that has not only made its exit from the city but has also entered the Red List of ‘threatened categories’ of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Among the other birds that are no longer seen in the city but are part of the drawings are, Siberian Rubythroat, Crow-billed Drongo, Blue-bearded Bee-eater and Rufous-necked Laughingthrush. The present book contains 85 of these coloured drawings of birds, that were commissioned to artists by Francis Buchanan Hamilton, who was the then governor general, Lord Wellesley’s surgeon and also a zoologist. The drawings were done between 1810-15 and covers 58 species from 28 families and 40 genera. “Though well preserved, these drawings were not published all these years and so people did not get a chance to see these birdsh,” said historian Ramkrishna Chatterjee, the publications secretary of the Society. The book has been edited by Asok Kanti Sanyal, presently the chairman of the West Bengal Biodiversity Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/book-to-showcase-birds-that-lived-in-city-200-years-ago/articleshow/78757250.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli district shows signs of recovery||Kolhapur: Sangli district, which was the worst hit by Covid in the last month, is showing signs of recovery as a lesser number of fresh cases are being reported daily, along with reduction in the number of critical patients and a higher number of patients recovering. According to the official data, the district recorded an average of 198 patients every day in the last week, but in the last month, there were more than 500 patients reported on an average.  The district had 41,469 positive cases by the beginning of the last week, which rose to 42,858 on Sunday. The highest number of fresh cases was reported on October 13, which was 288. While 1,389 new cases were found last week, the number of patients discharged was 3,162. On average, 451 patients were discharged in the last week. The district had 35,892 patients who recovered at the start of the last week, which rose to 38,545 on Sunday. On October 17, 678 patients were discharged. The number of patients, who succumbed to Covid was 1,529 on October 12, by Sunday, the number was restricted to 1,576. Sangli district had more than 1,000 critical patients in the last month. The number has dropped to 439 by Sunday night. As a result, the number of active patients in the district has declined as it has reduced from 4,048 cases to 2,737 by Sunday night.  The jurisdiction of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation reported 279 new cases and four deaths in the last week. The city had 15,483 at the start of the week, which rose to 15,762 on Sunday night. The death toll increased to 524. The rural areas recorded 950 cases and 34 deaths in the last week while the urban areas, governed by municipal councils, reposted 160 new cases with 11 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-district-shows-signs-of-recovery/articleshow/78754721.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Will hand over probe related to fake income certificates to SIT, says Uttarakhand govt||NAINITAL: The state government on Monday informed the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that it has decided to hand over the probe involving procurement of fake income certificates to get scholarships to the special investigation teams (SITs) which are already probing the SC/ST scholarship scam. The court has given the government a day’s time to file an affidavit stating the same. The government advocate, Pradeep Joshi, appearing before the bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ravindra Maithani informed the court that till now, the vigilance department was probing the case and nine FIRs have also been filed against several officials. The allegation has been that several officials produced fake income certificates to avail the benefits of the scholarships meant for underprivileged students from the scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) communities. “The government advocate told the court that the state government has decided to transfer the probe related to the fake income certificates to the SITs already investigating the scam. However, the government did not file any affidavit on this, after which the court gave them a day’s time,” said an advocate present in the hearing. As reported by TOI earlier, two SITs are investigating the cases of the scholarship scam across the state. While one SIT is probing the scam in the districts of Dehradun and Haridwar, the other one is investigating the cases in 11 other districts. According to the government, the SITs have completed 77% of the investigation and the probe will be concluded in the next six months. However, the SITs, which were constituted on the orders of the HC, are only investigating the fake admissions. The cases related to fake income certificates were with the vigilance department till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-hand-over-probe-related-to-fake-income-certificates-to-sit-says-govt/articleshow/78755873.cms||Prashant Jha
October 20, 2020||Kochi||Don’t arrest Sivasankar till Friday, Kerala court tells customs||Kochi: The Kerala high court on Monday ordered the customs department not to arrest M Sivasankar, former principal chief secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, until October 23 in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. The court had issued a similar directive to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on October 15. The court will hear the anticipatory bail pleas filed by the IAS officer against customs and ED on October 23. Justice Ashok Menon noted that it is only appropriate that he is not arrested until then. By such time, the department can file an affidavit explaining its stance, the judge said. In a related development, Sivasankar filed for anticipatory bail with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court as well on Monday. Sivasankar claimed that he fears his arrest due to political interference. The NIA court will consider his petition on Thursday. The IAS officer’s counsel, P Vijayabhanu, argued that customs had attempted to arrest his client on Friday evening after court hours to get around the court’s October 15 directive to ED. The petitioner has been cooperating extensively with all the agencies and yet an attempt is being made to arrest him in violation of the court directive due to the politics involved, the counsel argued. Senior advocate K Ramakumar, who represented customs at the hearing, said the petitioner may have cooperated with questioning earlier but now he is in a belligerent, non-cooperative mood and is refusing to answer crucial and inconvenient questions. He’s now playing politics because he is contradicting even the chief minister’s statements. The chief minister gave an open statement to the press on what happened, which he now contradicts. Economic offences are a class apart as per the Supreme Court, he said, while seeking time for filing a counter affidavit. In his bail plea before NIA court, Sivasankar said he appeared before the agency whenever notified in spite of physical ailments. He fully cooperated with questioning sessions which used to start in the morning and continue till late night. He has not committed any crime including offences under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) being probed by NIA, the petition said. The petitioner said he has not been arraigned as accused by any agency and claimed no incriminating material has been found against him. He also narrated Friday’s incidents. Sivasankar said he had to be admitted to hospital while being taken for questioning by customs. He said he had been interrogated by ED earlier in the day. Two customs officers came to his house in the evening and asked to appear for questioning within 10 minutes. He was taken in a customs vehicle and on the way suffered chest pain and was admitted to PRS hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. A medical report was submitted along with the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dont-arrest-sivasankar-till-friday-court-tells-customs/articleshow/78755878.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Rethink over Kalighat ‘garbha griha’ reopening||KOLKATA: The High Court order on pandals has got the Kalighat Temple committee to do a re-think on whether the ‘garbha griha’ or sanctum sanctorum would be re-opened on the puja days at all now. On Sunday, after a meeting with the trustees, the committee had announced that devotees would be allowed inside the ‘garbha griha’ from Panchami to Dashami. A final call will be taken after a meeting on the basis of the court order on Tuesday. “If there can be restrictions on pandals, then the ‘garbha griha’ is a much constricted place,” said Bidyut Haldar, vice president of the temple committee. Since the temple re-opened in July, devotees were being allowed to pray from outside the ‘garbha griha’. During the Pujas, special puja is arranged as thousands come darshan of the goddess from close proximity. This year, however, only 10 devotees will be allowed at a time inside the ‘garbha griha’ while 38 will be permitted inside the temple premise at a time. In the morning, the temple will open for devotees from 6am to 1pm and in the evening, it will allow devotees from 4pm to 11pm. The temple will open from 6am to 1pm in the morning and 4pm to 11pm in the evening for devotees. During arati and offering of bhog, devotees will not be allowed inside. Though they will be allowed to bring in peda and garland, touching the idol or distribution of charanamrita will not be allowed. More gates will be opened for to create separate entries for ‘garbha griha’ and darshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rethink-over-kalighat-garbha-griha-reopening/articleshow/78757258.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||HC directs Uttaarkhand govt to consider release of over 270 inmates who have served over 14 yrs in jail||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday directed the state government to consider the cases of all 274 inmates incarcerated across several jails of the state as well as a few in Uttar Pradesh. All these prisoners have completed 14 years in prison. Some of the inmates have been in jails for over two or three decades. A committee headed by the principal secretary (home) looks into such cases and accordingly, decides on whether an inmate should be released or not. However, the government told the court that the secretary is on leave and therefore, the secretary in-charge will conduct the meeting on Wednesday and decide on the cases. The bench, in its order, also directed the committee to consider the case of each of the inmates regardless of the fact if they have moved an application or not. “The government order (GO) dated June 21, 2017, says that the committee will consider the cases only when the inmate has moved an application but the court, on Monday, directed the committee to consider all the cases,” said an advocate present in the hearing. The direction from the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani came while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) on the issue. The court first heard the case in the morning when it was informed that the secretary (home) is on leave and therefore, the matter should be taken up in the first week of November. However, seeing the urgency of the case, the court directed the government advocate to seek instructions and the case was heard post lunch. In its order, the court directed the government advocate to furnish documents related to all the cases to the committee for their perusal so that it can be decided whether to keep such people in prison or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-directs-state-to-consider-release-of-over-270-inmates-who-have-served-over-14-yrs-in-jail/articleshow/78755890.cms||Prashant Jha
October 20, 2020||Bareilly||UP court sentences child rape convict to prison till death after swift 22-day hearing||MEERUT: A POCSO court on Monday sentenced a man to life imprisonment after finding him guilty of raping a six-year-old girl in UP’s Hapur district. Special judge Veena Narayan held Dalpat guilty and also slapped a penalty of over Rs 2 lakh on the convict. “Under section 6 of the POCSO act, the accused is sentenced to life till the last breath,” an excerpt from judgment read. Special public prosecutor Harendra Tyagi, while confirming the conviction, said the judgment was delivered in just 22 days after framing of charges. The 6-year-old girl was abducted, raped and brutalised by Dalpat, a resident of neighbouring Amroha district. Dalpat was arrested on August 14 from Amroha after a massive manhunt. The rape survivor with severe injuries in her internal organs was left to die in the field. She was rescued a day later and rushed to a Meerut hospital. This is the second such conviction by special judge Narayan’s court in the last four days. On October 15, two convicts were handed over death penalty for raping and killing a 12-year-old girl in the district in 2018. Reacting to the conviction, Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur’s additional superintendent of police said, “Given the sensitive nature of the case, all efforts were made to help the prosecution, be it the producing of witnesses for recording statements or following up with labs for forensic report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-court-sentences-child-rape-convict-to-prison-till-death-after-swift-22-day-hearing/articleshow/78755882.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmers dump farm produce outside Aurangabad collectorate||Aurangabad: Farmers from Gangapur on Monday took to the streets demanding the state government pay a compensation of Rs 75,000 per hectare before Diwali for losses suffered by them due to the excess rainfall.They also threw farm produces like cotton, tomato and maize on the road outside the district collectorate for drawing government’s attention towards their problems. One of the protesting farmers said they had no option but to throw their produce as they had got damaged due to excess rain. “We have also submitted a memorandum with the district collector,” he said.Speaking to reporters, Santosh Jadhav, a senior farmer activist who led the agitation, said that retreating monsoon has destroyed the standing crops in Aurangabad district. “Farmers who were expecting good yield this time around, have suffered huge losses. Hence, to draw attention of the authorities toward our problems we brought the produce that had gone bad due to the rain and threw them in front of the district collectorate,” he said.“We have also submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through the district collector, demanding to ensure that the banks should waive loans that the farmers had taken for the Kharif crops and an immediate monetary assistance of Rs 25,000 per hectare for Rabi sowing. The farmers have also demanded immediate payment of crop loan amount,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmers-dump-farm-produce-outside-aurangabad-collectorate/articleshow/78754768.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Residents seek rollback of tax hike||Pune: A group of residents from Uruli Devachi on Monday demanded rollback of the increase in property tax, stressing that they should be taxed according to the rates before the village’s merger in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits. “The hike in tax after the merger is unjust. We want the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to roll it back. The tax should be charged at the same rate as that of the gram panchayat,” said Kapil Bhadale of Uruli Devachi Sangharsha Samiti, a citizens’ group. Addressing a news conference on Monday, residents of the village claimed that the new tax structure after the merger was not affordable. “The PMC can increase the property tax as and when the facilities promised in the development plan are complete. But even then, the increase should not be drastic,” said a villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-seek-rollback-of-tax-hike/articleshow/78757261.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC stays arrest of BJP MLA accused of rape||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court, on Monday, put a stay on the arrest of the BJP MLA from Dwarahat after he challenged the FIR accusing him of rape and sexual harassment. The court had earlier granted a stay on the arrest of his wife as well. A case was registered against the MLA in September after a woman accused him of rape. The woman has alleged that he was married at the time and later she also got married in the Shamli district of Uttar Pradesh. In a few months, she gave birth to a girl. The complainant's husband had undergone a DNA test which proved that he wasn’t the father of the girl. Subsequently, the complainant was thrown out of her husband's house. In August, an FIR was filed against the woman by the MLA’s wife accusing her of extortion. The FIR alleged that she was demanding Rs 5 crore and booked her under sections 386 (extortion) as well as section 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion). The woman had approached the high court which granted a stay on her arrest in the case as well. The single bench of Justice NS Dhanik on Monday said that the court will now hear both the cases together and listed them for further hearing on November 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-stays-arrest-of-bjp-mla-accused-of-rape/articleshow/78755892.cms||Prashant Jha
October 20, 2020||Kochi||Ayyampuzha residents, greens up in arms against GIFT City||KOCHI: Tucked away in a hilly terrain, Ayyampuzha is a pristine village with the scenic beauty of a tourist destination. The agrarian hamlet where vegetables, fruits and other agricultural produce are grown is an environmentally sensitive area. The residents are apprehensive that the Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) City project could dampen the environment. The project is to come up at Ayyampuzha, which is located around 14 km off Angamaly, as part of Kochi-Bangalore Industrial Corridor project by the central government. Residents have already started an agitation against the move to acquire land for the project and evict many families. “At least 300 families will have to be evicted for acquiring the land. We will not allow the authorities to acquire land and cause damage to the environment here,” said Jose Chullickaran, convener of the action council formed by the residents. “A wide range of agricultural produce like vegetables, plantains, mace, tapioca and rubber are grown here. The agricultural produce from here is sold at European Union Market at Maradu thereby giving the residents of the city comparatively fresh and pesticide-free items,” Chullickaran said. Greens have pledged their support to the residents. “It is an ecologically sensitive area. Many families will have to be thrown out for acquiring the agricultural land. At the same time, nobody in the area, including people’s representatives, are aware of the project. Authorities are putting the people in the dark. It is nothing other than yet another real estate project which is introduced under the guise of development,” said C R Neelakandan, environmentalist. “It is sure that the government is becoming just a facilitator for mining and real estate mafia to carry out their business under the cover of the project. Mining of rock and red earth will be the real agenda behind the project. If the authorities want to set up the project, there are hundreds of acres which had been leased out to Plantation Corporation of India in the nearby Kalady panchayat. It is around 15km away from Ayyampuzha,” Neelakandan said.  “If the land is being acquired using Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, the first thing the authorities should do is social impact assessment (SIA). As per the Act, the land can be acquired only if at least 70% of the residents gives their consent,” he said. At the same time, authorities said that firms have been identified for conducting environmental impact assessment (EIA) and SIA. “It is a project designed by the Centre. So, we can’t compromise on issues like EIA and SIA. We have to get clearance from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change as well,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, additional chief secretary (industries), who is in-charge of mega projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ayyampuzha-residents-greens-up-in-arms-against-gift-city/articleshow/78755898.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 20, 2020||Pune||More autorickshaws on road after extension of shop timings||Pune: Allowing shops to remain open till 9pm has led to more autorickshaws plying on the road. Over 70% autorickshaws are currently plying in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad as against 20% to 30% a month ago. “Until mid-September, 20% to 30% autorickshaws were plying in both the municipal corporation areas. There were not enough passengers and many drivers had switched over to other professions. But there has been an improvement after the unlock process started and business timings of shops were extended. We expect the figures to improve further during the festive season,” said Nitin Pawar, convenor, Rickshaw Panchayat, the largest union of autorickshaw drivers in Pune. Earlier this month, shops were given permission to remain open from 9am to 9pm. “With dine-in also allowed at restaurants, the number of people looking for autorickshaws has increased. Majority of autorickshaw drivers had taken to selling vegetables and other items. As per estimates, more than 60% have now started ferrying passengers. We expect at least 10% to 15% increase in the number of autorickshaws on the road during the festival season,” Pawar said. Rahul Telgote, an autorickshaw driver, who had been selling vegetables for six months, said that he was back to ferrying passengers. “Things have been started getting better and I have been doing 5 to 6 trips daily. Earlier, I used to do more than double,” he said. However, unlike their Mumbai counterparts, autorickshaw unions in Pune are against increasing fares as they feel that it will be counterproductive. Pawar said that during the recent meeting of the regional transport authority (RTA), they were asked about their views on fare hike. “The unions in Mumbai have been demanding a fare hike and have approached the transport department. But we have opposed it. If we hike fares now when the business seems to be improving, it will upset commuters who are already facing financial hardships,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-autorickshaws-on-road-after-extension-of-shop-timings/articleshow/78757268.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 20, 2020||Kochi||Government plea on Trivandrum airport dismissed||KOCHI: The high court on Monday dismissed government’s petition challenging Centre’s decision to lease out operations of Trivandrum International Airport (TRV) to Adani Enterprises Ltd (AEL). A division bench comprising justices K Vinod Chandran and CS Dias considered eight petitions, including one filed by the government and another by KSIDC. Other petitions included one by Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry supporting the Centre’s decision. The court rejected the government contention that the Centre’s decision lacked public interest. After discussing various contentions, the court said in the judgment, “On a totality of the considerations made herein above, as any reasonable man would assume, we are convinced that there is a public interest behind the attempt to lease out the airport for the purposes of carrying out certain services enumerated under Section 12 (of AAI Act). We have already noticed that there would be no profit erosion for AAI and that the authority stands to gain. The lessee also intends a profit, but however in the process the development of the airport would also be made possible without any capital expenditure from AAI.” Further, the court said it is not expected to embark upon a more comprehensive enquiry nor can the judges bring their subjective opinions to interfere with a decision of the executive government, as revealed from the ultimate approval granted by the Union cabinet. Another argument of the government was that the request for proposal (RPF) was tailor-made for AEL. The court said when the RPF was issued, there could have been no contemplation of who would be the successful bidder in the global tender. Only one petition was filed before the bid was opened and it did not challenge the RPF as tailor-made but was against privatization and excluding the state from due participation. No allegation was raised against the bidding process or the choice of AEL, where alone there is scope for undue favour being extended, the court noted. A total of 10 bidders qualified and they submitted 36 bids for the six airports. Considering the magnitude of the project, the court is of the opinion that the number of bidders is substantial, the judgment said, adding that it was a global tender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-plea-on-tvm-airport-dismissed/articleshow/78755916.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Patna||Paswan’s ‘shradh’ rituals performed at his native village in Khagaria dist||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan on Monday performed the ‘shradh’ rituals of his father Ram Vilas Paswan at his native village Saharbanni under Alouli block in Khagaria district. Accompanied by his cousin Prince Raj, who is an MP from Samastipur, and a few other relatives, Chirag performed ‘pind-daan’ at Faltaura Ghat on the banks of river Bagmati. He turned emotional while performing the rituals. However, local residents consoled him. Chirag later paid visit to the house of Raj Kumari Devi, the first wife of late Ram Vilas Paswan. She lives in the Paswan’s ancestral house at Saharbanni. Chirag sought her blessings. Raj Kumari was divorced by Ram Vilas long ago. The couple had two daughters and both were married. Chirag told the villagers that similar rituals would be performed in Patna for which he has already sent invitations to PM Narendra Modi, union home minister Amit Sah, CM Nitish Kumar, Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former CM Rabri Devi, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha and former Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/paswans-shradh-rituals-performed-at-his-native-village-in-khagaria-dist/articleshow/78755901.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Highest NEET registration, but less than half from state qualify||PUNE: Over 1.95 lakh students appeared for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (UG) from Maharashtra this year of whom 79,974 students qualified, making the qualification percentage of 40.94%. For a state which registers the maximum number of students, this is the second-worst performance going by the percentage of qualifying students from each state. Nagaland is below Maharashtra at 40.50% . Some blamed the inflated state board marks for making students complacent, others said the lack of study material and training in Marathi is a big problem. Some others called for more intensive training for the students, rather than relying on crash courses. In 2019, the number of students appearing for the exam in Marathi was 31,239, the numbers came down to a mere 6,258 in 2020. In contrast, students taking the examination in their regional language increased in Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu. “It is the lack of dedicated effort on the part of the training providers as well as students which is the biggest roadblock when it comes to qualifying in the national competitive exams. We need to train students to have the right approach. It is an MCQ-based test so the ability to think logically is required to score well. Rote learning in schools hampers this ability. We need to give them application-based training and help them master logical deduction,” Rajiv Yeravdekar said. He is the dean and faculty of health and biomedical sciences of Symbiosis International University. He said the ability to pick the right answer is important. “For example, a question with four options namely__the richest source of vitamin C is amla, tomato, guava and orange. All four are correct, but the operative word is ‘the richest source’ and hence the correct answer would be amla. Students need to figure this out.” According to Harish Butle, founder-secretary of Dynamic Entrance Exam Performance Enhancement and Research, the inflated board exam marks are making state students complacent. “The performance of students at the national level competitive exams shows us how inflated our board examination marks are. It becomes extremely easy for students to score above 90% marks in the board and this makes them think that with the same kind of effort, they would be able to crack the national exams too. Nothing can be farther away from the truth. Hence, the education department needs to stop this practice immediately,” Butle said. He said there is a lack of study material and training institutes in Marathi to help students. “Last year, about 31,000 students wrote the examination in Marathi whereas this year the number came down to 6,000. But in both Hindi and Tamil, the number of students have increased. There may be brilliant students in rural areas from Marathi medium schools, but unable to perform well because of lack of training in Marathi and a poor command over English language in which they are forced to appear for the examination. The absence of girls from the state in the top 20 list is also a serious concern,” Butle added. According to Durgesh Mangeshkar of the IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra the reason for Maharashtra’s poor performance is linked to NEET aspirants relying on short-term crash courses for preparation as against studying for two whole years. “They are mistaking NEET for the erstwhile MH-CET which was much easier and had a limited syllabus from 1999-2015,” Mangeshkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/highest-neet-registration-but-less-than-half-from-state-qualify/articleshow/78762310.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Over 100 people rushed to hospitals after consuming ‘poisonous’ buckwheat flour in Roorkee||ROORKEE: More than 100 people were rushed to private or government hospitals as they complained of stomach ache, vomiting, and diarrhoea after consuming what is alleged to be poisonous buckwheat flour (Kuttu Atta) in the past couple of days during the ongoing Navratra fasts. The food safety officials said that the supplier of this flour has been traced and that they have destroyed more than 16 bags of the flour. They added that they have also sent samples of the buckwheat flour for testing to ascertain the quality of the grain. According to sources, the people who complained of problems after consuming the flour were mainly from Roorkee and its adjoining towns like Bhagwanpur, Jhabreda, Manglaur and Landhaura. “We admitted 14 patients who had consumed the flour on Sunday. All of them have been discharged. Besides, around 100 patients approached different hospitals in this connection. Five new cases were also reported on Monday ,” said Dr Sanjay Kansal, chief medical superintendent of the civil hospital at Roorkee. Meanwhile, Santosh Kumar Singh, food safety officer, Roorkee, said, “We have destroyed around 16 bags of buckwheat flour after dumping them in deep pits. We appeal to people to not purchase and consume buckwheat flour for the time being.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-100-people-rushed-to-hosps-after-consuming-poisonous-buckwheat-flour-in-roorkee/articleshow/78755931.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Miffed SC Char Dham panel chief skips meeting||DEHRADUN: After expressing his protest at the manner in which the meeting of the high-powered committee (HPC) — constituted by the Supreme Court last year to assess the environmental impact of the Char Dham highway project on the Uttarakhand hills — was called without his approval last week, Doon-based environmentalist Ravi Chopra, chairman of the HPC, said on Monday that he has decided to hold the meeting only after Supreme Court’s hearing in the matter next week. Chopra had earlier this month — on October 5 — sent a letter to the Supreme Court (SC) secretary in which he had written, “On the one hand, hill cutting is continuing...and on the other, environment and highway ministry officials and the state government are not co-operating… Their actions/inactions have made the HPC non-functional, making it impossible to carry out the work as per the orders of the hon’ble court. The result is that serious and irreversible damage to the Himalayan terrain is continuing.” The apex court took suo motu cognisance of the letter and has fixed the hearing for next week. Speaking with TOI on Monday, Chopra said, “We’ll conduct the next HPC meeting only after the SC hearing happens next week. We’d like to take action in sync with that of the apex court in order to ensure that only sustainable development takes place.” In his communiqué to the SC, Chopra had also mentioned “blatant violation of laws” in the high-profile Char Dham Pariyojana, which is a pet project of PM Modi. “I have received reports and photographs of tree-felling and fresh hill cutting at various stretches, such as Joshimath (NH-58), Totaghati (NH-58), Kandisaur and Chinyalisaur (NH-94), etc, based on the old-road-width standard — double lane paved shoulder with 10 meters tarred road,” Chopra said adding that this was a clear violation of the Supreme Court’s orders that the road should not be widened beyond five and a half metres. Reacting to the points raised by Chopra, a senior officer at the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), requesting anonymity, said, “As per our understanding, following SC orders, the road-width where hill slopes have already been cut will be 10-12m, while new ones will be 5m. Had the HPC chairperson and other members attended the meeting that was held, we could have finalised the road-width.” As reported by TOI a day ago, Chopra and a few other HPC members had refused to attend a meeting called by the member secretary of the HPC on Saturday saying that neither the chairperson nor other members of the committee had given approval for either the meeting or the agenda. He also informed the secretary of the SC that when MoRTH was told that the construction work was violating norms, ministry officials had told him that in the absence of directions from a fully-functional HPC, suspending hill cutting works could lead to contractual disputes. He added that while he was trying to streamline the functioning of the HPC, both the agencies and the state government had stopped cooperating on it. Reacting to the allegations regarding non-appointment of secretary, Anand Bardhan, principal secretary (forest), Uttarakhand, said, “We’d appointed an officer well in time, but he contacted Covid-19 and couldn’t join. Thereafter, we appointed a second officer. There was no delay.” Chopra had also alleged that following SC directions, he had, on September 16, asked the regional office of Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) to provide space for secretariat as directed by the SC, but his request had been turned down. When TOI contacted Pankaj Agrawal, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) at the MoEF&CC’s regional office in Dehradun, he said, “Only the HPC secretary is authorised to comment on matters related to the project.” Despite several attempts, the HPC secretary -- Ravinath Raman who is also the Garhwal commissioner --could not be contacted for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/miffed-sc-appointed-high-powered-committee-hpc-chairman-says-next-meeting-will-only-be-held-after-supreme-court-judgment-next-week/articleshow/78755900.cms||Shivani Azad
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Highest NEET registration, but less than half from state qualify||PUNE: Over 1.95 lakh students appeared for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (UG) from Maharashtra this year of whom 79,974 students qualified, making the qualification percentage of 40.94%. For a state which registers the maximum number of students, this is the second-worst performance going by the percentage of qualifying students from each state. Nagaland is below Maharashtra at 40.50% . Some blamed the inflated state board marks for making students complacent, others said the lack of study material and training in Marathi is a big problem. Some others called for more intensive training for the students, rather than relying on crash courses. In 2019, the number of students appearing for the exam in Marathi was 31,239, the numbers came down to a mere 6,258 in 2020. In contrast, students taking the examination in their regional language increased in Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu. “It is the lack of dedicated effort on the part of the training providers as well as students which is the biggest roadblock when it comes to qualifying in the national competitive exams. We need to train students to have the right approach. It is an MCQ-based test so the ability to think logically is required to score well. Rote learning in schools hampers this ability. We need to give them application-based training and help them master logical deduction,” Rajiv Yeravdekar said. He is the dean and faculty of health and biomedical sciences of Symbiosis International University. He said the ability to pick the right answer is important. “For example, a question with four options namely__the richest source of vitamin C is amla, tomato, guava and orange. All four are correct, but the operative word is ‘the richest source’ and hence the correct answer would be amla. Students need to figure this out.” According to Harish Butle, founder-secretary of Dynamic Entrance Exam Performance Enhancement and Research, the inflated board exam marks are making state students complacent. “The performance of students at the national level competitive exams shows us how inflated our board examination marks are. It becomes extremely easy for students to score above 90% marks in the board and this makes them think that with the same kind of effort, they would be able to crack the national exams too. Nothing can be farther away from the truth. Hence, the education department needs to stop this practice immediately,” Butle said. He said there is a lack of study material and training institutes in Marathi to help students. “Last year, about 31,000 students wrote the examination in Marathi whereas this year the number came down to 6,000. But in both Hindi and Tamil, the number of students have increased. There may be brilliant students in rural areas from Marathi medium schools, but unable to perform well because of lack of training in Marathi and a poor command over English language in which they are forced to appear for the examination. The absence of girls from the state in the top 20 list is also a serious concern,” Butle added. According to Durgesh Mangeshkar of the IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra the reason for Maharashtra’s poor performance is linked to NEET aspirants relying on short-term crash courses for preparation as against studying for two whole years. “They are mistaking NEET for the erstwhile MH-CET which was much easier and had a limited syllabus from 1999-2015,” Mangeshkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/highest-neet-registration-but-less-than-half-from-state-qualify/articleshow/78762312.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Highest NEET registration, but less than half from state qualify||PUNE: Over 1.95 lakh students appeared for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (UG) from Maharashtra this year of whom 79,974 students qualified, making the qualification percentage of 40.94%. For a state which registers the maximum number of students, this is the second-worst performance going by the percentage of qualifying students from each state. Nagaland is below Maharashtra at 40.50% . Some blamed the inflated state board marks for making students complacent, others said the lack of study material and training in Marathi is a big problem. Some others called for more intensive training for the students, rather than relying on crash courses. In 2019, the number of students appearing for the exam in Marathi was 31,239, the numbers came down to a mere 6,258 in 2020. In contrast, students taking the examination in their regional language increased in Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu. “It is the lack of dedicated effort on the part of the training providers as well as students which is the biggest roadblock when it comes to qualifying in the national competitive exams. We need to train students to have the right approach. It is an MCQ-based test so the ability to think logically is required to score well. Rote learning in schools hampers this ability. We need to give them application-based training and help them master logical deduction,” Rajiv Yeravdekar said. He is the dean and faculty of health and biomedical sciences of Symbiosis International University. He said the ability to pick the right answer is important. “For example, a question with four options namely__the richest source of vitamin C is amla, tomato, guava and orange. All four are correct, but the operative word is ‘the richest source’ and hence the correct answer would be amla. Students need to figure this out.” According to Harish Butle, founder-secretary of Dynamic Entrance Exam Performance Enhancement and Research, the inflated board exam marks are making state students complacent. “The performance of students at the national level competitive exams shows us how inflated our board examination marks are. It becomes extremely easy for students to score above 90% marks in the board and this makes them think that with the same kind of effort, they would be able to crack the national exams too. Nothing can be farther away from the truth. Hence, the education department needs to stop this practice immediately,” Butle said. He said there is a lack of study material and training institutes in Marathi to help students. “Last year, about 31,000 students wrote the examination in Marathi whereas this year the number came down to 6,000. But in both Hindi and Tamil, the number of students have increased. There may be brilliant students in rural areas from Marathi medium schools, but unable to perform well because of lack of training in Marathi and a poor command over English language in which they are forced to appear for the examination. The absence of girls from the state in the top 20 list is also a serious concern,” Butle added. According to Durgesh Mangeshkar of the IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra the reason for Maharashtra’s poor performance is linked to NEET aspirants relying on short-term crash courses for preparation as against studying for two whole years. “They are mistaking NEET for the erstwhile MH-CET which was much easier and had a limited syllabus from 1999-2015,” Mangeshkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/highest-neet-registration-but-less-than-half-from-state-qualify/articleshow/78757315.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 20, 2020||Nashik||State govt will provide help, says Bhujbal||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Monday visited Khambale village in Igatpuri taluka to assess the extent of crop damage caused by heavy rainfall. Bhujbal also interacted with the rain-affected farmers during his visit. “Various crops have been badly damaged due to rainfall in Nashik district. The state government will provide help to the rain-hit farmers and the proposal seeking adequate financial assistance for the farmer will be sent to the centre on behalf of the state government,” he said, “I have already directed the district collector to carry out the panchnama of crops damaged during the past two-three days. Directives have also been given to submit the crop losses reports at the earliest so that the decision about giving relief to the rain-hit farmers can be taken in the cabinet meeting,” he added. Bhujbal said the state and the country is facing financial problems due to Covid-19 pandemic for the past eight months. “Nevertheless, the state government has waived crops loans of farmers amounting to Rs 20,000 crore. Now, rains have badly hit the kharif crops and the state government is committed to provide adequate financial relief to the rain-hit farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-govt-will-provide-help-says-bhujbal/articleshow/78754826.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 20, 2020||Goa||Bogus voters added to Porvorim poll list: Khaunte||Panaji: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Monday accused BJP of using government machinery to skew the voter base in his constituency. He has alleged that nearly 120 bogus voters have been added to the state electoral roll in one ward of Socorro, Porvorim. Khaunte submitted a written complaint to the chief electoral officer demanding an investigation into the incident. Several months earlier, he had made a similar complaint alleging that around 700-800 residents from North East India were included as voters in the Porvorim constituency. “When the new electoral rolls were prepared for the ZP elections and given to us, in just one ward there are 118 bogus voters,” Khaunte said. The MLA said that ZP candidates visited the addresses provided in the electoral roll, but did not find the individuals residing there. He said that names of migrants have been added to the voter roll in that one ward. “There is no paperwork to show how these people have got voting rights. We found that 15-20 of the names are residing in one person’s house, but that person has never heard of their names,” Khaunte said. “These names are not names of Goans. The list has been manipulated. The BLO and the mamlatdar has to take action,” Khaunte said. The office of the chief electoral officer has assured Khaunte that the complaint will be looked into and a response issued within eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bogus-voters-added-to-porvorim-poll-list-khaunte/articleshow/78758293.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nashik||6.5L swabs tested, 2L +ve in north Maha||Nashik: Around 6.5 lakh RT-PCR tests have been conducted across north Maharashtra, comprising Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Ahmednagar districts, since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, senior officials of deputy director of health of Nashik division said on Monday.The health departments have been laying emphasis on early detection of Covid cases so that patients can be treated early to reduce the death rate. “Out of the total 6.48 lakh swab samples takent from across north Maharashtra, two lakh tested positive for Covid-19 till October 11,” Mallikarjun Pattanshetty, deputy director of health, Nashik division, said. According to him, all the districts have ramped up testing to ensure that infected patients are immediately brought under treatment. With proper diagnosis, more than 1.78 lakh were treated and discharged from hospitals till October 11. A maximum 2.23 lakh swabs were taken for testing in Jalgaon district, followed by Ahmednagar (1.84L), Nashik (1.73L), Dhule (45,000) and Nandurbar (22,000).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-5l-swabs-tested-2l-ve-in-north-maha/articleshow/78754789.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Highest NEET registration, but less than half from state qualify||PUNE: Over 1.95 lakh students appeared for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (UG) from Maharashtra this year of whom 79,974 students qualified, making the qualification percentage of 40.94%. For a state which registers the maximum number of students, this is the second-worst performance going by the percentage of qualifying students from each state. Nagaland is below Maharashtra at 40.50% . Some blamed the inflated state board marks for making students complacent, others said the lack of study material and training in Marathi is a big problem. Some others called for more intensive training for the students, rather than relying on crash courses. In 2019, the number of students appearing for the exam in Marathi was 31,239, the numbers came down to a mere 6,258 in 2020. In contrast, students taking the examination in their regional language increased in Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Tamil and Telugu. “It is the lack of dedicated effort on the part of the training providers as well as students which is the biggest roadblock when it comes to qualifying in the national competitive exams. We need to train students to have the right approach. It is an MCQ-based test so the ability to think logically is required to score well. Rote learning in schools hampers this ability. We need to give them application-based training and help them master logical deduction,” Rajiv Yeravdekar said. He is the dean and faculty of health and biomedical sciences of Symbiosis International University. He said the ability to pick the right answer is important. “For example, a question with four options namely__the richest source of vitamin C is amla, tomato, guava and orange. All four are correct, but the operative word is ‘the richest source’ and hence the correct answer would be amla. Students need to figure this out.” According to Harish Butle, founder-secretary of Dynamic Entrance Exam Performance Enhancement and Research, the inflated board exam marks are making state students complacent. “The performance of students at the national level competitive exams shows us how inflated our board examination marks are. It becomes extremely easy for students to score above 90% marks in the board and this makes them think that with the same kind of effort, they would be able to crack the national exams too. Nothing can be farther away from the truth. Hence, the education department needs to stop this practice immediately,” Butle said. He said there is a lack of study material and training institutes in Marathi to help students. “Last year, about 31,000 students wrote the examination in Marathi whereas this year the number came down to 6,000. But in both Hindi and Tamil, the number of students have increased. There may be brilliant students in rural areas from Marathi medium schools, but unable to perform well because of lack of training in Marathi and a poor command over English language in which they are forced to appear for the examination. The absence of girls from the state in the top 20 list is also a serious concern,” Butle added. According to Durgesh Mangeshkar of the IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra the reason for Maharashtra’s poor performance is linked to NEET aspirants relying on short-term crash courses for preparation as against studying for two whole years. “They are mistaking NEET for the erstwhile MH-CET which was much easier and had a limited syllabus from 1999-2015,” Mangeshkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/highest-neet-registration-but-less-than-half-from-state-qualify/articleshow/78762307.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 20, 2020||Pune||Extra scrutiny of civic bills to minimise expenses||Pune: The civic administration will reduce unwanted expenditure by adding an extra layer to the scrutiny of bills raised against the civic work proposals. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials stated that the administration would now redirect the bills over Rs3 crore to an official of the rank of additional commissioner for scrutiny. The bills under Rs3 crore would be verified by the respective heads of the departments, who would be responsible for ascertaining if the works against which the invoice had been created were indispensable. The administration has also issued a notification to this effect. “Senior officers will monitor the work proposals and their need. Works under the essential category will be taken up first, while the remaining can be put on hold for a while,” a senior PMC official said. The new system, once in place, will do away with the current order of sending the bills directly to the PMC’s audit department for clearing. The civic officials stated that the new decision was taken to minimise the expenditure at a time when the administration was struggling with reduced income because of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The move aims at bringing financial discipline. Unnecessary works can be avoided,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extra-scrutiny-of-civic-bills-to-minimise-expenses/articleshow/78757349.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Project can generate over 1 lakh direct jobs’||KOCHI: Authorities say that the GIFT City project will put Kerala on the global map as a destination with state-of-the-art facilities. “The GIFT City project is planned as a hub of financial, business centre, hospitality, banking, insurance, IT/ITES services coupled with knowledge-based activities. It would be providing an integrated ecosystem for development of globally competitive high-tech services and financial hubs. It is a sustainable and eco-friendly project which can fetch up to 1.20 lakh of direct employment within 10 years. No manufacturing units will come up there. So, the project will be giving a great impetus to the overall development of Kochi,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, additional chief secretary (industries), who is in-charge of mega projects. “Global headquarters of banking firms, etc. may come up in the GIFT City. Centres of international universities also may start operations from the GIFT. This will provide vast opportunities for students as well as professionals,” Sharma said. Revenue department has started measures to acquire around 220 hectares at Ayyampuzha panchayat. “We will soon conduct inspection at the site. The land acquisition will be as per Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013,” an official with revenue department said. As per the authorities, the project will bring in investment for development of basic quality infrastructure to the tune of Rs 1,600 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/project-can-generate-over-1-lakh-direct-jobs/articleshow/78755974.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 20, 2020||Kochi||Swapna, Sarith abetted foreign nationals: Customs||KOCHI: The customs department’s occurrence report (OR), in connection with the illegal export of currency, names Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS as accused. The report, a copy of which was accessed by TOI, states the accused travelled with Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram and an Egyptian national, when the notes were smuggled out. The OR states that during the probe into the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, Swapna in her voluntary statement dated July 31, given under Section 108 of the Customs Act, said that Khaled, finance head at the consulate and confidential partner of the consulate general, had taken out $1.9 lakh to Cairo via Oman from Trivandrum International Airport. The currency was concealed in his handbag. Swapna further stated that she and Sarith had accompanied Khaled till Oman, after which they travelled to Dubai. The main purpose of their trip to Dubai was to facilitate Khaled’s hassle-free clearance at Trivandrum Airport, the report says. “Further Swapna stated that she had seen many time Khaled himself screening his handbags in the x-ray machine available at UAE Consulate Office, Trivandrum, in the presence of Sarith, to ensure the currency concealment would not be detected during security check by CISF at Trivandrum International Airport,” it says. Sarith, in his statement of October 14, also confirmed this fact. Sarith said he used his connections at Trivandrum Airport to facilitate clearance. Swapna, Sarith and Khaled had travelled together to Muscat on August 7, the OR says. In another serious allegation, Swapna said Jamal Al Zaabi, the consul general, and Rashed Khamis Ali Musaiqri, the administrative attache at the consulate, had smuggled out huge amounts of foreign currency in the same manner multiple times. “Sarith had facilitated them during security checks for their departure to UAE from Trivandrum International Airport, Swapna has mentioned that some other staff working at UAE Consulate, Trivandrum, also are aware of the illegal export of foreign currency by these foreign nationals during their trip to abroad,” the OR says. “Swapna and Sarith have abetted the foreign nationals in the illegal export of foreign currency … [This act] is punishable under Section 135 of the Customs Act, 1962 read with FEMA 1999,” the report said. Meanwhile, the counsel for Swapna on Monday approached the additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) seeking to direct customs department to file a report naming officers involved in the leak of alleged statements made by Swapna and others under Section 108 of Customs Act, and to further issue notice to customs officers and media houses which published or aired the above statements, to show cause why contempt action shall not be initiated against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swapna-sarith-abetted-foreign-nationals-customs/articleshow/78755980.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||336 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 336 fresh cases of Covid-19, Uttarakhand’s coronavirus tally reached 58,360 on Monday. Also, six more coronavirus-related fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 933 in the state. For the first time on Monday, the nine hill districts reported more cases than the four plain ones. The hill districts of Pauri and Chamoli collectively reported 144 cases out of the total 336. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 84 new cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 82 from Pauri Garhwal, 62 from Chamoli, 25 from Nainital, 19 from Udham Singh Nagar, 16 from Haridwar. “While the four plain districts reported 144 cases collectively, the hills reported 192 cases,” added Tripathi. With 504 people recovered from the infection, recovering in the state reached 51486 and 88 percent patients have recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/336-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/78755972.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 20, 2020||Pune||FTII to get new director by year-end||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) is expected to get its new director by year-end. The current director, Bhupendra Kainthola, an Indian Information Service (IIS) officer, has been the director of the institute since May 2016. His original three-year tenure till 2019 was extended last year, after a less-than-successful search for a replacement by the FTII. The institute has put out a call for applications on its social media channels as well as on media outlets. “This is a tenure-based position. We have invited applications till the last week of November. After that, we will begin the evaluation and interview process,” said Sayyid Rabeehashmi, the FTII registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-to-get-new-director-by-year-end/articleshow/78757358.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Citizens wary about traffic snarls in Aundh due to impending diversions||Pune: Residents and in Aundh expect traffic congestion with the closure of the old Aundh-Sangvi bridge in the next few days. The bridge is set to be closed till January 6, 2021 to facilitate the construction of a new bridge parallel to it. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police will implement traffic diversions in this regard. In a notification on October 17, Pimpri Chinchwad deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sudhir Hiremath issued a slew of traffic diversions. “Vehicles will not be allowed to turn right towards Aundh D-Mart from the Dhore-Patil Subway. Vehicles travelling from Wakad and Sangvi towards Aundh or University can use the Rajiv Gandhi Bridge while those going to Baner can travel through Pimple Nilakh,” it stated. Similarly, a notification signed by Pune additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde further announced diversions on the Pune side — vehicles travelling towards Sangvi and Wakad would be using Bhale Chowk - Parihar Chowk - Rishi Malhotra Chowk and Rajiv Gandhi bridge. Alternatively they can use Bhale Chowk - Nagras Road and Ambedkar Setu. Citizens already facing traffic snarls due to ongoing repairs to the old bridge now have their fingers crossed. Ravindra Oswal, a local trader said the recent closure of a road leading to the bridge, to facilitate repairs, sparked total chaos in the area. “The traffic has been steadily increasing in the evenings. The old bridge is among the two entry points to Aundh from Pimpri Chinchwad and witnesses heavy traffic. With this bridge closed, the load is going to fall on Rajiv Gandhi Bridge and the entire area,” Ostwal said. Vaishali Patkar from Aundh Vikas Mandal said the police need to install diversion boards before implementing the diversions. “The new traffic police inspector for the Chatushrungi division has just taken charge and needs to get used to the area first. We need proper signage and personnel to ensure smooth traffic flow. We hope the implementation is done well,” Patkar said. Inspector Umesh Tavaskar of the Sangvi traffic division said they were already installing sign boards for motorists. “We have to coordinate with the Pune traffic police. We are ready to implement the diversions, but are waiting for a go-ahead from our Pune counterparts,” he explained. Inspector Prakash Mashalkar of the Chatushrungi traffic division said the diversions would be implemented in a few days. “I must visit the area to decide on a traffic management plan. Most of the pressure points due to the bridge closure will be in our area so we need to plan properly. We should be able to close the bridge in another three or four days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-wary-about-traffic-snarls-in-aundh-due-to-impending-diversions/articleshow/78757365.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand gets country’s first fully virtual home school||DEHRADUN: A fully virtual school in Uttarakhand that offers courses in Sanskrit and Vedic Mathematics among other subjects was inaugurated by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat over the weekend. The school in Dehradun is being hailed as the “first fully-virtual home school in the country” and will run classes from kindergarten to grade 12. School can start at any time of the year and each academic year will last for nine months with monthly tuition fees ranging from Rs 5,600 to Rs 13,600, according to the website of the ‘Seas Global Institute’. The private institution is affiliated to the Cambridge Board which provides globally-recognised education programmes and examinations in several countries. “We are the first fully-virtual home school in India. The virtual home school serves as an alternative to school education and can help boost confidence in children by allowing them to choose subjects based on their talent and interests,” said the institute’s founder Reena Prakash Tyagi. Tyagi said the school will teach general subjects like physics, chemistry, english while also offering courses in music, Sanskrit and Indian classical traditions. “We have a team of 20 teachers as of now and five students have already enrolled since admissions started on Saturday,” she said. Educationists said that with Covid-19 necessitating virtual classes, more parents are getting comfortable with the idea of online learning. “While the formal school system has its advantages and is the preferred medium for Indian parents, Covid-19 has led the shift to digital classes. The trend is likely to continue for some time as the world battles the pandemic and over time virtual home schools may find greater acceptance,” said Amrish Thukral, an educationist from Pantnagar. (With input from: Mohammed Anab)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-gets-countrys-first-fully-virtual-home-school/articleshow/78755989.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Online cultural activities to add sparkle to pandal-less Durga Puja||PUNE: Durga Puja is not going to be the same this year without the ‘addas’ and the various cultural activities that are so much a part of the celebration. “We used to have an art show, singing competition and antakshari and other games every year. This year, we are doing everything online. Participants can sign up on our Facebook page and we will organise the competitions on Zoom,” said Shantanu Mitra, a BPO professional, and member of a group for Bengali professionals living in Pune. Chiragdeep Basak, a customer service professional, said, “What is Durga Puja without ‘adda’? It is a very important part of our culture. I have many friends from Kolkata who are working and settled in Pune, but we are so busy with our own lives that we meet each other only during Durga Puja at the pandals. This year, we are going to have an online meet-up and play some games.” Ishani Datta, a college student, said that there is much excitement among her friends and acquaintances who are a part of a WhatsApp group for Bengali students living in the city. “On Ashthami, we will have a best dressed competition. Participants will have to post pictures of themselves dressed in traditional wear on our WhatsApp group. On Navami, there will be a cooking competition where participants have to click pictures of the dishes cooked by them and post them on the group. They will be solely judged on their presentation skills. We also have a mask decoration competition.” “This year, instead of a competition, we will upload performances by members of our group on social media. There will be a traditional dhunuchi dance with the incense burner, a rendition of a few popular Rabindrasangeets, folk songs and a Baul dance performance. We will also have an antakshari competition but with a twist. One can sing songs before 2000,” said Nobonita Biswas, member of a Bengali mothers’ group. “I will miss the food stalls at the pandals and the buzz around them. We have partnered with a food delivery service, so our members can order prasad, with sweets from a popular sweet shop. Our group also has a number of professional and amateur artists, who will be releasing their songs and showcasing their performances on our Facebook page,” said Debasmita Banerjee, member of a Facebook community formed to help Bengalis who have shifted to the city for study or work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bengali-community-organises-online-activities-to-add-sparkle-to-pandal-less-durga-puja/articleshow/78757359.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand experiences untimely forest fires in Oct; experts blame climate change||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand is witnessing sporadic forest fires as late as October, which is uncharacteristic of the hill state as per experts. At isolated places in Almora, local villagers as well as forest officials reported seeing forest fires and an “unprecedented hot weather at this time of the year”. Similar phenomenon has been reported from Chakrata. In the last two days, over 10 hectares of forest cover has already been gutted at both these places, as per estimates. “A scorching sun and negligible rains have completely drained moisture from the forest floor, making it highly inflammable. Sainjtaal area of Tyuni, which is at the border of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh and sees a decent amount of rainfall every year, didn’t even get 50% rainfall this time. Thanks to the dry grass floor, even the smallest spark could ignite a raging fire. This is why fires are being reported from the civil forest,” said divisional forest officer (DFO) of Chakrata, Deep Chand Arya. According to officials, there has been no loss of human life, wildlife or trees in the reserve forests so far adding that majority of the affected area belongs to the revenue department. Mahatim Yadav, DFO of Almora, said, “In Chantharia beat of Dwarahat forest range, ‘pirul’ (pine needles) and dry grass in around 1 hectare of land has burnt down. We have filed complaints against unidentified persons for starting fires in a reserve forest area.” Scientists tracking the phenomenon called it dangerous. Amit Verma, one of the lead scientists at Forest Research Institute (FRI) Dehradun, who is studying tangible and intangible losses inflicted by forest fires in India, said the fires are a clear indication of climate change and they are taking place across the world. “In broad terms, we can say it (the untimely forest fires) is a direct result of climate change. The frequency of rains is increasing, even as the intensity is decreasing. Some days, there’s harsh sunlight while the next day, it rains cats and dogs. This erratic pattern is very dangerous, and was very likely the reason behind the fire that raged through California in August. Lightning without any rain fuelled the disaster. If a forest has fuel and no moisture, it can burn in any season. In September, there were negligible rains in Uttarkahand, which is why there were forest fires the next month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-experiences-untimely-forest-fires-in-oct-experts-blame-climate-change/articleshow/78755997.cms||Shivani Azad
October 20, 2020||Pune||23-yr-old man murdered, 2 detained||Pune: The Chatushrungi police detained two unemployed men on Monday night for their alleged involvement in the murder case of a 23-year-old youth in Aundhgaon. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police told TOI, “The deceased has been identified as Kshitij Vairagar (23) of Aundhgaon. The two men assaulted Vairagar with an axe following an old animosity late on Monday evening.” The deceased was a casual worker. “The suspects and the deceased had confronted each in other on several occasions in last few months. Prima facie it is suspected that the duo killed him to take revenge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/23-yr-old-man-murdered-2-detained/articleshow/78757371.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kozhikode||Relatives demand 4th round probe by CBI||KOZHIKODE: Relatives of Chembarikka Khasi, C M Abdulla Moulavi, have demanded a further investigation into his death by a CBI team led by an officer not below the rank of SP. The CBI court directed them to file an affidavit if they have any objection to the third report submitted by the central agency. The khasi was found dead on the Chembarikka shore in Kasaragod on February 15, 2010. He was the khasi of over 140 mahals in Kasaragod and Mangaluru and the state vice-president of Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema. Local police, who conducted the initial probe, concluded he had committed suicide. Later, CBI tool over the case. However, two previous reports filed by the agency were rejected by the court, which asked Khasi’s relatives to file an objection before November 12 over the third report. “We have no doubt that Khasi’s was a murder. We want a further investigation led by an officer not below the rank of SP,” said Muhammad Shafi, Khasi’s elder son. “The psychological autopsy conducted by experts selected by CBI had concluded there is very little chance for the scholar to commit suicide. We have been saying that the investigating teams are controlled by some powerful sections,” he said. Samastha hailed the autopsy report but relatives are not enthused by the organization’s stand. “Some people from Kasaragod are misleading the organization,” Shafi said. He said the DSP who investigated the case initially was instrumental in establishing the suicide and destroying the evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/relatives-demand-4th-round-probe-by-cbi/articleshow/78756004.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Onion prices rise in Pune amid supply crunch||PUNE: The retail price of onion in most parts of the city crossed Rs 70 per kg on Monday from Rs 50 a kg last week, a cascading effect of the rise in the wholesale markets. Greengrocers and customers said prices ranged from Rs65-80 per kg in most parts of Pune, depending on the quality of the onions. Wholesale trader Bajirao Dighe at the Gultekdi market said, “Onions have been in short supply over the last one week and that has reflected in the increased price. A kg of onion is being sold between Rs60 and Rs80 in the wholesale market. Considering the current supply situation, we expect a further price hike of Rs10-12 per kg in the days to come.” The average wholesale price of the bulb at Lasalgaon APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) — the country’s largest wholesale onion market — shot up to Rs6,200 a quintal on Monday from Rs4,300 on Thursday, the last working day of the market. Ashwini Deshmukh, a working professional in the city, said, “Last week, I bought onions at about Rs50 a kg from the Deccan area, but its price touched Rs70 per kg on Monday. The price was even more at the Deccan fruit and vegetable market. The vendor I bought onions from told me that there was a supply shortage in the market earlier in the month, which led to some price rise. He said the downpour over the past few days had damaged crops and onion prices might rise further in the coming days.” Wanowrie resident Sakshi Jain said, “Not only are the onions expensive, they are also of poor quality. A few weeks ago, we were buying onions at around Rs25-30 a kg. The price has almost doubled now. Some farmers who sell their produce directly in our area were charging less than Rs70 per kg. A farmer told me that onion prices were lower in the outskirts of the city, where people buy from farmers in the neighbourhood instead of depending on the supply from Lasalgaon.” Dighe said the excess rainfall had damaged the onion kharif plantation. “Hectares of onion farms are still under knee-deep water in the district. We are only getting 50-60 trucks of the kitchen staple. The city is receiving inadequate supply because half of it is being sent to the southern states of Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Telangana. Its demand will remain constant because hotels and restaurants have reopened in the city,” he said. Balasaheb Rakshe, another commission agent, said, “Citizens will have to shell out more for onions at least for next 2-3 months. The price will remain ‘tight’ until the market gets the new harvest after February. We expect the price to reach Rs100 or more per kg in the retail markets soon.” Rohan Ursal from Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Adate Association said the prices of most vegetables were set to see a steep rise in the coming days. “Onion prices will rise further from Tuesday as the selling price at Market Yard has reached at least Rs70 per kg. The rain over the past few days has caused tremendous damage to crops. It will push up the prices of all vegetables,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onion-prices-rise-in-city-amid-supply-crunch/articleshow/78757376.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||0/720 in NEET: Shocked Amravati girl moves HC, seeks revaluation||MUMBAI/NAGPUR: The controversy over this year's NEET refuses to die down. Some aspirants claimed final scores did not match with what they calculated from their OMR (optical marking response) sheets. A student from Amravati has moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court after getting zero out of 720 in her results. Another student is filing a petition after scoring 212, which is “lower than what I calculated from my OMR sheet”. Stressing that she was expecting over 600/720 marks, Vasundhara Bhojane from Amravati, through counsel Ashwin Deshpande, contended she had an excellent academic record with 93.4% in class 10th and 81.9% in class 12th. She said it was likely she got zero marks due to a technical discrepancy. Bhojane sought revaluation of her answer sheet. Her counsel demanded directives to National Testing Agency (NTA) to produce the original copy of her OMR before HC and an interim stay on medical admission process, pending the petition. TimesViewSince aspirants prepare for competitive exams such as NEET for more than two years, a window from the National Testing Agency to clear grievances is the least they can ask for. If there are indeed technical glitches, NTA should rectify it at the earliest. In an exam, where every mark has an impact on the all-India ranks, difference of hundreds of marks will throw affected students completely out of the race. Students should also ensure that their claims are backed by sufficient proof.Issuing notices to respondents, including NTA, a division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryavanshi kept the petition for final disposal on October 26. NTA was told to file a response before the next hearing. A student from Buldhana, who scored 212, alleged his score drastically dropped from what he had calculated from OMR sheets. “When my son calculated his scores using the provisional answer key released by NTA, he got over 700. He was shocked to get his results last week,” said the father. He now plans to seek legal recourse. In a letter to NTA office, he sought his original OMR sheet and claimed he got more than 700 marks. NTA director-general Vineet Joshi said they verified all claims before results were announced and after that. “Even now, students are allowed to check OMR sheets. No claim made so far was right,” he said, adding that they would file an affidavit, if the court says so. A government official said there have been cases where students under pressure of doing well in the exam, tamper with OMR sheets. Cases have gone to court and have later been withdrawn. Ruiee Kapoor, a parent representative, said many students felt their OMR sheets have been manipulated. “NTA should recheck original OMR sheets and give them their rightful scores,” she said. Another parent representative, Sudha Shenoy, said around 60 responses of a student were not recorded by the software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/neet-aspirants-say-scores-dont-match-calculations-one-moves-hc/articleshow/78756753.cms||Yogita Rao
October 20, 2020||Kochi||‘Make compromises on demand for seats’||Kottayam: Congress has asked P J Joseph to abstain from making claims for local body and assembly seats in public space. It has also asked Joseph to make compromises regarding its demand for seats. Party leaders made their stand clear during the bilateral talks between Congress and Joseph group here on Monday. Congress assured Joseph of all the seats from which they contested in the local body elections the previous time. Members belonging to the Mani group who remained with Joseph will also be given the seats they had contested last time. It also suggested that those from the Jose group who may come to the Joseph group should also be given the seats from which they had contested previously. Congress will contest from the remaining seats from where Jose group had earlier contested. However, Joseph group is yet to give green signal to suggestions made by Congress. A final decision will be made at a meeting on October 28 in which Oommen Chandy is expected to take part. Seat sharing in the assembly elections was not discussed in the meeting. Congress made its stand clear after Joseph had come up with the claim for all the seats which has become vacant after Jose K Mani left the UDF. However, the party rejected the claim and Joseph to make compromises. Senior Congress leaders like Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, K C Joseph, Joseph Vazhackan, and Joseph group leaders like P J Joseph, Joy Abraham and Monce Joseph took part in the bilateral talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/make-compromises-on-demand-for-seats/articleshow/78756028.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||0/720 in NEET: Shocked Amravati girl moves HC, seeks revaluation||MUMBAI/NAGPUR: The controversy over this year's NEET refuses to die down. Some aspirants claimed final scores did not match with what they calculated from their OMR (optical marking response) sheets. A student from Amravati has moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court after getting zero out of 720 in her results. Another student is filing a petition after scoring 212, which is “lower than what I calculated from my OMR sheet”. Stressing that she was expecting over 600/720 marks, Vasundhara Bhojane from Amravati, through counsel Ashwin Deshpande, contended she had an excellent academic record with 93.4% in class 10th and 81.9% in class 12th. She said it was likely she got zero marks due to a technical discrepancy. Bhojane sought revaluation of her answer sheet. Her counsel demanded directives to National Testing Agency (NTA) to produce the original copy of her OMR before HC and an interim stay on medical admission process, pending the petition. TimesViewSince aspirants prepare for competitive exams such as NEET for more than two years, a window from the National Testing Agency to clear grievances is the least they can ask for. If there are indeed technical glitches, NTA should rectify it at the earliest. In an exam, where every mark has an impact on the all-India ranks, difference of hundreds of marks will throw affected students completely out of the race. Students should also ensure that their claims are backed by sufficient proof.Issuing notices to respondents, including NTA, a division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryavanshi kept the petition for final disposal on October 26. NTA was told to file a response before the next hearing. A student from Buldhana, who scored 212, alleged his score drastically dropped from what he had calculated from OMR sheets. “When my son calculated his scores using the provisional answer key released by NTA, he got over 700. He was shocked to get his results last week,” said the father. He now plans to seek legal recourse. In a letter to NTA office, he sought his original OMR sheet and claimed he got more than 700 marks. NTA director-general Vineet Joshi said they verified all claims before results were announced and after that. “Even now, students are allowed to check OMR sheets. No claim made so far was right,” he said, adding that they would file an affidavit, if the court says so. A government official said there have been cases where students under pressure of doing well in the exam, tamper with OMR sheets. Cases have gone to court and have later been withdrawn. Ruiee Kapoor, a parent representative, said many students felt their OMR sheets have been manipulated. “NTA should recheck original OMR sheets and give them their rightful scores,” she said. Another parent representative, Sudha Shenoy, said around 60 responses of a student were not recorded by the software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neet-aspirants-say-scores-dont-match-calculations-one-moves-hc/articleshow/78760428.cms||Yogita Rao
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Govt to hold one more MHT-CET||Nagpur: In some good news for the Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MHT-CET 2020) aspirants, the Maharashtra government would be conducting the exam again. This was announced by higher and technical education minister Uday Samant through a tweet. According to him, many students couldn’t appear in the MHT-CET due to incessant rains and subsequent floods in many parts of the state. “Therefore, the State Higher and Technical Education Department has decided to hold the entrance test once again for such students in a special session,” he said. He, however, couldn’t be contacted for his comments as his mobile phone was switched off. According to officials from the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), another reason for re-conducting the most popular entrance test was the government's latest decision to lower eligibility criteria for admissions to professional courses, including engineering, pharmacy, hotel management and catering technology, law, fine arts, and design. Earlier, the students needed to score 50% (45% for the backward category) in class 12th board exam to become eligible. Now, the cut-offs have been reduced to 45% (40% for backward category). Many aspirants skipped the MHT-CET, conducted by State Common Entrance Test (CET) Cell, after they failed to meet eligibility criterion as per old rules after Class 12 results were out. Even the numbers of those missing it out due to various reasons like reaching late at centres and forgetting identity cards are significant. Many parents and private colleges organizations like ‘The Association of the Management of Unaided Institutes in Rural Areas’ had appealed to the government to grant one more chance to such students. According to officials, the decision to hold the exam again was prodded by apprehension of large scale vacancies in engineering colleges. Since the last few years, the state is witnessing nearly half the seats going vacant as the students turned their back towards professional courses. In 2018-19, over 56% seats couldn’t be filled while last year nearly 50% went vacant. “A majority of these colleges are owned by politicians and are staring at closure. They are also putting a pressure on the government to take measures to fill up seats. The lowering of eligibility criteria was one step in this direction and holding MHT-CET again is another. The exam is just for the namesake any non-zero score can ensure a seat, if they otherwise meet eligibility criteria and seats are vacant,” they said. Reasons for re-conducting MHT-CET: * Many students couldn’t appear due to rains in many areas * Govt lowered cut-offs to 45% (40% for backward category) from earlier 50% (45%) in Class 12 * Many aspirants skipped test after failing to meet old eligibility criterion * Nearly 50% seats in engineering are going vacant since many years * Big demand from parents and private colleges association to re-conduct test||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-to-hold-one-more-mht-cet/articleshow/78756856.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP mulls new sand policy, to seek ideas from stakeholders||VIJAYAWADA: The government is contemplating a review of its sand policy and plans to invite stakeholders to give their ideas to frame the new policy. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday reviewed the issues concerning the supply of sand during the past one year. He also looked into various suggestions and feedback from people. The general opinion from the people was that the supply of sand was much less compared to the demand. Though sand smuggling has been contained to some extent, it is not freely available to people on demand, as planned by the government. Transportation was found to be a major hurdle which hit sand supply. The government had, at one stage, proposed supply of vehicles to unemployed youth through finance corporations and engage them in sand transport. However, the proposal has not seen the light of day even after a year. The government has constituted a cabinet committee headed by minister for mines Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister for transport Perni Venkatramaiah and minister for civil supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, which studied the issue and suggested some changes. Jagan told the ministers to further invite ideas from the public, mostly from the stakeholders and formulate a new policy. The committee was also asked to study the existing sand policies of various states, particularly the sand policy of neighbouring Telangana. The CM expressed displeasure over complaints against sand supply and wanted officials to rectify lapses and ensure supply on demand. He also cautioned officials against illegal mining and black marketing of sand. Officials were told to increase sand reaches and stock points across the state by increasing mining capacity of some of the reaches and involve corporate companies for excavation. He suggested officials to plan sand price taking the assembly constituency as a unit. Once the excavation is streamlined with the involvement of corporate companies, the government plans to focus on supply of sand to different categories, including government schemes, domestic use and for commercial purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-mulls-new-sand-policy-to-seek-ideas-from-stakeholders/articleshow/78755856.cms||Gopi Dara
October 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakha cops trace stolen lorry within 48 hours||VISAKHAPATNAM: Greater Visakha police arrested a habitual offender and accused in a lorry theft case and recovered the stolen lorry within 48 hours. The accused has been identified as K Anil Kumar from Kottapalli in Krishna district. Crime wing DCP V Suresh Babu said the lorry had come with load to Gajuwaka from Vijayawada on October 17. After unloading, lorry driver K Anjibabu went to a nearby transport office where he met Anil. The accused told Anjibabu that his lorry had broken down at Anandapuram and sought help for delivery to a client. Anjibabu went with him to Anandapuram in the lorry, where Anil asked him to wait at a hotel and escaped with the lorry. Based on Anjibabu’s complaint, crime wing cops scanned CCTV footage and found that the accused had taken the Srikakulam route. They alerted all check-posts on the route and arrested Anil along with the lorry at Icchapuram. “Cases are pending against the accused in Nuziveedu and Hyderabad,” Suresh Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/visakha-cops-trace-stolen-lorry-within-48-hours/articleshow/78756433.cms||Siva G
October 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AU declares results of AUEET & AUCET 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University (AU) on Monday declared the results of its common entrance tests – AUCET-2020 and AUEET-2020. AU vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy released the results here in the varsity. Around 16,000 students had appeared for both tests. Continuing its previous record, the varsity released results within three days after completion of exams. While Konala Arshita Bhavya topped AUCET with 93 marks, Konala Sri Krishna stood first in AUEET with 80 marks. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Reddy appreciated officials of the directorate of admissions for readying the results in three days. “The schedule for the certificate verification and counselling process would be announced soon,” said Prof Reddy. Candidates can check their results on the Andhra University directorate of admissions website. Candidates have to upload their certificates for online certificate verification. Those who have registered for courses that do not have the entrance test requirement must also upload their certificate for online verification. Certificate verification for MPEd course will be conducted after announcement of BPEd results. Based on performance in AUCET, AU will fill nearly 2,050 seats in arts, science and law courses on campus and 4,500 seats in affiliated colleges. Under AUEET, there are 300 integrated engineering seats on AU campus. Rector Prof K Samatha, registrar GV Ravindranadh Babu, directorate of admission director Prof DA Naidu and others were present at the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-declares-results-of-aueet-aucet-2020/articleshow/78756133.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||Plan to set up a geology museum in Chamarajanagar gathers steam||MYSURU: The district administration in Chamarajanagar is stepping up efforts to bring the geological museum proposed at Mallaiahnapura village closer to fruition. Sources in the department of mines and geology told TOI that a team of geologists, accompanied by officials and other experts from Geological Survey of India (GSI) paid a visit to the site where the museum is proposed to be built from October 8 to 10. The members of the team conducted a survey to see the availability of minerals, rocks and other precious stones in Chamarajanagar. The members surveyed the area behind a school near Mallaianahapura, Galipura, Badanaguppe and other surrounding villages. Minerals such dolomite, granite, augite, a large variety of quartz stones, igneous rocks have been found in these villages. The members also stumbled upon sedimentary rocks, smoky quartz mineral stones and fuchsite crystals in the course of the survey. The team studied the geological composition of these villages in response to a letter by Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi to the GSI director. Chamarajanagar is home to more than a dozen deposits of minerals and stones and the district administration is keen on showcasing its natural wealth to the public, not to mention educating students about the availability of these resources. There are also plans to exhibit stones and minerals purchased from other places, given as gifts and obtained through exchange. GSI officials and researchers are trying to excavate minerals and stones indigenous to the district. Chamarajanagar has, for the longest time, had to labour under the disrepute of having been forest brigand Veerappan’s lair, not to mention rumours of its being ‘jinxed’ insofar as incumbent chief ministers visiting it losing their post. However, Ravi believes that the geological museum will usher in much-needed development in the backward district. Deputy director of the department of mines and geology Lakshmamma said that the team that surveyed the villages would submit its report to the DC soon. “In keeping with the findings of the report, the DC will take up measures to set up the museum since the district mining fund is available for utilisation. A detailed project report on setting up the museum will be prepared once the DC gives the nod,” Lakshmamma told TOI. (With input from : S Ramesh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/plan-to-set-up-a-geology-museum-in-cnagar-gathers-steam/articleshow/78754992.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Real-life dramas play out at home minister Anil Deshmukh’s first redressal camp in Nagpur||NAGPUR: ‘Sir, if my husband is released today on bail, he will murder me tomorrow,” said a sobbing Nayan Rokde to the State home minister Anil Deshmukh as he gave patient hearing to 50 complaints at his first complaint redressal camp that lasted over two hours at Police Gymkhana on Monday. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, helping Deshmukh analyze and allot the cases among the DCPs, immediately rushed the senior inspector of Ajni police station to oppose the bail of Nayan’s husband assuring the woman all possible legal help to ensure her husband Vickey remained behind bars. “We will attach his crime chart while opposing bail but if the court allows him bail then there would be very little we can do except take preventive action as soon as he is freed,” said the CP whose thorough homework on 50 cases was one of the reasons behind the success of the camp. City police had already registered eight FIRs in these cases even before the camp was held. The cases would be reviewed by the CP himself. Tears rolled, voices rose, tempers flared and emotions boiled over over as Deshmukh’s first of it’s kind initiative to give justice to the aggrieved people saw complainants coming from places as far as Bhilai in Chhattisgarh from where Purnima Thakur had come with her complaint of being duped of Rs 34 lakh. Savita Savarkar had come from Ghugus in Chandrapur to lodge a complaint against a city-based criminal Dilip Dakah who had been threatening her. Elderly couple, Gopal Prasad Pathak and his wife were almost in tears as they narrated how their tenants were not vacating the shops. Pathak’s wife pleaded their physically challenged daughter could be better looked after if one of the shops in the basement was made available. “We will give you justice,” said Deshmukh to him as CP transferred the case to the DCP Economic Offence Wing (EOW) who was also made ‘nodal officer’ to co-ordinate between the complainants and respective DCP and government agencies. Deshmukh had also summoned different government agencies at his camp apart from police. He issued directions to senior officers, including additional collector. Deshmukh questioned the deputy registrar as to how cheats manage to sell same property to many people and make multiple sale deeds too. He was also miffed regarding touts present at the registrar office. Deshmukh also sternly tocked off a leader of his own party for purchasing disputed property. He directed strict action against at least two more leaders. Corporator Manoj Gawande highlighted open consumption of ganja and criminal activities at Rameshwari and Bannerjee layout. Deshmukh and CP Kumar assured action within a short time. Satyanarayan Kumbhare and Nakul Thakre, two of the complainants, sounded hopeful after the camp. “The opportunity to directly voice our complaints to the home minister was a welcome experience. Hopefully the land mafia would now face some action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/real-life-dramas-play-out-at-home-minister-deshmukhs-first-redressal-camp/articleshow/78756922.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Immigrants for early implementation of CAA||NAGPUR: Nearly a year after the citizenship amendment act (CAA) was passed, the official format for making an application under this law has not been released. The matter was raised by immigrants from Sind Province of Pakistan during a webinar held recently. The law has made getting Indian citizenship faster, for Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians who have migrated to India from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh as on December 2014. The webinar was attended by religious leader of the community Sant Yudhishtirlal Shadani, and member of parliament (MP) from Indore Shanker Lalwani as key speakers. “As the webinar was held to thank the MP for coordinating the return of stranded persons due to covid in Pakistan, the other issues were also raised,” said Rajesh Jhambia of Sindh Hindi Panchayat at Nagpur. Jhambia said, the migrants who been eagerly waiting for the format were assured by Lalwani that it will be ready in a month. Monday’s statement by BJP chief J P Nadda also comes as a relief, he said. Shadani said “the law has been passed and even the gazette notification has been issued. Yet the persons for whom it was meant have not been able to benefit. The government should make application under CAA possible at the earliest,” he said. Chetan Tarwani a speaker from Raipur said, it has also been demanded that the government should come up with a system of fast track visa for fresh immigrants from such countries coming to India too. Apart from CAA there are delays in clearing the citizenship applications in the normal course too. The cases have to be forwarded by the district administration, however applications many a 200 persons are pending, added Jhambia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/immigrants-for-early-implementation-of-caa/articleshow/78756868.cms||Shishir Arya
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Examinees from Qatar, J & K & Ladakh appear for NU exams||NAGPUR: Even as Nagpur University continues to face flak from all quarters for its inept handling of online examinations that turned out to be a disaster for a majority of papers, many students have benefited from its experimentation with MCQ tests. It included those from states like Jammu and Kashmir and north-east and also from overseas. In fact, NU authorities have gone out of their way to help such students to appear in the papers successfully. “We’ve a student from Qatar named Fardeen Kausar, who was facing problems in operating the Pariksha App. We told her to activate her India number and helped her in sorting out the problem. She was appearing for Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) papers which has a big enrolment of students from the northern states,” Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. After initial setbacks due to technical snag and crashing of Vodaphone-Idea network, NU has managed to successfully conduct the exams on Monday, barring some minor cases. It conducted online papers of over 35,700 students, which was the biggest so far in 11 days of its exams schedule. About 98.57% examinees appeared in the papers from four faculties. “Even on Monday about 100 students from Jammu and Kashmir appeared for the exams of BPED and MPEd. A girl from Ladakh named Ladunima was facing problems and she called on our helplines. In both regions of Kashmir and Ladakh, they still used 2G or 3G connectivity and it became difficult for them to solve papers of online exams. But with little help, they managed to successfully appear in exams. Ladunima also sent a text message thanking us,” senior official from NU Exam Section Navin Mungle told TOI. On Saturday, many students from Anantnag district in Kashmir weren’t able to access Pariksha App. “We then told them to come down to Jammu where they received good connectivity and appeared in the exams. We’ve now completed 17-18 exams completely and in process to declare their results. We’ve already set a formula through which the marks would be given. It included internal and theory marks having 50% weightage it,” Sable said, adding that the examinees were spread across the length and breadth of India. # Examinees appeared in NU online exams on Monday: Shift -------------- Faculty------------ Enrolled ------------------ Appeared ----------% 1st -------------- Commerce --------- 11,787 ---------------------- 11,588 ----------- 98.31% 2nd ------------- Humanities -------- 3,780 ----------------------3,670 ---------------- 97.08% 3rd ------------- Science ------------- 9,151 --------------------- 9,003 ---------------- 98.39% 4th ------------- Engg & Tech ------- 11,529-------------------- 11,470 --------------- 98.48% Total ------------------------------------ 36,247------------------- 35,731 --------------- 98.57%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/examinees-from-qatar-j-k-ladakh-appear-for-nu-exams/articleshow/78756831.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to come up with umbrella brand for products made in state||DEHRADUN: To promote the products made in Uttarakhand, the state government has decided to come up with a common brand name, which could be used with all such products. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, during a review meeting of Growth Centres on Monday, directed the department of industries to take the help of a professional firm in identifying the umbrella brand – which can be used for locally made products – and also its logo. CM Rawat maintained that this will help in identifying products which are made in the Himalayan state. After the launch of the brand and its logo, all such products would also carry its name on their products. Rawat said “an umbrella brand should be created for the products of Uttarakhand. For this, the help of skilled experts should be taken and a complete study of the specialty of Uttarakhand’s products, possible markets should be done. The brand name should be such that the essence of Uttarakhand comes from it.” In 2018, the Uttarakhand government had come up with the concept of Growth Centres, which identified the potential of a particular area and thereafter, helped the locals and self-help groups in starting and progressing with projects which were most viable in that belt. Till date, the state has approved 104 growth centres, out of which 72 have been activated. About 30,000 people are benefiting from these growth centers. A number of growth centres are working in different sectors like agri-business (38), bakery (4), dairy and milk (5), fisheries (11), organic wool (10), prasad (5), masala (4), fruit processing (5), honey (4), LED light (2), craft (5), IT (2), tourism (2), handloom and quilt (2), animal fodder (1), and aroma (4). Presently, the state has some local brands being made under the banner of Hilans and Himadri. Till September 2020, the total sales amount of the functional growth centers was Rs 6.90 crore, while the profit amount was more than Rs 60 lakh. The growth and turnover of growth centers has increased steadily. A website is also being created for the online marketing of growth centres and also for the sale of locally made products. The website will ensure complete transparency and third party evaluation will also be done. The CM said that the focus should be on “regular sale of products of growth centres and not just seasonal. A pickup vehicle can be arranged by including some of the surrounding growth centres. This would also reduce the transportation cost,” the CM said. He directed the district magistrates to physically visit the growth centres and look into all the related matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-come-up-with-umbrella-brand-for-products-made-in-state/articleshow/78756037.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: This fall is lifting spirits||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 3,536 Covid-19 cases after testing 83,625 people on Monday that pushed the case tally to 6,90,936. Cases in Chennai once again dropped below 1,000 to 885 on Monday after 26 days. The cumulative death toll touched 10,691 after the state reported 49 deaths in the past 24 hours. At the end of the day, the state had 38,093 people under treatment. On Monday, the four districts of Chennai region reported 1,390 cases and 24 deaths. This includes 885 cases and 16 deaths in Chennai. Fresh cases were above 200 in Coimbatore (290) and Chengalpet (241). All other districts reported cases below 200. Cases were the lowest in Ariyalur (12), Perambalur (15) and Tenkasi (22). Active cases were the highest in Chennai (12,285), followed by Coimbatore (3,895) and the lowest in Perambalur (81) and Sivaganga (148). Although the case tally in Tamil Nadu is lower than Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, the fatality rate (1.5%) is greater than Andhra Pradesh (0.8%) and Karnataka (1.3%). “We did see a spike in deaths some weeks ago, but deaths have been coming down with the fresh cases. Now our recovery rate is close to 93%,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The average number of fresh cases in Tamil Nadu, which had plateaued for three weeks – between September 4 and 28 – and hovered around 5,600, came down marginally to 5,571 the next week. It then fell to 5,125 between October 6 and 12. Between October 13 and Monday, it was 4,239. The overall positivity rate came down by two points this week compared to 6.7 in the second week of September and pushed the case doubling period to 101 days. “All these are signs that the infection rate is coming down. But we are still guarded. The average number of tests went up from 84,171 in the second week of September to 89, 814 between October 13 and Monday. The compliance to mask is low and social distancing norms are being violated. Any small cluster can push up cases,” he said. During the same period, deaths have come down. Unlike the case curve, deaths saw a peak and a fall. For instance, between September 8 and 14, the average deaths reported a day was 72 and the following week it dropped to 62. But between September 22 and 28, it went up to 73. Between October 13 and 19, average 53 Covid-19 deaths were reported a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-this-fall-is-lifting-spirits/articleshow/78757391.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||MP’s successful ‘conviction pattern’ for state soon: Anil Deshmukh||NAGPUR:The successful ‘conviction pattern’ of Madhya Pradesh would be analysed and implemented in Maharashtra to further improve the existing rate from 49%, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday. Talking to the media at Police Gymkhana accompanied by CP Amitesh Kumar, Deshmukh also said the state’s conviction rate has improved from abysmal 8.5% to reach 49%. “We would be soon analysing MP’s conviction pattern to ascertain whether such a system can be implemented in the state too. Some other states have already implemented it, but we would be studying it now after a presentation from a senior level officer from MP,” said the state home minister. Speaking about his first complaint redressal camp at the same venue earlier in the day, where complaints of 50 persons were addressed, Deshmukh said. “The camp was my pilot project. I feel a strong message should go to those active in wrongful practices,” said the home minister. He had earlier repeatedly asked Kumar to ensure criminals and land mafias in the city face police action and are reigned in. “CP has already taken note of the situation where some government officials may also be involved with criminal elements. They too would not be spared,” he said. Deshmukh also said letters would be soon sent to banks, asking them to follow full-proof system and a stricter Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for transfer of amounts. He said banks are expected to follow more caution while dealing with cash transfers while replying to a query related to increased cyber and online frauds. Responding to a query regarding illegal activities in neighbouring states also affecting Nagpur, Deshmukh asked CP to reply. Kumar said a coordination meeting with officials of adjoining districts of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh is going to be held soon. “Even without a meeting, we can also get into action mode if there is a workable input received by us,” he said. HOME MINISTER SPEAK Strict action being initiated against cyber and online fraudsters Disha Act would be passed ‘soon’, probably in the Winter session Strict vigil would be also kept on narcotics syndicates Pending transfers of officers in Gadchiroli already in process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mps-successful-conviction-pattern-for-state-soon-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/78756934.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Panels set up to expedite stalled NH works across state||NAGPUR: In a bid to expedite stalled road development projects for various reasons, the state government has constituted a 10-member committees of officers from various departments including forest in every division of the state. “The regional sub-committees will address project-specific issues regarding national highways and Central government-funded projects in different divisions. It will aim at resolving various generic issues quickly that would help speed up completion of the approved highway projects,” said Ulhas Debadwar, principal secretary (PWD). The sub-committees will consist of divisional commissioner (chairman) and superintending engineer (national highway) as member-secretary. Other members include chief engineer, chief general manager, regional officer, MoRTH, Navi Mumbai, chief engineer of MSRDC, chief engineer (electrical), chief engineer (water supply), chief engineer of MSSRDCL and forest officer. The committee shall review the generic issues common to all national highway works by conducting quarterly meetings on issues like land acquisition, tree cutting permissions, forest land approvals, shifting of electric and water supply and sewerage pipelines, delayed projects, required cash flow from the MoRTH, approvals of new highway projects and projects under the CRF scheme. They will coordinate and expedite approvals by various state departments like revenue, forest, urban development, and energy. They shall submit recommendations to the state-level high power committee under the chairmanship of chief secretary. The committees are a result of meeting between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union road and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and PWD minister Ashok Chavan. Issues that were common in all highway projects under implementation by PWD/MSRDC/NHAI were discussed in detail. “The generic issues are required to be addressed immediately to speed up the projects. The formation of regional committees was also reiterated by Chavan at a video conference with PWD ministers of all states addressed by Gadkari on April 28, 2020,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panels-set-up-to-expedite-stalled-nh-works-across-state/articleshow/78880545.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Atchannaidu named TDP’s AP unit prez||Visakhapatnam/Amaravati: Former minister Kinjarapu Atchannaidu has been named TDP’s Andhra Pradesh unit president. Atchannaidu, who is also the TDP’s deputy leader in the assembly, will replace another former minister from Srikakulam district, Kala Venkata Rao. TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu on Monday reconstituted the state units of AP and Telangana, and the party’s central committee and politburo. Naidu’s son Nara Lokesh, the lone general secretary of the party’s national committee, has been made one of the eight general secretaries of the 27-member central committee. Guntur MP Galla Jayadev has been taken into TDP politburo to replace the vacancy created by his mother and former minister Galla Aruna Kumari, who has been taken into the central committee. Former ministers Kala Venkata Rao, Nakka Anand Babu, NMD Farooq, Kollu Ravindra, Pithani Satyanarayana, and former MLAs Bonda Umamaheswara Rao and V Anitha have also been included in the 25-member politburo. Former Jaggaiahpet MLA Sriram Tataiah (Rajagopal) has been appointed as treasurer. The post was held by former minister Sidda Raghavarao before he switched over to the YSRC recently. Atchannaidu, who was arrested by ACB in June for his alleged role in the multi-crore ESI scam, was granted bail by high court on August 28. The two-time minister and five-time MLA, who hails from Nimmada village in Kotabommali mandal of Srikakulam district, has been a long-time soldier of the TDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/atchannaidu-named-tdps-ap-unit-prez/articleshow/78756108.cms||Siva G
October 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC vehicles to get GPS trackers for better management||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to install global positioning system (GPS) tracking devices to its vehicles to monitor garbage transportation. As many as 600 vehicles, including water tankers, will be fitted with GPS devices. The devices will help in constant monitoring of garbage transfer and help identify route deviations. According to GVMC engineering officials, GPS trackers have already been fitted in 50 vehicles under the Smart City Project which can be monitored from the GVMC’s City Operations Centre (COC). “Now, the remaining vehicles would also generate geo-fence alerts based on the location of vehicles. The data feed and summary will help ensure real-time route adherence of garbage transfer vehicles,” said a GVMC official. “The system would also generate summaries related to various components such as trip summary, ignition summary, schedule graph, and work hour summary. This will also help keep track of fuel-related expenditure,” the official said. The city produces an estimated 1,100 tonnes of garbage every day. The GVMC, after collecting garbage from households, commercial units and streets, first sends it to a nearby transfer station before transferring it to the dumpyard in Kapuluppada. As per projections, quantum of household garbage in the city will grow two-folds within the next decade. The civic body has launched several initiatives on solid waster management in the last few years including the introduction of the closed compaction system at its garbage transfer station, a bio-mining project in the Kapuluppada dumpyard and construction of a waste-to-energy plant at the dumpyard. The 15MW energy project is likely to become operational in the coming months which will significantly reduce the burden on the landfill as the civic body has promised to supply around 940 tonnes of waste on a daily basis to the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-vehicles-to-get-gps-trackers-for-better-mgmt/articleshow/78756294.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 20, 2020||Hubballi||Stamps, envelopes bearing pictures of Kappatagudda, Magadi Kere pique enthusiasts’ interest||GADAG: Although both departments had separate and distinct objectives of their own, collaboration between the forest and postal departments is certain to leave most people happy: The collection of stamps released by the postal department featuring Kappatagudda Wildlife Sanctuary and Magadi Lake Conservation Reserve is the result of this combined initiative. On the one hand, the forest department was keen on raising awareness about these protected biodiversity spheres in the state, while the postal department was keen on piquing the interest of the community of philatelists with a set of stamps embossed with paintings of the picturesque forests and gardens of Karnataka. Deputy conservator of forests for Gadag division AV Surya Sen told TOI, “The forest department ordered customised envelopes of the Kappatagudda Wildlife Sanctuary and Magadi Kere Conservation Reserve, which are the two protected forest areas in Gadag. We unveiled these stamps during the 66th Wildlife Week celebrations held between October 2 and 8. We are waiting for 2,000 envelopes and stamps with pictures of these two forests from the postal department. Once we have the adequate number of envelopes and stamps, we will keep them for sale at the Saalumarada Timmakka Park and Zoo at Binkadakatti. Envelopes with pictures of either Kappatagudda or Magadi Kere sanctuaries have a brief introduction of the respective place in both English and Hindi.” Sen said that the stamps could only be bought once, and would be among the prized possessions in any philatelist’s collection. Superintendent of post offices for Gadag postal division HB Hasabi said that the Philatelic Bureau of Gadag would keep the envelopes, each priced at Rs 20, and stamps, costing Rs 5 each. “The stamps bear pictures of the red panda, a mammal that can be spotted in the Kappatagudda forest. We have already started receiving inquiries from philatelists about the stamps and envelopes. Although the forest department has sought 2,000 envelopes each with the Kappatagudda and Magadi Kere embossed on them, we can obtain more from the philatelic bureau depending on the demand,” Hasabi said. Sayyed Nooruddin Ballari, who holds the distinction of being the only recipient of the Rajyotsava Award in the philately category, said that this collaborative endeavour of the forest and postal departments had come at the most opportune time when philately was facing a threat owing to the pandemic. “It will also help protect the Kappatagudda forest, which has many medicinal herbs, and is rich in flora and fauna. These envelopes and stamps will both commemorate the region and serve as gifts to its people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stamps-envelopes-bearing-pictures-of-kappatagudda-magadi-kere-pique-enthusiasts-interest/articleshow/78758234.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Don’t let your guard down, Official||DHARWAD: Social welfare commissioner Ravikumar Surpur who is also the district in-charge secretary has directed officials to adopt all preventive steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection and also hold series of sensitisation programmes in public places. Chairing a meeting of officials to review the Covid-19 situation in the district on Saturday, Ravikumar said that rural people are letting their guard down in taking precautionary measures. The role of officials is vital to educate the rural masses on maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks while coming out of their houses. Many people from rural areas come to Dharwad and Hubballi cityto sell their farm produce. They depend on buses to reach urban pockets and sell their produce. They have to take extra precautions during travelling and ensure they wear face masks. Officials can hold street plays to create awareness, he said. Police, panchayat Raj, health and revenue officials have been entrusted with responsibility to contain the spread of infection, said Ravikumar. He further said that the region has received excess rainfall in the last three months and so the chances of the spread of epidemics is high. He urged the HDMC to take regular cleanliness drives . ZP CEO B Susheela said that all the PDOs have been asked to hold health awareness programme in rural areas and ASHA workers are visiting households educating people on drinking clean water and on sanitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dont-let-your-guard-down-official/articleshow/78758024.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Tungabhadra pushkaram: Govt sanctions Rs 200 crore||Amaravati: The government has cleared the proposal for construction of ghats and roads along the banks of the Tungabhadra river for the upcoming pushkarams in Kurnool district from November 20 to December 1. Funds to the tune of Rs 200 crore have been sanctioned for pushkaram works and the district administration directed to launch works on a war footing. While the district administration had sent the proposal to the government almost two months ago, it was kept on hold in view of the severity of the Covid-19 outbreak in the state. It was learnt that the government would only go ahead with the arrangements if the outbreak was contained ahead of the pushkarams and directed the district administration to initially focus on containing the spread of the virus. “Kurnool was one of the worst-hit districts by the pandemic as it reported over 58,000 positive cases. Our priority was to contain the virus spread and we succeeded,” said a senior official. The district is presently reporting just below 50 positive cases per day which is one of the lowest in the state. Kurnool was at the top of the charts for nearly two months in the initial stages of the outbreak. Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said the government would make arrangements for the upcoming Pushkarams and has waited for the Centre’s unlock guidelines before taking the call to launch works. “We will complete the works related to pushkar ghats and connecting roads well in advance. We have constituted 19 committees to supervise the arrangements,” said Buggana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tungabhadra-pushkaram-govt-sanctions-rs-200-crore/articleshow/78756152.cms||Samdani MN
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Petition in AP high court over alleged fleecing by private hospitals||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Monday heard a PIL filed by social activist Thota Suresh Babu against the exorbitant fees being collected by private Covid-19 hospitals. The petitioner argued that patients were facing severe financial crisis due to the huge amounts being charged by corporate and private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. The PIL also alleged that the government has failed to control corporate hospitals. The HC bench, headed by chief justice J K Maheswari, heard the PIL and sought the government’s version. The additional AG said the government is taking stringent action against corporate hospitals which are overcharging patients. He also gave examples of incidents where the government took action against erring hospitals. The court directed the government to file a counter stating the details of fees collected by the hospitals and the action taken against such hospitals which are collecting extra amount than what has been prescribed by the government and posted the next hearing to two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/petition-in-high-court-over-alleged-fleecing-by-private-hosps/articleshow/78756095.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||Unfair to deduct 70% for cancelled trip, forum tells Cox & Kings||Mumbai: A district consumer forum has held Ezeego One Travel and Tours Ltd and Cox & Kings Co Ltd guilty of indulging in unfair trade practice for deducting over 70% of the booking amount paid by a Nashik family who had to cancel their European trip in 2009 as their UK visa, for one part of the trip, was rejected. The forum said Lataben and Suryakant Shah had made an advance payment of Rs81,000, of which the travel company and agent deducted Rs57,800. “It appears the opponent took undue advantage of unilateral terms in the booklet. Therefore, this is a case of unjust enrichment by opponents,” Mumbai Suburban District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum said. It said it was clear the agent and tour company could not rely on unilateral terms of the agreement and the deduction of cancellation charges should be in proportion to services rendered. “Even giving allowance to opponents for deducting expenses incurred by them for planning the tour, processing visa application and flight ticket cancellation charges, the amount deducted from the payment, which is above 70%, is exorbitant and cannot be justified...” the forum added. It stated that it would have been just and reasonable for them to deduct 40% and refund Rs48,600. “The complainant has already received a refund of Rs23,200. After deducting the refund, the complainant is entitled to recover the balance Rs25,400 from opponents,” the forum said. The agent and tour company said even though charges for cancelling the tour 15 days before departure were Rs50,000 per person, the Shahs had been given a special concession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unfair-to-deduct-70-for-cancelled-trip-forum-tells-cox-kings/articleshow/78756755.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kochi||Mar Thoma Church head buried with state honours in Kerala||KOTTAYAM: The supreme head of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, Joseph Mar Thoma, was buried with state honours in Tiruvalla, near here, on Monday. The metropolitan’s mortal remains were laid to rest in the cemetery for bishops on the premises of St Thomas Church, located at the church headquarters. The three-part funeral service began on Sunday. The final service was conducted at the specially arranged sanctum sanctorum in the Alexander Mar Thoma auditorium at 3pm. Suffragan metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius, who now holds additional charge of head of the church, led the service. Cardinal Baselios Cleemis, Cyril Mar Baselios, Kuriakose Mar Theophilos, Joshua Mar Ignathios, Kuriakose Mar Gregorios and other episcopas of the Mar Thoma Church led the service. The customary ‘nagari kanikkal’ was confined to a symbolic one due to Covid-19 restrictions. Only the metropolitan’s relatives were allowed to kiss his palm before the funeral. The mortal remains were placed in the special cellar at 5.30pm. Minister J Mercykutty Amma represented the state government at the funeral. Joseph Mar Thoma had passed away at a private hospital in Tiruvalla on Sunday. He was 89. He was metropolitan for 13 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mar-thoma-church-head-buried-with-state-honours/articleshow/78756078.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Thane||Underqualified staff deployed at ICU in Thane||THANE: A surprise visit by senior civic officials to the Saket hospital has revealed deployment of under-qualified staff instead of qualified doctors to attend critical Covid patients following which the administration has now sought explanation from the agency hired to provide manpower. According to municipal officials requesting anonymity, a surprise visit by senior staff from the health department and the hospital management, was held last week, following which the teams spotted absence of qualified doctors. “The inspectors randomly checked credentials of the on-duty staff independently manning the ICUs and other units and were shocked to know they were either students or interns,” said an official. It may be noted the medical staff deployment at the Saket hospital was outsourced in July. It is learnt the agency that was allegedly recommended by a senior leader and is now likely to be given an extension to provide manpower for the facility. “A surprise inspection revealed students and interns deputed to oversee Covid patients and also manage ICU operations, which is not allowed as it could prove dangerous,” said a municipal official privy to the happenings. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner at the Thane corporation remained unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/underqualified-staff-deployed-at-icu-in-thane/articleshow/78756757.cms||Manoj Badgeri
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Aarey structures razed after TOI reports illegality||MUMBAI: BMC on Monday demolished temporary structures on a no-development zone plot at Aarey Colony after TOI published a report with a photograph. Local Shiv Sena MLA and former minister of state Ravindra Waikar took up the matter with the civic chief after reading the report. Last week, P-South sub-engineer K G Limye filed a complaint with Aarey police against illegal land-filling along with unauthorised parking of commercial vehicles and stacking of construction material without permission from the competent authority. “The offence is cognisable under Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act and therefore request you (Aarey police) to take cognizance of it and deal with the accused according to law,” the complaint stated. Assistant municipal commissioner Santosh Kumar Donde said he can remove the structures which have been demolished but cannot remove the vehicles. “It is a private plot. We have filed a complaint under MRTP and the magistrate has to give orders on further action. Police must take action against the vehicles parked there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aarey-structures-razed-after-toi-reports-illegality/articleshow/78756758.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Floods to cause more damage in coming years, warn experts||HYDERABAD: The micro climatic zones, like the one which triggered the 2016 flood in the city, are going to be more intense due to changes in the climate, say experts. A study has revealed that as a result of the changes, damage due to floods is going to increase in the coming years. “The urban areas have registered higher temperatures than rural surroundings. The Urban Heat Island (UHI) effect is making an impact on the rainfall patterns in the city. Due to high temperature in urban areas as compared to rural surroundings, cooler rural air converges towards urban area with low pressure,” Dr S Venkateswarlu, a geography expert of Osmania University, said. According to the research, urban flooding could also be attributed to Urban Heat Island effect. The study also revealed that the chronology of the city indicates changes in this direction over a period of time. The 1908 floods was an outcome of natural process - high intensity rainfall in the upper catchment areas of Musi river whereas the 2000, 2008 and 2016 floods resulted from the natural as well as anthropogenic activities. The 2000, 2008 and 2016 floods were climatic change induced-floods in an urban environment. The damage to flood-affected areas in 2000, 2008 and 2016 was most widespread and the impact reached the peri-urban areas. The affected areas were mostly around storm water drains, low-lying areas and those in the vicinity of tanks. After the September 1908 flood, the then-government took immediate steps to control and manage floods along with planned development of the city. It is also observed that during the 1908 floods, the most affected areas were restricted to left and right banks of Musi river. The human loss was highest during the 1908 flood, whereas loss to infrastructure and property was maximum in the 2000, 2008 and 2016 floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/floods-to-cause-more-damage-in-coming-years-warn-experts/articleshow/78757493.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad in for more trouble due to climate change: Scientists||HYDERABAD: With major city hospitals diverting their resources towards tackling the Covid-19 outbreak in the initial days of lockdown, several patients of chronic kidney disease ended up missing at least one dialysis session, a multi-centre study has revealed. The Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and some private hospitals in the city, which were part of the study that also included 17 other hospitals across the country, saw at least one-third of the kidney patients’ treatment getting affected in the initial days of lockdown. The study, titled ‘The Adverse Effect of Covid Pandemic on the Care of Patients With Kidney Diseases in India’, pointed out that “the lack of preparedness before lockdown resulted in an interruption in healthcare services and posed an immediate adverse effect on the outcome of dialysis patients and those with kidney diseases in India.” It also revealed that 28.2% of patients missed one or more dialysis sessions during the first three weeks of lockdown. Of these, nearly 3% ended up in emergency rooms for dialysis and less than 1% succumbed to complications. The study has predicted that impact of Covid-19 on the way services are being run will last for several months. The OGH, which had taken additional load of Gandhi hospital patients as well as some from private centres, saw influx of people looking for dialysis increasing multi-fold during the lockdown. Services at most other hospitals were either hit or were shut off in the beginning of the outbreak, the ripple effect of which is being felt until now, patients have said. However, patients have said that the situation seems to be coming back to normal now with more awareness about the Covid-19 infection among dialysis patients. Lesser number of patients are skipping their sessions. “At the OGH, majority of the patients are coming for dialysis regularly now. Also, patients are coming forwards for Covid testing as the fear has reduced. An estimated 5%-7% of dialysis patients have got infected and majority of them have survived,” a senior official from the hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-in-for-more-trouble-due-to-climate-change-scientists/articleshow/78757504.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Tamil Nadu extends Rs 10 crore for flood relief||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao thanked his Tamil Nadu counterpart, Edappadi K Palaniswami, for his contribution to relief measures for flood victims. In a letter to KCR, the Tamil Nadu CM said the unprecedented rains in Hyderabad and other districts caused extensive damage. “As a token of support and solidarity on behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu with the Telangana people in their hour of need, we are sending an immediate contribution of Rs 10 crore to Telangana Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. We are also sending blankets and mats as relief material to the rain-affected families,” Palaniswami said. KCR thanked Palaniswami for the contribution and plan to send blankets and mats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tn-extends-rs-10-crore-for-flood-relief/articleshow/78757507.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Sawant cites rising e-fraud cases to caution Goans||Panaji: Making a case for caution, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday advised Goans to be alert while making online purchases, especially individual sellers from outside the state. Sawant said that the cyber crime cell (CCC) of Goa Police had recently arrested a person from Uttar Pradesh for cheating a Goan on the pretext of selling his car. He said that the Goan resident got in touch with a native from Uttar Pradesh through a mobile app to purchase his car. The accused shared a photograph and the registration number of a car with the victim, on the basis of which an initial amount of Rs 80,000 was transferred. The accused also shared forged vehicle documents and asked for a transfer Rs1.5 lakh, along with the balance before transferring the registration papers of the vehicle, Sawant said. “The Goan paid Rs4 lakh to the accused to purchase his vehicle and then realised that the person is a fruad. He filed a complaint with the cyber cell and Goa Police nabbed the accused from a village in Uttar Pradesh and arrested him. Next day his advocate came and the accused was released on bail and he went back to his home. The case is in the court,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-cites-rising-e-fraud-cases-to-caution-goans/articleshow/78758328.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Cases dipping, but follow all protocols: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said although Covid-19 cases have decreased since the last two days, people shouldn’t stop following social distancing norms. The protocol will need to be followed for a long time to come. “Being a new virus, people should take precautions because nobody knows when there will be another spike. Social distancing norms, wearing mask and use of hand sanitisers should be followed compulsorily,” Sawant told reporters on Monday. He said there could be many reasons why new infections have dipped. “People with fever shouldn’t stay at home and self-medicate. They should immediately get themselves tested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cases-dipping-but-follow-all-protocols-cm/articleshow/78758310.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Goa sees drop in +ve cases for 2nd day, but positivity rate remains high||Panaji: Though Goa reported a drop in Covid-19 numbers for the second consecutive day on Monday, the positivity rate has been higher than on Sunday. With 187 cases, the positivity rate was 15% a day earlier whereas 159 new cases on Monday took it to 21%. The total number of samples tested on Monday were almost half the number of tests done on Sunday. Monday saw 742 tests being conducted as against 1,246 on Sunday. Recoveries for the day were 519 taking the recovery rate to 91%. A total of 36,914 people have recovered from the virus in the state. The state’s mortality count rose to 550 with five Covid-linked deaths reported over the last 24 hours. Among the dead was a 32-year-old woman from Salvador-do-Mundo who died after eight days of hospitalisation. She had rheumatic arthritis and was detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) when hospitalised. Other deaths were that of four men — an 86-year-old from Dona Paula, a 61-year-old from Siolim, a 70-year-old from Sanguem and a 62-year-old from Curca-Bambolim. Four deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, while one occurred at ESI-Covid hospital. While three patients were detected with ARDS immediately after their admission to the hospital, one had developed septicaemia. They all had comorbid conditions such as hypertension and diabetes or both, whereas one had chronic kidney disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-drop-in-ve-cases-for-2nd-day-but-positivity-rate-remains-high/articleshow/78758313.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Thane||MMR: Hardship during Navratra fast as veg prices spiral||MUMBAI: Despite easing of Covid-19 lockdown, retail prices of vegetables continue to rise. The average has risen to Rs80-100/kg for common garden vegetables, compared to Rs60-80 in pre-lockdown days. This has caused anxiety among households which consume only vegetarian food during Navratra fast. APMC Vashi traders blame the escalation on excessive rain, and warn that rates will not reduce until November-December. Onion has risen to Rs65-80/kg, tomato Rs50-60 and even the humble potato, usually steady, spiralled to Rs45. The normal rate for these is Rs22-25/kg. The king of the table is round gourd or tinda, which has risen to an astounding Rs240/kg. Beans are selling for Rs140, while lady finger and brinjal cost Rs80-100. Gavar or cluster beans have risen to Rs120. Coriander has gone off the table since the start of lockdown, with a bunch costing Rs20-30 as against Rs10 before. “In fact, the scenario worsened since lockdown was lifted. At first greengrocers said rates would ease after transportation improved. Now they say the crop has failed. How does a family struggling with business failure, lost jobs and reduced salaries cope with high food inflation?” said Sharad Uke, who has a mobile shop near Apna Bazar, Andheri. Non-vegetarian families are not spared, with eggs costing Rs80/dozen, chicken Rs170/kg and mutton Rs800-850/kg. Consumers fear unscrupulous traders and middlemen are recovering losses of lockdown from average buyers. APMC vegetable market director Shankar Pingale said, “Heavy rain last month caused standing crops to wilt and damaged stocks. Thus, there is a shortage of several vegetables. Rates will remain high until November.” Another director, Ashok Walunj, of the onion-potato market, said, “Potato arrives from MP, UP and marginally Gujarat. As for onion, the early kharif crop in Maharashtra, Gujarat, AP and Karnataka has been badly damaged by rain. Onions stored from bumper rabi harvest have been damaged too. The requirement for MMR is 125 truckloads daily but the market is receiving 60-70. Onion will rise to Rs100/kg by October 26.” Walunj claimed higher retail rates translate into better prices for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/hardship-during-navratra-fast-as-veg-prices-spiral/articleshow/78759254.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||MMR: Hardship during Navratra fast as veg prices spiral||MUMBAI: Despite easing of Covid-19 lockdown, retail prices of vegetables continue to rise. The average has risen to Rs80-100/kg for common garden vegetables, compared to Rs60-80 in pre-lockdown days. This has caused anxiety among households which consume only vegetarian food during Navratra fast. APMC Vashi traders blame the escalation on excessive rain, and warn that rates will not reduce until November-December. Onion has risen to Rs65-80/kg, tomato Rs50-60 and even the humble potato, usually steady, spiralled to Rs45. The normal rate for these is Rs22-25/kg. The king of the table is round gourd or tinda, which has risen to an astounding Rs240/kg. Beans are selling for Rs140, while lady finger and brinjal cost Rs80-100. Gavar or cluster beans have risen to Rs120. Coriander has gone off the table since the start of lockdown, with a bunch costing Rs20-30 as against Rs10 before. “In fact, the scenario worsened since lockdown was lifted. At first greengrocers said rates would ease after transportation improved. Now they say the crop has failed. How does a family struggling with business failure, lost jobs and reduced salaries cope with high food inflation?” said Sharad Uke, who has a mobile shop near Apna Bazar, Andheri. Non-vegetarian families are not spared, with eggs costing Rs80/dozen, chicken Rs170/kg and mutton Rs800-850/kg. Consumers fear unscrupulous traders and middlemen are recovering losses of lockdown from average buyers. APMC vegetable market director Shankar Pingale said, “Heavy rain last month caused standing crops to wilt and damaged stocks. Thus, there is a shortage of several vegetables. Rates will remain high until November.” Another director, Ashok Walunj, of the onion-potato market, said, “Potato arrives from MP, UP and marginally Gujarat. As for onion, the early kharif crop in Maharashtra, Gujarat, AP and Karnataka has been badly damaged by rain. Onions stored from bumper rabi harvest have been damaged too. The requirement for MMR is 125 truckloads daily but the market is receiving 60-70. Onion will rise to Rs100/kg by October 26.” Walunj claimed higher retail rates translate into better prices for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hardship-during-navratra-fast-as-veg-prices-spiral/articleshow/78756763.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Almost a week on, Nadeem Colony residents remain in dire straits||HYDERABAD: Forty-year-old Mohammed Syed, of Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki, is a worried man. He has lost over Rs 2 lakh worth household items due to the incessant rains. Even after six days, he says, the flood water level has merely reduced by three feet - it reached close to the ceiling of his 10 feet house. “We are staying in a rented house in Grammar Colony in Tolichowki which is close to Nadeem Colony, since October 14 after the flood water started gushing into our house on the first floor,” said Syed, who owns a garment shop in Tolichowki. Recalling October 13 night when the rain inundated the colony, Syed said, close to midnight, the family carefully walked towards a higher level area for safety. “We all held each other’s hand and somehow managed to walk all the way out of the colony in the floodwater. By that time, the water level had reached knees. We were very scared,” he said. Six days after his house was submerged in water, the family is now managing with limited essentials. “The water level has reduced merely 3 feet, I had hoped the water level may have decreased further. But after Saturday’s rainfall, we are back to square one. I went to the locality to check the condition of the house on Monday, no help has arrived to pump the water out of the colony yet,” he added. Syed, like many in the colony, had to evacuate. “None of the emergency numbers or authorities have responded even after six days. With the kind of loss people have faced, it seems many of us will have to start from scratch again,” said Shoeb Khan, a private employee from the colony. After the heavy rainfall on October 13, NDRF teams had evacuated some residents from Nadeem Colony. According to the residents of the colony, close to 300 houses are lying empty, after they had to evacuate as many houses submerged. “I went to see my house after five days and I cried looking at the condition of my house. Already due to pandemic, we were facing financial problems, now there is hardly anything left to save in the water. All the electronic items are damaged, beds, sofa, food etc, everything is gone,” said another resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/almost-a-week-on-nadeem-colony-residents-remain-in-dire-straits/articleshow/78757518.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad heritage rock clusters under threat from builders||HYDERABAD: Rocks, which are among the 23 rock clusters earlier identified and protected as ‘Heritage Rocks’ under a GO 68 issued in 2009, near the Peeranshah Wali Dargah in Narsingi are being systematically destroyed as aggressive plotting is taking place. Sangeeta Varma, joint secretary of Society to Save Rocks, said. “There are not many places in the world that can boast of having rocks which are 2.5 billion years old. Yet, there is little respect given to their silent but magnificent presence in our state.” “The Society to Save Rocks has made innumerable requests to the government to protect rock formations. The files have never seen the light of the day. We had also suggested several times that these rock sites be included in a rock trail so that tourists could visit them and enjoy the rock formations and open spaces. But no action has been taken in this direction,” she lamented “One majestic cluster of The Peeranshah Wali Dargah Rocks disappeared painfully within 200 metre of the famous Dargah in 2015 and a residential building came up in its place. In 2016, the rocks within 100 meters of the Dargah were blasted. We made a petition to the Cyberabad Police Commissioner and since then these rocks have been largely untouched due to our constant vigilance but the last four months has seen fervent activity to bring down this massive rock cluster by the owner of the plot,” said Anuradha Raju, member of the Society to Save Rocks. Raju said the government should find a way and draft new laws to compensate patta owners, if their private property falls among the heritage rocks, so that some of these rocks can be protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-heritage-rock-clusters-under-threat-from-builders/articleshow/78757509.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Navi-mumbai||MMR: Hardship during Navratra fast as veg prices spiral||MUMBAI: Despite easing of Covid-19 lockdown, retail prices of vegetables continue to rise. The average has risen to Rs80-100/kg for common garden vegetables, compared to Rs60-80 in pre-lockdown days. This has caused anxiety among households which consume only vegetarian food during Navratra fast. APMC Vashi traders blame the escalation on excessive rain, and warn that rates will not reduce until November-December. Onion has risen to Rs65-80/kg, tomato Rs50-60 and even the humble potato, usually steady, spiralled to Rs45. The normal rate for these is Rs22-25/kg. The king of the table is round gourd or tinda, which has risen to an astounding Rs240/kg. Beans are selling for Rs140, while lady finger and brinjal cost Rs80-100. Gavar or cluster beans have risen to Rs120. Coriander has gone off the table since the start of lockdown, with a bunch costing Rs20-30 as against Rs10 before. “In fact, the scenario worsened since lockdown was lifted. At first greengrocers said rates would ease after transportation improved. Now they say the crop has failed. How does a family struggling with business failure, lost jobs and reduced salaries cope with high food inflation?” said Sharad Uke, who has a mobile shop near Apna Bazar, Andheri. Non-vegetarian families are not spared, with eggs costing Rs80/dozen, chicken Rs170/kg and mutton Rs800-850/kg. Consumers fear unscrupulous traders and middlemen are recovering losses of lockdown from average buyers. APMC vegetable market director Shankar Pingale said, “Heavy rain last month caused standing crops to wilt and damaged stocks. Thus, there is a shortage of several vegetables. Rates will remain high until November.” Another director, Ashok Walunj, of the onion-potato market, said, “Potato arrives from MP, UP and marginally Gujarat. As for onion, the early kharif crop in Maharashtra, Gujarat, AP and Karnataka has been badly damaged by rain. Onions stored from bumper rabi harvest have been damaged too. The requirement for MMR is 125 truckloads daily but the market is receiving 60-70. Onion will rise to Rs100/kg by October 26.” Walunj claimed higher retail rates translate into better prices for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/hardship-during-navratra-fast-as-veg-prices-spiral/articleshow/78759255.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
October 20, 2020||Goa||Demarcation of beach shacks begins in N Goa||Panaji: The tourism department has commenced demarcation of beach shacks along the North Goa coast, and expects to complete the exercise in the next 10-15 days, said tourism director Menino D’Souza. Demarcation of beach shacks may be delayed in South Goa as tourism staff attached to the South Goa office have been deployed by the South Goa collectorate for Covid duties. The department has written to the South Goa collector to relieve their staff so that they can be deployed to demarcate shacks, said Cruz Cardozo, president of Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS). “I have requested the tourism director to initiate demarcation of shacks for South Goa at the earliest. I will also ask the tourism minister to intervene so that demarcations can be started for South Goa,” said Cardozo. He said they will be issued standard operating procedures (SOP) to be followed while licences are being renewed. After the dull start to the tourism season due to Covid-19, shack operators are hoping to cash in on Diwali footfalls. With the Union government yet to make an announcement to start international flights, operators will have to be content with desi tourists, at least for the next two months. Some of the shack operators exclusively rely on charter tourists, and most of them have repeat visitors. However, this season is likely to be different as for the first it has begun without any charter arrival. Considering the losses suffered by operators, and the entire tourism industry in general, owing to the pandemic, the government has reduced the licence fee for shacks by 50%. This is the first time shacks have been provided relaxation by the government. Cardozo said that though most operators get their business from foreign and domestic travellers, this season, they may have to rely on footfalls from Indian visitors. “Domestic tourists have already started arriving in the state. Tourists are also coming from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. We are expecting a good crowd in the next two months going by the initial response,” he said. Normally, 340 to 350 shacks are set up along beach stretches of Goa, with more shacks given permission in North Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/demarcation-of-beach-shacks-begins-in-n-goa/articleshow/78758311.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Staring down the barrel, British-era sewers all set to get new lease of life||NEW DELHI: After a long wait, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is all set to resume work on rehabilitation of trunk sewer lines running over 250 kilometres, including those constructed during the British era using brick barrels, from next month. Some of the sewer lines are 70-90 years old. An NDMC official said that rehabilitation of the sewer lines was planned to be taken up in three phases. While the first phase had been completed, a part of the second phase had also been covered. “We had to stop work because of the pandemic,” added the official. “Currently, estimates have been prepared for replacing sewer lines in Connaught Place and neighbouring areas. We will start execution of the work at the beginning of next month. Connaught Place and its surrounding areas fall under the second phase of the project. However, work at Shahjahan Road and India Gate, which are a part of the second phase, was completed before the lockdown,” said the official. The technology used to strengthen the sewer lines depends on their condition, size and share of load. These include cured-in-place piping, glass-reinforced plastic or machine-wound spiral lining. “At most places, we are laying pipes made of glass-reinforced plastic inside old sewers. This requires minimum digging, helps strengthen the sewers and increases their life. The sewer lines measure between 150mm and 2,100mm in oval, horseshoe, round or D shapes. Some had collapsed in sections, so restoration was needed to avoid mishaps,” the official said. In the third phase, NDMC will undertake rehabilitation of the 1,143mm diameter sewer line at Kautilya Marg, 450mm diameter line from Taj Hotel to Kautilya Marg via Panchsheel Marg and Shanti Path and 600mm diameter line from Telegraph Lane to KG Marg. The work is expected to be taken up around March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/staring-down-the-barrel-british-era-sewers-all-set-to-get-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/78777009.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ground zero moves to fringes, 13 wards have 300+ active cases||BENGALURU: Thirteen wards in Bengaluru had more than 300 active cases as on Sunday (October 18), symbolising a shift in Covid-19 prevalence in the state’s capital city. The wards are all on the periphery of the city and are now reporting the highest number of infections, unlike earlier when the majority of cases were from the central business districts and interior parts of the city. A month ago, only five wards on the outskirts reported a relatively high number of cases. BBMP chief health officer B Vijayendra said wards on the outskirts are home to several industrial units — ideal for infections to spread — and moreover testing has been ramped up. “Initially, the focus of testing was largely on interior areas of Bengaluru as a high number of cases were being reported from these localities,” Vijayendra told TOI. However, ever since lockdown restrictions were eased and industries resumed operations, the trend has shifted. Many people employed in these industries reside in densely populated areas in the vicinity of their workplaces. Once these people contract the virus, perhaps, from someone who is asymptomatic and the chain of infections begins, a BBMP official said. “Asymptomatic patients working in factories where hundreds of others are employed in closed spaces can cause infection hotspots,” the official said. “Every positive person will end up infecting at least 10 others.” Officials revealed industry workers now lead the list of positive cases in the city. Previously, it was people with a history of travel and primary contacts. “In Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Hemmigepura and Doddabidarikallu the labour and slum population is very high. Workplaces are where most infections are being reported in these areas,” Nagaraju, joint commissioner, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, said. In Mahadevapura zone, Covid-19 patients are a mixture of techies, migrant labourers and garment factory employees. Most are asymptomatic, but 65% of them suffer comorbidities and the consequences of disease progression can be grave in such cases, said a senior health official from the zone. Other officials put the rise in cases down to increased testing. “Since we have increased testing and ramped up lab facilities, the number of people being tested is also high. This also results in an increase in cases,” said M Ramkrishna, Bommanahalli joint commissioner. Rajendra Cholan, BBMP’s chief health officer, said, “The number of tests being conducted is high. So naturally cases will also rise. We want more people to get tested in order to have better control over the pandemic.” Cholan said people from economically weaker sections living in congested places and PGs and sharing washrooms have contributed the most to the rise in cases. Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Mahadevapura zone are major contributors among the 13 wards, with RR Nagar having over 20,000 cases and Mahadevapura close to 13,000 cases. “The population density of RR Nagar constituency is very high,” said senior BBMP official. “Also it’s the largest constituency, which makes it very challenging to monitor the Covid-19 situation.” The top wards of RR Nagar include Doddabidarikallu, Jnanabharathi ward, Rajarajeshwari Nagar and Hemmigepura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ground-zero-moves-to-fringes-13-wards-have-300-active-cases/articleshow/78756153.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Kidney patients’ treatment hit during lockdown: Study||HYDERABAD: With major city hospitals diverting their resources towards tackling the Covid-19 outbreak in the initial days of lockdown, several patients of chronic kidney disease ended up missing at least one dialysis session, a multi-centre study has revealed. The Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and some private hospitals in the city, which were part of the study that also included 17 other hospitals across the country, saw at least one-third of the kidney patients’ treatment getting affected in the initial days of lockdown. The study, titled ‘The Adverse Effect of Covid Pandemic on the Care of Patients With Kidney Diseases in India’, pointed out that “the lack of preparedness before lockdown resulted in an interruption in healthcare services and posed an immediate adverse effect on the outcome of dialysis patients and those with kidney diseases in India.” It also revealed that 28.2% of patients missed one or more dialysis sessions during the first three weeks of lockdown. Of these, nearly 3% ended up in emergency rooms for dialysis and less than 1% succumbed to complications. The study has predicted that impact of Covid-19 on the way services are being run will last for several months. The OGH, which had taken additional load of Gandhi hospital patients as well as some from private centres, saw influx of people looking for dialysis increasing multi-fold during the lockdown. Services at most other hospitals were either hit or were shut off in the beginning of the outbreak, the ripple effect of which is being felt until now, patients have said. However, patients have said that the situation seems to be coming back to normal now with more awareness about the Covid-19 infection among dialysis patients. Lesser number of patients are skipping their sessions. “At the OGH, majority of the patients are coming for dialysis regularly now. Also, patients are coming forwards for Covid testing as the fear has reduced. An estimated 5%-7% of dialysis patients have got infected and majority of them have survived,” a senior official from the hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidney-patients-treatment-hit-during-lockdown-study/articleshow/78757562.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 20, 2020||Goa||After uproar, Covid doctors told to stay in hotel till Wed||Panaji: Doctors working in Covid hospitals in South Goa, who were told to vacate their hotel accommodation over the weekend and move to Margao and Colva residencies where they will have to share rooms with their colleagues, have been told they can continue in their accommodation till Wednesday.  “The government has run out of funds and we are bearing the brunt of it. They have allowed us to extend our stay till Wednesday, but we haven’t been told of the plan after that. We are not asking for a three or four-star hotel accommodation. Any single room will do as it is too risky to share a room with our colleagues,” a health worker said. “Many of us have been infected once and now twice. Covid-19 is an airborne infection. I may take precautions, but my roommate may not. I may be asymptomatic, but my roommate may not be. It’s too much of a risk,” the health worker added. The Goa Association of Resident Doctors (GARD) of Goa Medical College in a letter to the dean of Goa Medical College on Saturday stated that the move to shift doctors from Hotel Laxmi Empire to Margao Residency on sharing basis will “increase the risk for infection and reinfection and will fail the purpose of the stay”. They also threatened to pull out their services if single occupancy rooms are not given to residents working in Covid hosptials in South Goa. Following the letter, health minister Vishwajit Rane took to social media to say that he agreed with the association’s request and added that he took up the issue with the chief minister who assured that instructions would be given to the South Goa collector to ensure single bedrooms are provided..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-uproar-covid-doctors-told-to-stay-in-hotel-till-wed/articleshow/78758329.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Goa||Collector urged to resolve stray cattle menace||Saligao: The Goa Consumer Action Network (Goacan) has written to North Goa collector R Menaka to tackle the stray cattle menace “in the interest of road safety and traffic management”. “Goacan is convinced that the stray cattle problem can be addressed if the Goa Stray Cattle Management Scheme, 2013, (Modified) of the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services (DAHVS) is made operational in all the villages and towns of North Goa in a time-bound manner,” Goacan’s coordinator Roland Martins said, while pointing out to the recent accident at the Assonora bridge wherein a truck overturned after running over a stray bull. Goacan urged the North Goa collector to direct the officials of the directorate of panchayats and municipal administration, traffic police and the animal husbandry to find an early solution to the problem of stray cattle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/collector-urged-to-resolve-stray-cattle-menace/articleshow/78758330.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Goa||Cong Goa desk in-charge to make first visit||Panaji: Former Karnataka minister and Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao is expected to make his first official visit to the state since being appointed as AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry. During his two-day visit which begins on October 23, Rao is expected to hold closed-door meetings with senior Congressmen in Goa and also discuss the party’s ongoing preparations for the 2022 state legislative assembly elections. One of Rao’s key tasks, said Congress insiders, will be to gauge the party’s state leadership and strategy for the polls and to ensure that the 2017 fiasco is not repeated. “He will assess the political situation in the state and will also take stock of the party’s preparedness for the ensuing assembly elections,” said state Congress vice-president M K Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-goa-desk-in-charge-to-make-first-visit/articleshow/78758333.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Patients return to hospitals for post-Covid care||KOLKATA: Covid-19 continues to stalk many of those who have recovered from the infection even after their discharge from the hospital. The post-Covid complications range from heart and lung issues to general weakness and crippling joint pain. All hospitals are now getting a good number of such patients. While a few hospitals have followed the footstep of Beliaghata ID hospital and started post-Covid recover care, some are planning to come up with such a facility soon. “Covid-19 attacks not just the lungs but other organs, leaving behind lingering health issues. Some of the manifestations occur weeks and months after the treatment and the recovery of patients. While long-term problems are more common among patients who have been hospitalized, even patients who had mild symtomps can suffer from prolonged effects of infection. Some of the long-term effects may be severe and disabling in nature. This specialized clinic will enable us to monitor symptoms of patients on an on-going basis.” Said Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, director of medical services, Apollo Gleneagles, which launched post-Covid recovery clinic on Monday. “Today, we had an elderly lady who had mild infections and did not even need hospital care. A month later, she is suffering from leg pain. Our doctors diagnosed it as deep vein thrombosis, a complication post Covid-19 infection,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. Currently, the hospital is taking up such patients in its follow-up clinic everyday from 2pm onwards. Health experts said that while one common problem with recovered patients is breathlessness due to lung fibrosis, some are also coming back with heart issues. “All our units have a panel of doctors who are addressing to health issues of recovered Covid patients. The number of such patients is on the rise,” said a source at AMRI group of hospitals. Doctors said that over 50% of recovered patients suffer from problems, including chest pain, vision problems and memory loss months after contracting coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patients-return-to-hosps-for-post-covid-care/articleshow/78756155.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 20, 2020||Goa||German seeks nod to leave country, court rejects plea||Panaji: A Panaji court has denied a German national allegedly involved in a drugs case permission to travel home to earn livelihood as the possibility of his returning to India to face trial is ‘very bleak’. The one of the offences registered against him carries imprisonment of not less than ten years, the court said. The German sought to leave India and return of his passport to travel to Germany stating that he is unable to earn his livelihood in India. He added that his grandmother finds it difficult to send money from Germany as she has retired. “…it is unlikely that the applicant would choose to return to India and face the possibility of undergoing the sentence in the event of a conviction,” additional sessions judge Justice Sherin Paul stated. Although the German national said he could appear through video conferencing, the court held that “there is no guarantee that the applicant has such a facility and even if he does have the facility that he will put up an appearance.” “Besides this, even if he does appear for the trial through video conferencing, it will be very difficult to secure his presence if he is convicted,” the order further stated. The investigating officer also objected to the permission to travel abroad on the ground that the applicant has the intention to avoid trial in the criminal case registered against him for the offences punishable under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/german-seeks-nod-to-leave-country-court-rejects-plea/articleshow/78758331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee visit & music spread cheer among elders||KOLKATA: Visiting Navanir has become a regular event in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s annual calendar but when she dropped by at the old-age home in Chetla on Monday, it was nothing like what it has been all these years. Given the pandemic, the CM could not meet the residents personally but her indomitable spirit brought some cheer within the boundary walls of the home as she turned the evening into a musical one. From interacting with residents to singing performance, she made it all happen during her brief stay here. As Banerjee walked into the corridor on Navanir, she instructed to make a seating arrangement at the courtyard so that all residents can interact with them from their rooms. She then asked MoS (information and cultural affairs) Indrani Sen to sing for them. Sen, an accomplished singerm sang ‘Joy Maa Durga, Joy Maa Durga’ — a popular song composed by the chief minister on the occasion of Sharad Utsab. “I was doubtful whether I can come this year because of the Covid situation. There will be a rush that might spread the virus and so I made this arrangement. I know you all and I love coming to you but as this year is different, stay safe and keep others safe,” Banerjee told the residents. She advised all the aged residents not to step out this Durga Puja and enjoy from inside the premises. She then instructed Kolkata mayor and urban development minister Firhad Hakim to make an arrangement for an idol so that the residents can offer puja inside the premises. “I want all of you to stay safe. Wear a mask and see the puja on television,” she added. When asked about the CM’s arrival, Navanir president Malabika Sarkar said: “She comes here every year. This is a pandemic year and she has her hands full to fight the virus but she didn’t forget these old people. Like every year, she came with a lot a gifts and inspiration. These people wait for the whole year to see her once and she comes here not as a chief minister but as a well-wisher.” Set up by Gandhian Renuka, Navanir — initially known as Navanir Naba Asha — is the state’s first old-age home for women. It was set up in July 1977 at a dilapidated rental accommodation amidst lots of greenery at 30, Ashoke Avenue, (presently 272 NSC Bose Road), Tollygunge, with 30 women. The one in Chetla is a branch of the original old-age home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-visit-music-spread-cheer-among-elders/articleshow/78756151.cms||Saibal Gupta
October 20, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for repeatedly raping his sister||RAJKOT: A 48-year-old man living in Gokulnagar was arrested on Sunday for raping his 36-year-old sister on several occasions in last 16 years. The woman lodged a complaint at Rajkot Taluka police station on October 17 after her husband encouraged her. The woman told police that her brother raped over a dozen times after she moved to her parents’ house when her first husband had died around 16 years ago. She said that he raped her within a period of 18 months after which she was married off to her late husband’s younger brother. All this while she did not tell anyone, fearing that the family will be defamed. She stated that he again raped her when she came to her parents’ home when her father passed away two years ago. The woman again quietly went through the ordeal. In September this year when the woman went to live with her mother after a surgery, her brother again took advantage of the situation and raped her. On returning to live with her husband, the woman told him about the trauma she had been going through. Police said that her husband suggested that she should approach police, but the woman refused. However, he kept pushing her and on October 17 she lodged complaint. A police official said that around three years ago, the man had raped his younger brother’s wife at their home. He had been arrested then as well and was later released on bail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-repeatedly-raping-his-sister/articleshow/78755070.cms||---
October 20, 2020||India||Court acquits 20 Tablighi foreign members stuck for 7 months||MUMBAI: A magistrate’s court here on Monday acquitted 20 foreign Tablighi Jamaat delegates who had been booked for violating Covid-related norms and assembling in a mosque, reports Rebecca Samervel. In two separate judgments, the Indonesian and Kyrgyz Republic nationals were found not guilty for the single charge under the Bombay Police Act, which through a promulgated order prohibits any assembly of people for preservation of public order. The delegates, who had come to India to attend the Tablighi congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz —it was perceived to be a Covid-spreader event — can return to their home countries after being stranded in Mumbai for over seven months. Referring to the evidence of two witnesses — cops who probed the cases — the court said neither had an occasion to see the accused together in the form of an assembly. “The prosecution witnesses admitted they have not seen accused persons contravening any directions or order issued by the authority. The witnesses were also not found in a position to tell where and how the accused persons were residing at the time of the alleged offence,” metropolitan magistrate RR Khan said. “Admittedly the accused persons are foreigners; therefore, they aren’t acquainted with local language and the law of the state,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-acquits-20-tablighi-foreign-members-stuck-for-7-months/articleshow/78759152.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 20, 2020||Goa||Bring IIT to Sanguem, no oppn here: Gaonkar||Panaji: Reacting to strong opposition to the proposed setting up of IIT-Goa at Melauli in Sattari, Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar said on Monday that he welcomes the project in his constituency, and has identified three sites for the project. “The government should rethink the IIT-Goa project, and I assure (it) land without any problem,” he told reporters. He said that in Sanguem, there is no major opposition like there is in Melauli, adding that the people of Sanguem would not be affected if an IIT comes up there. He also said Sanguem would be an appropriate place as there is no major project there. “No agricultural land needs to be acquired or trees cut to set up IIT-Goa at Sanguem,” he said, adding that of the three sites, one belongs to the revenue department, the second to the forest department (without trees), and a third land to some society. He also said the government had selected land in Sanguem and was about to lay the foundation stone before that the project was shifted to Sattari. He also said that only three people have encroached on that land, and that issue could have been solved. Gaonkar said that when the government finalises a project, they should take the people into confidence, and if it doesn’t, people oppose it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bring-iit-to-sanguem-no-oppn-here-gaonkar/articleshow/78758335.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bareilly||Ex-min slams Varun for refusing to help caller, MP's aide says he runs illegal biz||PILIBHIT: After a former UP minister took a swipe at Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi for his "dictatorial behaviour" for allegedly refusing to help a man from his constituency, the Gandhi's aide said on Monday that the caller "runs an illegal business, so the MP refused to help him". Hemraj Verma of Samajwadi Party (SP) was reacting to a recent viral audio clip purportedly of Gandhi in which he could be heard rebuking a man, saying that “mai tumhare baap ka naukar nahi hoon [I am not your father's servant]" as the caller had called him at 9 pm during his visit to Pilibhit. The Pilibhit MP was also heard suggesting to the caller, identified as one Sarvesh of Pilibhit, to call him like a gentleman the next morning. The caller was seeking help as he had been taken to a police outpost. Gandhi’s spokesperson, MR Malik, however, explained, "The caller was involved in illicit sale of liquor and Varun Gandhi has never extended support to any illegal person. So, he refused to help him."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ex-min-slams-varun-for-refusing-to-help-caller-mps-aide-says-he-runs-illegal-biz/articleshow/78755068.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Experts disagree with WHO study, say remdesivir a game changer||BENGALURU: While the World Health Organisation (WHO) has played down the benefits of remdesivir saying it has had “little or no effect” in reducing Covid-19 deaths, doctors in Karnataka have taken a diametrically opposite view, insisting the antiviral drug has been beneficial for patients. More than 11,250 patients in 405 hospitals across 30 countries were part of the WHO study. Of them, 1,253 of the patients died. But doctors in Karnataka, both in government and private hospitals, say the drug has indeed prevented fatalities. “Remdesivir has been a game-changer, especially when used judiciously on patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 infection,” experts say. “It has prevented disease progression and ICU admissions in many patients.” An expert committee, which met on Sunday, suggested the government should ensure continued supply of the drug. The state government, currently, buys about 50,000 vials of the drug once a fortnight, which it supplies to government hospitals and patients in private hospitals referred by the government. “Many clinicians who have been using remdesivir have found it useful,” said Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, member of the state government’s Covid expert committee. “We need more data before we can say it’s of no use. In Karnataka we have absolutely seen its benefits, in my own practice for example.” Others like Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology, Apollo Hospitals, where about 400 patients were put on remdesivir since June, suggested the timing of administering the drug is crucial. “We hear WHO has extended trials of the drug,” Mehta said. “Not all the data is available in the published paper and it’s not clear for how many days remdesivir was used. It should be used at the right time of viral shedding (5-9 days). The standard of care of all drugs used in the trial is also not clear. One paper is not going to settle the issue decisively.” Dr Ballal, a nephrologist, said there were multiple deaths of renal patients infected with Covid-19. “Earlier remdesivir was not advised for those with kidney diseases,” he said. “Later it was included in the drug list although the dosage was modified. The number of deaths has drastically reduced since then. I am convinced that it cannot be discarded right now. We can’t discard the trial either, but we must take it with a pinch of salt.” Dr Pradeep Rangappa, consultant intensive care physician, Columbia Asia hospitals, who also heads the state’s tele-ICU team overseeing Covid critical care, pointed out that the WHO trial does not detail the time of initiation of the drug. He said early administration has shown benefits in preventing the progression of Covid in previous two trials. “The published study shows median time of randomisation as nine days after the onset of symptoms, which possibly could be late administration not leading to the expected benefit,” Dr Rangappa said. “Prevention of progression of respiratory failure and deaths has been seen in patients treated with remdesivir in Karnataka. We should start analysing our state data, publish and make objective conclusions.” Dr Mehta, who is also a member of BBMP’s Covid expert’s committee, clarified, “We are not saying remdesivir has come as rocket science. All we are saying is that has made a difference.” Pointing out that there are a few more large trials in progress, Dr Rangappa said that it is better to wait for their results before contemplating any change. “My clinician colleagues have informed me that remdesivir has been beneficial,” said Prof MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Technical Advisory Committee. “Revised guidelines from government of India will be issued soon. We will wait for the Centre’s advisory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/experts-disagree-with-who-study-say-remdesivir-a-game-changer/articleshow/78756161.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure loans to 3L under Svanidhi plan: Yogi to DMs||Lucknow: Pushing for greater coverage under the Prime Minister Svanidhi scheme ahead of the PM Narendra Modi’s interaction with beneficiaries on October 27, CM Yogi Adityanath has directed all district magistrates and local bodies to ensure that in the next one week at least 3 lakh applicants are issued loans. The Svanidhi scheme was launched by the Centre during the Covid pandemic-induced economic slowdown to provide micro credit to street vendors. In an interaction with DMs, commissioners and bankers on Monday, the CM said that against the 5.57 lakh applications received so far, 2.83 lakh have been approved. This, he said, is the highest in the country. Out of this, loans have been distributed to 99,000 which is the second highest in the country. “In the next one week, more than five lakh applications should be approved and loans should be given to at least three lakh applicants. DMs should organise a meeting of the district level bankers committee and ensure that the work is fast-tracked,” the CM said. He also asked representatives of banks present during the meeting to cooperate in this work. The CM has said that targets should be set for each district and local body. Banks should also set targets for each branch. The CM also reviewed the progress under the PM Jan Kalyan Yojna or Ayushman Bharat scheme and the CM Jan Kalyan yojna. He said that a campaign should be launched to identify beneficiaries under the scheme and golden cards issued to all of them. He has said that by November 1, all villages should be covered under the two schemes and that DMs should review the project each week. The CM had announced that 4,000 paddy purchase centres will be operational in the state during the ongoing paddy purchase season. Praising the paddy purchase centre of Pilibhit, he said that all centres should be run like this one. He said that farmers should be paid within 72 hours of purchase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-loans-to-3l-under-svanidhi-plan-yogi-to-dms/articleshow/78758348.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||‘Govt planning new sugar factory in four years’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state government is planning to set up a new sugar factory in the state in the next four years under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana which would be leased out to a company for operation, said Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar on Monday. After a meeting with the chief minister over restarting of Sanjivani sugar factory, Gaonkar told mediapersons, “Sawant said they want to set up a new sugar factory with the help of central government and lease it out for operations.” Gaonkar gave a proposal to the state government that an agency has shown interest to run the factory with minor repairs and that the government should consider this proposal. However, he said the chief minister is not very keen on the proposal. Referring to the government’s plan, Gaonkar said that if we go by four-year time then how will the farmers survive. “As per my proposal, the company would require 75 days for maintenance and it would start this year itself,” he said. Gaonkar further said the government has assured to give minimum support price to sugarcane farmers. He said the agriculture department never motivated sugarcane farmers to come out with better crops but farmers have cultivated the crop on their own. The state government has granted approval for amendment to the Business of the Government of Goa (allocation) Rules, 1987, to transfer the Sanjivani sugar factory from the department of cooperation to the department of agriculture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-planning-new-sugar-factory-in-four-years/articleshow/78758343.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangan sees less than 1,000 cases for first time in 4 months||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded less than 1,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time in four months with 948 people testing positive. Four more people succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 1,275. The total number of cases in state now stands at 2,23,059. While some experts saw the downward slide in positive cases to poor testing, the state saw 26,027 tests on Monday. The state was conducting over 50,000 tests conducted each day for the past one week. So far, a total of 2,00,686 have recovered from the disease in the state, while 21,098 patients are under medication. The case fatality rate in the state has dropped to 0.57% as against the national average of 1.5%. This means that of the total number of patients testing positive, less than 1% are succumbing to it currently. The recovery rate has improved further, touching 90%, as against the country’s average of 88%. This means that nearly 90% of the patients getting infected with the virus have recovered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-less-than-1k-cases-for-first-time-in-4-mnths/articleshow/78757586.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Anti-coal activists hold stir in Bandora||Ponda: Hundreds of villagers from Ponda and Dharbandora talukas rallied under the banner of ‘Goyant Kollso Naka’ in Bandora on Monday against the proposed coal handling. The activists have warned the government not to test their patience and claimed that they would even shed blood to oppose the proposed plans of the Centre. Similar rallies will be held in several other panchayat areas to create awareness on proposed coal handling in the coastal belt in Goa, said the activists. The rally commenced from Rathamal Kavlem after submitting a memorandum to Kavlem panchayat and passed through Bandora, Durbhat and Wadi-Talaulim panchayat areas. Activists claimed that the Union government has signed MoUs with power majors in Bellari, Hospet, Belagavi and Hubballi in Karnataka which would combinely consume around 137 million tonnes coal per annum, and since Mormugao Port Trust cannot handle more than 52 million tonnes coal per annum, the remaining coal is planned to be transported via road and rail. To accommodate free handling of coal via road, the Goa-Karnataka highway is being widened, said an activist. Gurudas Naik, an activist, said the coastal belt of Zuari River at Undir and surrounding areas are likely to be used for coal dumping and handling by erecting jetties in the villages. The government is hastily conducting hearings regarding land acquisitions for double tracking of railways, Surel Tilve, another activist from Bandora said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-coal-activists-hold-stir-in-bandora/articleshow/78758344.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Bareilly||Schools reopen after 7 months in west UP, low attendance on day 1||AGRA/MEERUT/BAREILLY: Schools in several parts of western Uttar Pradesh reopened on Monday to a low attendance after a long Covid break of seven months. Parents and teachers were understandably a worried lot, focusing more on the students' health concerns, sanitization and strictly following the Covid protocol. In Agra district, classes started for 9 to 12 standard students. Most of them remained absent. Special teams conducted inspections on the premises and the classrooms to review the arrangements of sanitization, thermal screening and social distancing norms. District inspector of schools Ravindra Kumar said, “Attendance in schools remained low on the first day. Schools have been directed to call students for classes only after parents' consent. Students are required to bring their own food and water bottles. Wearing a face mask is compulsory. Schools should hold classes in two shifts. No interval will be allowed and students will need to avail their own transport." District president of National Progressive Schools Association (NPSA) and principal of Holy Public School, Sanjay Tomar, said, “About 70 CBSE schools in Agra district are associated with NPSA. Of these, 60% schools held classes for 11th and 12th standard students." “In my school, around 650 students are enrolled in Classes 11 and 12. Of these, 180 parents had sent their consent. On Monday, 80 students turned up. We have also made arrangements for live streaming for students who want to study online. Soon, we will start regular classes for 9th and 10th standard students." On the first day experience, a Class 11 student, Sakshi Gupta, said, “It is a nice feeling to go to school after seven months. Online studies can't be a long term substitute. My parents were worried, but I managed to convince them." While Sunit Singh, a mother of a Class 10 student, said, “Opening of schools is not reasonable. This will allow schools to force students to attend regular classes so that they can charge full fees. Covid-19 is continuing to spread in the state." In Bareilly district, less than 10% students recorded their presence on day one. The administration of most schools asked the students to carry an application signed by their parents as consent. Very few turned up. “The students seemed to be very happy after attending the class, though. Day one passed off with sharing experiences of the pandemic and its effect on their lives," school teacher Irfan Khan said. Citing reasons for low attendance, the principal of a school said, “Many students have not paid their fees as their parents are seeking full exemption for the lockdown period. However, they are completely ignoring the expenses borne by the school as we had to repay our loans and have paid salaries to the teachers and other staff.” In the entire Meerut district, not even 10% of the total strength of students reported to schools on Monday. Also, only 20% of the parents gave their nod, the district education department data suggested. Apart from the offline classes, online classes continued simultaneously to ensure that the students who cannot go to school do not miss their classes. Additional district magistrate Ajay Tiwari inspected the schools and checked the safety measures. Summing up the mood, a student said it was quite unusual to see everyone wearing a face mask inside the school - from students to teachers to other staff members, and, of course, the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/schools-reopen-after-7-months-in-west-up-low-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/78755083.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Student swab collector takes staggering 385 samples in 5 hours||BENGALURU: A 20-year-old college student, who moved to Bengaluru in search of a job even while the pandemic raged, is now highly regarded as a swab collector. On Saturday (Oct 17), Theja JR, collected throat and nasal swabs from 385 people in a span of five hours – a record of sorts. With college closed and her family facing financial hardships, Theja, a BA student from Gauribidanur, Kolar district, arrived in Bengaluru in August, determined to help make ends meet. When BBMP advertised for swab collectors, she applied. Theja trained for five days at Armed Police Training School primary health centre, Yelahanka. The PHC conducts tests for people in Kempegowda and Chowdeshwari Nagar wards in Yelahanka zone. Theja was the only swab collector in BBMP’s health team that visited a private textile factory near Yelahanka on Saturday. One person had tested positive for Covid-19 at the factory and the team was assigned to swab all employees. From 11am to 4 pm, Theja swabbed 385 people. Recently, a swab collector from Rajarajeshwari Nagar had collected 251 samples in four hours. “Theja is one of six swab collectors here,” Dr Bhanu Prakash, medical officer APTC PHC, said. “The number of swabs collected daily varies depending on the list of primary contacts we get and places we visit. Swab collectors are frontline Covid warriors and they risk their lives every day.” Of the 385 swabs Theja collected, 25 were tested using RAT kits and one returned positive. RT-PCR results on the other 360 samples are awaited. “It’s tough working while wearing PPE kit,” Theja said. “I can’t even use the toilet during swab collection hours, but I’m getting used to it.” Theja was initially concerned about her own safety, but she says she has no fear now. Instead, she feels sorry for the people from whom she collects samples every day. “It’s the educated lot who do not cooperate while swabbing,” she said. “Sitting posture matters a lot while taking swabs. If people sneeze or cough while collecting the swab, it makes the process harder.” Theja, who lives with her uncle in Bengaluru, intends to continue working with BBMP, though her contract is only for six months. “I will continue my studies through correspondence and continue working,” she said. “Covid warriors are stigmatised, but I’m proud of my work.” However, her parents are not completely aware of what she does, although they are aware that she works in a health centre, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/student-swab-collector-takes-staggering-385-samples-in-5-hours/articleshow/78756190.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||Tourists stopping over to see illuminated Mysuru Palace blocking roads||MYSURU: Hundreds of tourists halt right in front of the Mysuru Place to catch a glimpse of the charming and illuminated structure every time they pass through the ever-busy stretch. Because of this, vehicular movement comes to halt, thereby inconveniencing fellow tourists and pedestrians. Authorities have failed to find a solution to the problem despite it causing gridlock at the spot. The main entrance — Jayamarthanda Gate — on Bengaluru-Nilgiri Road is always a preferred to see the palace up close. As the palace looks gorgeous when viewed from the front, people invariably stop there. Cops find it difficult to monitor crowds who jump over the median, risking life. There is no facility for the public to cross the stretch, place to park vehicles, or to stand and enjoy the view. The only underpass connecting the palace and the exhibition grounds has been defunct and closed, and this is making the authorities struggle to manage crowds during peak hours. Admitting to the problem during peak hours, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) S N Sandesh Kumar said a large number of people stopover there for sometime to take a look at the illuminated palace. “We are deploying more personnel and using public-address system to manage the crowd so as to avoid congestion,” the ACP added. Tourism stakeholder B S Prashanth said tourists don’t have proper facilities to enjoy the world-famous structure. “This is causing trouble to both tourists and other road users. It has become challenging for the authorities too. A viewpoint or an elevated place is badly needed to facilitate tourists and to address traffic-related issues,” he added. T Motilal, joint director of tourism department, said there is no proposal at present for the creation of any facility for tourists in front of the palace, which is being managed by Mysuru Palace Board. “I will inspect the spot and verify whether tourists are experiencing any difficulty or if they require any facility there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tourists-stopping-over-to-see-illuminated-palace-blocking-roads/articleshow/78757372.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: HC lawyer for doc fighting daughter’s mystery death||HYDERABAD: Taking note of a letter written by a grief-stricken woman who has expressed doubts about the death of her daughter in a hospital here, the high court on Monday appointed advocate Dominic Fernandez as an amicus curiae to argue her case in the court. Dominic said that he would talk to the petitioner and put the facts in a proper format and list out the relief. The judge posted the case to November 9 for further hearing. The letter was written by Dr Safinaz Fatima of Yousufain Colony, complaining about the mysterious death of her daughter, who was also a doctor, on March 28. She was admitted to the hospital on March 17. According to the complaint, the doctors at the hospital infused heavy chemical fluids and resorted to medical procedures without obtaining her consent. After her demise, her daughter, a 5 ft 6 inch tall person, was buried in a 4-ft pit. The petitioner expressed doubts that the hospital had stealthily removed all vital organs of her daughter. She alleged that the hospital was making false claims that her daughter consumed a large amount of mouthwash which proved fatal and said that this was a clever ploy to escape from the clutches of the law. She charged the Panjagutta police with ignoring her complaint and being in connivance with the hospital. She sought justice to her daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-lawyer-for-doc-fighting-daughters-mystery-death/articleshow/78757623.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Trichy||AIADMK not going to win 2021 poll: Stalin||Trichy: DMK president and opposition leader M K Stalin has said that deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam ceded the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidature to Edappadi K Palaniswami knowing that the party will not win the upcoming assembly election in the state.“Everyone is praising him (OPS) as if the chief minister’s post had come to him, and he gave up it to Palaniswami. Panneerselvam tactically withdrew from the race leaving Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK, which is not going to win (the election),” he said.Stalin was addressing the party cadres and functionaries through video conference from Chennai as part of the Mupperum Vizha function organized by DMK principal secretary K N Nehru at Kalaignar Arivalayam in Trichy on Monday. Stalin registered his tirade against the ruling party by calling it corrupt.The opposition leader also recalled the allegation against the chief minister on awarding road infrastructure contracts to his aides and the subsequent Madras high court order to hand over the investigation to the CBI. Stalin said that Palaniswami got the HC order stayed in the Supreme Court and continues as the chief minister.Stalin said that the party elevated Nehru to the post of the principal secretary to make his work reach the entire state. He also mentioned about the bifurcation of the Trichy party district into three for effective administration. He held district secretaries Kaduvetti Thiyagarajan, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Vairamani responsible for keeping Trichy the fort of the DMK. “Trichy is the central part of the state. It is needless to say that if you strengthen the central pillar, the entire building will stay strong,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/aiadmk-not-going-to-win-2021-poll-stalin/articleshow/78757644.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Milestone for women security: CM Yogi Adityanath inaugurates 18,000 community toilets||LUCKNOW: Two days after launching Mission Shakti for women’s safety, chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the first major project linked to the scheme — more than 18,000 community toilets and 377 panchayat bhawans — in rural UP on Monday. Calling these a milestone in ensuring security for women and a means of their empowerment, Yogi said that under the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan programme, more than 75,000 panchayat offices and toilets have to be built at a cost of Rs 7,053 crore. Out of these, he inaugurated 377 panchayat bhawans ad 18,847 community toilets and laid the foundation stone for 21,414 panchayat bhawans and 35,058 community toilets. “We had set the date of October 19 for inauguration of the project to give speed to Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan — a project launched by PM Narendra Modi in which we provided employment to migrant workers and other poor persons during the lockdown,” the CM explained, adding that after the PM launched Swachh Bharat Mission, its implementation in UP for the first two and a half years, when another government was in power, was extremely slow and that this government achieved the target for five years in a little over a year. “Nobody can understand the importance of sanitation more than eastern UP, where encephalitis claimed innumerable lives every year. With the implementation of the Swachh Bharat Mission, we have managed to reduce encephalitis by 95%. Brain fever deaths are also down to a minimum. Unicef has also hailed it as a success,” the CM said. While the community toilets will give women security, they are also an important way for generation of employment, the CM said, explaining that in all 59,000 gram panchayats where the community toilets are being built, women self-help groups would appoint one woman for its management. “That is 59,000 jobs upfront. Second, the panchayat bhawans will function like mini village secretariats where one banking correspondent sakhi will be appointed. These sakhis will provide home banking facilities to villagers in order to prevent crowds at banks ,” he said. The CM also pointed out that where reservation for women mandated, 33% seats be reserved for women, and said 43% of UP’s gram pradhans were women. Yogi said his government has launched a clean drinking water programme under which piped water facilities were being extended to Bundelkhand in the first phase. He added that the plan for extending it to the Vindhya region was also ready and that they would request the PM to lay the foundation stone for it at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/milestone-for-women-security-cm-inaugurates-18k-community-toilets/articleshow/78758359.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 20, 2020||Bareilly||DNA comes to rescue of baby girl disowned by parents, to reunite with family after 18 months||BAREILLY: A newborn girl disowned by her parents in May 2019, claiming that staff at the private hospital where she was undergoing treatment had swapped their newborn boy with the girl, would reunite with her family after 18 months as her DNA report confirmed her to be their biological child. A sub-inspector with the forensic department in Lucknow on Monday submitted the DNA report to child welfare committee (CWC) member DN Sharma. The CWC has been taking care of the baby since May 2019. The girl was born premature — after six and a half months of pregnancy — at a private hospital in Rampur district’s Milak town on May 6 and had been suffering from the hyperthyroid clitoris. As the baby — the fourth child born to the couple after three girls — was critical, she was shifted to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. According to doctors, her clitoris was enlarged abnormally that confused her parents and they took her for a boy. The dispute, however, reached Premnagar police station and an FIR was registered. Sub-inspector Vishnu Dutta concluded the investigation by filing a closure report — “the girl was not exchanged”. The couple, however, turned down the police investigation report, which prompted the CWC to seek the DNA report of the girl in July last year. “I followed it up at multiple layers, and even a human rights team intervened to ensure that the DNA samples of the girl were collected and sent to the forensic lab in Lucknow. The pandemic delayed the report, which sub-inspector Harendra Singh delivered to us, finally. We have sent a notice to the couple and the hospital administration informing them about the development. The girl is currently under our care, but she will be reunited with her family soon.” “Her parents, marginal farmers, have three daughters and their economic condition is also not good. After the CWC summon, they will soon appear in a court to take custody of their daughter,” added Sharma. Sharma added that the baby was cured of the hyperthyroid clitoris.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dna-comes-to-rescue-of-baby-girl-disowned-by-parents-to-reunite-with-family-after-18-months/articleshow/78754122.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Parole denial: HC quashes Harsul jail official’s order||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has quashed and set aside the order of the Harsul central jail authorities rejecting the applications of 16 convicts for releasing them on emergency parole on account of the Covid-19 pandemic after state government’s notification. The bench observed: “The reasons are given that they ought to have availed furlough or parole on at least two occasions and ought to have returned to jail in time as per the condition of government notification on May 8, 2020. The submissions made and particulars submitted by the superintendent of hail show that on the relevant date the petitioners had undergone imprisonment of more than three years, so they were eligible for consideration of granting emergency parole under the aforesaid notification.’’ While directing the release of these convicts on emergency parole in two separate orders within seven days, the high court observed: “This court interpreted the condition and it is held that if such eligible prisoner/s had not availed either furlough or parole in the past, that condition cannot come in his/their way to get emergency parole. This court holds that reasons given by respondent for rejection of emergency parole cannot be sustained under the law.’’ Following directions by the high court to take a decision on the applications for emergency parole of these convicts, jail authorities took up the applications and subsequently rejected their applications. Following which these convicts again approached the high court through various laywers challenging the jail authorities order. It should be noted that earlier the high court had taken serious note of non-compliance with its orders by the Harsul jail authorities and had directed all magistrates across the districts in its jurisdiction to conduct an inquiry into the affairs of the jails specially in terms of steps they had taken to follow the high court orders. The judicial officials were expected to submit their reports after meeting with the prisoners, whether their applications were accepted by the jail authorities in the wake of the government notification and high court orders or they were asked some monetary favors for considering their applications. The matter has been placed for hearing on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parole-denial-hc-quashes-harsul-jail-officials-order/articleshow/78757627.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Call centres in dists for cotton procurement||HYDERABAD: The agriculture department is gearing to set up call centres in each district ahead of cotton procurement season. At a review meeting, minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy directed the officials to collect suggestions from the farmers through these call centres. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is ready to procure cotton at 300 mills and nine market yards. The CCI will purchase cotton with 8% moisture at Rs 5,825 per quintal, with 9% moisture Rs 5,766 per quintal, with 10% moisture Rs 5,708 and Rs 5,582 per quintal with 12% moisture. The minister asked the officials to explain to the farmers on how to maintain the quality of the produce till they get it to the procurement centres. District coordination committees would be created for procurement. Currently, Telangana is in second place in the country in cotton cultivation with nearly 59 lakh acres after Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/call-centres-in-dists-for-cotton-procurement/articleshow/78757640.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Bank chairman held for taking Rs 10 lakh bribe in Beed||AURANGABAD: Officers of the Aurangabad unit of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Monday arrested the chairman of Vaidyanath Urban Bank in Parli Vaijanath of Beed district for allegedly accepting Rs 10 lakh bribe from a wholesale grain merchant and trader for upgrading the cash-credit limit of his account. The suspect has been identified as Ashok Pannalal Jain. The complainant, a prominent businessman in Parli Vaijanath, had approached the ACB stating that he has a bank account in Parli’s urban bank and had applied for increasing the cash-credit limit to Rs 2.5 crore. The request was approved; however, the bank chairman demanded Rs 15 lakh bribe from him. Under the supervision of superintendent of police (ACB) Rahul Khade, the complaint was verified and it turned out that the bank’s chairman had indeed sought money from the trader and was insisting it be paid as a reward. Accordingly, the ACB sleuths laid a trap near the business establishment of the complainant in the Mondha area of Parli. The complainant met the chairman and handed him Rs 10 lakh stating that it was all that he could arrange for the time being. As soon as the chairman accepted the money, ACB officers nabbed him red-handed, said deputy superintendent of police (ACB), B V Gawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bank-chairman-held-for-taking-rs-10l-bribe-in-beed/articleshow/78757638.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hubballi||More than 100 doctors at KIMS suffered infection, says hospital||HUBBALLI: Several doctors besides other healthcare workers at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) have been infected with the novel coronavirus, but the Covid-19 designated hospital has ensured patients have had adequate care. KIMS authorities say until Saturday (October 17), a total 161 healthcare workers including doctors, nurses, post graduate students, interns and lab technicians have been infected since the onset of the pandemic. Of these, more than 100 are doctors. Six healthcare professionals are still under treatment, but the others have all recovered. KIMS has earned a name for itself treating Covid patients and data shows the premier healthcare institute successfully treated 5,300 patients and has recorded 382 fatalities. Despite contracting the virus, doctors and other staff have not shied away from work. “Our message to people is that we are out and on duty saving lives, but we request them to do their bit in containing the pandemic by remaining vigilant,” said Dr Ravindra Gadag, head of the department, ENT. “People should step outside only if absolutely necessary and they should take all precautions.” Dr Gadag went on to say, “I was doing rounds the other day and a PG student, tested positive. I was with the student and I felt bad. But that student did not show any fear and he immediately admitted himself for treatment. Motivating them and keeping them in good spirits is also important. They have played a significant role in battling this pandemic.” KIMS director Dr Ramalingappa Antartani hailed efforts of all his staff during a “trying time” and reiterated, “We will continue to treat every single patient visiting KIMS. There is no question of backtracking.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/more-than-100-docs-at-kims-suffered-infection-says-hospital/articleshow/78756302.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 20, 2020||Goa||‘Restore CMC building, don’t reconstruct’||Poinguinim: Goenkar, an NGO, has demanded that the existing Portuguese era Canacona municipal building be restored instead of it being reconstructed. Jack Fernandes, president of Goenkar, told reporters on Monday that they don’t have any intention of opposing the foundation stone laying ceremony to be held on Tuesday, but want the “heritage building” to be given a facelift or renovated. This will also save money which would be used for the reconstruction, he said. Fernandes said that they will discuss the issue with urban development minister Milind Naik before the foundation stone is laid, and “if nothing materialises after discussion or no amicable solution is found, we may resort to approaching the court as the last resort”. Canacona civic body’s chairperson Nitu Sameer Desai had announced that a new municipal building, costing Rs 11 crore, will be constructed by the Goa State Urban Development Agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restore-cmc-building-dont-reconstruct/articleshow/78758376.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Activists seek action against officials involved in fake docs scam||Aurangabad: The members of Jai Bhagwan Mahasangh, an organization comprising sports activists, staged demonstrations in front of the divisional sports complex on Monday demanding stern action against staff, officials and agents behind issuance of 279 fake certificates of prominence to candidates appearing for various competitive exam and for job interviews. The organisation’s Marathwada unit president Sachin Doiphode said that the bogus certificate issue cropped up in September. According to Doiphode, the certificates were issued in the name of a sport that was actually not in place. This has affected the chances of genuine candidates on whose place these people with fake certificates bagged placements. “To protest against those involved in the bogus certificate scam, we decided to demonstrate and demanded stern action against all staff, officers and agents involved in the whole affair. They should immediately be removed from services,” Doiphode said. He also threatened to launch a severe agitation if action was not taken against those guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/activists-seek-action-against-officials-involved-in-fake-docs-scam/articleshow/78757664.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Trichy||97% of BDU UG students pass final sem exam||Trichy: Close to 97% of undergraduate students who had appeared for the online end of semester examinations conducted by Bharathidasan University-affiliated colleges have passed the examination. Roughly 50,000 students had appeared for the examination conducted by BDU from September 21 to 26 across courses like BA, BSc, B Com, BBA and BCA. Many students from our college secured over 80-90% marks in the examination, said V Sujatha, principal, Cauvery College for Women, Trichy. This will help them boost their overall percentage and get admission to postgraduate programmes and even for jobs, she said. “Initially, I had reservations on conducting examinations online as it was like an open book examination. While there was room for malpractices, variations in the marks prove that students have appeared for the examination on their own,” she said. Controller of examination, S Srinivasaragavan said that they didn’t give much room for the students to indulge in malpractices. Answer scripts were received from them soon after the examination. “We received about 80% of the hard copies of the answer scripts and they were verified with the soft copies uploaded soon after the examination,” he said. There are a few students suspected to have indulged in malpractices, but that is very negligible. “We are verifying answer scripts of such students. We are also trying to ensure that mark statements are issued by the end of this month,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/97-of-bdu-ug-students-pass-final-sem-exam/articleshow/78757656.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 20, 2020||Trichy||Enthusiasts want Perambalur to be annexed with Trichy ASI||Trichy: Archaeology enthusiasts have urged the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to merge Perambalur, which is annexed to the Chennai circle, with the newly-formed Trichy ASI circle, as the district is located geographically closer to Trichy.Perambalur, which is located 60km away from Trichy was annexed to Chennai circle after it was bifurcated and a new circle opened in Trichy for the betterment of existing monuments and to identify new sites. Enthusiasts said the distance may impact the emphasis in developing protected monuments like the Valikantapuram Sivan temple, Ranjankudi fort, Shamskhan mosque and Megalithic cists. Annexing Perambalur with Trichy will help them coordinate with officials in scouting for new sites in Kannapadi, V Kalathur and Esanai hamlets where ancient burial sites are considered to be found.“Perambalur was once with Trichy district, so we feel connected to the Trichy circle. It is easy for us to travel frequently to Trichy to place our demands and discuss the developments,” Ramesh Karuppiah, archaeology enthusiast said.“This is the right time to make the changes in the jurisdiction by respecting the locals’ demands in Perambalur,” A Manikandan, enthusiast from Pudukottai said. “Jurisdictional division is a policy decision taken by the top brass in the national headquarters. Perambalur, even if annexed with Chennai circle will get adequate attention,” a senior ASI official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/enthusiasts-want-perambalur-to-be-annexed-with-trichy-asi/articleshow/78757654.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 120 cases||Aurangabad: The district administration reported 120 fresh Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the infection on Sunday night, taking the total number of active cases to 1,948. The death toll has now risen to 1,034. The district has a total of 36,576 Covid cases so far, of which 33,594 patients have recovered. The officials concerned said of the fresh cases, mobile swab collection teams had traced 27 patients in the city while 5 patients were found in rural parts. Of the deceased, including two women, succumbed to Covid-19 at the dedicated Covid 19 treatment centre in the government medical college and hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-120-cases/articleshow/78757655.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS files plaint against fake post, man arrested||Hyderabad: Carrying out a misinformation campaign with a fake post on social media in connection with Dubbak election has landed a 26-year-old man behind bars. The TRS brought the matter to the notice of returning officer B Chennaiah, who initiated the action. Police investigated the matter and arrested Ladana Srinivas of Dharpally village. “Since the post is aimed at creating a wedge between different sections of people, action was taken against the person,” Chennaiah said. According to TRS party’s complaint, the social media post talked about an incident which happened in February last year out of context and was being circulated as if it had happened in Dubbak. A video was posted again on October 17 with misleading information that the incident took place in Dubbak. Cases were registered against Srinivas under sections 153, 153(A) and 502(2) of the IPC and 125 of Representation of the People Act, besides 66 of the IT Act. “There is a whole lot of misinformation being spread by the opposition parties deliberately,” finance minister T Harish Rao said on Monday. Harish Rao alleged that the person who was spreading the video belonged to BJP. He said an incident of a TRS flagpost being damaged in another district last year was being spread in social media with comments that it happened in Dubbak now with comments that people had damaged it venting their ire against the ruling TRS. Harish Rao alleged that the person who was spreading the video belonged to BJP. He said an incident of a TRS flagpost being damaged in another district last year was being spread in social media with comments that it happened in Dubbak now with comments that people had damaged it venting their ire against the ruling TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-files-plaint-against-fake-post-man-arrested/articleshow/78757676.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 9-year-old boy kidnapped while playing, Rs 45 lakh sought in ransom||HYDERABAD: A 9-year-old boy was kidnapped while playing near his house in Mahabubabad district on Sunday evening. The abductor has demanded a ransom of Rs 45 lakh from the boy’s family. An unidentified man called out to Dikshit while he was playing and the boy walked towards him. Around 6pm, the man took the boy on his bike and sped away. On Sunday night, the kidnapper made VOIP calls to boy’s mother and demanded a ransom of Rs 45 lakh for the release of her son. “On Sunday, the mother got two calls demanding ransom and on Monday she got two more calls. It is the same man who made calls on both the days. We are questioning suspects,’’ Mahabubabad superintendent of police Koti Reddy told TOI. The boy’s father is a scribe in a vernacular channel. Police are verifying CCTV footage as part of the investigation, but have, so far, not got clear footage of the accused taking the boy on his bike. Officials are trying to verify the vehicle’s registration number to crack the case. The boy’s family members lodged a police complaint and a case was registered. Mahabubabad police formed 10 police teams to rescue the boy. Police suspect the role of people known to the family behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-year-old-boy-kidnapped-while-playing-rs-45l-sought-in-ransom/articleshow/78757657.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||35 nations participating in virtual ODOP show||Lucknow: With Covid-19 restrictions having severely affected businesses across the country, UP government on Monday started a virtual exhibition for ‘One District-One Product’ goods. Inaugurated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the five-day-long event has participation from at least 600 ODOP sellers and buyers from 35 countries. “We are holding this virtual fair during Covid-19 times to initiate a buyers-sellers’ meet and take forward the government’s agenda to support and sustain local talent. FICCI and EPCH are jointly working for branding, marketing, backward and forward linkages and developing B2B contacts. This platform will allow sellers to get the right price for their goods and also expand their visibility,” the CM said, adding that buyers from over 35 countries and about 1,000 participants from India have already registered for the event. Highlighting the importance of the ODOP scheme, the CM said that each of UP’s 75 districts has a product which gives recognition to the district, locally and even internationally, like silk apparel and saris to Varanasi, carpets to Bhadohi, Chikankari to Lucknow, ittar to Kannauj, glassware to Firozabad and black pottery to Azamgarh. “During the unlock phase, we started various programmes to promote the MSME sector. The ODOP scheme has been a tremendous success and has helped to provide the much needed push to local artisans and businesses. The Centre has even asked other states to implement it,” said the CM. The online exhibition, which will be running till October 23, will see participation by ambassadors and high commissioners from other countries posted in India and their Indian counterparts posted abroad. An official explained that with the active collaboration of the export council, the fair has been given a major boost. The exhibition will move beyond the realm of buying and selling with ODOP programme partners holding multiple technical sessions on branding, marketing, packaging, etc. These will include SIDBI, Bank of Baroda, Amazon, Flipkart, etc. “In 2018, we held an investors’ summit along with FICCI. Some months later, we held a ground breaking ceremony as well. UP has proved to everyone that investors’ summit is no longer limited to signing MoUs, but can also be launched on ground with actual work taking place,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/35-nations-participating-in-virtual-odop-show/articleshow/78758367.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Trichy||Unaccounted cash: Tiruvarur DPC officials suspended||Tiruvarur: The senior regional manager of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has suspended three employees of a direct procurement centre at Kannarapettai in Tiruvarur district from service after the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted money to the tune of Rs87,790 from the centre following a raid.According to the officials, bill clerk Anandaraj, office assistant Santhanam and watchman Kanagaraj have been suspended from service. Senior regional manager of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation Manivannan has issued the suspension orders, officials said.Following allegations of widespread irregularities at the direct procurement centre at Kannarapettai, a team of officials from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption conducted a raid on October 16.However, during the interrogation, the employees at the centre were unable to produce valid documents relating to the source of the cash.The team also verified the paddy bags piled up on the premises. They found 150 bags of paddy brought from another godown in the pile.The DVAC authorities registered a case against four people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unaccounted-cash-tiruvarur-dpc-officials-suspended/articleshow/78757669.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Harish refutes Bandi’s pension benefit claim||Hyderabad: Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao on Monday said he would quit as minister and Siddipet MLA if BJP state president Bandi Sanjay could prove that the Centre had contributed Rs 1,600 to every pensioner in the state. Challenging Bandi, Harish said, the BJP leader must quit if he was unable to prove so. Addressing a press conference, the minister refuted the claims by the Telangana BJP chief that the Centre was giving Rs 1,600 to each pension beneficiary in the state. “The BJP was resorting to Goebbel’s propaganda during the Dubbak poll campaign, which is far from the truth,” Harish Rao said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harish-refutes-bandis-pension-benefit-claim/articleshow/78757729.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Trichy||Anbumani urges govt to relax paddy procurement norms||Trichy: PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss has urged the state government to procure the entire wet paddy to protect the farmers from heavy loss. He appealed to the government to relax norms to procure the paddy with maximum moisture content.Thousands of bags of paddy brought to the procurement centres in the delta districts were damaged due to heavy rain in the last few days and farmers have been severely affected. They are waiting for their turn at the DPCs. “It is said that at least 50 thousand quintals of paddy have been damaged due to rain,” Anbumani said in a statement.With good yields this kuruvai season farmers are arriving at the procurement centres with their produce. But, rain has shattered the dreams of the farmers, he said. “However, farmers are in no way responsible for the moisture content of the paddy. Due to high yields and other reasons, paddy bags have accumulated in large quantities and hence it has become impossible to procure entire paddy at once. However, anticipating the situation, the government should have made arrangements to deal with the situation,” he said.The government should instruct the district authorities to procure the paddy with the maximum moisture condition to help hapless farmers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/anbumani-urges-govt-to-relax-paddy-procurement-norms/articleshow/78757682.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||23 contestants in fray for Dubbak assembly bypoll||HYDERABAD: After withdrawals and rejection of nominations, 23 contestants are in the fray for the Dubbak assembly by-election, which will be held on November 3. The final list of candidates was announced by the returning officer on Monday. This includes 15 independents and nominees of political parties, including Cheruku Srinivas Reddy of Congress, Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao of BJP, Solipeta Sujatha of TRS, Kathi Karthika of All India Forward Block, Gouti Mallesh of Jai Swaraj Party, Jajula Bhaskar of Shramajeevi Party, M Sunil of India Praja Bandhu Party and Sukuri Ashok of Republic Party of India. As many as 11 candidates withdrew their candidature and 12 nominations were rejected. A total of 46 people had filed their nominations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/23-contestants-in-fray-for-dubbak-assembly-bypoll/articleshow/78757697.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 20, 2020||Pune||Body found in Pune's Tamhini ghat may be of missing lawyer: Cops||PUNE: Three persons, including an advocate, were arrested on the suspicion of abducting and murdering city lawyer Umesh Chandrashekhar More (32) and disposing of his body in the Tamhini ghat forest area in Mulshi taluka. Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar, inspector Manisha Zende and their team from the Shivajinagar police on Monday recovered a burnt body from the Tamhini ghat. “The body is being sent for DNA test to ascertain the identity. We have arrested three persons on suspicion after our investigations revealed their links with the crime. Prima facie, land dispute is the motive,” Pune commissioner of police (CP) Amitabh Gupta told reporters. More practised in civil court. He was reported missing since October 1 and was last seen at Shivajinagar court. More’s family members lodged a missing complaint on October 2. His brother, Prashant, later told police that he might have been abducted. A case of abduction and common intention was registered on October 5. On Monday afternoon, additional chief judicial magistrate S H Salunkhe ordered custodial remand of the arrested trio — Kapil Vilas Falke (34) of Chikhali, Deepak Shivaji Wandekar (28) of Beed and advocate Rohit Dattatreya Shende (32) of Market Yard — till October 22. The police stated that the trio’s custodial interrogation was needed to recover the four-wheeler used in the crime, establish the mastermind and probe involvement of others, if any. Falke, a landowner, has a dacoity case to his name at the Ranjangaon police. Shende was named one of the accused in a 2018 bribery case registered with the Bund Garden police. More was the complainant. Wandekar is a property agent. “Apart from the land dispute, the victim and one of the suspects (Shende) had extreme differences over various matters,” the CP said. A CCTV footage of October 1 showed More leaving the court on his bike before being stopped by a person. Later, the person led him to the rear seat of a car, and they left. “The breakthrough came with Falke’s detention and his subsequent admission of having committed the crime with Wandekar and Shende,” an officer said. “The suspects convinced More to accompany them for settling the dispute, but things did not work out. The trio then used a rope in the car to strangulate him, took away his cellphone and went to the Tamhini ghat via Pirangut. There, they burnt the body and disposed it of,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-body-found-in-tamhini-ghat-may-be-of-missing-lawyer/articleshow/78757720.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramana to continue as Telangana TDP chief||HYDERABAD: Telangana TDP (TTDP) president L Ramana will continue to head party affairs in the state. TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu announced the new committee for TTDP. Two leaders from TTDP — Arvind Kumar Goud and R Chandrasekhar Reddy — were given berths in party politburo for both states. The new politburo’s term will be for two years. Ramana said he had urged Naidu to give the party reins to others, but the party chief told him to continue. Ramana announced that TDP would not extend support to any party in Dubbak. However, the party will contest GHMC elections and MLC elections. He said the GHMC election plan would be prepared in consultation with Naidu. Two leaders from TTDP — Arvind Kumar Goud and R Chandrasekhar Reddy — were given berths in party politburo for both states. The new politburo’s term will be for two years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramana-to-continue-as-telangana-tdp-chief/articleshow/78757714.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Trichy||Shortage of Class VIII text books in govt and aided schools||TRICHY: Halfway through the academic year, not all students of Class VIII in government and government-aided schools in the district have received textbooks. The school education department had started distributed free textbooks to students across the state in July. The shortage could be found mostly in schools in the urban pockets making it difficult for students to follow the Kalvi tholaikatchi classes. Textbooks are given free of cost to government and government aided schools through Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation. “Students in all the other classes have received books except for Class VIII students,” said a teacher from a government school in Trichy city where 30 students in Class VIII have not received books for all the five subjects. The shortage in number of books vary from school to school, said the teacher. “Usually the books arrive at one point in the city and is distributed to schools based on the student strength. School usually witness shortage of books every time during distribution which is compensated from schools which have excess books. But this time, students have been waiting for over three months and books have not arrived,” said another school teacher who is short of 20 sets. “Without textbooks, students of government schools may not be able to follow the Kalvi Tholaikatchi telecast classroom sessions,” said a teacher. Trichy district chief educational officer S Santhi said that books have reached all the schools as she has not come across shortage of books in any school. However, she assured to address the shortage at the earliest if schools come forward with the request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shortage-of-class-viii-text-books-in-govt-and-aided-schools/articleshow/78757710.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM to address 18 Bihar rallies in 6 days||LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, one of the star campaigners of BJP, will address 18 rallies in six days before the first phase of polling in Bihar assembly elections. Yogi will kick off his campaign by addressing a rally in Ramgarh assembly seat on Tuesday, and then address gatherings in Arwal and Karakat constituencies. The campaign schedule of the chief minister released by BJP says he will return to Lucknow and leave for Bihar again on Wednesday to address three more rallies, starting from Jamui from where BJP has fielded Shreyasi Singh, a gold medalist in shooting at 2018 Commonwealth Games. She is the daughter of former Union minister late Digvijay Singh and former MP Putul Singh. Yogi would next head to Tarari assembly seat in Bhojpur and then address a rally in Paliganj assembly seat in Patna before flying back to Lucknow at 4pm. Yogi is the only CM chosen by the party as one of its star campaigners in Bihar due to his hardline Hindutva image at a time when the construction of Ram temple has begun in Ayodhya in landmark development. At the same time, Yogi has been gaining popularity for his developmental agenda and the way he handled the corona crisis and allowed lakhs of migrants to return to the state during lockdown and even made arrangements for those from Bihar to travel home. “His (Yogi’s) popularity and his campaigning skills have been a key ammunition in BJP armoury for the past three years. He has been roped for campaigning in all election-bound states since he became UP CM,” said a senior party leader. The party will not leave any stone unturned to win Bihar assembly elections where Congress and Lalu Prasad Yadav-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) have joined hands against BJP and Nitish Kumar led Janata Dal (United) combine, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-address-18-bihar-rallies-in-6-days/articleshow/78758391.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Next three months crucial in virus fight, says Karnataka’s health minister||BENGALURU: The next three months, when the festival season plays out, will be crucial to contain the pandemic, K Sudhakar, health minister, said on Monday. The minister said the state government is hoping a Covid-19 vaccine will be available in three months, but he urged the public to adhere to preventive measures such as using masks, ensuring physical distancing and hand-washing practices till then. Speaking to reporters, Sudhakar, who also holds the medical education portfolio, said Bengaluru is at the forefront of Covid testing compared to other metros. "Over 13.2 lakh tests were conducted in the city until September 19. A staggering 22.9 lakh tests have been conducted in the last one month alone – a 9.7 lakh increase. The rise in tests was sharpest compared to other big cities like Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Delhi, he said. He put the surge in cases in Bengaluru down to widespread testing. The minister admitted the government has received complaints about ‘bed-blocking’ by middlemen and agents in private hospitals where treatment for the infection is offered. "Government will take strict action against such miscreants who are trying to exploit patients. People too must not fall for agents and bring such practice to the notice of the government," the minister said. Stating that Kerala had seen an increase in Covid-19 cases post Onam festival, the minister said that there are concerns about crowding in Mysuru during Dasara celebrations. "People gathering in front of Mysuru palace in the evening have been brought to my notice. We will take steps and devise measures. Crowding has to be avoided," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/next-3-months-crucial-in-virus-fight-says-karnatakas-health-minister/articleshow/78756330.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Trichy||PDS shops yet to implement ‘one nation one card scheme’||Trichy: Even as the government has implemented ‘one nation, one card’ scheme, many cardholders complain that ration shop staff are refusing to distribute essentials items to the migrant cardholders claiming that they are yet to get an order from the government.Some senior citizens allege that they are compelled to visit the ration shops to purchase commodities, though the government gave them exemption. When a 90-year-old man residing alone at his house in East Boulevard Road in Trichy city, sent his housemaid to a ration shop with his card as he was not well, the salesman refused to distribute essentials to her. “The staff turned her down saying that the cardholder himself should visit the shop,” the senior citizen said on condition of anonymity.In another case, A S Vasan, a retired officer of a private company who has settled in Srirangam from Chennai, approached a ration shop located at North Adayavalanchan in Srirangam. But, he too could not get the essentials from the shop, he said. “After my retirement, I settled in Trichy. I approached the ration shop as the ‘one nation, one card’ scheme came into effect from October 1. However, the staff told me that they are yet to get any such official circular from the higher-ups. I could not get anything using my family card,” he told TOI.When contacted, a senior official from the cooperative department said that they have instructed the salesmen to distribute essentials even if the cardholder was not present in person. “We have handed over letters to all the ration shops. If the cardholders submitted the duly filled form to the salesmen, anyone can buy essential commodities by producing the letter,” the official said.Officials cite server problem as the only constraint to execute the scheme. Once the server issues were rectified, cardholders can use their card. However, they cannot use the card within a ward in urban areas and within the revenue village in the rural areas, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pds-shops-yet-to-implement-one-nation-one-card-scheme/articleshow/78757700.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Will act tough on land grabbers: Top cop||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: Police commissioner Nikhil Gupta said that he had been receiving at least 25 complaints of land grabbing since taking charge and assured that the police would take tough action against the suspects. Speaking to a select group of newsmen, Gupta, who had worked as deputy police commissioner about 15 years back, said that many things have changed in these years. “I had directed all the personnel in charge of police stations to prepare a list of land grabbers. We have the list. If they amend their ways, fine, otherwise we will take stern action against them under the MPDA,” Gupta said on Monday. Gupta, who took over on September 4, said that his focus would be on strengthening community policing. He also asserted his resolve to streamline the traffic system, which he felt, is not in a good shape. He made it clear that violators of the traffic norms would not be spared. “A city’s growth dependants on its environment. Outsiders make an opinion of a city by seeing the traffic. If its unruly, it sends the wrong message,” he said. He said residents would be encouraged to come up with good suggestions to improve the policing and traffic system. He admitted that bike theft in the city has become a big problem. The police were already making efforts to check such incidents “The city has 32 exit points, including the 12 major thoroughfares, and many outsiders come and leave from the city. Many two-wheelers are lifted when they were parked casually, not in the proper place meant for parking. People should also take care of their own things,” he said. Gupta has also resolved to revive peace committees in each police station and good and educated people are engaged in such committees. Deputy commissioner of police Meena Makwana and ACP Ashok Bankar too were present during the interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/will-act-tough-on-land-grabbers-top-cop/articleshow/78757699.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gunshots halt traffic on Vadodara-Ahmedabad highway||VADODARA: Disappearance of an Uttar Pradesh labourer couple and their subsequent tracing led to violent clashes between two groups, bringing traffic near Dumad crossroads on Vadodara-Ahmedabad highway to a screeching halt for nearly an hour, on Monday.Gunshots rented the air after the brick kiln owner, who had called the couple to work in his unit, fired 6-7 rounds from his licensed revolver after he and others came under attack from a group of rickshaw drivers. The fight erupted when the kiln owner Ayub Ali Pathan’s employee spotted the husband-wife duo and stopped them from boarding a rickshaw. One person from the rickshaw drivers’ group suffered bullet injury on the hand while a bullet grazed another’s head. Three friends of Pathan also suffered injuries after being thrashed with sticks. The couple had disappeared from the site on Sunday afternoon. While Pathan was looking for them, one of his employees, Jetram spotted them under the Dumad bridge on Monday afternoon and immediately informed Pathan. Pathan asked him to stop the couple till he arrived there. “Meanwhile, the couple was talking with a rickshaw driver and wanted to travel out of the city. Jetram tried to stop the couple but the driver thought that he may lose his fare. So he got into arguments with Jetram,” said B B Rathod, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) H-division. Jetram again called up Pathan and informed him about his scuffle with the auto driver. Within a few minutes Pathan reached there with his six friends and got into heated arguments with the auto drivers present at the spot. The verbal duel escalated as the group of around 10-12 auto drivers started thrashing Pathan with sticks. Pathan pulled out his licensed revolver and opened fire. A person named Vaju Jograna got hit on his hand while a bullet grazed through the head of Devashi Bharwad. Pathan’s three friends - Ajmal Pathan, Altaf Pathan and Gujaran Khan Pathan - suffered injuries as they were beaten up with sticks. “It was a trivial issue over one person unwilling to let go of passenger fare and another convincing his workers to stay back. We are in the process of filing FIR,” Rathod told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gunshots-halt-traffic-on-highway/articleshow/78755199.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||More rain in Pune in 2 days, retreat from Friday and clear weather thereafter||PUNE: Double-digit rain lashed Pune till Monday morning and later in the evening, with India Meteorological Department (IMD) sounding an alert to be watchful again as chances of moderate rain in and around Pune city and isolated heavy rain in the ghat areas have been forecast on Wednesday and Thursday. IMD said after October 23, the withdrawal of the monsoon may start from Maharashtra, and it will be completed in a couple of days. The rain in the next few days will be the result of several reasons, including a low pressure area that is very likely to develop over central Bay of Bengal and the neighbourhood by Tuesday. As per IMD, the low pressure will move west-northwest and increase moisture incursion over the state, including Pune. “The 30-degree celsius plus day temperatures along with the moisture incursion are likely to cause local instability and formation of cumulonimbus clouds, causing thundershowers in the evening and afternoon. Rainfall chances in Pune will persist till October 22, while the city can expect clear weather after October 24,” an official explained. From 8.30am on Sunday till 8.30am on Monday, Shivajinagar received 32.6mm rain, Lohegaon 56.1mm and Pashan 37.6mm. Much of these rains till Monday morning were a contribution from overnight spells. On Monday afternoon, the city got another intense rain spell causing waterlogging in several areas. The spell lasted 15-20 minutes. Rainfall from 8.30am till 5.30pm on Monday in Shivajinagar totalled up to 15mm, while nearly trace rain was recorded in Lohegaon during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-rain-in-2-days-retreat-from-friday-clear-weather-thereafter/articleshow/78757756.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 90 in flood relief camps test positive for coronavirus||HYDERABAD: State health minister Eatala Rajender on Monday said 90 of 3,406 people with flu-like symptoms in floor relief camps have tested positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, they have been admitted to designated Covid hospitals. Speaking at a review meeting, the minister said health workers are trying to raise awareness in Hyderabad and surrounding rural areas on precautions to be taken for seasonal diseases before they occur, adding that those with seasonal diseases. ORS packets and chlorination tablets are being delivered to households in flood-affected areas as there is a possibility of further spread of diseases through contaminated water, the minister said. At this time people have been asked to drink water after boiling and eat only properly cooked warm foods. Seeking immediate medical attention in case of fever and cold comes and undergoing Covid-19 tests is advised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/90-in-flood-relief-camps-test-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/78757752.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Electrocution led to 11 deaths within a week in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Since last Tuesday, 20 persons got washed away due to heavy rains in the city and 11 persons died of electrocution. Four of the electrocuted died at Banjara Hills, SR Nagar, Amberpet and Malakpet while attempting to pump out rain water from their cellars using motor pumps. With many cellars in low lying areas getting inundated, people tried to flush out water onto the roads using pumps. A doctor died while trying to pump out water in Banjara Hills. “For people residing in apartments, if cellar is filled with water, life gets paralysed. Vehicles get submerged. People cannot come out of their apartments. This situation will force them to flush out water using pumps,’’ A Srinivas, from Uppal, whose apartment’s cellar got submerged, said. In Chandrayangutta, a youngster was electrocuted while trying to move an inverter from his house on the ground floor to the first floor on Saturday night. Two persons died in separate incidents after they came in contact with live wires in Chaderghat and Nacharam. In Telangana, a total of 70 persons died in the rains and many more casualties are expected to surface after water recedes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electrocution-led-to-11-deaths-within-a-week/articleshow/78757734.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Gyms unlikely to open in Diwali||Kolhapur: Most gyms in Kolhapur city are unlikely to open doors for public on Dasara as onwers/operators are expecting less clients during the festival season. Though the state government has allowed gyms to open in the coming days, owners have expressed concern as Diwali is generally considered as a ‘slag’ period for gym business. Most women clients fail to turn up for workout before and during Diwali as they are busy with festival preparations and celebrations. In addition, Covid scare will drive away elderly clients which account for 15% of the total gym clients, say operators. Anil Bhosale, a private gym owner from the city, said, “We are planning to open gyms only after Diwali since there will be no or very few clients during the festival period. Very few regular clients are contacting us to open gyms; however, the fees paid by them will not be sufficient to continue our business. We have no staff left with us right now due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We require more investment to make the machines work, especially the ones related to cardio and weight training. They need to be in well-maintained condition for the safety of customers.” There are over 130 gyms in Kolhapur city with many of them preferring to shut operations permanently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gyms-unlikely-to-open-in-diwali/articleshow/78757731.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Trichy||Credit to society for keeping Covid under control: Sanyal||Trichy: Economic recovery has started showing signs of positivism and Indian society deserved the credit for keeping Covid-19 under control, said principal economic advisor to the Union ministry of finance Sanjeev Sanyal. Sanyal was speaking at 15th CUB V Narayanan Memorial Lecture organised in virtual mode by Sastra Deemed University, Thanjavur, on Monday. Speaking on the topic ‘World economic history and India’s future,’ he said temples in India were providing financial capital to the banks that financed the corporatized guilds of the early centuries besides being places of worship and culture.He said Chola temples and the Jagannath in Puri were places of significant religious and financial capital. The history of economics was full of unpredictable twists and turns and it was only those who took the right decisions at the right time were able to emerge leaders, he added.He traced the oceanic trade and economic routes that were dominated by Mongols and Chinese and the role of the Rajendra Chola empire in the Nagapattinam coast.“The Atmanirbhar Bharat policy is reflective of India’s flexibility towards looking at indigenously driven self-reliance in the modern sense and not in the regimental and outdated sense of the past,” he said.Sastra vice-chancellor S Vaidhyasubramanim recalled the efforts of V Narayanan, who was the longest serving chairman of City Union Bank (CUB), in uniquely positioning Thanjavur district in the banking landscape of India. N Kamakodi, MD and CEO of CUB, proposed the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/credit-to-society-for-keeping-covid-under-control-sanyal/articleshow/78757728.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Former BSP national general secretary, MLA join SP||LUCKNOW: Former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national general secretary and former state president of the party KK Sachan joined the Samajwadi Party on Monday. Former MLA from Sikandra Mithlesh Katiyar also joined the SP. Apart from the two leaders, former chairperson of the zila panchayat, BhadohiRajesh Sonkar and Reena Sonkar also joined the SP. The leaders called on SP national president Akhilesh Yadav and assured him of their all out support. They alleged that from now onwards they and their thousands of supporters would work for the SP. Sachan, who was elected MLA from Jaunpur in 2007, had earlier sided with the Congress in 2019. Sachan had joined the BSP in 1998. Before joining Mayawati he was with the Bhartiya Kisan Union under Mahender Singh Tikait. Apart from being national general secretary and state president of the BSPSachan was appointed as co-ordinator and election incharge of the BSP in various parts of UP and other states. Welcoming them into the party fold, the SP president said it was the development works done by the SP government in the state that has left a lasting impact on leaders of other political parties who are now shifting to SP in large numbers. He attacked the ruling BJP for the delay in making the cancer hospital operational in the state capital which he said was conceived and floated during the SP regime. Akhilesh questioned the BJP’s tall claims of constituting anti-Romeo squads. “Either the anti-Romeo squads exist only on paper or are not performing their duty properly and in both cases action must be initiated against those responsible for its failure,” Akhilesh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/former-bsp-natl-gen-secy-mla-join-sp/articleshow/78758394.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Ameenpur case: Telangan, DGP get HC notice||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday issued notices to the state government, DGP and women and child welfare officials asking them to explain the reasons behind the suspicious death of a girl who was raped in Maruthi orphan home in Ameenpur and also about the steps taken to prevent recurrence of such incidents. Justice P Naveen Rao was hearing a writ petition, which was originally a letter from a woman doctor, and later converted into a writ plea. The judge issued notices to the chief secretary, secretaries of home and women and child welfare departments along with DGP, DG prisons, district collector and SP of Sangareddy and told advocate general BS Prasad to come out with a clear plan of action to streamline the orphanages and their functioning. In the letter, Dr Mamatha Raghuveer Achanta spoke about the plight of children in the orphanages and how the state government had failed to keep in place the statutory safety mechanisms like having child welfare committees.  Dr Mamatha also said the district child welfare committees and inspection committees and juvenile justice boards should be constituted in her letter. Dr Mamatha also appealed to the court to frame and issue guidelines for running and monitoring these orphan homes. She urged the court to direct the district judges to regularly monitor the functioning of these orphan homes by seeking regular reports from the child protection committees and local police. She sought the constitution of a special committee to monitor the trials in such cases to ensure speedy trial and justice in all such cases. The case will come up in November after Dasara vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ameenpur-case-t-dgp-get-hc-notice/articleshow/78757769.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Pune||Girish Bapat tells Pune municipal corporation to hasten 24x7 water supply project||PUNE: MP Girish Bapat on Monday told Pune Municipal Corporation to speed up the execution of the 24x7 water supply project. Bapat, speaking during a review of the project, also cautioned local elected representatives to ensure there are no hurdles in its execution. Pune MP Bapat conceded that Pune’s developmental projects had slowed down because of the pandemic and added that he plans to monitor each project and ensure they meet all the deadlines over the next year. “Around 36% of the construction of overhead tanks has been completed so far, in addition to 18% work of laying pipelines and 8% of installation of water meters. The construction of the tanks is stalled at some locations for want of land from the government departments and private parties. Some cases are in court. I have told PMC to resolve these issues at the earliest,” Bapat said after the meeting. As per the plan, 84 water storage tanks are to be constructed and a 1,670km-long distribution pipeline network is to be laid. The administration has so far laid 300km of pipelines. The projects is aimed at equitable distribution of water in the city and curbing losses in water distribution. Bapat said he would not be able to set a date of the project’s completion, but assured that it would be ready at the earliest. Bapat also told the administration to initiate action if contractors delay the work. “We want everyone, including elected representatives and civic authorities, to push the projects. The meeting was held to clear the hurdles and establish better communication,” he added. Bapat also said he would approach the Union and state governments for adequate funds for the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bapat-tells-pmc-to-hasten-24x7-water-supply-project/articleshow/78757732.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Rajkot||Dhrol observes shutdown to protest rape of community health centre nurse||Rajkot: Entire Dhrol town observed a complete shutdown on Monday following a call given by the Bharwad and Maldhari communities to protest against the rape of 25-year-old nurse on October 17.The nurse, who works on a contractual basis with a community health centre (CHC) near Dhrol, was allegedly raped at a knife-point by two persons on Jodiya Road. The community leaders met the Dhrol mamlatdar and submitted a memorandum demanding strictest possible legal action against the two accused - Kadar Dafer and Azharuddin Juneja - who have been detained. Police said Dafer had some criminal cases lodged against him in the past that include physical assault and Arms Act.They demanded that the chargesheet against the duo should be filed at the earliest and day-to-day trial be conducted for fast justice to the woman. The investigation in the case has been handed to Dhrol circle police inspector (CPI) AJ Patel.On October 17, the accused saw them standing by the roadside and thought that they were lovebirds. Even as her husband desperately tried convincing them that she was his wife, they thrashed him and then threatened to stab him with a knife. After he ran for his life, the duo forced her on to their bike and took her to some distance. They allegedly took turns to rape her in the bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhrol-observes-shutdown-to-protest-rape-of-community-health-centre-nurse/articleshow/78755227.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: People’s resistance to move out hampers evacuation||KALABURAGI: Hyderabad-Karnataka is bracing up to handle yet another flood situation after the weather department predicted heavy rainfall in the region in the next three days. However, resistance from people in flood-affected areas to shift to relief camps has turned into a major headache for the district administration. About 246 villages along the Bhima river in Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Vijayapura and Raichur are identified as vulnerable, of which 97 have been affected. The administration has in the last five days evacuated residents from these 97 villages. People are also returning to their native places refusing to stay back in the camps. The administration faced an uphill task in evacuating people. At Gurjapur village in Raichur district, the authorities spent over four hours convincing villages to evacuate and shift in government buses. The residents argued that fear of Covid-19 looms large in the camps. Raichur deputy commissioner R Venkatesh told TOI that the elderly in villages have some traditional wisdom which the young rely upon. The elderly claim that they have seen waters during extreme rainy season to ascertain the time to move out to safety. About five villages will be severely hit if the water released from Sonna Barrage reaches there. Although about 8 lakh cusecs of water has been released, only 3 lakh cusecs has reached here. “We were able to evacuate villagers from four villages and in another village people refused. Hence we have deployed ten buses for evacuation if the situation goes out of control,” the DC said. At the relief camps, some residents are disputing the decision of the administration, citing water-level which has not reached danger level yet. This is hindering the operation, he said. Mahesh Tanga, Kalaburagi tahslidar, said that 11 villages have been devastated due to floods. In about six villages, where he personally visited, people initially refused to move. Lakshmana Gouda, 70, a villager from flood-affected Kollur village, said he has seen many floods and he is an authority in guiding people to safety. The administration creates unnecessary panic, he said. “The residents have livestock and agriculture fields and cannot simply move when the administration asks them to move,” he added.. Umanath Halle, Chittapur tahsildar said he is struggling to convince villagers to to board the buses. People seem to be less understanding about the situation and in most cases NDRF teams were pressed to rescue people who refused come out of their homes. Meanwhile, in what seems to be a relief, outflow from Sonna barrage has come down to 6.32 lakh cusecs from 8 lakh. So far, 36,290 people have been rescued and 28,007 people are staying at 179 relief camps in North Karnataka. Govt estimates Rs 3,000 crore loss Revenue minister, R Ashok, who visited Belagavi to access flood situation, said so far the government has estimated Rs 3,000 crore losses due to floods and surveys are under way continuously to access crop loss. He said 10 people lost lives and 500 livestock were washed away in floods. He promised compensation from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/peoples-resistance-to-move-out-hampers-evacuation/articleshow/78758145.cms||Shreyas HS
October 20, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 11-year-old forced to beg, thrashed by alcoholic dad||AJMER: A 11-year-old boy was beaten up severely by his father as he failed to get money through begging. His father gagged him and beat him with a stick. The boy called the child helpline and the father was arrested. The matter was reported in the Ganj police station where the child welfare committee sent the boy to the Bal Kalyan Ashram. The accused man used to send his son to school and even made him attend online classes, but according to the boy, he was forced to beg and when he could not collect more than Rs 200 from begging, the man beat up the kid brutally with a stick on Sunday night. The accused even gagged the boy sot hat he couldn’t scream or make any noise. The boy on Monday morning called the child helpline and the matter was reported to police. When police took the victim to hospital for medical examination, there were scars of beating all over his body. The child welfare committee also reached police station and the father was arrested for beating the child and for forcing him to beg. The boy was then sent to the rehabilitation centre. The boy said that his mother works as a domestic servant and his father is an alcoholic and beats his mother regularly. He needed money for liquor and thus forced him to beg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/11-yr-old-forced-to-beg-thrashed-by-alcoholic-dad/articleshow/78756335.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Woman, daughter jump into river, die||MYSURU: A mother-daughter duo met a watery grave after they jumped into Kapila river near Mallanamoole Mutt off NH-766 in Nanjangud on Monday evening. However the kid, which was also the part of the suicide pact, was rescued by cattle grazers in Nanjangud. The deceased are Rashmi, 33, a bank employee in Mandya and her mother Akamma, 55. Rashmi’s daughter Minchu, 7, has been rescued, police said. According to Nanjangud Rural police, cattle grazers tried to rescue Akamma, but she breathed her last on way to hospital. Police suspect financial problems, coupled with family issues, may have driven the women to take the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-daughter-jump-into-river-die/articleshow/78754652.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||DPI to provide corrective lenses for students with vision issues||Mysuru: The department of public Instruction (DPI) has inked a pact with Samadristi Charitable Trust, a non-governmental organisation, to distribute corrective lenses to students with vision problems at the state-run schools. The project is aimed at helping students by ensuring their vision complains do not affect their academic performance, especially when classes are conducted virtually. It will help an estimated 10 % students. Speaking to TOI, deputy director of public instruction(in-charge) Udaykumar said the department had received reports from several teachers that many students studying in government schools were facing vision problems. They said that uncorrected visual problems may affect the students’ focus in academic activities or result in psychological stress. “Samadristi Trust conducted the eye screening for school students. Besides the trust, several local legislators and donors voluntarily came forward to distribute corrective lenses. The department encourages such initiatives which would help poor students overcome their learning difficulties caused by their vision problems,” he said. He said Samadristi Trust had conducted such an eye screening camp for over 16,000 students of 222 government schools in T Narasipura taluk in the district recently and distributed corrective lenses to over 622 students. K Ullas Kamath, who is supervising these trust activities, told TOI that the trust aims to distribute 30 lakh corrective lenses for students. “We will plan to hold eye screening camps with the support of DPI and local legislators in all the education blocks in coming days,” he added. The trust also foots medical bills of students needing surgery for vision problems, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dpi-to-provide-corrective-lenses-for-students-with-vision-issues/articleshow/78757295.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Woman coach files sexual abuse case against colleague||Alwar: Alwar’s district sports officer has lodged a case of sexual harassment against one of her colleagues who is a weightlifting coach. The complainant is also a wrestling coach at Indira Gandhi Stadium in Alwar.The woman, along with the players, registered the case at Mahila Thana and an investigation has been initiated.Mahila Thana SHO Chauthmal Choudhary said, “The complainant has claimed that the accused made sexual advances towards her and abused her as well. The woman also alleged that the accused had threatened to kill her and would stalk her. We have started a probe into the matter.”The woman claimed that previously on three occasions the accused had misbehaved with her. The players who accompanied her to police station said they would start a protest if the accused is not arrested at the earliest.A case under IPC Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 506 (criminal intimidation) has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-coach-files-sexual-abuse-case-against-colleague/articleshow/78756339.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Pandemic forces ‘Triple Talaq’ director to return to scrap business||Mangaluru: The director of the much-acclaimed and pioneering Beary film ‘Triple Talaq’, 42-year-old Yakub Khader Gulvady, has returned to the scrap business that was his means of livelihood for more than 25 years. He was 12, and had only then dropped out of class VI, when he entered the scrap business, his bicycle the only asset he had. After more than two-and-a-half decades in the business, Yakub Khader Gulvady decided to pursue his creative passion and, after rewarding stints of apprenticeship under the likes of award-winning directors such as Girish Kasaravalli and Nikhil Manjoo, he helmed ‘Triple Talaq’, which premiered at several international film festivals. However, the Covid-19 crisis and the dimming hopes of a revival in the cinema industry compelled Khader Gulvady to return to his trade in scrap. “People threw away a lot of books and magazines that I pored over. Journalist and novelist Santhosh Kumar Gulvadi was my mentor, and he encouraged me to read. My engagement in social activities led me, through a friend, to Kasaravalli. He was then working on a film centred on the Muslim community in costal Karnataka,” Khader Gulvady told TOI. Prior to directing ‘Triple Talaq’, Khader Gulvady was involved in the production of the national award-winning film ‘Reservation’. ‘Triple Talaq’, which premiered in London in December 2019, was slated to be shown to audiences in many more international film festivals before Covid-19 forced the world into lockdown. The shutting down of his creative prospects plunged Khader Gulvady in depression, a condition he had been treated for earlier in life as well. “When the pandemic struck, all the plans I had went for a toss and it became really difficult to sustain myself. The only way I could see to overcome my losses was to return to the business I knew well. So, about a month ago, I set up a shop that deals in scrap,” he said. His lack of formal education notwithstanding, Khader Gulvady has travelled to more than 15 countries. Incidentally, while circumstances beyond his control may have forced him to put his dreams on hold, a mail he received on Sunday helped lift his spirits considerably. Khader Gulvady’s film has been selected to compete in three categories at the Abuja International Film Festival in Nigeria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-forces-triple-talaq-director-to-return-to-scrap-business/articleshow/78755152.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||‘Karate kid’ sells rice beer for survival, Jharkhand CM assures her job soon||RANCHI: In about three years since she started practising karate, Vimala Munda had won medals for her country and state in international and national championships. But her bout against the situation arising out of Covid-19 has proved tougher than all her karate opponents. To make both ends meet, she now brews and sells hadia (local rice beer) and earns a meagrely Rs 300 a day at Kanke, close to the residences of chief minister Hemant Soren and Jharkhand high court Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan. In 2011, Vimala, who started practising in 2008, won a silver at the 34th National Games held in the Jharkhand capital and a gold in the International Kudo Tournament which is hosted by Bollywood star Akshay Kumar every year in Maharashtra. Happy with her performances, the Jharkhand government had promised to give her a job. She was also among the 33 successful sports persons selected by the Hemant Soren government to give them employment under its new sports policy. Taking cognizance of a tweet on her current condition, chief minister Hemant Soren directed the Ranchi district authorities and the state sports department to extend her all possible help. While talking to reporters on the sidelines of unveiling freedom fighter Nilamber-Pitamber’s statue at Morhabadi ground on Sunday afternoon, Soren said, “The government is working on a new sports policy to help many like Vimala Munda. We are also going to launch a portal soon where players can report their problems so that we can initiate action. As far as jobs to the 33 selected players are concerned, it will be provided very soon.” The 26-year-old began her fight against hunger and poverty in March when the pandemic first struck the country. “We are always hard pressed for money. My father, who doubled as a small-time farmer and a daily wage labourer, has been suffering from a number of health ailments. My mother would work as a domestic help or a daily wage labourer to support the family. Now, she cannot leave my father alone,” the karateka, who hails from Pathargonda locality, told TOI. “We have a small piece of farm land which is not enough to get us two-square meals. On top of that, the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have hit us very hard. I had to shut my karate classes at Morhabadi ground because of the virus,” she added. Vimala said she became fascinated by the sport early in her childhood after watching her maternal uncle practise it. She also said her family supported her when she decided to take it up for a career. “I enrolled for a karate training programme for the first time at my school after completing my matriculation examination in 2008. My maternal grandfather, a retired government peon, encouraged and helped me to take part in tournaments. He would spare some money from his monthly pension to help me in my training and travels. Though some sporting activities have slowly started, karate and many other contact-sports are yet to get the go-ahead signal from the authorities concerned,” she said. “Now, I don’t have any option but to make and sell hadia, which is a common drink in tribal homes. I earn Rs 4 to Rs 5 from every glass I sell. This helps me support my family and training,” said Vimala, the eldest of five siblings (three bothers and two sisters). The karateka rued that the government is yet to keep its promise made nine years ago when she won the silver medal at the Games. “The government had promised jobs to all medal winners but nothing has happened so far. In 2014, I and my family members met then chief minister Raghubar Das for help but got only assurances. The new government has also selected me for a job but I am not too optimistic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/karate-kid-sells-rice-beer-for-survival-cm-assures-her-job-soon/articleshow/78737901.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 20, 2020||Pune||Doc hurt in brawl over wrong-side driving||Pune: A 29-year-old medical practitioner suffered injuries in his hand following a brawl over riding two-wheeler in the wrong direction in Pimpri around 4.30pm on October 15. The doctor had a row with two youths coming from the opposite direction on a two-wheeler. The duo allegedly abused the doctor at the spot, then followed him till his home and assaulted him with a sharp weapon with the help of their two accomplices. The doctor suffered injuries in his left hand and near his waist in the attack. He lodged an FIR with the Pimpri police on Sunday. “We have detained a 15-year-old youth and launched a search for the other three,” said sub-inspector Satish Jadhav of the Pimpri police. He said, “The 29-year-old complainant claimed that the youths were coming from the wrong side of the road. In contrast, the detained youth said the complainant was riding the two-wheeler on the wrong side. of the road” Jadhav said, “The detained youth claimed that when he and the other youth asked the complainant about it, the medical practitioner allegedly slapped one of them. Our probe is on.” He said, “The complainant stated in the FIR that he was riding his motorcycle towards home, when he noticed the two youths on a scooter coming from the opposite side. When he told them to give him the side, the doctor claimed, the two youths abused him.” Jadhav said the complainant claimed that he headed home after the heated argument with the duo. “The two youths, along with their two accomplices, followed the medical practitioner and stopped him in the parking lot of the building. The suspects then allegedly abused the complainant and assaulted him with a sharp weapon. He suffered injuries in his left hand and near waist,” the sub-inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doc-hurt-in-brawl-over-wrong-side-driving/articleshow/78757760.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Ballia firing accused in 14-day judicial custody||Varanasi: The Ballia firing case main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh, arrested on Sunday from Lucknow by the UPSTF, was produced before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Ballia on Monday and sent to jail in 14-day judicial custody. ADG, Varanasi Zone, Brij Bhushan said Dhirendra was brought to Ballia amid tight security arrangements on Sunday night and was produced before the CJM court and sent to jail. Dhirendra’s lawyer filed a bail plea, which was rejected by the CJM, who ordered him to be sent to jail in 14-day judicial remand. BJP MLA from Bairia Surendra Singh, who had been vocal in Dhirendra’s support did not speak and remained out of scene, but MP Virendra Singh Mast met DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chandra Dubey, Ballia DM Hari Pratap Shahi and SP Devendra Nath and asked them to ensure an FIR was lodged on the complaint of Dhirendra’s family members as they had also suffered injuries in the incident. After the meeting, the MP said, “The incident was circumstantial. If one person of a side was killed, women of the other group also suffered injuries. The DIG is camping in Ballia. I have talked to him, DM and SP and a decision was taken that people of the other group would give complaint and action will be taken on it.” He also appealed to all parties to work for normalising the situation in Durjanpur village. However, DIG Azamgarh range, DM and SP could not be contacted despite repeated efforts to know whether FIR had been lodged on the complaint of Dhirendra’s family. Dhirendra had allegedly shot Jai Prakash Pal Gama (46) on Thursday following a quarrel over the allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Ballia's Reoti area in presence of senior administration and police officials. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party activists led by district unit chief Hawaldar Yadav staged a demonstration in Azamgarh. Yadav said law and order had gone out of control in the state and the silence of the chief minister on the incident is shocking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ballia-firing-accused-in-14-day-judicial-custody/articleshow/78758411.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolhapur||Dist admin shuts down 18 Covid centres in rural areas||Kolhapur: The district administration has shut down 18 Covid care centres in the rural areas of Kolhapur as the number of cases being reported has been going down steadily. Since the last few days, the daily count of Covid cases has come down to two digits along with fewer deaths. In Kolhapur city, five Covid centres were recently shut down owing to the same reason. According to a health official, the number of critical patients has also dropped to 40 till Monday. As many as 51 Covid care centres, including 12 in the city, were set up across the district for dealing with the contagion. Yogesh Sale, district health officer, said, “We have now succeeded in bringing down the number of new cases and death count. We expect the daily death count to come down to zero in the next few days. We, however, will have ensure that the co-morbid persons are kept away from large gatherings so as to avoid getting infected. Most of the critical cases left are co-morbid. In coming days we will shut down the remaining Covid centres.” Sale added that a decision has been taken to further strengthen the Covid hospitals at the tehsil level and district level as the administration is expecting another wave of Covid, but after three months. “We have studied the pandemic cycle in other districts. It has been generally observed that there is surge in cases after around three months. Will it be more strong surge or not we don’t know. Therefore, we continuously appeal citizens that as of now your mask is the only vaccine to avoid getting infected,” said Sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-admin-shuts-down-18-covid-centres-in-rural-areas/articleshow/78757759.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Can LRS date be extended: Court to govt||Hyderabad: The high court on Monday sought to know from the state government whether there is any possibility of extending the last date for people to apply to get their plots regularised under the layout regularisation scheme (LRS). A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posed this question to advocate general BS Prasad when a mention was made by some advocates to take up their pleas on LRS. The AG sought time to ascertain the decision of the state in this regard. The bench posted the case to November 4. A mention was also made on behalf of Congress MP A Revanth Reddy about his plea to vacate the stay on NGT probe into an alleged illegal construction of a farmhouse in GO 111 area of Janwada in Rangareddy district. While the case was listed for physical hearing, his counsel sought virtual hearing as he was unable to fly down to Hyderabad from Delhi. The bench posted the case to November 16. - Sagar Kumar Mutha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-lrs-date-be-extended-court-to-govt/articleshow/78757782.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Police conduct raids, detain suspects for Kishangarh shoot out||Ajmer: Police on Monday raided half-a-dozen places in different villages and detained seven suspects for the murder of Bhagchand Chotiya in Kishangarh on Sunday. Sources said the chief minister’s office was keenly monitoring the investigation.Police believe the motive of the murder was to take revenge against Chotiya for deposing as a witness in the court against hardcore criminal Balwaram, who is languising in Dholpur central jail. It was because of Chotiya, Balwaram and his accomplices were given life terms in the sensational murder case of Bhanwar Singh Sinodiya in 2011.Police got a link that a sharp shooter from Uttar Pradesh or from Dholpur was hired by Balwaram from inside the bars to eliminate Bhagchand.Meanwhile, police personnel were deployed in Harmada village for the funeral of Chotiya where is mother is the sarpanch. District level police officers from Ajmer police lines as well as from seven nearby police stations were deployed to maintain law and order.Sources said during preliminary investigations, the link of the murder was tied to the nephew of Balwaram, Hanuman Singh, a resident of Ramner-ki-Dhani of Kishangarh. Though police raided the house on Monday morning, Hanuman was not found. Another team raided the house of a relative of Balwaram in Mohanpura and others teams raided Ralawata village and a few more places in Kishangarh town to search for Hanuman.“We are working on a few details and are working on the arrest of the assailants,” Ajmer SP Kunwar Rashtradeep said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-conduct-raids-detain-suspects-for-kishangarh-shoot-out/articleshow/78756387.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 754 crore bank fraud: CBI men search BSP MLA’s premises||LUCKNOW: Sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation conducted a search at premises and residences of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA Vinay Shankar Tiwari in Lucknow and Noida in connection with bank loan fraud amounting to Rs 754 crore. Vinay is the son of former minister HarI Shanker Tiwari and an MLA from Chillupar in Gorakhpur. The CBI had registered an FIR on a complaint from Bank of India against two private companies, Gangotri Enterprises, Royal Empire Marketing Limited based in Lucknow and Noida, its directors and unknown others on the allegations of committing misappropriation, cheating and causing loss of Rs 754 crore. The FIR lodged by the anti-corruption bureau of the CBI Delhi unit also names its directors, Vinay Shankar Tiwari, his wife Reeta Tiwari and Ajeet Pandey. The CBI sources said that fake documents were used to take loans and later the company did not even pay back. The CBI sources also said that it was alleged that the private company Royal Empire Marketing Limited and also Gangotri Enterprises Limited having its corporate office at Mahanagar, Lucknow were engaged in the construction of roads, bridges and flyovers along with other construction activities. Ajeet had served as a director in both the companies, while Reeta was a director in Royal Empire Company. Sources also revealed that both the companies were owned by Vinay Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-754cr-bank-fraud-cbi-men-search-bsp-mlas-premises/articleshow/78758422.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 16-year-old kills husband with help from lover, mother; detained||JAISALMER: A 16-year-old girl who got married three months ago allegedly murdered her husband by first giving him sleeping pills and then strangulating him using a rope, under Sankda police station area. Her mother and lover helped her execute the crime through video conferencing, claimed police. The father of the deceased lodged a report after which the police detained the girl, her mother and lover under IPC sections 302, 201 and 120B and started investigation. SP Ajay Singh said that Kaushalaram (24), a resident of Meghwalon Ki Dhani, Madhopura was killed on Saturday night in a closed room. The SP went to the spot and took information from the family on the deceased and from the neighbours. He said the minor girl cooked up a story in the morning saying her husband has committed suicide. She was weeping but her father-in-law got suspicious and informed the police. Police detained the minor girl and on interrogation, she accepted that on Monday, she murdered her husband by strangulating him. Sankda SHO Kanta Singh said that during the inquiry, the minor said she got married to Kaushalaram three months ago and she was already having an affair with a youth named Madan Ram and that her mother Sua Devi, resident of Barmer, was aware about the affair. She often went to Madan Ram’s house, to which her husband, mother-in-law and father-in-law objected, and this would result in fights between her husband and her. She also made a plan to elope with Madan Ram, which could not get successful. The SHO said that the girl, along with her mother and lover, then planned to kill Kaushalaram. Her mother brought sleeping pills for her, which she tried first and found being effective. She then mixed the pills in a chapati and gave it to here husband. When the husband dozed off, she first hit him with a stone on his head and thereafter sat on his chest and strangulated him with a rope. Following instructions from her mother and lover, the minor tried to hang the body from the fan, but the body kept falling so she cut the rope and let the body lie down, and went and sat outside the room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/16-yr-old-kills-husband-with-help-from-lover-mom-detained/articleshow/78756407.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Police suspect Balwaram engaged shooters to kill Chotiya||Ajmer: Balwaram and five others were convicted for life in 2014 for the murder of Bhanwar Singh Sinodiya and Bhagchand Chotiya was the key witness who had deposed in the trial court. As per court records, Balwaram had engaged sharp shooter Shamshad to kill Sinodiya, son of ex-Congress MLA Nathuram Sinodiya, over a land dispute in March 2011. Police now believe that this time too Balwaram engaged another sharp shooter to kill Chotiya to take revenge for deposing against him.After the conviction, Balwaram, who was in high security jail at Ajmer, was shifted to Dholpur central jail in 2019. Police suspect in Dholpur jail, Balwaram engaged a sharp shooter to eliminate Chotiya. Police got the lead that beside taking revenge, there was some land dispute between Chotiya and relatives of Balwaram.During the trial of Bhanwar Singh in 2011, there were threats to the witnesses and Chotiya was given a security guard from the state government. But when the accused were convicted, the security was withdrawn. Even the trial of Bhanwar Singh was transferred from Kishangarh to Ajmer court. Even when the court pronounced the verdict in 2014, all the six accused were charged for threatening witnesses. The court sentenced Balwaram, Sikander, Shahjad, Madan lal, Heera Lal and Kailash Thakad for murder and also under arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-suspect-balwaram-engaged-shooters-to-kill-chotiya/articleshow/78756384.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Woman foils abduction bid||Jaipur: A 30-year-old woman foiled an abduction bid at Badi in Dholpur district on Sunday when at least five persons attempted to kidnap her while she was on her way to work.According to the woman, around 10.30am she was walking towards her workplace when the accused in a SUV stopped near her and forcibly tried to force her in. When she resisted, they pulled her by her hair and even hit her.The complainant in her statement to police said although she screamed for help, no one came forward and kept struggling. Finally, one person came to her rescue after which a crowd started gathering. Seeing this, the kidnappers fled but took the woman’s purse which had Rs 5000 in cash as well as gold earrings which she was wearing. She named five persons in the FIR including her brother-in-law and alleged that her estranged husband’s family was behind the attack. The woman stated that she had been separated from her husband for nearly six years as he apparently had an extramarital relationship. Cops have registered the case and has started a search for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-foils-abduction-bid/articleshow/78756364.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Street plays drive home safety message||NEW DELHI: Amid apprehensions of a post-festival surge in Covid-19 cases, districts are taking several initiatives to ensure that people remain alert. Most of the districts are organising street corner plays where artists enact plays based on short stories to effectively communicate Covid-19 guidelines and the need to strictly follow them. Awareness campaigns are going on in full swing at sensitive locations like markets and other places that may witness overcrowding. The expert committee headed by Dr VK Paul of NITI Aayog has advised Delhi government that it should prepare for up to 15,000 daily cases because winter months and festival-related gatherings may lead to sudden rise in cases. During winter, respiratory illnesses become severe because of which Covid-19 infected persons may find the pandemic more threatening. North West district is organising panchayats in a bid to take the awareness campaigns to micro level. “Three panchayat meetings are organised every week by district administration officials to discuss Covid-19. The agenda is Covid-19, winter and festivals. The panchayat is organised with strict social distancing norms,” said district magistrate (North West) Sandeep Mishra. The DM has also attended a couple of panchayat meetings recently and found that people in villages are quite aware about the Covid-19 guidelines. “We urge the people to take care of senior citizens and those with comorbidities, ask them to avoid festive rush in the market, never get out of their homes without masks and maintain social distancing,” said Mishra. Every day, over 100 awareness vehicles fan out to different locations across the city teaching people dos and don’ts. Loudspeakers are mounted on the vehicles, which go to marketplaces, weekly markets, residential areas, parks and other places prone to gatherings of people. “We have roped in residents’ welfare associations. Posters of dos and don’ts have been put up in RWA-governed residential complexes and the associations are being encouraged to pass on the information to the residents through digital mediums or through meetings organised with social distancing,” said a South district official. Market associations are also being roped in. South West district administration organised a bike rally for awareness on Sunday in which 40 bikes with stickers on Covid-19 awareness content covered a long distance. They asked people to not become complacent until the vaccine for Covid-19 was out. “The entire awareness campaign is based on a few principles – wearing masks, two yards distance, washing hands frequently,” said an official. DM (South West) Naveen Agrawal also participated in the rally. “The pandemic is not yet over. In such a situation, taking precautions becomes important. The festival season has also begun due to which crowd in the market is growing and is likely to grow further. Every citizen will have to become aware and encourage others to take all precautions,” said DM (East) Arun Kumar Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/street-plays-drive-home-safety-message/articleshow/78757807.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 20, 2020||Mysuru||Planning to visit Bandipur? Get ready to undergo Covid-19 test||MYSURU: Bracing for an influx of tourists across the district during the festival season, Chamarajanagar’s administration has decided to subject visitors to Covid-19 tests. While the tests are not mandatory, the administration has urged tourists to cooperate and comply. The district has several popular tourist spots including Bandipur tiger sanctuary, Barachukki waterfalls, BR Hills and MM Hills and, with a rush of tourists expected especially after chief minister BS Yediyurappa directed district administrations to keep tourist spots open, locals fear a wave of infection. To allay fears of locals and to fight the pandemic, Chamarajanagar district health department has hit on the idea of conducting tests — both rapid antigen and RT-PCR — on tourists. "The purpose behind the initiative is to spread awareness on Covid-19 and to educate people," said Dr MC Ravi, district health officer. "If a visitor’s swab sample tests positive, we will inform authorities from his/her native district. If their rapid antigen test is positive, they will be given medical advice." Dr Ravi insisted the tests are not compulsory. "But we want tourists and locals to cooperate and provide samples. Our aim is education and awareness," he said. Chamarajanagar was the last district in the whole of south India to lose its green tag. The first Covid-19 positive case was reported on June 20, from Gundlupet town. Locals have welcomed the health department’s decision. "No tourist or devotee follows social distancing norms and people are gathering in tourist spots in large numbers," said Ravoof MJ, a resident of Gundlupet. "The holiday season will continue till the New Year. So, the district administration must act tough. Instead of voluntary tests, the administration should make it compulsory for all and ensure everyone complies."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/planning-to-visit-bandipur-get-ready-to-undergo-covid-19-test/articleshow/78756432.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Raj tops in abductions and rapes of Scheduled Caste in 2019||Jaipur: Rajasthan achieved dubious distinction in most categories of crime according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019.It is just behind Uttar Pradesh when it comes to atrocities against SCs, while the state surpasses all others in abductions/kidnappings and rapes of SC. Among the metropolitan cities, Jaipur has reported the highest number of crimes against scheduled caste with 343 such incidents being reported in 2019. A total of 6,794 cases against SC in all crime-heads were reported by the state. However, Uttar Pradesh leads with 11,829 incidents.In metropolitan cities, in the state capital, atrocities against SCs have been consistently increasing since 2017 when 84 incidents were reported which went up to 180 in 2018. Jaipur is followed by Lucknow with 234 incidents out of the total 19 cities which have been mentioned in the report.While free registration of FIRs is one reason for the spurt in the number of cases, Ravi Prakash, ADG, civil rights and anti-human trafficking, who has been closely following the data, told TOI, “In Rajasthan, a feudal system has been continuing till date and caste system does prevail. The Other Backward Class (OBC), who are the landowners, come in direct conflict with the SC/STs which at times results in crime.”According to officials, the rape of SC women is also due to the same reason and also that as Rajasthan reported the highest number of rape cases in 2019 in the country, the sexual assault included the ones from SC as w ell.“Although there is a big jump in rape cases from 2018 to 2019, the percentage has seen a decrease in 2020 with nearly 16% dip in the incidents involving the SC/ST category women. This has been seen in the data available till September 2020.In Rajasthan, there were 55 incidents of abduction/kidnapping of SC which was followed by Gujarat and Maharashtra with 13 cases in each state. Interestingly, Uttar Pradesh had zero incidents in this category. In attempt to rape of SCs, the state was again first with 72 incidentsGraphics Atrocities against SCRape State Number of incidents Rajasthan 554 Uttar Pradesh 537 Madhya Pradesh 510 Maharashtra 337 Haryana 221 Kidnapping & Abduction State Number of incidents Rajasthan 55 Gujarat 13 Maharashtra 13 Haryana 12 Uttar Pradesh 6||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tops-in-abductions-and-rapes-of-scheduled-caste-in-2019/articleshow/78756418.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Locals protest at Pachpadra refinery site||JAISALMER: Locals on Monday closed the refinery gate at the under-construction refinery at Pachpadra over their six demands and sat on dharna. The locals alleged that the work of the refinery has started but they were not given employment and that non-local development is taking place. They said they had told about this to the district administration and the company many times but no one was ready to listen. Later, police intervened and persuaded the agitators and on Monday evening, a delegation met and spoke to the HPCL officers. The vehicles and labourers were stopped outside the refinery. Balotara SDM Rohit Kumar, ASP Nitesh Arya and police force were present. Union president Aidan and other people raised the demand of employment to local people and development of nearby areas. On Monday late evening, the union delegation held talks with HPCL officers over their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locals-protest-at-pachpadra-refinery-site/articleshow/78756419.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Will extend all support to people: SCB prez||SECUNDERABAD: In the wake of torrential rains and flooding in the city, all help will be extended for rescue operations, including deployment of army teams and providing rescue boats, assured president of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and deputy general officer commanding (GOC), Brigadier Abhijit Chandra. Chandra, who chaired the SCB’s general body meeting on Monday, responded to pleas made by elected ward members as several colonies continue to be inundated after heavy rainfall. Ward member J Rama Krishna urged the president to approach the state government and seek Rs 100 crore financial aid for mending the infrastructural damage to roads, drainage system, open nala and water supply network. Some key resolutions were also passed in the board meeting, including hiking of building and other construction related charges, laying of white topping road at Bapuji Nagar (near Ramannakunta lake) on pilot project, construction of the first working women’s hostel in the sprawling one-acre cantonment land at Mudfort and sanction of Rs 60 lakh to build a G+1 community hall at Bollarum. The board also approved re-classification of A-1 defence land to class ‘C’ (Cantonment) land in GLR survey no. 569 at Bowenpally, ad-measuring around 1.5 acre for widening the narrow road to prevent accidents. The resolution was moved by J Maheshwar Reddy, a ward member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-extend-all-support-to-people-scb-prez/articleshow/78757810.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 20, 2020||Udaipur||Notorious Anna gang behind Rs 2 crore loot in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: With the arrest of seven people, Udaipur police on Monday claimed to have solved the Rs 2 crore-worth loot mystery, six days after the incident. Police said the notorious Madrasi gang, commonly known as Anna gang, committed the act with the help of locals from Udaipur, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand. Failed business, poor financial condition and the idea to make quick money led these men to get involved in the conspiracy, Udaipur SP Kailash Chandra Bishnoi told reporters. Seven accused have been arrested while three are still at large. Police have recovered most of the ornaments and some cash from their custody. Sohanlal Kothari, an 84-year-old man, was held hostage, gagged at his home in Kanore of Vallabhnagar block on October 13 and the robbers had decamped with Rs 16 lakh cash, 1.5kg gold and 125kg silver ornaments. “Special teams were assisted by the cyber cell, FSL team and dog squad to nab the criminals. Teams were sent to various towns in Gujarat and Maharashtra. We came to know that the Anna gang was involved in the robbery. Ten people worked in three groups and planned the act. Team A furnished details of Sohanlal to Team B which in turn managed affairs and arranged Team C to visit and recce the victim's house and break in," the officer said. The conspiracy Three men, Rohit Dangi, Suresh Dangi and Shravan, had a dairy business in Gujarat and Mumbai, they sold ice cream and dairy products on lorries and hence knew each other. Four months ago, Suresh, 38, the mastermind, suggested Rohit that he knew a gang led by one Shakti Vel, a resident of Tamil Nadu, that committed robberies and if Rohit could find any local wealthy party, they could make a good fortune. Rohit got two men — Shanti Singh and Satish Singh — both residents of Dungla in Chittorgarh to collect details about Sohanlal Kothari, the old money lender who was known for keeping borrower's jewellery at home as security against the loan given. In August, the Anna gang members visited Udaipur and attempted twice to loot the old man. However, they failed and returned to Mumbai. On October 12, they came again and succeeded this time. “A case was registered against Suresh and Shakti Vel at Dadar police station of Mumbai in connection to a Rs 5cr dacoity in 2013. There are six other cases of robbery and burglary pending against Shakti Vel,” Bishnoi said. Three more accused, Raju Maratha, Appa Madrasi and Mohan, are at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/notorious-anna-gang-behind-rs-2cr-loot-in-udaipur/articleshow/78756428.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Monsoon clouds refuse to leave Telangana||HYDERABAD: The state is witnessing a prolonged southwest monsoon this year as its withdrawal, which generally occurs by October 15, doesn’t seem to be happening any time soon and may extend its stay till the last week of this month. New weather systems forming over the Bay of Bengal have pushed the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon further. Last year, southwest monsoon withdrew completely from the state by October 16. This, year while the southwest monsoon has vacated northern parts of the country, it continues to linger over the rest of the region. Withdrawal of southwest monsoon was forecast to occur by the second week of October. However, a fresh low pressure area formed over the central Bay of Bengal which is likely to become well-marked by Tuesday. This will trigger intense rainfall till October 22 due to which the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw only by the month-end. “The weather system is expected to persist over the Bay of Bengal for the next three days with gradual intensification and shift close to the coastline off north Odisha and West Bengal. It is likely to turn into a depression on the October 21 and further a deep depression on October 22,” reads a weather report by Skymet, an independent weather forecasting agency. Consequently, the onset of the northeast monsoon will also wait in the wings and may roll over to November thereby making it a rainy festival season for people across the state. “Due to continuous formation of new systems, withdrawal of southwest monsoon is not happening. Only once the rainfall ceases can we officially declare the withdrawal of southwest monsoon. Once the wind pattern changes, only then we can expect some change,” said A Shravani, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad. This is not the first time that the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon has been delayed till October-end. The IMD, Hyderabad data indicates that in 2010 and 2016 as well, southwest monsoon withdrew only by October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monsoon-clouds-refuse-to-leave-t/articleshow/78757790.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||Three Barodians held for Jharkhand man’s murder||Vadodara: Crime branch sleuths on Monday arrested three Barodians in connection with a murder of a man in Jharkhand. Two of the accused allegedly killed Ranjit Mandal, a resident of Hazaribaug district on October 7 and returned to Vadodara. The police had received a tip-off on the basis of which they nabbed the accused.According to the police, Mandal came to the city some time ago to appear for exams. He stayed at the home of his cousin brother Arjun Prasad Mandal who is the key accused. “Ranjit got into an illicit relationship with Arjun’s wife and had a physical relationship with her. Ranjit left for Jharkhand after giving the exams,” the police said.Meanwhile, Arjun learnt about Ranjit’s relation with his wife and it angered him. He hatched a plan to kill Ranjit and took help of his friend Deepak Bavrava, a resident of Gotri. The duo drove to Jharkhand in a car in the first week of October. They met Ranjit at his home on October 7 and took him for a drive where Deepak allegedly strangled Ranjit sitting in the rear seat with a rope. They later disposed off his body by the roadside. When Ranjit didn’t return home, his family began searching for him and later filed a missing persons complaint.Ranjit’s family even told the police that they suspected Arjun’s role in the former’s disappearance. The Jharkhand police, meanwhile, traced Ranjit’s body. The Vadodara crime branch had received information that the murderers were from the city and traced them. Arjun runs Swagat Restaurant in Gotri and Deepak works in a garage. The cops have also arrested Arjun’s wife Maltidevi in the murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-barodians-held-for-jharkhand-mans-murder/articleshow/78755267.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Goa: MMC chief gets notice over regularisation of staff||PANAJI: The Goa Human Rights Commission has issued a notice to the chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council in complaints filed by 12 daily wage workers collecting garbage over non-regularisation of their services. The commission called for reports to reach it by October 26. The daily wage workers employed for the past two decades complained to various authorities including the commission over their regularisation being kept in abeyance. In their complaint, they stated that they found themselves in a “panic situation” over the fate of their jobs and added that for the past three months, the municipal council had not communicated about their appointments despite submitting all necessary documents. On December 24, 2019, a memorandum was issued to 15 individuals regarding their appointment. The workers accepted the appointment, provided a fitness certificate by Hospicio Hospital and submitted a joining report to the council in January. Following this, an order dated March 2, 2020 was issued mentioning their appointments. “Even after giving the documents, the municipality in a letter dated June 10, 2020 has informed me that my appointment dated December 24, 2019 has been kept in abeyance as per directives of the director of urban development,” one of the workers stated in his complaint. “The municipality has neither mentioned any reasons nor communicated any such time limit for keeping my appointment as a worker in abeyance,” he stated. The council had taken a resolution to consider regularisation of their services, and the departmental planning committee meeting held on July 20, 2019, in the presence of the chief officer and additional director of urban development had approved and recommended the regularisation. The workers stated that their jobs are a health hazard as they have been collecting garbage for years, making them vulnerable to infection and communicable diseases. They added that delay in payments of their salaries also caused hardship to them during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mmc-chief-gets-notice-over-regularisation-of-staff/articleshow/78758431.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Centre should now accept community spread: Delhi minister||NEW DELHI: State health minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the central government should clearly accept community spread of Covid-19 on a large scale. Delhi govt has been saying for the past few months that Covid-19 has entered the phase of community transmission in Delhi, but it is only up to the central government to accept it, he added. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Sunday stated that certain districts in some states were witnessing community transmission but made it clear that it was not happening across the country. The central government has so far maintained that there is only localised community transmission limited to some areas that are reporting clusters of cases. Asked about the union minister’s remarks, Jain stated that the Delhi government has been saying so for a few months and added that the Centre should clearly accept it. The number of cases was in lakhs (in the country) and even then if it was not accepted as community transmission, when it would be accepted, Jain wondered. He also said that serological survey had suggested more than 25% seroprevalence and the Centre should have no problem in accepting the community spread. Two Covid-19 waves have hit the city so far. In the first wave, the highest number of single day cases was on June 23 when the city reported close to 4,000 cases and the second wave was on September 16 when the city reported close to 4,500 cases in a day. Delhi government got the hint of community transmission in early June when the district authorities started finding it difficult to trace the source of infection in more than 50% cases. The health minister later remarked that community transmission had started happening in the city, but it was only up to the experts or the central government to give any authoritative remark on this. About the rush in markets due to festivals, the health minister said the government has released all the protocols for social distancing and other preventive behaviours. He appealed to people to wear mask and follow social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-should-now-accept-community-spread-jain/articleshow/78757811.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Congress LOP in AMC resigns||AHMEDABAD: The leader of the opposition (LOP) in the AMC, Dinesh Sharma of the Congress, submitted his resignation to the Gujarat Congress president, Amit Chavda, on Monday. Sharma has not sent his resignation to the AMC secretary.  Sharma was in the news in February this year when senior Congress corporators urged the party high command to change the LOP. Now, the resignation comes when the term of the LOP is ending next month. “The resignation at such a time has spurred speculation that Sharma, corporator from the India Colony ward, is likely to join the BJP ahead of local body elections,” said a senior Congress leader. For his part, Sharma said: “With elections on the cards, I wanted to focus on campaigning and being the LOP I was not able to concentrate on my ward.” He went on to say: “I have given my resignation to the party high command and the final decision will be taken by the party.” On his plans, Sharma said: “I am with the Congress and have no plan to join the BJP.” In 2019 too there was a move to replace Sharma and 33 senior corporators had met the Congress high command. However, later the Congress in the AMC was divided with several corporators claiming that they were forced to sign a letter to press for change. A senior Congress corporator said that colleagues are unhappy with Sharma’s functioning and are upset he did not raise issues brought to him by the party. A source claimed that in the AMC general board meeting, Sharma did not allow other corporators of his party to speak. Moreover, some Congress corporators claimed that Sharma never pressurized the ruling party and the administrative wing to take up development works in the wards represented by the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-lop-in-amc-resigns/articleshow/78757819.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Puranapul pillar develops cracks||HYDERABAD: The Puranapul bridge across the Musi river was shut for traffic after cracks were noticed in one of the pillars on Monday. While the old bridge (old Puranapul) which was built by Qutb Shah IV, is intact, one of the pillars of the new bridge, Quli Qutb Shah Bridge, that was inaugurated in 1992 in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, developed cracks. The GHMC and traffic police barricaded the bridge to prevent any untoward incident. However, commuters were allowed to use the bridge during the day. Ashok Samrat, zonal Commissioner, said that one of the pillars of Puranapul was damage due to the heavy rains. “A pillar was damaged due to the rains and the entire route has been cordoned off for public safety. Repair work will be carried out soon and the officials have been instructed to inspect the damage,” Samrat told TOI. Meanwhile, motorists said that the GHMC must ensure immediate removal of illegal encroachments from old Puranapul to protect the city’s heritage. “Already, people are worried over the prevailing situation in the state and such damages must be addressed without any further delay. All encroachments must be removed from Puranapul at the earliest,” said Azeem, a resident of Mustaidpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/puranapul-pillar-develops-cracks/articleshow/78757809.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Agricultural department starts estimation of crop damage on war footing||AMARAVATI: Wasting no time, the agriculture department has started its assessment of crop damage due to heavy rains and floods with field level teams told to start the process immediately. Village agriculture assistants and horticulture secretaries have been asked to commence survey in areas where flood waters have receded. According to preliminary estimates, crops in around three lakh acres across the state have been damaged. However, the real numbers are likely to go up once an accurate survey is completed. “Farmers need not to worry about compensation as officials enumerate with complete transparency. All farmers who lost their crop will be identified,” said agriculture commissioner H Arun Kumar. The commissioner has asked joint collectors for revenue and Rythu Bharosa to coordinate with district-level officials and monitor field surveys. Field-level teams have been given a period of seven days to complete the enumeration and prepare a list of farmers along with the extent of crop damage in a particular village. They were told to publish draft lists of beneficiaries at the nearest Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK) within a week. Subsequently, farmers will be get an opportunity to submit objections and appeals over the lists within two days of the draft list’s release. Mandal-level agriculture officers also have been asked to look into the hardships of farmers in getting their details enrolled due to non-entry of crop/farmer details in e-crop booking portal. Village revenue officials will be assisting the agriculture department in enumerating the actual cultivators as victims. “We have issued specific instructions to joint directors to ensure that only details of cultivators are entered and not the landlords. It will help us in extending either compensation or other benefits like subsidised seed supply to actual cultivators,” said Arun Kumar. Following the audit at the Rythu Bharosa Kendra-level, lists will be forwarded to district collectors who will in turn send them to the state government for its approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/agri-dept-starts-estimation-of-crop-damage-on-war-footing/articleshow/78755240.cms||Samdani MN
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Maya seeks apology from Cong brass for Nath’s remarks against Dalit woman||Lucknow: Demanding an apology from the Congress high command for former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath’s comments against a dalit woman candidate in the upcoming bypolls, in which he allegedly referred to her as an “item”, BSP chief Mayawati has appealed to voters to reject Congress’ “anti-dalit" and "anti-women” ideology and ensure that it does not win a single seat in the elections. “The comment made by a senior member of Congress and a former CM against a dalit woman contesting from Gwalior’s Dabra reserved seat, is indecent, highly shameful and anti-women. The Congress brass must issue a public apology for this,” she said. The former UP chief minister M added that to teach Congress a lesson for this slight to a woman’s dignity and to the dalit community, voters should shun Congress and vote in masse for BSP on all 28 seats up for byelections shortly. BSP has two MLAs in MP and a party worker claimed that it if Congress were to do well in the state, both BJP and Congress would require its help to form government. Byelections are being held in the state after the death of three law makers and the defection of 25 MLAs from Congress to BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-seeks-apology-from-cong-brass-for-naths-remarks-against-dalit-woman/articleshow/78758426.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coaching institute owner dies in accident||AHMEABAD: A man, 33, from Sector 29 in Gandhinagar died in a road accident when two motorcycle-borne men collided with his scooter near Kudasan circle late on Sunday night. The deceased identified as Maulik Trivedi ran a group of coaching classes for competitive exams, in the state capital.  Inspector, DG Tadvi, of Infocity police said that the incident took place when Trivedi was returning to his home from Kudasan. Trivedi sustained critical injuries when the two motorcycle-borne man collided with him and he became unconscious on the spot. He was rushed to Gandihnagar Civil hospital, where he was declared dead. Tadvi said that Trivedi had trained hundreds of students who had succeeded in government exams at different posts. Infocity police registered a case of rash driving resulted into killing against a man who rode motorcycle and began an investigation. Police said that the accused was also critical and admitted to Civil hospital in Gandhinagar. Trivedi’s relatives alleged that the motorcycle rider was drunk but police did not verify the claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coaching-institute-owner-dies-in-accident/articleshow/78757824.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Furnish sanction order, no arrest of GST official till Nov 2, HC tells CBI||HYDERABAD: Justice K Lakshman of Telangana high court on Monday reiterated that the customs and central excise department will have to furnish to the court the file related to according sanction to prosecute GST superintendent BS Gandhi and directed the CBI not to arrest him till November 2. The judge was hearing Gandhi’s plea against a CBI FIR registered against him after the Union finance minister accorded the sanction to commence criminal proceedings against him. Appearing for Gandhi, senior counsel B Adinarayana Rao contended that it was the commissioner of GST who has to accord sanction as per 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act. When a competent authority was notified under the Act to accord sanction, it should come from that authority and not from others, was his contention. CBI, which charged Gandhi with extorting money from traders in the input credit tax scam, on the other hand, has been arguing that since they obtained the sanction order from the finance minister, the highest authority in the department, it is absurd to ask for a sanction order from an officer who is subordinate to the FM. The judge, however, insisted that since the law defined a competent authority, he wants to see the sanction file. The Centre on Monday could not produce the file nor could file its counter. The judge gave them time till November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/furnish-sanction-order-no-arrest-of-gst-official-till-nov-2-hc-tells-cbi/articleshow/78757881.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||Two minor girls raped in Savli, Desar||Vadodara: Two minor girls were raped in Vadodara district allegedly by men from their own villages on Sunday. The two accused were detained on Monday and were quarantined.The first crime was reported from Prathampura village in Savli taluka, where a 10-year-old girl was raped allegedly by a casual labourer living in her village. Police said that the girl was assaluted when she was with her younger brother at home and no elders were present. The accused Navneet Makwana entered the house under the pretext of giving food to the two kids. Makwana locked the door from inside and sexually assaulted the girl. When she started crying, he fled from the house. When the girl’s parents reached, she told them about Makwana’s behaviour. The parents then went to Savli police station where an offence of rape, trespassing and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered.In the second case registered in Desar taluka’s Bhatpura village, the accused Sandeep Gohil told the 17-year-old girl that a woman from their village was calling her. When the girl went to the woman’s house, she was not present there. But Gohil reached there and held the girl from behind and started kissing her forcibly and sexually assaulted her. The girl shouted for help and managed to escape from Gohil’s grip. The girl’s father lodged the case at Desar police station on Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-minor-girls-raped-in-savli-desar/articleshow/78755279.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM sacks tainted former home guard commandant||LUCKNOW: Showing zero tolerance for corruption, chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered dismissal of former Bulandshahr district home guard commandant Mukesh Kumar from the service on Monday. Mukesh was accused of accepting money from home guard jawans. The action was taken after four videos surfaced in November 2019 in which Mukesh was seen taking a bribe of Rs 2,000 from the jawans and putting the cash in his pocket. These videos were originally of 2018. Mukesh was suspended and a probe by divisional commandant, Meerut, Dharam Dev was ordered by the government. The videos were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) lab in Lucknow and an FIR was lodged by Dev with the Bulandshahr Kotwali against Mukesh under the charges of Prevention of Corruption Act on January 19 this year. The videos were found to be correct and no tampering was done. As per the probe, four videos, which had gone viral on social media, were found to be shot on different dates. All the four videos were made in different locations of Bulandshahr in 2018. While the first video of 2.50 seconds was made on October 9, 2018, the other two were shot on October 15. Of them, one was of 9.59 seconds duration and another was of 18 seconds. The last video was of 1.38 seconds and was made on December 1, 2018. “In all these videos, Mukesh is seen taking money from jawans,” an officer said. Senior officers of the home department said that after approval from the CM the order would now be sent to the Union Public Service Commission. As many as 150 government officials, facing corruption charges, were arrested by anti-corruption organisation (ACO) between January 1 and August 31. Besides, 33 cops were nabbed for taking bribes and 117 were arrested from various other departments across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-sacks-tainted-former-home-guard-commandant/articleshow/78758435.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: CM conducts aerial survey, takes stock||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit regions in Krishna and Guntur districts. The chief minister covered Nandigama, Avanigadda, Penamaluru, Mylavaram and Tadikonda constituencies and witnessed the extent of crops damaged. Addressing a review meeting after the aerial survey, the chief minister directed the officials to complete the estimates of crop damage due to incessant rainfall at the earliest. He also instructed the officials to provide input subsidy to farmers so that the subsidy amount could be used as an investment for the rabi crop. The chief minister instructed the officials to identify those who have suffered crop loss, lost houses and cattle due to floods in the remaining districts and compensate them immediately. The state government has been providing free rations comprising five essential commodities in the flood-hit regions of Krishna, Guntur and the Godavari districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-conducts-aerial-survey-takes-stock/articleshow/78755271.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Surgery charges at Delhi's Kasturba Hospital may rise by 12 times||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to increase the charges for rooms, diagnostic tests and surgery in private wards at Kasturba Hospital. The proposal, which was approved by the standing committee in its last meeting, suggests doubling the room rent and increasing cost of surgeries by up to 12 times. The hospital has 14 rooms in the private ward. Officials said the proposal was made to bring treatment cost in private wards at Kasturba Hospital on a par with Hindu Rao Hospital. “Since the charges for rooms and diagnostic tests were fixed a long time ago, the audit department had advised to revise them. The proposal would need the nod of the House before it is implemented,” he added. Of the 14 rooms in the private ward, three are reserved for hospital staff members and the rest for patients. The proposal suggests increasing the rent of an airconditioned room from Rs 500 to Rs 800 per day and for non-AC rooms from Rs 250 to Rs 500. The cost of major surgeries could increase from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 and minor surgeries from Rs 200 to Rs 400. For laparoscopy surgery, the fees would be increased from Rs 250 to Rs 2,500. For personalised care in the ICU, Rs 1,000 would be charged over and above the room rent. The hospital conducts 104 types of tests. Even their cost may go up by 2-4 times. ENT tests, which had no charges earlier, would now cost Rs 1,000. Normal delivery rates have been increased from Rs 200 to Rs 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/surgery-charges-at-kasturba-hospital-may-rise-by-12-times/articleshow/78757822.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||UP schools reopen to below 9% attendance on first day||LUCKNOW: Less than 9% students attended classes across UP on the first day of reopening schools after seven months on Monday. According to officials, only 34% of students between class IX to XII got parental consent to attend schools. Of them, less than 25% attended the school on Monday. Out of nearly 1 crore students (between class IX and XII) enrolled in 28,474 secondary schools in UP, parents of 34.7 lakh students gave consent and less than 25% (around 8.5 lakh) turned up . The secondary education department data shows 90% schools -- 25,533 out of 28,474 -- undertook sanitation drive. As many as 25,977 schools maintained social distancing. The analysis done by government also shows clean drinking water was available in 99% schools while 98% had proper and separate toilets for girls and boys. Most schools that reopened had made adequate provision for masks and thermal scanners, too, a government official said. While 87% schools had sufficient masks available for the students, 97% had put up dustbins to dispose of the masks. Another 86% had thermal scanners and sanitisers readily available. Proper hand washing facility was provided by 97% schools. The analysis was based on the feedback given by departmental officials who were deputed by the additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla to 75 districts for proper monitoring of the SOPs issued by the state government for reopening of schools. Special secretary, secondary education, UB Tripathi, who visited schools, both convent, private and government, in rural and urban Raebareily said, “Though children were happy to be back, the atmosphere of fear existed. Many parents who have given their consent, didn’t send their kids. The attendance was more in rural schools. Schools took all precautions to keep children safe.” Citing his experience, another officer said, “In elite schools, the presence of students was miniscule as parents decided not to send their kids. On the contrary, government schools, even in interiors, reported a good number of students who were high on enthusiasm with a sense of fear. Teachers, too, had a smile on their faces after seeing kids back.” Shukla who inspected three schools in Lucknow, issued directives to the management to ensure proper well-being of the students along with safeguarding their future. As per the government directives, senior students of class IX to XII were allowed to come to the schools with parental consent. Morning assembly, lunch breaks, chatting with friends during library hours, and any sports activities were to be kept away in the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-schools-reopen-to-below-9-attendance-on-first-day/articleshow/78758456.cms||Isha Jain
October 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 2,918 Covid cases, lowest in 3 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,918 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,86,050. This is the lowest single-day case count in the last three months after the state recorded 3,963 cases on July 18. The toll jumped to 6,453 on Monday after 24 more people died of the disease while as many as 4,303 patients recovered. There are currently 35,065 active cases with cumulative recoveries numbering 7,44,532, translating to a recovery rate of 94.7%. This is the highest recovery rate among all states/Union territories in the country as of date. East Godavari reported 468 new cases on Monday, followed by West Godavari (447) and Chittoor (380). For the first time in months, all districts reported fewer than 500 cases with Vizianagaram reporting the lowest case total of the day (44). Kurnool followed at 66 cases. Kadapa crossed the 50,000 case-mark on Monday, becoming the 10th district to achieve the grim feat. Among the 24 deceased on Monday, four each were from Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam, three from Kadapa, two from East Godavari, and one each from Nellore, Prakasam and West Godavari districts. The state tested 61,330 people on Monday and detected 2,918 cases, a case positivity rate of 4.7%. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted 71.27 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 11%. The positivity rate has come down to the 5-6% range in the last few weeks from the peak of 16-17% in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-2918-covid-cases-lowest-in-3-months/articleshow/78755287.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A policy to change mindset of society||NEW DELHI: At a time when an all-round collapse of the moral fabric is evident, art and culture should play a part in making the society stand against increasing hatred and violence, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said at the first meeting of Delhi Cultural Policy Advisory Committee on Monday. Art and culture, Sisodia said, is the medium to put forward the truth in the most raw form and, through the new policy, Delhi government seeks to ensure meaningful contribution of art and culture towards transforming the mindset of the society. In the meeting held through videoconferencing, Sisodia emphasised that Delhi belonged to everyone, so the cultural diversity and heritage of the entire country should be reflected in the cultural events of the city. Any other government can remain focused on the language and the culture of its own state, but Delhi has the distinction of being the national capital, he said. “Therefore, people from every part of the country should get a glimpse of an array of the cultural diversity symbolising India. The government is working fast to make Delhi a vibrant centre of art and culture.” The 15-member committee, set up by the art, culture and language department, will submit its report in two months. It will also suggest a roadmap for the creative economy of Delhi. The deputy chief minister said the government wanted to develop the cultural atmosphere in such a way that some good activities would take place every day. Just like people take their guests to cinemas and restaurants, Delhiites will have multiple options to go to cultural events, he added. Actor Manoj Bajpayee, a member of the committee, said it had been his dream that he would advise the government, with which he shared close ties, to introduce theatre education in school. Bajpayee advised the government to bring slum children into the mainstream through theatre education and cited various types of dance and music programmes that take place at every other metro station and street in Paris. The actor urged the government to provide space for artistes to make Delhi a cultural capital. Among other suggestions were giving Delhi villages an opportunity to further their culture and let people of different states living in the capital bring their cultural heritage to the fore. The committee also has actor Javed Jaffrey, art and policy expert Pooja Sood, JNU’s school of arts and aesthetics professor Ira Bhaskar, Delhi College of Art prinicipal Ashwini Kumar, social activist Vineet Nagar, folk dancer Bina Vyas, music producer Breen Desai, art expert Abhinandita Dayal Mathur, artist-researcher Bhagwati Prasad and Latika Gupta, and artist-educationist Aastha Chauhan among its members. Several subcommittees were formed in the meeting to draft policies on various issues. The AAP government will implement the policy presented by the advisory committee with full political will, promised Sisodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-policy-to-change-mindset-of-society/articleshow/78757874.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Can’t turn festival into despair: Kolkata clubs welcome court’s ‘distancing’ directive||KOLKATA: Concerns about the safety of residents of the area, a sense of responsibility towards society at large and apprehension that courts could enforce restrictions at Kolkata’s Durga Puja, like the Ganpati festival in Mumbai and Rath Yatra in Puri, had led some of the top-draw organisers across the city to enforce self-regulations, barring visitors’ entry days before the Calcutta High Court issued its no-visitor-inside-pandal order on Monday. While a majority of clubs were in a fix after the order was passed, those puja organisers welcomed it.  Santosh Mitra Square puja committee, which was among the first not to allow visitors in their pandal this year, felt the court should have been stricter in keeping crowds at bay. “We did what any sensible person would have done. One cannot willfully turn the festival of joy into despair. It is time for other committees to also embrace the court order. We owe it to society,” said Sajal Ghosh, puja committee secretary, adding police should restrict crowds to main roads, where Pujas are held in narrow lanes. Maddox Square, one of the most popular hangout places during the festival for decades, had decided not to organize a community Puja this year and instead hold a private affair at the club. Though it had to later relocate its Puja to the ground to adhere to the three-side open SOP, it said no to addas in the park. “We welcome the court order and will have no problem implementing it. That may not be true for others but, in a year when there has been so many challenges, we have to do all we can to help contain the pandemic,” said Ballygunge Durga Puja Samity (Maddox Square) treasurer Animesh Chattopadhyay. At Salt Lake’s AK Block, organisers had made a large buffer zone—well above the court prescribed 10 metres from the pandal—where they had planned to put a complete bar on visitors’ entry. “We had made the buffer zone to limit crowding. While other puja committees will be forced to make largescale changes to their pandal structures following the court order, we would not need to do any such thing. We just need to put up some fresh no-entry banners and distancing cautions,” said Raja Banik, executive member of one of the largest crowd-puller Puja in Salt Lake. Organisers of FD Block Puja, another top-draw in Salt Lake, said they had decided long before not to let visitors inside the pandal and had also outsourced the entire activities to professionals to keep their own local residents safe. “We have made a very wide gate from where revellers can see the idol from a long distance of even more than 30 metres, as per the court’s order. The entire puja rituals will also be done by a group of priests with minimum involvement of local residents,” said Banibrata Banerjee, president of the puja committee. The organisers of the Puja at Jodhpur Park did away with entry and exit right in the beginning because they had a lurking fear that courts would step in as they had during the Ganapati and Rath festivals. “How can one argue about the need for restraint? We are organising the Puja to keep a tradition alive, not to inconvenience others,” he said. Debdaru Phatak, a Puja in Behala, also decided to close its doors to public after some of the members pointed out that it could lead to a dangerous situation in the locality. “We have a 15ft entry and 3ft exit. Allowing people in would mean jostling and crowding. In the 40 houses in the neighbourhood, we have had 16 Covid-19 cases and two deaths. We couldn’t take more risk. I think all organisers in narrow lanes and alleys should consider the order a boon,” said organising committee member, Snehasish Halder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cant-turn-festival-into-despair-clubs-welcome-courts-distancing-directive/articleshow/78758804.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||Amul forays into carbonated drink segment with launch of country’s first seltzer||VADODARA: In a significant shift from its traditional products, home grown dairy major Amul has forayed into carbonated drink segment with the launch of AmulTru Seltzer, calling it country’s first seltzer.The Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul announced the launch of AmulTru Seltzer - a mix of real fruit juice, milk solids and fizz. “Historically, people from Niederselters, a town in Germany bottled and exported their naturally carbonated water in 1787 and Americans called it seltzer. Hundred years back, in 19th century, people started adding seltzer to milk, either as a refreshment or a tonic to cure diseases,” a release issued by GCMMF said, adding that it has already emerged as fastest growing category in the western countries. The seltzers have been launched in Gujarat market in two flavours – lemon and orange, while Amul plans to roll out new variants like cola, jeera and apple. Amul had launched ‘Tru’ brand in February last year to strengthen its beverage product portfolio. “The product got 10 % market share in the first quarter of the launch,” said GCMMF. “One of the huge beverage categories is carbonated soft drinks. As such there has not been much innovation in this category. Consumers are also moving away from sugary beverages that only contain water, sugar and fizz,” the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-forays-into-carbonated-drink-segment-with-launch-of-countrys-first-seltzer/articleshow/78755306.cms||---
October 20, 2020||India||Near vision loss cases in India surge to 138 million||NEW DELHI: Increased life expectancy and a high diabetes burden has increased the number of Indians with eyesight issues. Cases of near vision loss have more than doubled in the country — from 57.7 million in 1990 to 137.6 million in 2020, according to new data provided by two international bodies. Near vision loss means inability to focus on nearby objects — it’s also called presbyopia — and sets in from the mid-40s. In a new data analysis which took six to seven years to compile, the Vision Loss Expert Group (VLEG) and the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) found that there were 507 million cases of near vision loss in the world, with 137.6 million of them in India. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Why for many Indians living longer means living in darknessWatch Near vision loss cases in India surge to 138 million, almost doubled in 30 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/near-vision-loss-cases-in-india-surge-to-138-million/articleshow/78759181.cms||Shobita Dhar
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad man held with ecstasy tablets worth Rs 7 lakh||AHMEDABAD: The special operations group (SOG) of Gandhinagar police on Sunday nabbed a 24-year-old man from the service road between Ga-0 and Gha-0 Circles in the state capital in possession of 151 tablets of MDMA (methylenedioxy methamphetamine), which is commonly known as ‘ecstasy’ or ‘molly’, worth Rs 7.50 lakh. According to the FIR filed at Sector 7 police station in Gandhinagar, SOG cops got an input that the accused, Rushik Dave, a resident of Sector 2/C in Gandhinagar, was on the service road between Ga-0 and Gha-0 Circles with a stock of psychotropic drugs.  A police team rushed there and found Dave waiting in his car. Police frisked him and found the MDMA tablets in a small ziplock bag in the right pocket of his pants. SOG officers said Dave confessed that the tablets were ecstasy, which he intended to sell to users in Gandhinagar and on SG Road in Ahmedabad. An SOG officer said, “Dave had brought the drugs from a Motera resident named Nihal Salvi around a week ago. Dave was supposed to pay Salvi Rs 1 lakh from the proceeds of his sales.” The officer said Dave told them that he had come into the drug business just a week ago. “He planned to sell the drugs to students of institutes of Gandhianagar and some institutes in Ahmedabad city,” added the officer. Police said Salvi is on the run after Dave’s arrest and a team is looking for him. Dave and Salvi have been booked under the NDPS Act and an investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-ecstasy-tablets-worth-rs-7-lakh/articleshow/78757872.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: 50,000 treated by Uttar Pradesh medical colleges, recovery rate 85%||LUCKNOW: UP’s share in the total Covid cases and death in the national figure is declining rapidly, according to an assessment undertaken by the state government on Monday. As on date, 4.24% of all cases and 4.84% of all deaths being reported in India are from Uttar Pradesh. In the week between September 14-20 -- when UP witnessed its peak – the state’s share in the Covid-19 cases was 6.59% cases and 7.58% of all deaths. The state’s aggressive testing strategy is being credited for bringing out the hidden cases, but quality management of patients at the state medical colleges is the reason for decline in casualties. “Over 50,000 patients were attended and managed at state medical colleges and the hard work put in by the health team, including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, support and cleaning associates, deserve to be lauded,” ACS, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said, adding, that “the recovery rate has been over 85%.” He also listed that state labs were in the forefront of Covid-19 testing through the RT-PCR, the gold standard in testing. “Of the total tests conducted so far, over 50 lakh RT PCR tests were conducted by our state labs,” he said, adding that KGMU led the list with six lakh tests followed by SGPGI and RML Institute where four lakh tests each were conducted. Likewise, Institute of Medical Sciences, BHU and Government Medical College Meerut conducted more than three lakh RT PCR Tests. ACS, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the decline is surely good news, but there is need for caution to ensure that the Covid-19 does not raise its head again. “The number of fresh cases in the past 24 hours has gone down below 2,000 and the number of active infections continues to decline, but prevention protocol needs to be followed in public interest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/50000-treated-by-state-med-colleges-recovery-rate-85/articleshow/78758468.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No Covid-19 fatality till date at rail hospital||VISAKHAPATNAM: The 50-year-old railway hospital owned by Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has handled 225 Covid-19 positive cases from April till date without reporting any mortality. The hospital, which serves around 34,000 railway staff including 16,000 retired employees in the division that covers parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh apart from north-coastal Andhra Pradesh, had kept ready 70 isolation beds out of a total of 154 beds in the first week of April. Later, after receiving permission from the Indian Medical Council, it started medical treatment for Covid-19 patients on nearly 50% of its bed strength. “Nearly 40% of the 225 Covid-19 positive patients were women. Eighteen patients have come from Koraput, Palasa, Rayaghada and Bacheli. This apart, we have even treated two non-Railways Covid-19 patients,” a senior medical officer at the railway hospital told TOI. The medical officer further said they referred 30 patients to corporate hospitals in the city keeping in view the patients’ comorbidities. All of them recovered. Divisional railway manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said they recruited additional contractual medical practitioners and paramedical staff due to the magnitude of the pandemic. “A help desk was created to screen patients with fever and Covid-19-like symptoms to segregate suspected cases from non-Covid-19 cases,” Shrivastava said. “We have so far conducted around 1,000 RT-PCR tests and 500 rapid antigen tests,” another medical officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-covid-19-fatality-till-date-at-rail-hosp/articleshow/78755302.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Some plan to move division bench, others fret over changes||KOLKATA: Many Durga Puja organisers in the city fear twin challenges in implementing the Calcutta High Court order, one from outside and the other within. While most feel they will have to struggle to keep the sea of revellers from entering their pandals—the HC order restricts visitors at 5 metres of small Pujas and 10m of big ones— many committees fear that the court allowing only a list of 15 (small Pujas) to 30 members (big Pujas) inside pandals might create a fissure among organizers, as those left out might feel slighted. Puja organisers went into a huddle on Monday evening, planning the next course of action. Forum for Durgotsav, platform for Durga Puja organisers in the city, has also started consulting lawyers. “We will in all likelihood move the Calcutta High Court division bench for relief. There are problems in implementing the order at the eleventh hour. We will arrive at a decision by Tuesday morning,” said forum secretary Saswata Ghosh, also the general secretary of Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav, which will be, like many other Pujas in north Kolkata, will be affected by the order. Ghosh said the order would be especially difficult for pujas in alleys. “Hundreds of community pujas, particularly those in narrow lanes of north and central Kolkata and Behala, will find it difficult to control the crowd within 5-10 metres of pandals. Visitors enter most of these pandal from the front and exit through the sides before heading towards the rear. If visitors are stopped in front of the pandal, it would lead to crowding,” he said. Some pujas in his area that are held in narrow lanes are Sikdar Bagan, Nalin Sarkar Street and Nabin Pally. While it will not be difficult to tackle pandals-hoppers in big parks or along main roads, forum president and Bosepukur Sitala Mandir Puja general secretary Kajal Sarkar said restricting the number of committee members to only 15-25 was unfair. “We would have been glad had the order been on restricting entry into the pandal to only 15-25 members at a time. Whoever gets left out will feel terrible,” he said. Sreebhumi Sporting in Lake Town seemed to have not scaled down festivity or spend on either pandal or lights this year. Images of revellers, many of them carrying kids and without masks, have been flooding social media pages. An organizing member said they were in a fix over the changes they needed to make in such a short time. The organising committee had a meeting till late at night even as pandal-hoppers continued to pour in, in violation of the court’s “no entry” order. “I will not face a problem but several puja committees will,” said fire minister Sujit Bose, chief patron of the puja, standing outside the pandal, themed around Badrinath temple. Swarup Ghosh, a functionary at Suruchi Sangha in New Alipore, sat in a meeting with other club functionaries, including chief patron and state sports minister Aroop Biswas. “We had built our pandal following all state prescribed norms. Now with the fresh HC order, we are yet to decide on how the changes will be implemented,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-plan-to-move-div-bench-others-fret-over-changes/articleshow/78758808.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 20, 2020||Surat||Two held for hurling eggs at BJP poll meeting||Surat: The Surat city crime branch nabbed two persons on Monday for allegedly hurling eggs during a campaign meeting of BJP held in Yogi Chowk of Varachha on Sunday evening. The BJP had decided not to lodge any offence in the incident. But 12 hours after the incident, a complaint was lodged with the Sarthana police station. The accused were identified as Gaurang alias Gavo Naran Kakadia and Piyush alias Priyam Vinu Virani. Police said that duo was linked to Chandu Sojitra, a Congress leader. Sojitra’s wife Ranjan is currently Congress municipal councillor in the Surat Municipal Corporation. Police is yet to probe role of Sojitra in the incident. “Investigation revealed that the accused are linked to Sojitra. It is yet not clear if Sojitra is involved,” said a police officer. On Sunday, some unidentified person had thrown eggs at an election campaign meeting of BJP in Anand Farm at Yogi Chowk of Kapodra area. The meeting attended by over 500 people, state BJP president C R Paatil, Surat BJP MP Darshana Jardosh, city mayor Jagdish Patel, junior health minister Kumar alias Kishore Kanani, city BJP president Nitin Bhajiyawala and other BJP MLAs were also present. However, the eggs were hurled just after top BJP leaders left the venue.The meeting was organised for campaign of J V Kakadia, former Congress MLA from Dhari-Bagasara-Khambha constituency and now contesting as BJP candidate from the same seat. Kakadia had resigned as Congress MLA before Rajya Sabha earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-held-for-hurling-eggs-at-bjp-poll-meeting/articleshow/78755337.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: On bail in truck theft case, man steals it again from police station||NAGPUR: Sanjay Dhone, who has 35 offences of mostly theft of trucks, proved he is no run-of-the-mill thief. On Monday, Dhone allegedly stole the same vehicle from Lakadganj police station for which he had been earlier arrested. Dhone, who was bailed out by the court, learnt to have fled with the truck in the early hours. Police said Dhone had stolen a truck from the small factory area on Old Bhandara road in the first week of October. The truck had iron consignment worth Rs14 lakh in it. He was heading towards Dhule when the crime branch intercepted him near Morshi in Amravati on October 11. The seized truck and Dhone were handed over to Lakadganj police by the crime branch. The cops had kept the seized truck parked in front of the police station. Sources said Dhone was miffed with the cops for having seized his cell phone despite his repeated request. He had visited the Sitabuldi police station in inebriated condition to lodge a frivolous complaint. As cops turned him away, a miffed Dhone had vowed to steal the same truck for which he had been earlier arrested. Lakadganj police sources said owner of the truck had also deployed a guard to keep a watch on the vehicle outside the police station. Dhone allegedly roughed up the guard before fleeing with the truck. An offence of robbery has been registered against Dhone at Lakadganj police station. Different squads of Lakadgnj police station and crime branch have already left for different locations to nab Dhone. It’s learnt that cops are also conducting searches at different places in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-bail-in-truck-theft-case-man-steals-it-again-from-police-stn/articleshow/78756536.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC grants bail to 60-year-old man accused of being part of mob||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has granted bail to a 60-year-old man accused of being part of a mob during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. The court found that his conduct was satisfactory during the interim bail, when he was released on account of his age and the fact that he was a permanent resident of Delhi and posed no flight risk. “Considering the submissions and the report on the conduct of the petitioner (accused) during the interim bail period, this court is inclined to grant regular bail to the petitioner...,” Justice Prathiba Singh said. The court noted the stand of the police that the conduct of the accused during the interim bail period has been “satisfactory.” Accused Sharif Khan has given his and his daughter’s mobile number to the investigating officer (IO), continued to report regularly and has not indulged in any unlawful or illegal activity during the period. The court directed the accused to not leave Delhi and report to the IO every two days. It said the surrendered passport of the accused will remain in the custody of the trial court and he should not indulge in any illegal or unlawful activity or contact any witnesses or any other persons who are subject matter of the investigation of the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-grants-bail-to-60-yr-old-man-accused-of-being-part-of-mob/articleshow/78757877.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Grope-and-run in bustling Jodhpur||Ahmedabad: A 22-year-old woman who was on an evening walk was molested by a man on a scooter, on the road near her house in the busy Jodhpur area at around 7pm on Sunday. The scooterist drove up from behind her and groped her in such a way that she almost fell to the ground. The woman was so traumatized that she froze for a few minutes, amid vehicles honking all around her, and the man who molested her escaped. The stunned woman went back home and told her family about the incident, after which they filed a complaint of molestation at Anandnagar police station. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police said that the offence occurred when the woman was on her routine evening walk between Bandhan Party Plot and Ashwamegh Bungalows Road. “The accused came from behind, patted her backside and fled. This happened when there was traffic on the road and others were also walking in the area, but the accused was emboldened enough to still commit the offence,” said Baloch. Baloch said that the victim told them that the accused had even slowed his scooter down behind her. As she was frightened and traumatized after the offence, she could not even tell which way he had fled. “She did not even see if he was wearing mask or a helmet and had no clue about his age,” said a police officer. Police have formed teams to gather information about the accused using human intelligence as CCTV has not proved helpful, said an officer. “After the victim is able to say something and recovers from the shock, we will speak to her again and hopefully get more information,” said the officer. Anandnagar police registered a case of molestation against unknown man and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grope-and-run-in-bustling-jodhpur/articleshow/78757880.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Kadapa cops seize 52 kg ganja worth Rs 1 crore, 8 held||TIRUPATI: Kadapa police seized 52 kilos of ganja and arrested eight persons, including three women, on charges of smuggling weed. Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan said Rajampet rural police inspector Y Narendra Reddy and his team raided a spot behind a private engineering college on Rajampet-Kadapa highway on Monday morning and nabbed the accused red-handed while they were selling weed to local youth.  The SP said the accused were part of an inter-state gang who used to procure the weed from Visakhapatnam Agency area. The accused told cops the ganja is cultivated in about 400 acres by about 500 odd families in Chintapalli mandal in the tribal agency area, and they used to procure the stuff from there. They buy the ganja at around Rs 800 to Rs 1,000 per kg, and make a handsome profit by selling them at nearly Rs Rs 15,000 per kg. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth approximately Rs 1 crore in the open market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kadapa-cops-seize-52kg-ganja-worth-rs-1-cr-8-held/articleshow/78756567.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Goa||Sex trade: Goa court rejects bail pleas of two accused||COLVA: Additional sessions court judge Dvijpla Patkar on Monday rejected the bail application of two persons arrested for allegedly supplying women for sexual gratification and prostitution. Crime branch police inspector Filomena Costa had registered the offence under Section 370(3) read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 4, 5 and 7 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act against Shivanand alias Rajesh Pujari and Prakash Kumar Mevala, a native of Rajasthan. In its reply, crime branch submitted that on October 3, they received information that Mevala was supplying girls to prospective customers on payment. A decoy customer contacted the accused and a trap was laid. After the deal was struck to provide two women, Mevala arrived at the spot with the victims. After marked money changed hands from the decoy customer to the pimp, police swooped in and arrested the accused. They found the marked currency notes amounting to Rs 2,000 in the denomination of Rs 500. During the course of investigation, the victims revealed Pujari’s name, who was traced to his flat in Aquem-Baixo, Margao. He was also arrested in the same crime for procuring girls from different states and providing them to prospective customers for financial gains, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sex-trade-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-two-accused/articleshow/78758498.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Red carpets, safety checks fail to draw high turnout on Day 1||Lucknow: Red carpets were rolled out at the gate decorated with paper flowers and colourful charts and teachers welcomed students and made them feel special. A number of city schools made special arrangements to welcome students on resuming classes after seven months on Monday. Despite low turnout, class teachers stood at the gate to welcome students and ensure their sanitization, thermal screening and safe entry. The attendance was low on the first day in most schools as only one-fourth of 30 to 35% students whose parents had given consent turned up. Most students avoided public transport and came via private vehicles. They reached as per section-wise time slots allotted to them. Parents handed sanitizer bottles to wards while teachers ensured students followed social distancing. City International school laid the red carpet for students, while teachers and staff of City Montessori School branches greeted students at gate. Students were made to pass through sanitization tunnel at St Joseph College, Sitapur road, SKD Academy and Delhi Public School Jankipuram. At Christ Church, Cathedral Senior Secondary School, St Francis, Montfort, teachers and staff sprayed sanitizer on hands of students. “It was an altogether different experience in school for the students who stood in circles, were thermal scanned, passed through tunnels, and were made to sit on alternate chairs. The attendance was low on the first day, but it will increase gradually as parents’ confidence will grow after seeing arrangement,” said president of Unaided Private School Association Anil Agarwal. In all schools, the students were thermal scanned, made to sit at a distance from each other in the classroom. Students also took extra care themselves with most of them carrying their own sanitizers, wearing masks and gloves. Additional chief secretary secondary education Aradhana Shukla took a round of the Cathedral school to inspect the arrangements and preparations. District Inspector of schools Mukesh Kumar Singh also conducted a surprise inspection of a number of schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/red-carpets-safety-checks-fail-to-draw-high-turnout-on-day-1/articleshow/78758479.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Three arrested for illegally supplying rapid test kits||VIJAYAWADA: Cops on Monday arrested three persons for allegedly supplying rapid test kits for Covid-19 without permission from the state government under Nuzvid police station limits. The accused were identified as Potluri Rajendra (42) from Hyderabad, Chinta Venkateswara Rao (42) from Tiruvuru and Mallela Sudheer Kumar (32) from Kothapeta. According to Nuzvid DSP B Srinivasulu, Nuzvid’s village revenue officer informed cops about rapid test kits being sold at a pharmacy shop near Tiruvuru bus stop by Venkateswara Rao. Srinivasulu said they raided the shop and found out that Rao had illegally procured the rapid antigen kits from Sudheer Kumar, a private technician, who conducted Covid-19 tests without authorisation or qualification. Further interrogation revealed the supplier of the kits was one Potluri Rajendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-arrested-for-illegally-supplying-rapid-test-kits/articleshow/78755342.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Sewer deaths: Family alleges victims were not given safety equipment||NEW DELHI: The families of Idris and Salim, who died while cleaning the tank in Azadpur, alleged that they were not given safety equipment when descending into the storage tank and no one help to pull them out aside from the firemen. The two men were cousins and were promised Rs 400 each for the job. The bodies of the two were handed over to their families after the post-mortem on Monday. There were no injuries on their bodies and they apparently died after inhaling toxic fumes. While Idris is survived by his mother, wife and an eight-year-old son, Salim has left behind his father, wife, three daughters and two sons. Rashid, Salim’s brother-in-law, thought the two deaths suspicious. “Salim had called around 4pm saying he had cleaned the tank and that a vehicle should be sent soon to collect the detritus, which contained scrap from the ornament factory that could be cleaned and sold,” Rashid said. “Salim’s eldest daughter is getting married next month, and he had gone to earn some money. Now we neither have the scrap to sell nor the money.” Salim had reached Delhi with Mansoor and Abdul, both of whom were hospitalised. Salim’s wife said, “They usually travel together to clean tanks or for any labour assignments.” She added that since her husband hadn’t carried his phone, she hadn’t talked with him after he left home. “Some people phoned me to say he had inhaled toxic fumes,” she despaired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/family-alleges-victims-were-not-given-safety-equipment/articleshow/78757882.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Surat||Kumbhariya to Kadodara BRTS route to be inaugurated today||Surat: The newly expanded Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) route from Kumbhariya to Kadodara will be inaugurated by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani via video link from Gandhinagar on Tuesday.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, the 5.08 km corridor from Kumbhariya to Kadodara will help people travelling from city to industrial areas and textile markets located in and around Kadodara. The project was completed at the cost of Rs 28 crore.Surat has a 102km BRTS corridor. About 1.35 lakh commuters travel daily in 166 BRTS buses. SMC officials said that they are going to introduce electric buses on the BRTS corridor soon. Besides the BRTS project, CM will also launch developmental projects worth Rs 201 crore being undertaken by the SMC and Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA). The projects include health centre, garden in Rander, RCC roads, footpath, street lights, canal beautification in Athwa zone and drainage system in Vesu-Bharthana. Moreover, Rupani will also inaugurate projects of newly constructed primary school building in Un village of Udhna zone, smart anganwadi in Limbayat zone and 1,200 houses built under PMAY-MMGY schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/kumbhariya-to-kadodara-brts-route-to-be-inaugurated-today/articleshow/78755351.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Students back in school but miss pre-Covid days||LUCKNOW: Students of classes 10 and 12 who were back to school on Monday missed the feel and fun of pre-Covid days due to restrictions on movement, not all friends coming and sitting apart with mates in class despite meeting after several months, but still said it was good for clearing doubts. “I had made a list of concepts that I couldn’t understand in online classes to ask my teacher. Opening of school is of great help for board students like us who have to revise and understand concepts to score good in board exams,” said Arvi Singh, class X student of Lucknow Public School. She said classes were helpful but many friends were absent and even those who did sat apart in rows. Class XII student Arvind Upadhyay of City Montessori School, Aliganj said, “No morning assembly, no interval, no hanging around after school got over, we missed a lot, but doing chemistry practical helped in reducing stress of performance in board exams.” Abhinay Garg of St Dominic said, “I was very excited to attend school and had readied my uniform on Sunday morning, but there were only seven of us in my class. I felt as if it was online class only. We could not talk much due to social distancing and hanging around after school was against rules.” A few students enjoyed the sight of school, friends and teacher after a long time. “I thought I will never be able to sit with my friends in the classroom and crack jokes this year. However, today we got back together though we could not hug each other but still talked while maintaining social distancing,” said Akansha Saini, class XII student at New Way Senior Secondary School, Aliganj. Neelaksh Chandra, class X student of St. Joseph Cathedral, said, “It is good that classes have resumed. I was not able to study properly in online classes due to poor internet connectivity in my area.” Some students said they were fearful and didn’t want to come but did so as not to miss anything in practical. “I didn’t want to come as my friends were not coming. But I came to attend as I had to clear some doubts and thought something extra might be taught,” said a class X boy. Meanwhile, teachers carried tripods and mobile stands to livestream classes for those attending online. “Nothing can replace classroom teaching. I helped students do practicals,” said Neelu Gupta, teacher of St Joseph College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/students-back-in-school-but-miss-pre-covid-days/articleshow/78758494.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Sewer deaths: Fix blame for deaths, send top officials to jail, say experts||NEW DELHI: Despite availability of cleaning technologies and laws banning manual scavenging, septic tank deaths continue to occur. Two more men died on Sunday, while cleaning a chemical storage tank in Azadpur. The Safai Karamchari Andolan, an organisation working to eradicate manual scavenging, documented over 42 cases such deaths across India this year. Of them, five were in Delhi, not counting Sunday’s toll. Bezwada Wilson, who heads SKA, said, “Machines need to be mass produced and provided to people involved in this work. We are trying to declare India free of open defecation, but people are still dying in sewage tanks.” Alleging the Centre, state government, Delhi Jal Board and civic bodies only indulged in a blame game, he suggested that the highest officer concerned should be jailed for violation of the laws under the Supreme Court’s orders. The Employment of Manual Scavenging and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act was enacted in 1993, and boosted by the passing in 2013 of the Manual Scavengers Act. Manual scavenging has also been declared as an offence under SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Yet, according to the Union social justice ministry in the Lok Sabha earlier this year, there were 110 deaths in cleaning sewers and septic tanks in 2019, the highest toll in the last five years. In 2018, there were 68 deaths, 93 in 2017, 48 in 2016 and 57 deaths the previous year. While Delhi introduced 200 sewer-cleaning machines, Delhi government’s socio-economic survey showed that 36. 7% houses in the city still lacked proper sewerage, especially in informal colonies. DJB, which has disputed Sunday’s incident as being related to a septic tank, launched the Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana and deployed 80 trucks and trained staff for free cleaning of septic tanks, according to an official. Another DJB official said that 200 sewer cleaning machines and powerful suction machines mounted on smaller vehicle capable of negotiating the narrow lanes of unauthorised colonies were required to manage septic tanks. Wilson reiterated that the Supreme Court had, in March 2014, directed the prohibition of all forms of manual scavenging, but alleged the central government hadn’t taken any step in this direction. “Instead of reducing the issue to compensation payable, we should be fighting to prevent deaths,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fix-blame-for-deaths-send-top-officials-to-jail-experts/articleshow/78757886.cms||Paras Singh
October 20, 2020||Bareilly||For women’s ‘Suraksha’, UP Police unit to make 200 pads an hour at Rs 2 each||BAREILLY: After witnessing the frequent plight of young girls at a police school, DIG Rajesh Pandey, dubbed as the ‘Padman of UP Police', started working on a project to provide easy access to sanitary pads. His project - a sanitary napkin manufacturing unit with 200 pads an hour at Rs 2 each - became a reality in Bareilly's Reserve Police Lines on Monday. His wife Meenu Pandey called the project "Suraksha". For now, the whole idea is to reach out to 6,500 families. Funded by Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the pads will be initially available for girls of the police school. Dispensing machines have been installed. Soon, residents of other areas may get it as well - at the same price. It will, in fact, cover the Reserve Police Lines of all four districts of Bareilly zone. The UP Police unit was inaugurated by ADG Avinash Chandra’s wife Smita Verma. Hailing the unit, ADG Chandra said, “This is a huge welfare measure for the cops' families. The IOC has supported this project through its CSR funds. DIG range Rajesh Pandey came up with this project and ensured its fruitful completion." Chandra also narrated his own daughter's experience. “My daughter, who is in Class 9, returned from school one day. She was upset. Her clothes were stained. Now, she won’t face such issues in future." The instant availability of pads through the vending machine will boost the confidence of women, an elated staff at the Reserve Police Lines said. “My attention towards this subject was drawn by the principal of Police Modern School in Bareilly earlier this year. There are many families of fourth class employees and constables. Many of them cannot afford sanitary pads for its high price," Pandey told TOI. A market survey was conducted and it was found that sanitary pads and even vending machines could be easily placed at a low cost on a school's premises, at police lines or in a residential colony. "All my peers and subordinates ensured that the first sanitary napkin project of UP Police is a mission accomplished. We are expecting to see such units in other parts of the state as well," the ‘Padman of UP Police' added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/for-womens-suraksha-up-police-unit-to-make-200-pads-an-hour-at-rs-2-each/articleshow/78754297.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Suicide case: Sadhu, co-accused denied bail||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court refused anticipatory bail to a sadhu of the Swaminarayan sect, who is accused of abetting the suicide of a 27-year-old travel agent from Naroda, Jaimin Patel. Along with Amrutdasji Swami of Swaminarayan Gurukul International School in Anand, the deceased’s cousin, Pinakin, was also named by Jaimin’s father in his complaint before Naroda police last month. Jaimin’s father said that he had found his son’s suicide note, written in Hindi, saying that the Swamiji had booked a travel package for Nepal for himself and other devotees worth Rs 40.52 lakh and paid him Rs 22.84 lakh. He had promised to pay the remainder on his return from Nepal. Jaimin committed suicide in July. Seeking pre-arrest bail, the sadhu and Pinakin contended before the court that it was highly improbably that Jaimin had written the alleged suicide note, as it was in Hindi. They claimed innocence. On the other hand, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt opposed the application. The court said that the suicide note “has been relied upon by the police in which it is specifically mentioned that the deceased has committed suicide due to the applicant-accused and his co-accused, though the veracity of the suicide note is yet to be determined but there is apprehension of antagonizing and terrorizing of prosecution witnesses by the applicants-accused if they are released on bail”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suicide-case-sadhu-co-accused-denied-bail/articleshow/78757883.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Surat||Roughs shortage weighs heavily on diamond units||Surat: Even as the demand for polished diamonds has improved in the international market ahead of Christmas season, it has failed to bring cheer among the diamantaires of Surat, the world’s largest diamond polishing and cutting hub. The industry is facing a severe shortage of rough diamonds to meet the ever-increasing demand. The Rs 20,000 crore worth of polished diamond inventory is almost exhausted and that the diamantaires do not have enough rough diamonds to meet the growing demands. The primary reason being restrictions on international flights. The diamantaires are unable to visit countries like South Africa and Belgium to purchase the rough diamonds. This has also resulted in 56% fall in import of rough diamonds between April and September, which according to experts is very abnormal.Figures released by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) stated that the rough diamond imports were down to $2.5 billion from $5.8 billion in April-September last year.During the same period, the export of polished diamonds too declined 36% to $5.5 billion compared to $8.6 billion in the previous year.Industry experts said that rough diamonds above one carat needs physical examination before making a purchase. This, however, has not been possible because of the restriction on international travel.“We have the supply order of polished diamonds worth Rs 10 crore to our buyers in Hong Kong and US, but we don’t have enough stock of roughs for the supply. There is a huge section of diamantaires who personally visit Antwerp and South Africa twice a month to purchase rough diamonds, which is not happening since lockdown,” said Nilesh Bodara, diamond manufacturer and exporter.The polished diamond inventory levels in Surat’s diamond industry has gone down in the last seven months as the units have drastically cut down on production due to Covid-19 restrictions.Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “International flight restrictions has cast a dark shadow on the prospects of the diamond industry in Surat and Mumbai. We have demanded the central government to allow the sale of rough diamonds in the Special Notified Zones (SNZs) in Surat and Mumbai on the turnover tax of 0.125% from the mining countries.”Shah added, “The direct sale of rough diamonds at SNZs will resolve the problems faced by small and medium diamantaires who are unable to visit Belgium and South Africa for diamond purchases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/roughs-shortage-weighs-heavily-on-diamond-units/articleshow/78755363.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists killed in Mulugu identified||HYDERABAD: A day after two members of Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in encounter, the Mulugu police announced on Monday that they identified the identities of both the deceased. Police said that 30-year-old Ravva Ramal, a Manuguru area committee member, and dalam member Lakma died in exchange of fire on Sunday. Rava was a resident of Jella village in Venkatapuram mandal of Mulugu district. He was allegedly involved in six cases and was carrying a reward of Rs 4 lakh on his head, announced by the government. Ravva was wanted by police in Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. Officials said that they have information that Maoists had changed their strategy by moving in very small groups, if possible in civilian clothes, with an intention to target security forces. Police had said on Sunday that several action teams of Maoists were sent from Chhattisgarh to Telangana-Chhattisgarh border to attack security officials. “The Maoists plan to target police and damage government property. It was with this information that a combing operation was taken up in Eturnagaram and Mangapet,” a police official said. Combing exercise is still ongoing in Mulugu, Kothagudem and Bhupalapally as police officials suspect the presence of few more Maoists in the areas. Based on the recoveries from the scene of encounter, officials have concluded that there were more than two Maoists present at the time. Officials recovered one SLR, two SBBL and two AK-47 magazines, among other things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-killed-in-mulugu-identified/articleshow/78757903.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||BJP blames Delhi govt, DJB says accident site is not under its purview||NEW DELHI: Referring to the death of two sanitation labourers while cleaning a tank in an Azadpur factory, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Monday blamed the state government for the lack of safety of such workers. This is the second such incident in the past 15 days, he pointed out. Gupta claimed that Delhi government had lost its humanity and sensitivity. “Despite big promises, Delhi government has nothing to do with public interest or people’s lives,” he alleged. “Just before the assembly elections, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced Mukhyamantri Septic Tank Safai Yojana and assured the public that Delhi Jal Board (DJB) would get the septic tank cleaned for free on a phone call. But till date, the septic tank of not a single house of any unauthorised colony has been cleaned by Delhi government,” the Delhi BJP president said in a statement. The two sanitation workers died after inhaling toxic fume while a few others were injured. Around a week ago, two people, including the owner of a private building, died during the cleaning of its septic tank. Gupta claimed that Delhi government talked big, made tall promises and said it would completely eliminate manual scavenging from the capital. The government promised that safety equipment would be provided to all sanitation workers and machines would be used to clean septic tanks, but those were only talks and no work has been done, the BJP functionary alleged. A DJB source said the GT-Karnal Road case did not involve the board. “Preliminary investigations show that the site where the accident occurred is a sewered area and a functional sewerline is operational at a distance of 12 feet from the accident site,” the source said, adding that a detailed inquiry was being carried out. No response was available from Delhi government. Delhi BJP demanded that the AAP government should give a compensation of Rs 1 crore each to the families of the deceased workers and Rs 50 lakh to the injured sanitation workers and bear the cost of their treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-blames-delhi-govt-djb-says-accident-site-is-not-under-its-purview/articleshow/78757904.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Surat||Form SIT to curb economic offences in diamond, textile sectors, SGCCI urges||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has demanded the formation of Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate serious economic offences taking place in the diamond and textile sectors in Surat. In a representation to the Gujarat government and the State BJP president, CR Paatil, SGCCI stated that the coronavirus pandemic has taken sheen out of the city’s textile and diamond businesses. Even the genuine traders and manufacturers are facing problems due to the decreased production and the huge amount of money stuck in the outstanding payments for the goods supplied during pre-Covid period. According to an estimate by SGCCI, about Rs 1,500 crore worth of cheating and default cases are reported from the textile and diamond industry per annum. In the textile sector, the traders and powerloom weavers have to suffer huge losses due to the default in the payments and cheating by the buyers from the local markets and other cities across the country. Talking with TOI, SGCCI president, Dinesh Navadiya said, “The government has given a go-ahead for the formation of SIT by the police to investigate the cases related to cheating and defaults of the traders in Ahmedabad. We have demanded that the SIT should be formed for the diamond and textile sector too.”Navadiya added, “The default cases are likely to increase post-Diwali in the diamond and textile sectors. The SIT will protect genuine players in the industry to deal with the fly-by-night operators.”Ashish Gujarat, vice-president of SGCCI said, “The criminals have formed gangs to loot the traders in textile and diamond markets post-lockdown. Since the textile traders are using the online platform to increase their sales, there are chances of number of cybercrimes also likely to increase. We have requested the government to provide protection to industries by forming the SIT.”Champalal Bothra, secretary of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) told TOI, “In a year, about Rs 600 crore worth of default cases are reported from textile markets. The fear of SIT will prevent the fly-by-night operators to cheat the traders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/form-sit-to-curb-economic-offences-in-diamond-textile-sectors-sgcci-urges/articleshow/78755392.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Will consider views of all stakeholders’||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat government will take into consideration views of all the stakeholders before arriving at a final decision on reopening of schools in the state. This was stated by Gujarat education minister, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, while talking to media persons in Gandhinagar on Monday. Schools and colleges have been closed in the state for last six months due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Many educational institutions are conducting online classes and exams to continue with the academic session. The minister said the most crucial opinion in reopening schools will be of the health department. “In the coming days, we will seek opinion and suggestions from parents, students, owners of schools, teachers and prominent educationists. The health department’s opinion will be important in this regard,” he said. The minister said he will then discuss the issue with chief minister, Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and the entire cabinet before taking a final decision on reopening schools. Gujarat government is considering the option to reopen schools and colleges in the state post Diwali vacation by the end of November or first week of December, said sources. This does not include primary level schools that are likely to remain closed for a longer period. The Centre had in the recent Unlock-5 guidelines suggested re-opening schools in the country from October 15 in a limited manner. The states have however been given the authority to decide if they wanted to resume schools or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/will-consider-views-of-all-stakeholders/articleshow/78757885.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Tourism hub Amber lacks basic civic amenities||Jaipur: Tourism hotspot Amber is one of the most neglected areas when it comes to civic amenities. Residents of different wards residing under Amber legislative assembly complain about bad roads and sanitation condition. “Amber region is the most neglected in the city. The condition of roads is really bad especially inside the colony area. Officials just repair the main roads and leave out the inner colonies,” said Pradeep Basu, a resident of the area.The area is hilly and situated on the outskirts. For the last six months, door-to-door garbage collection vans are not entering the inner lanes. “Everyone in our colony dump garbage in the nearby depot. Garbage truck comes to the depot every morning picks up trash from there. We have written many letters to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) but that hasn’t changed anything,” said Rashmi Meena, a resident of Amber.According to the old map, Amber had just one ward (91) which has now been divided into four – ward 1,2,3 & 4 — in Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage. Street lights don’t work most of the days. With bad roads and no street lights, the area has become a place for accidents. Thousands of people are also complaining about land lease which they haven’t been provided yet, even after completion of all paper work. Ironically, two candidates who are contesting from Amber do not have land lease documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tourism-hub-amber-lacks-basic-civic-amenities/articleshow/78757887.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Serene County residents protest overhead wires, KTR lends ear||HYDERABAD: Residents of the Serene County housing society in Gachibowli staged a protest on Monday against the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd (TSSPDCL) laying 400KV high voltage line along with two towers in their area. The residents gathered in the common area of the housing society when the TSSPDCL officials visited the site to start and raised objections against their move, pointing towards the health hazards. The housing society members even took to Twitter to express their concerns and tweeted to MAUD minister KT Rama Rao. The minister immediately responded and directed the officials to chalk out an alternative plan. “Request CMD @TsspdclCorporat to review this proposal as discussed in recent meeting,” tweeted the minister. Vijay Bajreddy, a member of the housing society later said: “The electricity department is investing crores of rupees across the state. But when it comes to us, they are not ready to invest and modify the plan for 150 meters.” Hema Pratapa, a resident of the housing society urged the authorities to lay underground cabling. “I request the authorities to lay underground cabling and save the life of people,” she said. Multiple attempts by TOI to reach TSSPDCL officials via phone failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/serene-county-residents-protest-overhead-wires-ktr-lends-ear/articleshow/78757907.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 20, 2020||Chennai||In search of a magic wand, Murugan picks up Lord’s ‘Vel’||CHENNAI: The big-ticket entries into the BJP in recent times after L Murugan took over as the state unit president in March seems to be aimed at dispelling doubts about entry-level barriers in the saffron party. More than ever, people wanting to join the BJP find their entry smooth under Murugan’s leadership. Starting with V P Duraisamy, who was deputy general secretary in the DMK, Murugan has brought in many known faces like R C Paul Kanagaraj, who merged his party Tamil Maanila Katchi with the BJP, DMK’s sitting MLA Ku Ka Selvam, former IPS officer K Annamalai, former IRS officer A Saravanakumaran and to top it all, actress Khushbu Sundar. Interestingly, Duraisamy was Murugan’s rival candidate twice — in the 2006 assembly elections in Sankari and 2011 assembly elections in Rasipuram. "There will be many more surprises in the next few weeks as several prominent faces are in talks with the party," said Murugan. While issues like Lord Ram and Ayodhya didn’t gain much traction in Tamil Nadu, the BJP found a new connect when Lord Muruga was dragged into a controversy by Karuppar Koottam. The issue was taken to court by the newly-inducted BJP legal wing president R C Paul Kanagaraj, which gave the party the Kantha Sashti Kavacham plank. Now, the party wants to build on the momentum by taking out a statewide ‘Vetrivel Yatra’. The sustained campaign by the party led to the arrest and detention of many accused behind the Karuppar Koottam video. The issue snowballed to the extent that it put the DMK on the backfoot and forced it to distance itself from Karuppar Koottam. The BJP has put on a new aggressive face, and looking at the ‘Vel Pooja’ performed at several lakh houses, responding to a call by the BJP, it seems the party is gaining currency among some sections. Murugan has a minimalist approach when it comes to media glare. "Issuing statements to the media will not bring new cadres. I am focused on working among the masses and have given instructions to all state-level and district-level functionaries that the BJP will grow only by enrolling more cadres in the party. My doors are open to anyone who wants to join the party. The efforts may take months and years to yield substantial results, but we are ready for the long haul," said Murugan. A major challenge for the BJP is to create awareness about the Union government welfare schemes. "The Dravidian parties have been projecting all central government schemes as their own. It is a struggle to change the perception. Today, people have started calling the contribution to Jan Dhan accounts as ‘Modi money’. We are in the process of identifying all the beneficiaries of Union government welfare schemes. We will hold beneficiaries’ conferences in every district before February end," said Murugan. He has set his eyes on forming 25-member committees for every one of the 66,000-odd polling booths in the state. "We have completed almost 90% of the work," he said. The exercise is being keenly watched by the AIADMK, because the BJP leaders had cut sorry figures during seat negotiations in the past when their senior allies raised queries about the BJP’s inability to identify even a single agent in several thousand polling booths. Murugan is not a transplant from Delhi as many think. His roots are deep in the state RSS. He joined ABVP while studying for law in Chennai. He was groomed by President Ram Nath Kovind during the party’s struggle against the Ranganath Mishra Commission report, which the party said would cut into reservation for OBCs. Kovind was the national coordinator for the struggle committee and Murugan its TN coordinator. He has been contesting polls since 2006 and before taking over as state BJP chief, he was the vice-chairman of the national SC/ST commission. For the BJP, Tamil Nadu has always been deceptive. It may seem to be a fertile ground for the party to grow, but the state has stonewalled the Modi wave since 2014 as the Dravidian majors have put up an iron dome to deny any leeway to the saffron brigade. Not ready to give up, the national party has been redrawing its strategies. Of late, the BJP has been consistently in news in the state. This is one of the game plans of the party central leadership. Its target is to attract fresh blood to give it an inclusive touch. Exclusivity practiced in the past has done extensive damage to the party’s TN unit. "In the past, many senior functionaries, who were ensconced in their comfort zones, felt insecure and saw new entrants as possible challenges to their own positions. Murugan’s task is to change this perception," said political analyst Kolahala Srenivaas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-search-of-a-magic-wand-murugan-picks-up-lords-vel/articleshow/78756633.cms||Jayaraj Sivan
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Congress releases list of 249 names for city wards||Jaipur: Congress released its list of 249 contestants for the civic polls on Monday, the last day of filing nominations. Out of the 18 sitting councillors, the party gave tickets to seven. Cabinet minister and former Jaipur city Congress president Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “Distributing tickets on the last day was the party’s strategy. More than 25 candidates from one ward were interested to contest the election. But only one person gets the ticket. People who did not get a chance will be given role to strengthen the party.” Four ex-BJP councillors including Bhagwat Singh Deval, Prakash Gupta, Gopal Krishan Sharma, Rajesh Bewal, who supported Congress in forming the JMC Board during mid-term mayoral elections in 2018, have been rewarded with tickets. After a high voltage drama, tickets were given to former leader of opposition (JMC) Dharam Singhaniya and two others — Kamal Valmiki and Mukesh Sharma. In the morning, their names were not on the list, but were given tickets from Wards 91, 71, 66 respectively a few hours before filing the nominations.In a strange strategy, the party decided not field any candidate in Ward 89, which falls under the Adarsh Nagar constituency. Considered as strong contender of Congress for mayoral post in Jaipur Greater, Divya Gurjar was fielded from Ward 93. Divya is the daughter of Sanjay Gurjar, who contested the Lok Shabha election from Baran-Jhalawar seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-releases-list-of-249-names-for-city-wards/articleshow/78757905.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow One App relaunched by min||Lucknow: The Lucknow One app was re-launched by Lucknow Municipal Corporation on Monday in a new avatar as ‘Lucknow One Citizens’ app. It will provide all services to the people through a single window. Apart from lodging complaints of various kinds and getting information about public utility services, people can now also pay property tax through the app and get 3% to 10% discount. The app was launched by urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia and municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. Dwivedi said the Lucknow One Citizens app will have all the services provided by the earlier version. The feature of property tax payment has been added in the upgrade. Another app called Lucknow 311 Smart City, which was earlier open to lodge complaints concerning all departments that offer civic services, will now only be used by officers and employees for online challans and other purposes, said Dwivedi. This means that now Lucknow One Citizens app will offer all services through a single window, he added. The facilities include registration of complaints on the Integrated Grievance Redressal Service where people can complain about electricity supply, water supply, stray animals, roads, housing and health care, among others. All complaints will be forwarded to respective departments and the complainant will be updated about the progress, he said. The app will also provide services like assessment of property tax, updates about birth and death certificates, information about nearby ATMs, parking lots, schools, community centres, parks, public toilets and hotels. Besides, emergency numbers—ambulance, fire brigade, police and LMC help centre—will be available as well, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-one-app-relaunched-by-min/articleshow/78758509.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lalit Kala Akademi gets new chairman||Lucknow: The state culture department appointed functionaries to run different bodies under it. Relevant orders were issued by principal secretary Mukesh Meshram on Monday. With this, the UP State Lalit Kala Akademi, Lucknow will be headed by Sitaram Kashyap, while Girish Chandra of Sitapur will serve as his deputy. Naveen Srivastava of Basti, Gulab Singh of Kanpur, Ishwar Chandra Gupta of Aligarh, Amit Kumar from Mau, Sunil Kushwaha of Varanasi and Praveen Saini from Saharanpur would serve as members. The Bhartendu Natya Academy would be headed by Ravi Shankar Khare of Gorakhpur, while Anil Rastogi from Lucknow, Neena Gupta of Meerut, Devideen Pal of Banda, Atul Dwivedi of Prayagraj, Prof Shivnath Ram of Azamgarh were appointed as members. The Rashtriya Kathak Sansthan got four new members Shrikant Shukla Lucknow, Shikha Khare Gautam Budh Naar, Neelu Sharma of Agra and Vishal Krishna of Varanasi. The UP Sangeet Natak Akademi would be headed by Padmashree awardee Dr Rajeshwaracharya, Varanasi, while Dhannulal Gautam would be his vice-president. The members for this body included: Amit Anjan aka Amit Jaiswal, Maharajganj, Kalpana Sahay, Prayagraj, Jaya Sharma of Hapur, Kamlesh Maurya, Sitapur, Gopal Kumar Mishra, Chitrakoot, Rajneet Sama, Agra, Shobha Kodeshiya, Bareilly, Haridutta Sharma, Deepak Kumar Singh, Varanasi, Rakesh Singh Yadav, Ghazipur, Rakesh Srivastava, Gorakhpur and Bhagwandeen Maurya of Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lalit-kala-akademi-gets-new-chairman/articleshow/78758514.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh court sentences child rape convict to prison till death after swift 22-day hearing||MEERUT: A POCSO court on Monday sentenced a man to life imprisonment after finding him guilty of raping a six-year-old girl in UP’s Hapur district. Special judge Veena Narayan held Dalpat guilty and also slapped a penalty of over Rs 2 lakh on the convict. “Under section 6 of the POCSO act, the accused is sentenced to life till the last breath,” an excerpt from judgment read. Special public prosecutor Harendra Tyagi, while confirming the conviction, said the judgment was delivered in just 22 days after framing of charges. The 6-year-old girl was abducted, raped and brutalised by Dalpat, a resident of neighbouring Amroha district. Dalpat was arrested on August 14 from Amroha after a massive manhunt. The rape survivor with severe injuries in her internal organs was left to die in the field. She was rescued a day later and rushed to a Meerut hospital. This is the second such conviction by special judge Narayan’s court in the last four days. 4 days ago, the court had sent 2 men to gallows for raping & killing a girl On October 15, two convicts were handed over death penalty for raping and killing a 12-year-old girl in the district in 2018. Reacting to the conviction, Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur’s additional superintendent of police said, “Given the sensitive nature of the case, all efforts were made to help the prosecution, be it the producing of witnesses for recording statements or following up with labs for forensic report.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-court-sentences-child-rape-convict-to-prison-till-death-after-swift-22-day-hearing/articleshow/78755405.cms||Piyush Rai
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||BSP, RLP field candidates; BJP makes last minute changes||Jaipur: The last day of filling nomination forms witnessed many dramatic turn of events. While two parties — Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) and BSP — fielded their candidates, BJP changed the names of nearly 50 candidates in six municipal corporations, where municipal elections are slated to be held on October 29 and November 1. Names of total nine BJP candidates were changed in the Greater and Heritage Municipal Corporation of Jaipur. Former BJP MP, Girdhari Lal Bhargawa’s son, Manoj Bhargawa from ward number 58 (Jaipur Heritage), filed independent nomination after party denied him a ticket. Meanwhile, BSP also filed nomination to contest elections in 22 wards of the city. Hanuman Beniwal’s RLP also fielded 11 candidates. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsp-rlp-field-candidates-bjp-makes-last-minute-changes/articleshow/78757910.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Surat||EAC to decide on environment clearance of airport terminal project||SURAT: After the delay of more than eight months in the execution of major works for the extension of terminal building at Surat airport, the expert appraisal committee (EAC) of the Union environment ministry has organised a video conference on October 21 to decide on the project’s much-awaited Environment Clearance (EC). In its last meeting held in New Delhi on February 25, 2020, EAC had recommended additional terms of reference (ToR) to the Airports Authority of India (AAI) before giving a nod to the EC. The EAC had then observed that the airport authorities were yet to submit the certified compliance report of the earlier EC granted for the existing terminal building in 2007. It had also not given the certificate from the chief wildlife warden regarding the unnotified Hazira bird sanctuary. The airport authorities had pleaded that expansion project does not require wildlife clearance as there is no wildlife sanctuary within 10km radius of the project site. It stated that the unnotified Hazira bird sanctuary is located at about 11.2km radius off the project. Sources said that MoEFCC had granted EC to the existing terminal building with certain conditions to be fulfilled for issuance of the certified compliance report on May 16, 2007. Even after the terminal building was constructed and made operational, the local authorities failed to obtain a certified compliance report for the project. Due to non-approval of EC no major work could start except for the design, drawing and diversion of underground utility services. It has been observed that the AAI could not get the EC despite the lapse of one year of the appointment of environmental consultant on January 18, 2019. In the audit report sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the progress of the terminal extension work is very slow. Against the physical target of 37.1%, only 6.18% target has been achieved from the date of the commencement of the project work from June 6, 2019. However, against the financial target of Rs 42.60 crores, only works amounting to Rs 3.92 crore was achieved in the last one-and-a-half-year. During the lockdown in April, the contractor of the terminal expansion project, Siddhi Constructions, requested the AAI for the Extension of Time (EoT) of about 253 for the project completion target from April 14, 2020. The contractor stated that the construction work was affected following successive lockdowns due to coronavirus pandemic and the no permission to executive the critical activities of the project due to the non-availability of EC from Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF&CC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eac-to-decide-on-environment-clearance-of-airport-terminal-project/articleshow/78755418.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Meerut||‘Both at fault’, says Uttar Pradesh ADG (L/O) amid spurt in face-off between BJP netas & cops across state||MEERUT: UP Police brass and the BJP leadership of the state advised caution on Monday amid growing number of incidents of confrontation between public representatives of the ruling party and the men in khaki. “When public representatives approach policemen with their grievances, they should behave cordially. Similarly, there are issues with some policemen who ignore complaints. Problems are on both the sides and should be resolved amicably,” said Prashant Kumar, additional director general (ADG) (law and order) of UP. Meanwhile, BJP’s state vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak told TOI, “Whenever such issues crop up, we enquire with the public representative concerned about the incident and the circumstances leading to it. And the party acts accordingly.” The unease, which was palpable on both the sides, was not without reason. In Ballia, BJP MLA Surendra Singh, who has been openly defending a muscleman accused of shooting dead a villager, has now served an ultimatum to police. He wants a cross FIR against people on the victim’s side. “Or else, we would gherao the local police station with thousands of supporters,” the MLA has warned. This audacity didn’t go unnoticed. BJP chief JP Nadda has rapped the senior state leaders and an explanation has been sought. Similarly, in Lakhimpur Kheri district last week, BJP MLA Lokendra Pratap Singh barged into a police station in the middle of the night along with his supporters and allegedly freed a man accused of harassing a woman. In August this year, BJP MLA Rajkumar Sahyogi alleged that he was manhandled and roughed up by policemen at Gonda police station in Aligarh. Within hours, SHO was suspended and ASP was transferred. In July this year, Pankaj Gupta, BJP MLA from Unnao, and his supporters sat on overnight ‘dharna’ at Kotwali police station demanding action against policemen who allegedly beat up elderly locals. But senior police officers later claimed the lawmaker was supporting people who were trying to encroach a land earmarked for a women’s police station. Several such incidents of conflict between ruling party lawmakers and policemen have surfaced recently, leaving the BJP and police brass unsettled. “Such issues arise when leaders think that if their pleas are not heard by police, it would undermine the confidence of their supporters,” another senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, told TOI. On the other hand, state police have been at the centre of widespread criticism over a spike in heinous crimes and its “inaction” in some high-profile cases. With ruling party lawmakers openly targeting the department, it had put the police brass in a tough spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/both-at-fault-says-up-adg-l/o-amid-spurt-in-face-off-between-bjp-netas-cops-across-state/articleshow/78755403.cms||Piyush Rai
October 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Mahila Congress launches postcard drive||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee on Monday launched a postcard campaign demanding that the BJP government at the Centre take measures for the safety and security of women. Postcards with slogans like “stop blaming the victim” and “give security to women” will be posted to the Prime Minister and also Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath by women from every village in Telangana. Mahila Congress state president Nerella Sharada said atrocities against women had increased in the country, including Telangana. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahila-cong-launches-postcard-drive/articleshow/78757914.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||War of wards: Last day of filing papers low key affair||Jaipur: The last day of filing nominations for the municipal polls — Jaipur Heritage and Jaipur Greater — on Monday remained a low-key affair due to Covid curbs. The usual rallies, sloganeering and traffic jams to the collectorate were missing. The nominations, which started at 11am, saw a huge rush of candidates at the collectorate while at other nomination centres the crowd remained normal. The local administration, which had placed a token system of first-come, first-serve basis, helped in maintaining social distancing. It was becoming very difficult for onlookers to identify the candidate as only one person was allowed to accompanying the aspirant.The low-key affair was filled with some action by a few candidates who successfully attracted the shutterbugs. One candidate surprised the officials as he came wearing a PPE kit. For a moment, the officials believed that the candidate was Covid positive. He said he did this to create awareness on the virus. Some women candidates carrying also filled the nomination papers.Around 25 centres were allotted for the nominations to ensure social distancing. The returning officer at Adarsh Nagar office, Sanju Pareek said, “The number of nomination centres and restrictions deterred people from assembling in huge numbers.” Both the BJP and the ruling Congress are confident of winning the polls. The Congress kept the names of its several candidates in dark till they filed their papers. Soon after the nomination deadline ended, the party released the name of its candidates. Sources said it was done to avoid the backlash by disgruntled candidates. BJP state president Satish Poonia expressed confidence that all six poll-bound municipalities bodies will be won by the party. “People is set to punish the ruling government of its overall failure in the state,” said Poonia. Claiming a record-breaking victory, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the local body polls will be a verdict on our governance. The district collector office has appointed returning officers in the city to keep tabs on the candidates and to ensure that everyone follows election rules wisely. Meanwhile, CM Ashok Gehlot has appealed the contesting candidates, political parties, officials and the general public to strictly follow Covid protocol during the municipal polls. The Jaipur Heritage has 100 seats while the Jaipur Greater has 150 seats. Both the municipalities emerged from Jaipur Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/war-of-wards-last-day-of-filing-papers-low-key-affair/articleshow/78757926.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Covid cases count crosses 60,000-mark||LUCKNOW: The city’s case Covid-19 count crossed 60,000 mark on Monday with 247 more people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection in last 24 hours. The new infections, although lowest in 87 days, were still the highest in Uttar Pradesh and accounted for 14% of the total reported cases. Experts said that the decline in the cases in the past month is just a phase and a second wave may come around Diwali when winters will set in and people will come out in large numbers for shopping and celebrations.“The coming days are crucial and a spike can be prevented if we will follow safety protocols strictly,” said a doctor. Indiranagar recorded 23 cases, highest in the city, followed by Gomtinagar 24, Rae Bareli Road 20, Hazrartganj and Cantonment 13 cases each. As many as 364 more patients recovered in 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 92.5% (55,570) of the caseload (60,058). However, 824 (1.3%) of the patients could not be saved, while 3,664 (6.1%) are still carrying the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-cases-count-crosses-60000-mark/articleshow/78758523.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chennai||A Sufi soul’s tryst with Carnatic ragas||By Aarvalan A melange of Islamic teachings and Carnatic music — vocalist ‘Kumari’ Aboobacker was among those rare musicians who found harmony in the otherwise starkly different worlds. With his passing on October 7 at the age of 82, this combination of a unique tradition is lost. Steeped in Kerala’s multicultural social setup where learning all the classical arts is encouraged — kathakali, classical music and drama, ‘Kumari’ Aboobacker learned Carnatic music from his uncle Valaimani Asan from the old Travancore side. Hailing from Kanjamapuram, which had its natural taste for Carnatic music, both for its appreciation and learning, the sobriquet ‘Kumari’ stuck with the artist as a reminder of his native, Kanyakumari. Aboobacker was equally adept in Sufi and folk music, taking forward Muslim teachings to the masses through his music. Kombai Anwar who has made a memorable documentary on Tamil Muslim history and identity (2013) "showcasing a millennium old harmonious co-existence of Islam in Tamilagam", says time was when a Muslim family would insist on holding M S Subbulakshmi’s concert for their wedding. Aboobucker he says used to sing "keerthanais" from Seerapuranam, the Muslim scripture set to tune in Carnatic ragas. Thereby he sought to do the popular and appealing in a purposeful way and in the right manner. Aboobacker met with noted intellectual and lyricist (1950s and 1960s) Ka Mu Sherif in Chennai and since then Chennai became the base for musical career. Aboobucker even teamed and organised ‘kathakalakshepams’ with Ka Mu Sherif, visiting all over the world. These were events delineated on each canto from Seerapuranam. Songs rendered by the former and used to be followed up with lectures and stories by the latter. At a time when the media had not made its dent on the public gaze, these lecture-demonstrations were a great source of entertainment for all ages, and were instructive too. T M Krishna who was instrumental in arranging two concerts of Aboobacker in 2019, one in Mylapore (Ragasudha Hall) and the other in North Chennai (Ennore), says, "It was unfortunate that we got to know his worth at the end of his career. He held close to his heart Islamic belief systems and would all along render songs of Kunangudi Masthan Saheb, who evolved as ‘siddha’ (man of high spirituality) among Muslims telling the whole story of Prophet Mohammed in song form. Aboobacker used to sing these in ragas like Hindolam, Mohanam and Sindhubhairavi." Krishna’s disciple Vignesh Ishwar who has performed with Aboobacker again at Ragasudha Hall recalls the nature of his "unique, hoarse, faint, captivating miraculous" voice. Krishna likens all of these songs to the ‘namasankeerthanams’. Aboobacker’s rendition endowed them with an emotion imparting a sober meditative individuality and identity to them. He wonders who will carry on the mantle of the doyen of Seerapuranam Keerthanaigal in Tamil. (The writer is a music critic)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-sufi-souls-tryst-with-carnatic-ragas/articleshow/78756737.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Former student leaders to contest civic polls||Jaipur: This year, many former student leaders will be contesting the civic polls. More than 30 ABVP and NSUI party workers have been given tickets to contest the polls slated for October 29 and 30.Roshni Sharma, who will be contesting from Ward No. 63, was national executive member of ABVP from 2017 to 2019. “This is an opportunity for me to work in my area that has been neglected for a long time,” said Sharma. According to ABVP, more than 30 former members or workers are contesting the elections on BJP ticket. ABVP state secretary Hushyaar Meena said, “After student politics, municipal corporation elections are the next step for anyone who wants to go ahead in politics. This has been always in trend. These people who have been given tickets have worked in ABVP initially. Some were recent members.”Karan Singh Tanwar, Arun Sharma and Ashish Mehta are a few other names. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-student-leaders-to-contest-civic-polls/articleshow/78757916.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Vadodara||Woman accuses husband of marital rape, making dowry demand||VADODARA: A 28-year-old woman living in Vasna area of the city accused her husband of marital rape and also alleged that he and his parents harassed her for dowry. Based on the woman’s complaint, Vadodara rural police lodged a complaint of cruelty, rape and under Dowry Prohibition Act on Sunday. The woman told police that, on July 13, after she was discharged from a hospital for some treatment, her husband, who lives in Bhayli, forcibly had sex with her. She said that when she resisted, he beat her. When she used to complain to her in-laws about her husband’s alleged physical torture, they would ask her to tolerate it. She also alleged that the in-laws kept abusing her for not getting enough money, jewellery and electronic appliances as dowry. In her complaint, she also stated that despite knowing that she had never touched liquor or non-vegetarian food, her husband and in-laws would ask her to get meat from a meat shop and serve cooked meat and liquor to them. She said that she continued to tolerate the harassment to save her marriage, but things flared up on August 26. The woman’s husband forcibly made her sit in a car and dropped her at her parents’ home following a quarrel. According to her, her husband and in-laws confiscated all her gold and silver jewellery and other presents given by her parents at the time of wedding and asked her to never return. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-accuses-husband-of-marital-rape-making-dowry-demand/articleshow/78755444.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Leave politics aside to win this war: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: If all governments and parties leave politics aside and join hands, pollution can be controlled within a year. This was stated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday, adding that technological solutions were available to turn stubble into cardboard and other products, making it an asset rather than a liability, but political will was needed for that. Reacting to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar’s comment on pollution, Kejriwal said, “I do not agree with his statement that air pollution cannot be solved in a day and will take a minimum of four years. I believe that if all state governments come together and all political parties work honestly by keeping aside their political differences, we can address the issue in less than four years.” Track the pollution level in your cityKejriwal said there was a lack of political will to embrace new technologies to stop stubble burning. “Scientists at Indian Agricultural Research Institute developed a solution that decomposes stubble into manure. Secondly, a factory at Karnal is converting stubble into compressed biogas. This gas can be used like CNG. Why can’t we adopt such technology? This factory buys stubble from farmers. In this way, farmers get money and their income increases. Eventually, Indraprastha Gas Limited buys this gas,” he added. “In Punjab, there are around seven factories making coal and coke from stubble. People from these factories go to the fields of farmers, cut the stubble and pay farmers Rs 500 for each acre. The companies then sell the coal to NTPC,” said Kejriwal. The CM said that coal, coke, CNG and cardboard could be produced from stubble. “If the state governments start utilising these new technologies, farmers can increase their income by selling stubble. This can also put an end to farm fires. These factories are employing many people. If all state governments come together and start working on a war footing, I believe that we can control stubble burning within a year. We consider stubble as a liability, but we need to convert it into an opportunity. The only question is whether we are ready to show our political will or whether we continue to do politics over the issue,” Kejriwal added. Requesting Javadekar to hold meetings with chief ministers of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and UP every month, Kejriwal said, “Strict deadlines and timelines should be made to combat the issues of stubble burning and air pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/leave-politics-aside-to-win-this-war-cm/articleshow/78757919.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Delhi||EPCA may shutdown outdated thermal plants in UP, Haryana||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority has told Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments that if air quality deteriorates in the coming days, the thermal power plants that do not meet the 2015 standards may be shut down. EPCA chairman Bhure Lal in two separate letters to officials of UP and Haryana said, “My earlier letter regarding the enforcement of GRAP measures explained that we might have to direct the closure of thermal power plants, which did not meet the 2015 standards, if air quality deteriorated in the coming days. I am now writing to ask you to review the preparedness of this measure and to inform EPCA of this review and the steps that will be taken to comply with the necessary shutdown during the peak winter period.” Track the pollution level in your cityLal said they were expecting a further deterioration in air quality in the coming days. “India Meteorological Department has predicted that the ventilation and index and winds will see reduction and temperatures will also fall. These conditions will exacerbate the impact of local pollution and stubble burning and thereafter, additional measures will be required to combat pollution,” added Lal. EPCA listed five power plants in Haryana’s Jhajjar, Panipat, Hisar and Yammuna Nagar districts and three in UP’s Gautam Budh Nagar and Aligarh districts and their status of compliance with the 2015 standards for emission control. Environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday had written to EPCA and CPCB requesting them to shut all 11 thermal plants operating in NCR in a week. Rai said in his letter, “11 thermal plants in neighbouring states are yet to take any action on polluting units that failed to take necessary technological measures within the deadline set for them to control the emissions, especially installation of Flue Gas Desulphurization and Selective Catalyst Reduction to control the SO2 and NOx, respectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epca-may-shutdown-outdatedthermal-plantsin-up-haryana/articleshow/78757928.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Barmer youth beats odds to clear NEET||JAIPUR: A hamlet of 8-10 houses surrounded by sand dunes in Barmer is celebrating the success of their village boy Laxman Kumar who became the first from the tiny settlement to clear NEET. He secured AIR 3727 in the result announced on Friday which will enable him a seat in a government medical college making his long-cherished dream a reality. (L) Laxman’s two-room house, built under Indira Gandhi Awas Yojana in 2018. (R) The family’s old mud houseKumar is one of the five siblings of his family. He lost his father at a tender age which pushed his family into abject poverty. Being the eldest son, he had the primary responsibility of supporting the family and was about to quit studies to leave for Gujarat to work as a daily wage earner. Considering his interest in studies, his younger brother stepped in and volunteered to work in Gujarat in place of him to support his family. “Had my younger brother didn’t go to Gujarat for earning I would have had to drop out of school,” said Kumar. His brother didn’t earn enough to feed the entire family. Kumar has been supporting his family by engaging in some menial work as and when he gets time while his mother rears 4-5 goats to sell its milk in the nearby village. He studied in a government school, around 8 km from his hamlet. He could study only during the daylight since the power supply in his hamlet reached only in 2019. During night under the lamp, flies and mosquitoes would make his life hell.  “I remember during exams, my mother use to apply oil on my body to keep flies away,” said Kumar. He was unaware that his score of 92% in class X would change his destiny forever. He was spotted by a team of government doctors and officers who approached him and brought him to Barmer for free NEET coaching. “I was apprehensive in the beginning as I only through of doing my BA to apply for a government teacher job. It took me almost two months to get the belief that I can also become a doctor,’ said Kumar. The only possession they had until 2018 was a traditional mud house. The family is one among the few lucky families to have to a 2-room house under the Indira Gandhi Awas Yojana in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-youth-beats-odds-to-clear-neet/articleshow/78757931.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 20, 2020||Surat||Tribal girls in South Gujarat’s ashram shalas to get free sanitary pads||SURAT: Thousands of young tribal girls studying in the ashram shalas (residential schools) in South Gujarat will not have to worry about their menstrual hygiene. Surat-based Shakti Foundation, an NGO working for rural development and women empowerment, is all set to start sanitary pads making units in three districts including Navsari, Tapi and Dangs with the dual mission of free distribution and providing employment to tribal women at the manufacturing units. Since 2017, the NGO is making sanitary pads in Surat’s Ichhapore through a woman’s self-help group (SHG) for free distribution among tribal girls of ashram shalas in Surat district. About eight women are employed at the unit where they manufacture about 35,000 pads per month. Each women earns about Rs 4,000 per month. For its new mission covering other districts of South Gujarat, Shakti Foundation has adopted 50 ashram shalas of Surat, Navsari, Tapi and Dangs where about 5,000 adolescent girls are given free sanitary pads throughout the year. “We wanted to empower young girls and women by providing them sanitary pads. We have decided to set up three more units in tribal districts of Tapi, Navsari and Dangs,” said Dr Sonal Rochani, founder of Shakti Foundation. “Gujarat has 14 tribal dominated districts and our vision is of having at least one such unit in each district where the pads manufacturing will be done by women and they will be donated to the young girls studying in Ashram Shalas,” added Rochani. According to Rochani, the cost of providing free pads to one girl comes to Rs 240 per year. This model will be implemented in each district where the women will get livelihood and the girls will be able to practice better menstrual hygiene. The organisation also provides incinerators at the residential schools so that the girls can easily discard the used sanitary pads. SHG administrator of sanitary pad making unit in Surat, Jyoti Patel said, “We are happy that three more units are starting in the tribal areas. It plan to manufacture more than one lakh sanitary pads in a month after addition of these units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tribal-girls-in-south-gujarats-ashram-shalas-to-get-free-sanitary-pads/articleshow/78755464.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||5 times more stubble burning in Ludhiana than this time last year||LUDHIANA: The district administration had recently claimed that more than 90% of gram panchayats in Ludhiana district have passed resolutions against stubble burning, but the satellite data on active fires till recently are five times more than incidents till the same date two years ago. This time last year, there was no stubble burning incident till now. According to the data provided by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), the number of active fire events (kharif season) in Ludhiana district were 28 till October 18, which is much higher than such incidents till October 18 in 2018, when five such incidents were reported. Last year, the district had not witnessed even a single fire incident till date. On the ground visit to various areas in Sidhwan Bet, Jagraon and Raikot areas suggests that even as in Sidhwan Bet area, which was hot spot for such fires, most farmers are yet to harvest the crop so till now not many fire incidents were witnessed. In Jagraon area as well stubble burning incidents are yet to start at least in the villages along Jagraon Raikot and Jagraon Ludhiana road but deep in the villages there are incidents of stubble burning. One such massive stubble burning incident was witnessed by this correspondent near Jhorran village. There was another on the road between Chakar and Lakha villages and yet another massive stubble burning one Sarabha village. A farmer was preparing the land for next crop near Jodhan village and stubble burnt on the side of the field suggested that he might have set it on fire in the night hours. At some distance from the field, another field was prepared for potato crop even as burnt stubble was there along the edges of the field. According to reports from Khanna and Machhiwara areas, there were a few stubble burning incidents, especially in the night hours, but the number has been negligible as of now. Stubble burning is reflecting on the air quality index (AQI), as it has crossed 200 mark twice in last nine days. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the AQI in Ludhiana on Sunday evening was 150 which comes under moderate category with possible health impacts as “breathing discomfort to the people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases”. The data of last nine days suggests that AQI remained mostly above than 100 and was 212 and 230 on 13 and 15 October which come under poor category with possible health impacts as “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. The data of CPCB showing comparison of AQI value from October 10 to 19 in last three years indicates that whereas in 2020 the AQI value has remained in moderate and poor category, in 2019 it has remained satisfactory (with AQI value below 100) twice and poor once suggesting things were slightly better in that year as compared to the present year. AQI value for the same days (between October 10 and 19) in 2018 has been even better with the value remaining satisfactory thrice and moderate on other days and not once it was in poor category. The PPCB officials confirmed that stubble burning incidents till now have been more and do impact the AQI value. “Despite persuasion, there are people who are burning the stubble and are playing with lives of general public. The AQI definitely is being impact by these stubble burning incidents. However, there are people who know the benefits of stubble and are selling it to some industries generating power from it,” said Sandeep Behl, senior officer of PPCB at Ludhiana. The health experts said high pollution level can prove to be disastrous during Covid-19 pandemic. “The pollution does impact lungs heath and in those who already have respiratory problems it aggravates things. As lungs are compromised due to pollution and become weak, such persons cannot sustain the attack from Corona which attacks lungs,” said Dr Sunil Katyal, Ludhiana Indian Medical Association president. He added that those with respiratory problems should take precautions during this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-times-more-stubble-burning-in-ludh-than-this-time-last-year/articleshow/78757927.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two new flyovers to ease traffic snarls||LUCKNOW: Two new flyovers, which will be opened for the public on Tuesday, will ease traffic snarls in more than 24 localities of the Old City and on the busy Hazratganj-Charbagh route. In a cascading effect, they will also ease traffic flow in the adjoining routes as well. Besides, a new approach road with underpass from Gomtinagar to Gomtinagar Extension will also opened. The flyovers and the approach road will be inaugurated by defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh. Hussainganj to DAV College flyover: The three-lane flyover in Aryanagar will ease traffic congestion in Hussainganj, Lalkuan, Naka Hindola, Rajendranagar, Motinagar, Aishbagh and Charbagh among others. Now, it will take 10 minutes instead of 30 minutes to cover a distance of 2.7km from Husainganj to Aryanagar. Meena Bakery (Rajajipuram) to Victoria Street flyover: The two-lane 908-metre-long flyover has been built at a cost of Rs 65 crore. It will reduce time from 15 minutes to 5 minutes to reach Haidarganj Crossing from Meena Bakery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-new-flyovers-to-ease-traffic-snarls/articleshow/78758531.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chandigarh||DBA polls to be held on November 4, a section of bar opposes the move||LUDHIANA: If all goes well, the elections for the office bearers of District Bar Association (DBA) may be held on November 6. The elections of office bearers of DBA, including president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary and executive members were to be held on April 3 but were postponed to April 17 and then indefinitely following the outbreak of pandemic. Though a section of members are still apprehensive and are not in favour, vice-president of DBA, advocate Rajinder Pal Singh Babbar confirmed that the elections are to be held on November 6 according to the directions of Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. Vice chairman of election committee, advocate Surinder Khakh said voting will be held on November 6 and voters will cast their votes physically. He added that they will start preparation for elections next week and have to just publish ballot papers as most of works related to elections have already been done. Election officials said the returning officers (RO) for DBA elections is Amardeep Bhatia whereas Jagmohan Singh Waraich is chairman of election committee constituted by bar council for elections. They added that the assistant returning officers (ARO) for the elections include Lalita Jain, Avtar Singh Chopra, L S Rai,Ravinder Singh Arora, Vikas Gupta, Gurpreet Singh Arora, Adarsh Sharma, Mandeep Singh Sidhu (ARO) and Roopali Molri. ARO Lalita Jain said they have come up with the list of the candidates after proper process and list of the voters has also been finalised. She added that whereas there are three candidates in fray for president post, equal number of candidates are contesting vice-president election. ARO further said for secretary post there are three candidates whereas for joint secretary and finance secretary post, two candidates each are in fray. She added that there are more than 2,800 voters who are expected to vote in the elections. Meanwhile, Harjot Singh Harikay, one of the candidates for president post, claimed that he has signatures of about 10 candidates who don’t want the elections to be held in November as the conditions are not conducive for such exercise due to Covid-19 pandemic. He added that more than 50% advocates are not coming to their chambers so how can they campaign under such circumstances. “Also the priority as of now is the livelihood of advocates who are facing challenging times due to lockdown during Covid-19 pandemic,” said Harikay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dba-polls-to-be-held-on-nov-4-a-section-of-bar-opposes-the-move/articleshow/78757933.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi faces water crisis in festive season: DJB||NEW DELHI: The city's ongoing water supply problem may snowball into a big crisis this festive season, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) fears. Senior officials warn if the twin troubles - low supply from the Yamuna and the progressive reduction in water from the Upper Ganga canal - persist, the city will face larger water supply cuts as we move towards Dussehra. More than a quarter of Delhi's water supply comes from the canal which feeds both the Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar treatment plants. "Instead of 265MGD (million gallon per day), the canal is supplying only 100MGD due to annual maintenance work. The water we are receiving will stop in three to four days," an official said. Repair work at Ganga canal, low river flow a double blowAt the same time, we are unable to lift more water from the Yamuna because the water supply in the river is already very low compared to seasonal supply requirements,” the official said. While the repair of the Upper Ganga canal is an annual exercise which lasts for 10-15 days, it has not earlier overlapped with a short supply from Yamuna, a DJB official said. “The treaty with neighbouring states, which include five basin states, says we can draw an equal amount of water from the Yamuna when the maintenance is being carried out, but the river right now has no additional water to lift. Supply from Carrier Lined Channel and Delhi Sub Branch canal is also on lower side. Right now, we are able to manage the situation by supplying water at low pressure, but if more water is not released from Haryana in coming days and supply from Gangnahar comes to nil, we may be staring at acute water crisis,” another senior DJB official explained. Through its nine water treatment plants, Delhi generates around 930MGD of potable water supply, out of which 375MGD comes from the Yamuna and its canals; 240 MGD from the Ganga through Gangnahar; 220 MGD from Bhakra storage and rest is extracted from sub-surface resources through ranney-wells and tube-wells. “Bhagirathi plant produces 108 MGD potable water while Sonia Vihar goes up to 140 MGD potable water under normal circumstances. Both the major plants are fed by raw water from the Upper Ganga Canal. Under normal circumstances, when operations at one plant are impacted, water is diverted and rationing from other plants to their command areas is carried out so that overall impact can be minimised,” an official overseeing engineering operations explained. On Sunday, DJB has issued advisory stating that water may be available at low pressure in large parts of city including parts of South Delhi, East Delhi, North East Delhi and some parts of NDMC areas in coming days due to low availability of raw water so people must use the water judiciously. Watch Delhi gets ready to face water crisis in festive season||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-faces-water-crisis-in-festive-season-djb/articleshow/78759189.cms||Paras Singh
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||Congress, saffron party acrimony intensifies ahead of twin bypolls||Ranchi: Ahead of the November 3 twin bypolls in Bermo and Dumka, opposition BJP has launched a scathing attack on the Mahagathbandhan government over the “deteriorating” law and order in the state and sought governor Droupadi Murmu’s intervention into the matter. Meanwhile, the ruling coalition alliance has hit back saying it is the BJP-ruled states and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre which are promoting “lawlessness” in the country. On Monday, a three-member BJP delegation led by state party president Deepak Prakash called on Murmu at the Raj Bhavan and submitted a memorandum, seeking her intervention to check the “unsafe” environment in the state. Countering BJP’s move, Congress, which is a part of the Mahagathbandhan, announced a month-long campaign against the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government for the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras and the “unending acts of oppression” of the marginalised section of society and the farmers through "draconian" laws. Party leaders said they will submit a memorandum over the issues to the President. After meeting Murmu, Prakash told the media, “Over 1,200 rape and murder cases have been reported in Jharkhand under the current regime’s nine-month tenure. This speaks volumes of the lawlessness. We have sought the immediate intervention of the governor against the growing menace.” Prakash, who was accompanied by Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra and party general secretary Aditya Sahu, said, “In the last one week, two back-to-back gang-rape incidents and the murder of a minor took place in Santhal Parganas. These incidents rocked the state and exposed the inefficiency of the current government to bring the law and order under control.” He added, “Law and order will be a major issue in the upcoming bypolls of Dumka and Bermo. People are frustrated with this government, which can’t safeguard its citizens, particularly women and children.” State Congress spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said the party will also launch elaborate campaigns to counter BJP’s “propaganda to mislead the people” from October 31, just three days ahead of the bypolls. He said, “On the occasion of Kishan Adhikar Divas observed on Sadar Vallabhai Patel’s birth anniversary, which also coincides with the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, on October 31, we will launch the campaign.” He added, “We will also hold tractor rallies between November 1 and 10 across the state against the Centre’s attempt to privatise farmland through new 'draconian’ laws. The ongoing signature campaign against the farm laws has also been extended till November 10, which will be formally submitted to the party high command on that day. Later, it will be formally submitted to the President to seek his intervention.” Another party spokesperson, Alok Dubey, said state-wide rallies will be held on November 5 to show solidarity with the Hathras rape victim. “The gruesome crime is part of the attacks on Dalits and the marginalised section of the country under the BJP-led government at the Centre and Uttar Pradesh. “On November 14, we will protest through social media against the Modi government’s attempt to privatise PSUs in the interest of their corporate friends,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congress-saffron-party-acrimony-intensifies-ahead-of-twin-bypolls/articleshow/78756834.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||Admin to develop 57 rebel-hit villages with central funds||Hazaribag: As part of the Centre’s ‘Unified Command Area’ scheme, the district administration has received around Rs 30 crore in the first instalment for developing 57 Maoist-hit villages in Bishnugarh, Churchu, Ango, Keredari and Katkumsandi blocks. On Monday, DC Aditya Kumar Anand said he has directed all the block development officers concerned to implement the scheme, along with other ongoing centrally-sponsored projects, to ensure the availability of basic amenities in those hamlets. “Villages in these rebel-hit areas haven’t had access to electricity since Independence. They also lack drinking water facilities, roads and other amenities. The central funds will be used in a phased manner for installing these basic facilities.” As part of the command scheme, Hazaribag is expected to receive a total of Rs 150 crore in a span of five years and the administration is planning to use that fund for setting up schools in those villages. Anand said, “I have instructed the education department officials to zero in on areas where schools can be constructed. They have been asked to make plans in this regard on a priority basis for timely sanction of the funds. Our focus is on creating avenues of learning so that the villagers can lead a decent life.” Meanwhile, Hazaribag SP Kartik S said though a few Maoists are still active in these hamlets, the situation has been tamed to large extent with strict police vigil. He said, “We have now deployed an additional battalion of CRPF in this region to curb all kinds of Maoist activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/admin-to-develop-57-rebel-hit-villages-with-central-funds/articleshow/78756596.cms||Abhijit Sen
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||Uproar over plan to run only 2 festival trains||Ranchi: The South Eastern Railways (SER) on Sunday introduced festival special trains to Patna and Jainagar railway stations in Bihar from Ranchi ahead of Chhath next month. However, the SER said both trains will make just one round-trip between November 18-19. Subsequently, the trains were notified by Ranchi railway division on Monday evening. In a statement issued on Monday evening, the division said: “The 02849 Ranchi-Patna festival special train will leave from Ranchi at 23:45pm and reach its destination at 6am the next day via Gomoh, Koderma and Gaya railway stations. The returning train (02850) will leave from Patna at 11am on November 19 and arrive at Ranchi railway station at 5:25pm.” Likewise, the 02870 Ranchi-Jainagar festival special will leave Ranchi at 4:10pm on November 18 and reach Jainagar at 7am the next day through Dhanbad, Jasidih, Kiul, Barauni and Darbhanga stations. The returning train will leave Jainagar at 9 m on November 19 and reach Ranchi at 11:40pm. The announcement of just one trip of the train, which was notified on Sunday by SER, has created an uproar as Bihar-bound passengers expressed their resentment at the decision. “Chhath is the biggest festival in Bihar and lakhs of people travel to their native places to take part in the festival. There are no trains at present to Bihar and inter-state bus services are also suspended. How will the poor people go to their homes if the trains make just one trip?” questioned Nitin Kumar Ojha, a native of Darbhanga who lives and works in Ranchi. While two trains were introduced with one round trip each, as many as three festival special trains have been made operational between Ranchi, Tatanagar and Howrah stations ahead of the Durga Puja. When pointed out that a couple of pairs of trains were not sufficient to meet the rush of passengers, a senior official of SER at its Kolkata headquarters stopped short of answering. “It is because such a decision was taken,” the official said, feigning ignorance. The Jharkhand Passenger Association’s secretary Prem Kataruka also criticized the railways’ move. “The festivals are approaching and the exams as well. Initiatives must be taken by the railways to resume the train services at once,” Kataruka said. Meanwhile, the state government on Monday said it was yet to take a call on giving the Indian Railways a no-objection certificate to its request of running 28 pairs of special trains from various stations of Jharkhand to six states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/uproar-over-plan-to-run-only-2-festival-trains/articleshow/78756521.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||6 Cov patients in Sahebganj ‘cured’ in less than 24 hours: Govt data||At least six people who were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Sahebganj district on Monday were declared cured the same day in less than 24 hours, data released by Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP)’s state unit on Monday night indicates. As per the bulletin issued in the last couple of days, Sahebganj, which has recorded a total of 1,435 coronavirus cases, 1,424 recoveries and nine deaths so far, had 35 active cases until Monday morning, However, 41 patients were declared cured through the day even as eight others tested positive for the new virus. Located in the tribal-dominated Santhal Pargana along the border with West Bengal, Sahebganj was the last of the 24 districts in Jharkhand to get a Covid case when it diagnosed its ‘Patient Zero’ on May 31, two months after Jharkhand got its first patient on March 31. It remains among the least affected districts both in terms of Covid toll and total caseload. With government data now saying the district has just two active Covid cases remaining, Sahebganj seems set to become a Covid free district, the first in the state to achieve this status in more than four months. While state IDSP officials did not respond to TOI’s calls and text messages, an official release issued by the Sahebganj district administration had no mention of any patient being declared cured or discharged. When contacted by TOI, district civil surgeon Dr D K Singh failed to explain the disparity. “I do not have the figures of patients that were discharged today (on Monday),” he said. State principal health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni told TOI on phone that he will look into the issue on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-cov-patients-in-sahebganj-cured-in-less-than-24-hours-govt-data/articleshow/78756796.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||3 death, 490 new Covid cases in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded three Covid deaths, 490 fresh infections and 769 recoveries, the state IDSP bulletin said on Monday night. The cumulative virus caseload in Jharkhand stood at 96,842 cases, of which 6,220 are active, 89,780 have recovered and 842 have succumbed. The new deaths were corded in Bokaro, Deoghar and East Singhbhum. Of the fresh cases, Ranchi continued to report the highest number with 152 fresh cases, followed by Bokaro with 77 and East Singhbhum with 52. Chatra reported no new fresh infections and many others districts got new cases in single digit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-death-490-new-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/78756848.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||Covid positive Jharkhand minister Jagarnath Mahto shifted to Chennai hospital in air ambulance||RANCHI: Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who has been in a critical condition since his Covid diagnosis three weeks ago, was shifted to a hospital in Chennai in a special air-ambulance on Monday evening. A team of expert doctors from MGM Hospital, Chennai, in coordination with doctors from Bhagwan Mahaveer Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi, where he was admitted for 19 days, supervised the shifting procedure. A green corridor was setup in the city to provide seamless movement of the ambulance carrying the 54-year-old JMM veteran from Medica to Birsa Munda International airport. The cavalcade left Medica around 5:20 pm and reached the airport around 6 pm. The air-ambulance took off around 6:30pm and was scheduled to rach Chennai around 9pm on Monday. Talking to TOI, Medica medical director Dr Vijay Mishra said: “We had shifted the minister to Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) treatment on Sunday night after he was unable to maintain required oxygen saturation levels through an invasive ventilator. We kept him under observation for more than eight hours and his condition improved as his oxygen saturation and other vitals got better. Based on these indications, the visiting team of experts decided to shift him to Chennai. A team of four doctors — led by Dr Apar Jinda (pulmonologist) and Dr Murali Krishna (cardiac anaesthetist) — are accompanying the minister.” Meanwhile, state agriculture and co-operative minister Badal Patralekh was seen co-ordinating the whole exercise as a representative of the state government and he accompanied the doctors and the ambulance carrying the ailing minister to the Birsa Munda international airport. Badal said: “The state government is committed to providing the best possible medical care to him and we are hopeful that with the prayers of our people and doctors’ efforts, he will recover soon. Chief minister Hemant Soren is also keeping a track on all the developments and his principal secretary Rajeev Arun Ekka is coordinating things from the administrative front.” In the last five months, five ministers in the 11-member Soen cabinet have tested positive for Covid. While minority welfare minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a post-Covid cardiac arrest hours after testing negative for the virus last month, Banna Gupta (health), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Badal (agriculture) — have made full recoveries. In August JMM president and Rajya Sabha MP Shibu Soren had tested positive for Covid and was shifted to a Gurugram hospital. The former CM has since recovered and returned to the state. More than MLAs from different parties were also infected and have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-positive-jharkhand-minister-jagarnath-mahto-shifted-to-chennai-hospital-in-air-ambulance/articleshow/78756742.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||With WFH here to stay, festive shoppers lap up daily home wear, masks||Ranchi: The festive season usually means people queuing up at shops for fancy new clothes, shoes, cosmetics and other things of opulence. But this year, as the pandemic continues to rage in Ranchi, shoppers are going for daily home wear and stocking up on masks. Without having to go to work, Sunday brunches, movies, dates or parties, shirts, suits, formal dresses, denims and high heels are gathering dust in the closet while casual dresses, comfortable pyajama sets and fancy slippers have been among the most used pieces of clothing in the last seven months. “I don’t see the point in buying fancy expensive clothes when we don’t know when we will be able to attend parties, social gatherings and weddings. Even spending money on formal wear seems useless as work-from-home is here to stay. I have mostly bought daily wear this time,” marketing executive Avita said. Shops are stocking up on casual wear and among them, jeans are in high demand. “In the backdrop of experts regularly advising us to wash our clothes immediately after reaching home, it makes sense for people to buy clothes that do not require dry cleaning — jeans is one of them. Keeping this in mind, we have even stocked up on cotton clothes,” Madan Juneja, manager at an apparel store in Daily Market, said. A similar scenario prevails in shops selling shoes. Instead of high-heels, sandals and other types of fancy shoes, the stores are flooded with slippers and chappals. “Earlier, when I used to go to office I needed formal shoes. But now with a work-from-home scenario, all I need is a comfortable pair of chappals,” Vikas Choudhary, a manager at a leading private firm, said. The only fancy item that is flying off the shelves this year is masks. Shops are luring the customers with intricately designed and heavily embroidered masks that are available in various colours. “Since masks have become an essential part of our lives, we have stocked up on masks of various designs, sizes and colours which are priced around Rs 400,” said a store manager of a leading brand of the Birla group. And the customers are lapping it up, along with sanitizers, fancy gloves and dispensers. “I have already sold huge stocks of such masks and I am planning to add more to my stock,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-wfh-here-to-stay-festive-shoppers-lap-up-daily-home-wear-masks/articleshow/78756436.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum plans to test revellers from other dists for Covid at border||Jamshedpur: People from adjoining areas entering East Singhbhum district for Durga Puja will be tested for Covid-19 at all three inter-district border checkpoints, the administration said on Monday. Durga Puja pandals in the Steel City draw huge crowds of devotees and revelers from neigbouring districts every year. The tests will be conducted at border checkpoints at the old river over-bridge connecting Adityapur to Bistupur, Pt Raghunath Murmu Domuhani-Kanderbera river over-bridge in Sonari and the toll bridge in Kadma have been identified for conducting the corona test of the visitors. “All three checkpoints will have a dedicated camp equipped with Covid test machines and personnel,” additional district magistrate (law and order) Nand Kishore Lal, also the nodal officer for surveillance, said. Lal said the decision is aimed at averting the possibility of another wave of infections in the district, which has reported more than 15,693 cases and 323 deaths, the highest by far in the state, till Monday morning. In the last week, the rate of infection has slowed considerably in the district and the seven- rolling average of new cases has fallen to 59 on Monday from the all-time high of 326 on September 9. A senior official in the district administration said even though puja committees are not constructing designer theme Pujas this year, pandal hoppers and revellers from neighboring districts — particularly youngsters from Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singhbhum — could arrive here in large numbers. “Many of them will spend their Puja holidays in Jamshedpur and we are taking precautions to ensure the outbreak does not get worse,” he said. The Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti (JKDPS), the parent body of the 350-odd puja committees in the industrial town, has welcomed the initiative. “The testing at birders will attain two objectives —check the flow of crowds into the city and identify potential virus carriers,” JKDPS secretary Arun Kumar said. Reiterating that not more than seven people will be allowed inside any pandal at any given time, SSP M Tamil Vanan said devotees visiting pandals will have to leave their footwear inside their vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-plans-to-test-revellers-from-other-dists-for-covid-at-border/articleshow/78756725.cms||B Sridhar
October 20, 2020||Ranchi||Parents, mobile phones, internet responsible for rapes: JMM MLA||Dumka: Days after Basant Soren, CM Hemant Soren’s brother and JMM candidate for Dumka bypolls, called for mob-justice for rapists, another MLA from the tribal party on Monday said parents of girls and easy access to mobile phones and internet are responsible for any rape attempt on them. Addressing a press conference in Dumka as part of his party’s campaign for the bypolls, JMM’s Borio MLA Lobin Hembrom said, “The rising incidents of rape and gang-rape are testimony to the negligent approach of parents towards their daughters. They allow their daughters to move out of home even after dusk." Hembrom, a former minister and senior JMM leader, was responding to a query on the recent gang-rape of an 11-year-old in Dumka on October 16. He said access to mobile phones is also a reason for a spike in such incidents. “Boys and girls often cross socially-accepted lines because they have easy access to internet and mobile phones. Their parents remain in the dark over their children’s conduct,” he said. Hembrom also called for Bithlaha, a form of social punishment where the accused’s family is ostracized and their properties are confiscated or damaged, as punishment for rapists. "The society should come together to resolve the menace of rape by invoking Bithlaha against the culprits,” he said at the press meet that had Rajmahal MP Vijay Hasda and Gandey MLA Saba Ahmad in attendance. Meanwhile, police are still to make any formal arrest in the Dumka gang-rape case so far. Hembrom said police should be given time to investigate so that innocent people are not booked due to political pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-mobile-phones-internet-responsible-for-rapes-jmm-mla/articleshow/78756879.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Two workers die cleaning tank in Delhi, 4 in hospital||NEW DELHI: Two men were killed and four others hospitalised on Sunday after they inhaled poisonous gases while cleaning a tank of chemicals at an ornament-making unit in Azadpur in north Delhi. Police have arrested the factory owner and the contractor who had hired the men. The cleaners had not been provided safety gear for cleaning the tank, which the Delhi Jal Board later clarified was not a septic tank. Police received a call at 6.45pm on Sunday about a group of men, aged between 35 and 45, having fallen unconscious while cleaning a tank at Delhi Chain Company in GTK Road Industrial Area. Times ViewRamon Magsaysay award recipient Bezwada Wilson once equated sewer lines and septic tanks to &quot;death traps&quot;. In 2017 alone, 132 such workers died. This remains the state of affairs though in 2014 Supreme Court prohibited anyone from working in them. It is permitted, as per central government rules, only in case of emergency after putting on adequate safety gear, which includes facemask, goggles, gumshoes, etc and the presence of an ambulance on the spot. Yet these rules are hardly followed. Those responsible for the deaths must be held accountable and punished. As Wilson also said, “These are not deaths but killings”.No Steps In 20ft-Deep Tank Made Rescue ToughThe unit makes and polishes gold and silver jewellery. While Idris and Salim, both from Khurja in Uttar Pradesh, died on the spot, Abdul, Salim, Mansoor, Islam and Chand, all from Bulandshahr, were taken to hospital and their condition is stated to have stabilised. C L Meena of Delhi Fire Services, who led the rescue team, disclosed that the tank was 18-20 feet deep. “We found we could not enter the tank through its small opening without using our breathing apparatus. The fumes were very intense,” said Meena. “The tank did not have steps, so we used a bamboo pole to go in and come out.” Meena said that it appeared that waste from the factory entered the tank and got mixed with the stored chemicals used in making and cleaning the ornaments. “After a long search, we found the body of a man. He had no injuries and was unconscious, but he died before we could take him to hospital,” the fire officer said. Vijayanta Arya, DCP (Northwest) said a case for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under IPC Section 304 and for endangering human life under Section 337 and under provisions of The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act has been registered. “Both factory owner, Rajender Soni, who lives in Mahendru Enclave, and contractor Pramod Dangi have been arrested,” Arya added. A police officer elaborated, “We have learnt that the company stored chemicals and water in the tank. Our investigation has revealed that the tender for cleaning the tanks was given by 63-year-old Soni to Dangi, 35, a resident of Najafgarh. On Sunday, the seven men were cleaning the tank, when two of them fell unconscious. Others were also affected and all of them were shifted to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital, where Idris and Salim were declared dead.” In a statement, officials of Delhi Jal Board clarified, “The case does not pertain to DJB. Preliminary investigation shows that the site accident was in a sewered area but a functional sewer line was operational 12 ft from the accident site. Septic tank cleaning is carried out by DJB in unauthorised colonies with no sewage network. Local civic officials said that the site of the accident appears to be some tank for chemical effluents in an ornament-related factory, and not a septic tank. A detailed inquiry is being carried out.” Times View Ramon Magsaysay award recipient Bezwada Wilson once equated sewer lines and septic tanks to "death traps". In 2017 alone, 132 such workers died. This remains the state of affairs though in 2014 Supreme Court prohibited anyone from working in them. It is permitted, as per central government rules, only in case of emergency after putting on adequate safety gear, which includes facemask, goggles, gumshoes, etc and the presence of an ambulance on the spot. Yet these rules are hardly followed. Those responsible for the deaths must be held accountable and punished. As Wilson also said, “These are not deaths but killings”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-workers-die-cleaning-tank-in-delhi-4-in-hospital/articleshow/78759202.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 cases going down across Vidarbha, but deaths still a concern||Nagpur: Vidarbha’s Covid-19 cases are reducing consistently. On October 19, only 1,111 new cases were reported from 11 districts, which is lowest in September and October so far. However, total 41 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the region on Monday which is a matter of serious concern. While cases are reducing and recoveries are increasing, Covid deaths are not reducing. The case fatality rate (CFR) of Vidarbha is 2.71%, which is way higher than national average of 1.52% and state’s 2.64%. Against 1,111 new cases, 1,406 patients recovered on Monday. This took Vidarbha’s recovery rate above 88%, and equal to national average of 88.26%. Total Covid-19 patients in the region reached 1,78,497, while 1,57,508 of them have already recovered. Chandrapur: Six Covid deaths were reported during the last 24 hours taking the toll across 200-mark and now it stands at 205. The first Covid death in the district was reported on July 24. It took 57 days for the district to cross 100 deaths mark. However, next 100 deaths came in just 31 days. There were 212 new cases detected across the district on Monday and caseload has now climbed 13,612. The day saw discharge of 178 patients and the total recoveries are now at 10,454, leaving 2,953 patients under treatment. Six deaths during the day include two from Chandrapur city, two from Rajura and two from Bhadrawati tehsil. Bhandara: The district had reported zero Covid-19 death after 38 days on Sunday. But, it reported 5 Covid-19 deaths in a day on Monday. This took Bhandara’s Covid-19 toll to 192. On Monday, Bhandara reported 32 cases taking the total caseload to 7,500. On the other hand, 104 patients recovered in the day taking their total to 6,306. Now, 1,002 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: A 61-year-old patient from Wadsa, who had severe diabetic conditions, died during treatment on October 19, taking the Covid-19 toll of the district to 37. With 43 from Gadchiroli city itself, total 80 new cases were reported in the day. Total 131 patients recovered and were discharged. Now, out of 4,626 total cases in the district, 3,802 have recovered, for a recovery rate of more than 82%. Total 787 patients are under treatment. Wardha: Four deaths, 24 new Covid cases and 203 recoveries were recorded in the district on Monday. A 40-year-old man from Wardha, 48 year-old man and 40-year-old woman from Hinganghat and 65-year-old man from Deoli died due to coronavirus during treatment. The total number of cases reached 5,822. Active cases in the district reduced to 729, and toll reached 189. As on date, 4,904 patients have defeated coronavirus and got discharged. Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 Covid deaths on Monday of whom one is a 60-year-old woman from the city while the other is a 65-year-old man from Ner. In the last 24 hours, 59 new Covid patients were detected. The district has recorded 9,523 total patients so far of whom 8,544 have recovered. As on date, there are 530 patients under treatment. Amravati: The district posted 28 new Covid cases on Monday that took the caseload to 15,521. The day also saw 96 recoveries for an overall total of 14,070. The day, like yesterday, reported one death that took the toll to 351. This left 1,100 patients, including 533 in home isolation, according to a civil surgeon office report. Buldhana: A 74-year-old woman patient died in Buldhana on Monday, and the district reported Covid-19 death after three days. Now, toll of Buldhana has reached 114. Out of 430 reports of Covid-19 tests received, 73 tested positive taking total caseload to 8,539. On the other hand, 32 patients went home taking the number of total recoveries to 7,949. Buldhana has 476 patients under treatment. Washim: The district reported one Covid death on Monday, 20 new cases and 46 recoveries. Now, Washim has 5,402 total cases, 4,608 recoveries and 117 deaths. The district has 677 patients under treatment. Akola: The district reported only 20 new Covid cases while 17 patients recovered. With this, Akola now has 8,075 total cases and 7,354 recoveries. A 72-year-old woman, who was admitted since October 17, died during treatment. This took Akola’s toll to 266. On Monday, with 455 patients under treatment, the district has lowest number of ‘active cases’ in Vidarbha. Gondia: Total 106 new Covid patients were added to the tally while 63 recovered in the district on Monday. No death was reported today for 3rd day in a row. Only 283 tests were performed in the last 24 hours. District’s total test positivity rate is 13.12%. Gondia now has 973 patients under treatment. Total 301 of them are under home isolation. Gondia’s total Covid-19 caseload is 8,745, including 7,661 recoveries, and 111 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cases-going-down-across-vidarbha-but-deaths-still-a-concern/articleshow/78756892.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||Staying fracture-free crucial for osteoporosis patients, say doctors||Nagpur: The pandemic has changed our lives and those having chronic illnesses are facing major problems. Covid-19 is delaying and disrupting treatment of many patients with osteoporosis. In such a condition, staying fracture-free is critical for anyone with osteoporosis, said doctors on the eve of World Osteoporosis Day. “In women over 45 years of age, fractures due to osteoporosis result in more days spent in hospital than many other diseases, including diabetes, heart attack and breast cancer,” said Dr Samir Dwidmuthe, associate professor, department of orthopaedics at AIIMS Nagpur. “One in three women and one in five men from the age of 50 suffer a fracture in their remaining lifetime. As a result, osteoporosis and fracture prevention should be a global health priority,” he added. According to doctors, the first and foremost strategy to avoid fracture is to do regular exercise, have a balanced diet and maintain weight under control. Majority of people work out to lose weight. But, being underweight is associated with greater bone loss and increased risk of fracture. People with a BMI of 20 kg/m2 have a two-fold increased risk of fracture as compared to people with a BMI of 25 kg/m2. “Resistance or muscle-strengthening exercises become even more important as one ages. While it is difficult to build bone minerals after adulthood, weight-bearing exercise has been shown to lead to modest increases in bone mineral density (BMD) of around 1-2%,” said Dr Dwidmuthe. “In osteoporosis, spinal fractures can occur even if you haven’t fallen. The bones that make up your spine can weaken to the point of crumpling, which can result in back pain, lost height and a hunched forward posture. So, we must be aware about these symptoms,” said Dr Samrat S Sahoo. According to him, a bone density measurement test known as dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) can identify if you are at a risk. “Depending on the results of clinical assessment, doctors make specific recommendations for calcium and vitamin D supplementation, other supplements, exercise, and possibly pharmacologic intervention and follow-up,” he said. In case one is detected at risk of osteoporosis, there are several medications available. “For patients at high risk, drug therapies are needed to effectively reduce the risk of fracture. Today, there is a wider variety of treatment options than ever before. The type of treatment selected will depend on your individual risk profile,” said Dr Vivek Tiwari, assistant professor, department of orthopaedics at AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/staying-fracture-free-crucial-for-osteoporosis-patients-say-doctors/articleshow/78756930.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 20, 2020||Nagpur||City surgeon designs hi-tech van to create awareness on osteoporosis||NAGPUR: Senior orthopedic surgeon from city Dr Sanjeev Chaudhary has created a hi-tech van for osteoporosis awareness. This unique project known as HEATCO (Health Education and Tele-consultation on Osteoporosis) has already started attracting global attention. Dr Chaudhary has been creating awareness about osteoporosis in rural areas since years. He has been one of the pioneers of tele-consultation in central India. Dr Chaudhary and his wife Dr Vaishali have been making people aware about the disease by telecommunication and video-conferencing. “Our mission osteoporosis control is becoming hi-tech on this World Osteoporosis Day with introduction of this unique, all-pervasive mobile campaign unit,” said Dr Chaudhary. “This van is designed in such a way that people can listen to my lecture live which I deliver sitting in my hospital at Nagpur,” he said. The concept got appreciated on international level when Dr Chaudhary introduced it on various global platforms. “Dr Cyrus Cooper, president of International Osteoporosis Foundation, Switzerland, termed this as an extraordinary initiative and first in the world. Even the father of India’s computer and IT revolution Padmabhushan Sam Pitroda appreciated the van,” said Dr Chaudhary. This van is created with support from Avinash Pande, former Rajya Sabha MP. “With 8.9 million cases per year, India reports high prevalence of osteoporosis in the world. This asymptomatic disease is common in rural India due to lack of awareness. This van will play an important role in creating the much-needed awareness,” added Dr Chaudhary. What the van has Impressive exterior decorated with panels Panels display text, images and slogans giving insight on osteoporosis A huge TV on exterior panel facilitates people to listen lectures live Videos highlighting the consequence of osteoporosis Automatically emerging speakers from the top of van play informative content BMD scan machine and digital images showing requirement of calcium and vit A small chamber facilitating virtual consultation with doctor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-surgeon-designs-hi-tech-van-to-create-awareness-on-osteoporosis/articleshow/78756950.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 20, 2020||Thane||Thunderstorm, lightning likely with rain today in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Thunderstorms along with lightning are expected on Tuesday as Indian Meteorological Department has issued a yellow alert for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. Rainfall is likely due to a low-pressure weather system. The yellow alert for Mumbai is only for Tuesday, but for Palghar, Thane and Raigad it will be till Wednesday, Thursday and Friday respectively. IMD said a fresh low-pressure weather system had formed over Bay of Bengal and may intensify rain in parts of central India, interior Maharashtra, along with the possibility of thunderstorms over interior Konkan too from October 19. "A well-marked low-pressure area persists over west-central Arabian Sea, and due to this an associated upper cyclonic circulation may lead to rain over the next 24-48 hours over Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). But rain during the latter half of the week is due to low pressure forming over Bay of Bengal," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Despite the yellow alert, there was no rain up to 8.30pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thunderstorm-lightning-likely-with-rain-today-in-mumbai/articleshow/78759223.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||Thunderstorm, lightning likely with rain today in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Thunderstorms along with lightning are expected on Tuesday as Indian Meteorological Department has issued a yellow alert for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad. Rainfall is likely due to a low-pressure weather system. The yellow alert for Mumbai is only for Tuesday, but for Palghar, Thane and Raigad it will be till Wednesday, Thursday and Friday respectively. IMD said a fresh low-pressure weather system had formed over Bay of Bengal and may intensify rain in parts of central India, interior Maharashtra, along with the possibility of thunderstorms over interior Konkan too from October 19. "A well-marked low-pressure area persists over west-central Arabian Sea, and due to this an associated upper cyclonic circulation may lead to rain over the next 24-48 hours over Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). But rain during the latter half of the week is due to low pressure forming over Bay of Bengal," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Despite the yellow alert, there was no rain up to 8.30pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thunderstorm-lightning-likely-with-rain-today-in-mumbai/articleshow/78759209.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||Tests in Maharashtra down by 18% in October compared to second half of September||MUMBAI: Testing for Covid-19 in Maharashtra has dropped by nearly 18% in the first 15 days of October compared to the last fortnight of September. It is also reflected in the daily testing numbers that have dropped from an average of 91,000 to 75,000 in the same period. State officials attributed the dip to an overall decline in positive cases, which has led to a fall in the volume of contacts traced and tested. This Sunday, October 18, saw one of the sharpest dips in testing, when only 46,312 tests were carried out, of which 5,984 people tested positive, Maharashtra's lowest detection of Covid cases in 104 days. While testing numbers typically plunge over the weekend, the last time these fewer tests were carried out was on September 21 (40,017), again a Sunday. Numbers collated from the public health department's Covid report show that compared to nearly 14 lakh tests carried out in the last 15 days of September, a little over 11 lakh tests were performed in the first fortnight of October. Maharashtra has completed 81.85 lakh tests. And though it continues to be one of the highest contributors of cases, it accounts for only 8-9% Covid tests carried out in the country daily. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, "Testing has dropped by 9%-10%, but that's also because cases have dropped from 1.5 lakh (approximately) in the week ending September 10 to 70,000 in the week ending October 15. Naturally, that has brought down the count of high-risk and low-risk contacts." Dr Awate added the footfall of patients with influenza-like-illnesses at the fever clinics too has declined. Besides a drop in cases curtailing tests, rains have also played a role in pulling down test figures in at least nine districts. In flood-hit Solapur, for instance, daily testing numbers have reduced by nearly half. Civil surgeon Dr Pradeep Dhele said they used to carry out between 2,500-3,000 tests daily before the flooding in several taluka places. "Testing is now down to 1,500-1,800. We are trying to focus on rehabilitation and prevention of communicable diseases," he said. He added the daily case detection too had reduced by half from 500-600. In Thane though, which had one of the highest testing averages, civil surgeon Dr Kailash Pawar said many people are being tested with antigen during 'My family My responsibility' screening itself. "There is already a decline in cases plus we are picking up early," he said. Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC's epidemiologist, said the city is clocking a daily average of 15,000 tests in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tests-in-maharashtra-down-by-18-in-october-compared-to-second-half-of-september/articleshow/78759226.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 20, 2020||Delhi||Over 2,100 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, 36,000 tests done||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 31 more fatalities due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the death toll to 6,040, while 2,154 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to over 3.33 lakh. The relatively low number of new cases came out of the 36,445 tests conducted the previous day. The tally of active cases on Monday dropped slightly to 22,570 from 23,292 the previous day. As of now, most Covid-19 positive patients (14,164) are recuperating under home isolation. While 5,064 are admitted to hospitals, 891 are in Covid care centres and 297 in Covid health centres. With pollution levels on the rise, doctors say those with preexisting respiratory health issues need to be extra careful. “Wearing a face mask is the single most effective way of keeping one safe from Covid-19 as well as pollution this winter. Avoiding strenuous outdoor exercise during peak pollution hours is also beneficial,” doctors say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-2100-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-36000-tests-done/articleshow/78759235.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||Two BMC workers electrocuted, five hurt during water pipeline repairs||MUMBAI: Two BMC workers from the water supply department got electrocuted and five others received serious injuries during pipeline repair work at Suman Nagar in Chembur on Monday morning. Nehru Nagar police have registered an accidental death report and are probing the cause of the incident and whether there was any negligence on the part of the BMC. TimesViewThe incident points to lack of adherence to safety protocols. The BMC often outsources hazardous work to contractors who cut costs by dispensing with protective gear, or it fails to deploy middle or senior staff to oversee the operation. Be it cleaning sewers, repairing pipelines or managing waste disposal, in carrying out a potentially risky job, the corporation must ensure full compliance with its own guidelines or those laid down by regulatory bodies.Additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu ordered an inquiry into the incident and asked the chief engineer (hydraulic) to submit a report within 15 days. The BMC said they will pay compensation to the families of the two deceased labourers-Ganesh Ugale (45) and Amol Kale (40). The five injured workers-Nana Pukale (41), Mahesh Jadhav (40), Naresh Adhangle (40), Rakesh Jadhav (39) and Anil Chavan (43)-were admitted at Rajawadi Hospital and discharged after treatment. According to the police, around 8am, the workers were carrying out repairs at Suman Nagar behind the traffic chowky as water had been overflowing since two days. They placed generators inside the manhole. Ugale and Kale entered the water-filled pit and were fixing the aqueduct when they got electrocuted. "The intensity of the electric shock was so severe that the five others standing outside the pit were thrown a few meters away," said senior inspector Vilas Shinde. During the preliminary probe, it transpired that the stormwater department had carried out some work inside the manhole two days ago, but the water had not receded. Hence, water supply department was called in to plug the fault. Ajay Rathore, hydraulic engineer, said the workers were carrying out a routine repair to a leaking pipeline. "It is an unfortunate accident," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-bmc-workers-electrocuted-five-hurt-during-water-pipeline-repairs/articleshow/78759261.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||A man with self-respect would've quit: Sharad Pawar on Maharashtra governor||MUMBAI: Close on the heels of Union home minister Amit Shah expressing displeasure over governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari's choice of words in his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP president Sharad Pawar targeted Koshyari, saying anyone with self-respect would not continue in the post. "After Amit Shah expressed displeasure over the choice of words in Koshyari's letter to the CM, anyone with self-respect would take a call on whether to continue in office or otherwise. Who are we to make any demand?" Pawar told mediapersons in Osmanabad. The NCP chief is on a tour of Marathwada region to assess the damage caused by heavy rains. Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis are also on a visit of flood-hit areas of Marathwada. Pawar said he had worked closely with several governors in his five decades in active politics, but he was yet to see a governor like Koshyari. "The dignity of office must be maintained," he said. "I have gone through Koshyari's letter. He has made a passing reference. However, I also feel he should have been more restrained in the choice of words,'' Shah had told a private television channel. On October 12, Koshyari had written to Thackeray, asking him to open places of worship, which have been closed since March 15, following the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. "You have been a strong votary of Hindutva...I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing reopening of the places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned secular yourselves, the term you hated," Koshyari had stated. Hitting back with a biting response, Thackeray had reminded Koshyari that he had taken oath of office as per the Constitution, the basis of which is secularism. "I am a strong votary of Hindutva and I do not need a certificate from you," the CM had said. On October 13, Pawar had written to PM Narendra Modi expressing shock at the "intemperate language" used by Koshyari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/a-man-with-self-respect-wouldve-quit-sharad-pawar-on-maharashtra-governor/articleshow/78759287.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: After Muttiah Muralitharan's letter, Vijay Sethupathi parts ways with '800'||CHENNAI: Actor Vijay Sethupathi will not play Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan in his biopic '800'. After days of pressure from fringe Tamil outfits and even sections of the film industry, Murali in a statement on Monday asked the actor to withdraw from the film and to not jeopardize his career. "Nandri Vanakkam [thank you, farewell]", tweeted the actor in response. "Nandri Vanakkam indicates that everything has come to an end. There is nothing more to talk about the film," Sethupathi told reporters, after coming out of the residence of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The actor had visited the CM's residence to condole the death of EPS's mother, who passed away last week. "It is all over. A full stop has been placed. There is nothing more to say," Sethupathi reiterated when reporters persisted with their questions. Earlier, Muralitharan said he understood that Sethupathi has come under immense pressure from some sections to not to act in the biopic. "Sensing that the fine actor's future films too could land in trouble, I am requesting Vijay Sethupathi to withdraw himself from this film," Muralitharan said in a statement. Muralitharan said the idea behind the biopic was to give an opportunity for young cricketers and the next generation to understand his life and the hardships he went through. "I have overcome many obstacles in my cricketing career and this is one more. I will overcome this too. The makers of the film have assured that they will take it forward and I am sure they will soon announce a new start to the film," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-after-muttiah-muralitharans-letter-vijay-sethupathi-parts-ways-with-800/articleshow/78759300.cms||---
October 20, 2020||India||Odisha techie’s AI tool helps Nobel winner WFP||The Nobel peace prize awarded to United Nations’ World Food Programme has a strong Odisha connect through a 32-year-old Google employee from Rourkela. Pranav Khaitan, an alumnus of NIT Rourkela, played a prominent role in the tie-up between Google and the WFP to develop an artificial intelligence tool to alleviate hunger, report Mihir Ray and Hrusikesh Mohanty. Along with a 10-member team, Khaitan developed an AI-based tool that could assess disaster damage within 24 to 72 hours. Our tech being used in five countries: KhaitanWhen the partnership between Google and WFP was forged in 2018, Californiabased Pranav Khaitan, a senior engineering lead at Google Research, was faced with one question — how to use AI to reduce global hunger. Along with a 10-member team, Khaitan developed an AI-based tool that could assess disaster damage within 24 to 72 hours and ensure timely delivery of aid to affected people. “I feel fortunate to have contributed to the mission of eradicating global hunger,” Khaitan told TOI over phone from California. “The technology we developed has been in use in at least five countries, including Mexico and Indonesia, over the past two years. It has been used to deliver assistance at the time of natural disasters like earthquakes and cyclones. In India, it is yet to be used,” he explained. Khaitan, who has led R&D in AI, graduated from NIT in 2009. He then pursued an MS degree at Stanford University. After interning with Facebook, he joined Google and has been working there since as one the research heads for AI. After the announcement of the Nobel Peace Prize 2020, WFP thanked Khaitan. “This is a chance to be proud of what we have been able to accomplish together. Pranav/ Google Research has pioneered some of the earliest explorations to revolutionise humanitarian operations using AI,” the email said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/odisha-techies-ai-tool-helps-nobel-winner-wfp/articleshow/78759295.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||HC gives Maharashtra 1 day to decide on locals for lawyers, till October-end for all sectors||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has directed the state government to take a decision by Tuesday on allowing lawyers to travel by local trains and granted it time till the month-end to decide on permitting employees of other sectors to board them as well. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni granted the state time till October 29 "to take an appropriate decision with regard to permitting the employees/staff of other sectors to avail the increased number of local train services being operated by Central Railway and Western Railway." Additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the court that from Monday, Central Railway has increased its services from 453 to 706 and Western Railway from 506 to 700. The court heard a public interest litigation and related pleas by lawyers on Monday. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the state has decided to permit women to commute by train during non-peak hours. He said Monorail and Metro rail have started and "in both there is no restriction on who can board". He then said the state is in the process of exploring a workable solution for employees of all sectors. The AG, though, sought time saying ministers could not be involved in the process, as sought by the court earlier, and also because all stakeholders could not be brought together for deliberations. Singh said the railways is agreeable but timings have to be staggered to ensure the health of passengers and to avoid overcrowding. In their order, the judges noted that while the government has been opening up activities of different sectors as part of Mission Begin Again, there has been no corresponding increase in the categories of service providers that could avail of the increased train services. "Apart from lady passengers, the government may consider the desirability of allowing daily wagers, vendors, shop employees, staff of hotels and restaurants, cinema halls, multiplex and other needy people to avail of local train services during non-peak hours." The bench passed the direction on lawyers after the AG said the government is inclined to allow them to travel by train. "We'll consider it favourably," the AG said, adding a meeting has to be scheduled with representatives, including of the Bar Council of Maharashtra. He also said it is hoped that advocates use the permission for professional purposes only. "They must not misuse it by transferring to somebody else," Kumbhakoni added. "Take a decision by tomorrow," said the CJ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-gives-maharashtra-1-day-to-decide-on-locals-for-lawyers-till-october-end-for-all-sectors/articleshow/78759308.cms||Rosy Sequeira
October 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 20 foreign Tablighis acquitted, can head home after seven months||MUMBAI: A magistrate's court on Monday acquitted the 20 foreign Tablighi Jamaat delegates who were booked for violating Covid-related norms and assembling in a mosque. In two separate judgments, the Indonesian and Kyrgyz Republic nationals, were found not guilty for the single charge under the Bombay Police Act, which through a promulgated order prohibits any assembly of people for preservation of public order. The court found that the order in question was neither publicly promulgated nor brought to the notice of the accused. Referring to the evidence of the two witnesses -- cops who investigated the cases -- the court said that neither had an occasion to see the accused together in the form of an assembly. "The prosecution witnesses admitted that they have not seen accused persons contravening any directions or order issued by the authority. The witnesses were also not found in a position to tell where and how the accused persons were residing at the time of the alleged offence. Imposition of lockdown and their ultimate shelter in mosque or nearby will not render them responsible for such contravention," metropolitan magistrate RR Khan said. The delegates can now return to their home countries after being stranded in the city for over seven months. "Admittedly the accused persons are foreigners; therefore, they are not acquainted with the local language as well as the law of the state," the court said. The delegates -- represented in the case by advocates AN Shaikh and Amin Solkar -- were booked in two separate cases by DN Nagar police in April. They were accused of visiting various mosques and meeting people despite lockdown restrictions. They had arrived in the country to attend the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz mosque, which was perceived to be a coronavirus spreader event. Cases were registered against delegates across the country. In Mumbai, these delegates were the only ones to face a trial. The Bandra magistrate's court had discharged 12 other Indonesian delegates in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-20-foreign-tablighis-acquitted-can-head-home-after-seven-months/articleshow/78759310.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 20, 2020||India||CAA rules in the making, Nadda says in Bengal||SILIGURI: With an eye on the 2021 assembly elections in Bengal, BJP chief J P Nadda on Monday revived the citizenship issue at the party’s Siliguri organisational meeting, 10 months after the Citizenship (Amendment) Act — passed in Parliament in December 2019 — was put on the backburner “due to the pandemic”. “You will get CAA. Rules are in the making. The process got delayed due to the pandemic. We will be releasing the rules as and when the country is back on the Covid recovery path,” Nadda said on Monday, indicating that BJP was committed to giving citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The BJP president’s announcement, read with Union home minister Amit Shah’s comment on the possibility of President’s Rule in Bengal, makes it apparent the party brass wants to pursue CAA in Bengal ahead of the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/caa-rules-in-the-making-nadda-says-in-bengal/articleshow/78759321.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Chennai||Keep fine amount ready, I will be released soon: V K Sasikala to lawyer||CHENNAI: V K Sasikala, jailed aide of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, has said she may be released from the Bengaluru jail 'soon,' and has asked her legal team to keep the fine amount ready. Besides four-year jail term, she was slapped with a 10 crore fine in the disproportionate assets case. "She has asked us to keep the fine amount ready," her counsel Raja Senthoor Pandian told TOI on Monday. In a letter written to Pandian on October 15, Sasikala has expressed confidence on being released by jail authorities soon and would inform him as soon as that happens. The letter also set at rest two other key debates in several platforms. Firstly, she directed Pandian to discuss related issues with her nephew and MLA from RK Nagar constituency, T T V Dhinakaran, who is now general secretary of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). This move of her's will quell talks of supposed discord between her and Dhinakaran. Secondly, Sasikala responded to an online article which speculated about her health and a reported conversation with one of her relatives who claimed to have met her at Parappana Agrahara jail recently. "The details published in that online article are completely false. The relative mentioned did not meet me at all," Sasikala said in the letter, Pandian said. She said such rumours were being spread by people who are trying to create political confusion through newspaper articles. Pandian said, "I have been instructed to take legal action against any such malicious news." More importantly, though she has been convicted, sentenced to undergo four-year jail term, which she is about to complete now, Sasikala has asked Pandian to consult senior lawyers in New Delhi and explore the possibilities of her filing a curative petition in the Supreme Court against her conviction. Sasikala was convicted on February 14, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/keep-fine-amount-ready-i-will-be-released-soon-v-k-sasikala-to-lawyer/articleshow/78759322.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 20, 2020||India||All Kolkata puja pandals are no-entry zones: HC||KOLKATA: Covid's long shadow officially fell on Bengal's largest festival on Monday, with the Calcutta high court directing the state government to treat all Durga Puja pandals as “no-entry zones”. Barring a list of not more than 25-30 names drawn up by the organisers, nobody will be allowed to go within 10 metres of a “big” pandal to either pay obeisance to the deity or marvel at the artistry that goes into the making of Kolkata’s famed theme pujas. For “small” pujas, the noentry zone will be five metres from the pandal, and the exemption list cannot have more than 15 names. The court left the big and small categorisation to the police. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, who attended a programme organised for the elderly at a Chetla home on Monday, did not refer to the order, but urged everyone to see pujas “virtually” this year. Inside the courtroom, Bengal advocate general Kishore Dutta told the division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee that making pandals “no-entry zones” might not be an effective Covid-prevention strategy as there would be crowds beyond them anyway. Accepting that this might be true, the bench said: “If pandals are made no-entry zones and a certain distance (to the pandals) is made part of those zones, people will know that there will not be any access within or close to pandals and the affinity to take to the streets may be less.” Meanwhile, throughout Monday, huge throngs of puja revellers swarmed big-ticket pandals and markets across Kolkata with no regard to social distancing, the intermittent rain not dampening their resolve and spirit. “Durga Puja shopping cannot wait, corona or no corona,” Rimpa Saha, a young homemaker, said. Pandal officials said no one was allowed to enter without masks, but crowd management remained a challenge as revellers gathered outside pandals despite repeated warnings from puja committiees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-kolkata-puja-pandals-are-no-entry-zones-hc/articleshow/78759336.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
October 20, 2020||India||Amit Shah slams Rahul’s China talk, reminds Congress of ’62||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Monday took a swipe at Congress MP Rahul Gandhi’s recent remarks on the government’s handling of the India-China border tension, saying the opposition party should have shown “courage” in 1962 when a huge swathe of Indian territory was captured by the Chinese, adding that the situation would not be repeated today. “The 15-minute formula, they could have applied it in 1962. That time our PM (Nehru) had said “bye bye Assam”,” Shah said in an interview to Zee News. He said Rahul’s party should have shown that courage in 1962 rather than making claims now of how the Chinese would be evicted. At a recent rally in Haryana against the farm bills, Rahul had attacked PM Modi, saying that if Congress had been in office it would have thrown out Chinese troops in less than 15 minutes. The home minister denied the possibility of a twofront war and said talks between top officials of Indian and Chinese armies and diplomats were going on to resolve the issue. However, he reiterated that there would be no compromise on the country’s sovereignty. “Trying to improve relations does not mean you give up on national interest. This is not 1962. I can say this much that no one will be able to occupy one inch of India’s land,” Shah said and added that the Modi government was committed to secure every inch of the country’s land. On the controversy over Congress MP Shashi Tharoor’s views on a Pakistani forum where he allegedly said Pakistan’s handling of Covid was better than India, the minister said the party was once again resorting to appeasement politics and it was not new for Congress to support the neighbour. “It is necessary for people to recognise those who put India’s interest at stake for their politics of appeasement. This will not work any more,” he said. On the opposition’s criticism of the handling of Covid, Shah once again hit out at Congress: “You and me cannot convince Rahul Gandhi. People will keep convincing him in every election.” About his illness and how he utilised the time, Shah said he pondered about the wrongs he might have committed in the past and how to ensure they are not repeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-slams-rahuls-china-talk-reminds-congress-of-62/articleshow/78759343.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Oxygen units threatening to stop supply, say Bengaluru private hospitals||BENGALURU: Major medical oxygen manufacturers have threatened to stop their supplies to some of Bengaluru’s hospitals, demanding exorbitant charges, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (Phana) has alleged. While the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) had, on September 26, capped the price of liquid oxygen at Rs 15.22 per cubic metre, the companies have been charging higher cost citing transportation and handling charges. Phana wrote to the state drugs controller on October 14, demanding action to ensure continuous supply of medical oxygen for treating coronavirus patients. State ignored setting limits on oxygen transport fee. Though the NPPA had mentioned that transportation cost was to be capped by the state governments, Karnataka has taken no measure in this regard. After the complaint from Phana, an official from the drugs controller department visited a private hospital facing acute shortage of oxygen, but no follow-up action has been reportedly initiated so far. Karnataka needs 500 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen daily and the state government has issued directives to curtail industrial usage of liquid oxygen and divert the same to medical purposes. Karnataka is buying medical oxygen from manufacturers in Telangana, Maharashtra and Odisha. About half of hospitalised Covid-19 patients require high-flow nasal oxygen as they face declining oxygen saturation level and breathing difficulties. “We’re having an issue with oxygen supply. Some major suppliers are threatening to stop the supply if we don’t pay them double the prescribed rates. At present, they are charging Rs 16 per cubic metre plus Rs 5 for transportation and GST. On top of that, they are demanding Rs 15 extra per cubic metre, which is exorbitant,” said Phana president Dr R Ravindra. While the existing price stands at Rs 23.50 per cubic metre, the new charge demanded by the companies will mean it will cost Rs 40.30 per cubic metre. “With the increase in the rate of oxygen and the fixed rates earmarked by the government for Covid wards, it is difficult to sustain the hospital management which in turn can affect Covid patients,” Dr Ravindra said. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department said he would look into the matter. Health minister K Sudhakar said there is no shortage of oxygen as of now. “But manufacturers are complaining that transportation costs are high. We will resolve this soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/oxygen-units-threatening-to-stop-supply-say-bengaluru-private-hospitals/articleshow/78759333.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 20, 2020||Business||Lasalgaon onion price hits this year’s high of Rs 6,200 a quintal||NASHIK: The average wholesale price of onions shot up by Rs 1,900 to Rs 6,200 per quintal, highest since January this year, at Lasalgaon APMC on Monday. Traders attributed the steep price rise to shortage of supply at the APMC, which opened four days after income-tax department conducted searches on the premises of traders in Nashik district. The average wholesale price was recorded at Rs 4,300 per quintal at the APMC on the last working day on October 4. More than 100 I-T officials from Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad conducted searches on 12 big onion traders on Wednesday and Thursday last week, following the rise in prices of the commodity to Rs 4,300 per quintal in the wholesale market in Nashik district on October 4. Sources in I-T department have said that they unearthed unaccounted income of Rs 20 crore from six onion traders, besides some documents that are being scrutinised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lasalgaon-onion-price-hits-this-years-high-of-rs-6200-a-quintal/articleshow/78759350.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 effect: Calcutta HC makes Puja pandals no-entry zones in 2020||KOLKATA: Covid-19 is set to cast its shadow on Durga Puja 2020, with the Calcutta High Court on Monday directing the state government to treat all pandals as “no-entry zones”. No one, except those on a list prepared by the organizers, will be allowed to go within 10 metres of a “big” puja pandal; and that list cannot have more than 25-30 names. For “small” pujas, the no-entry zone will be five metres from the pandal; and the list of people allowed to go nearer cannot have more than 15 names. The court also said whether a pandal was “big” or “small” would be determined by the local police. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, who attended a programme organised for the elderly at a Chetla home on Monday, did not refer to the court’s order but urged everyone to see pujas “virtually” this year. “We will stay indoors and watch puja virtually because of the pandemic,” she said. Inside the courtroom, Bengal advocate-general Kishore Dutta told the division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee that making pandals “no-entry zones” may not be effective as there would be crowds beyond them anyway. The bench accepted this might be true but added: “If pandals are made no-entry zones and a certain distance (to the pandals) is made part of those zones, people will know that there will not be any access within or close to pandals and the affinity to take to the streets may be less.” The court also urged people to take a virtual tour of pandals and declined to entertain a government plea for a “stay of operation” of the order. “It is a matter of concern that the state government finds the directions onerous,” the order said. The apprehension that overcrowding could lead to an uncontrollable rise in the number of Covid cases was “real and immediate”, it added. The court also felt it was “rather incongruous” that festivities could continue as usual when school-goers and college students could not attend classes on campus for more than six months. Life, it said, had not been normal for humans since March. State home secretary H K Dwivedi met advocate-general Dutta after the order but it was not clear whether the government would challenge it in the Supreme Court. The Forum for Durgotsav, a platform of Kolkata’s Durga Puja organisers, said it was consulting lawyers. “We may move a Calcutta High Court division bench for relief. There are problems in implementing the order at the eleventh hour. We will arrive at a decision by Tuesday morning,” forum secretary and Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav general secretary Saswata Ghosh said. The HC said the guidelines issued by police were “exemplary” but faulted the government for failing to provide a blueprint for their implementation. “This order must not be seen as (a comment on) the inadequacy of measures but as a supplement to ensure the proper implementation of those measures by the limited (number of) police personnel, volunteers and other administrative officials and workers,” the court said. “The measures announced by the state government are well-intentioned but may remain only a pious wish on paper without any blueprint being chalked out for their implementation on the ground,” the bench felt. “The police cannot be blamed with the limited resources at its disposal,” it added. The HC made it clear that only puja organisers’ and priests’ names could be on the list of people allowed entry into pandals; the list could not changed, the court said, adding that it had to be displayed properly for checks. The court asked Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma and state director-general of police Virendra to file their reports on the order’s compliance by November 5. Howrah resident Ajay Kumar Dey had filed the PIL, apprehending that large-scale Durga Puja celebrations this year might lead to a “Covid tsunami” in the state. The court said: “The virus refuses to go away. The state government can only do so much with the limited resources available though healthcare facilities have been augmented. In such a situation, it may be judicious to err on the side of prevention than allow festivities to go on without any check and then repent later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-19-effect-hc-makes-puja-pandals-no-entry-zones-in-2020/articleshow/78758438.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Diversity focus at IIT-Kharagpur conclave||KOLKATA: The need for diversity and inclusion to build collaborative workplaces was explored by speakers at The Vinod Gupta School of Management, IIT Kharagpur’s HR conclave, Vaachna, which was held on October 3. Pradip Kumar Ray, Dean, VGSoM, spoke on the necessity of human centricity in organizations during these tumultuous times, which set the tone for deliberations. Samar Singh Sheikhawat, an independent business consultant, who moderated the event, reflected on the higher success ratio of female leaders when handling crises. Prachi Rastogi, diversity and inclusion leader, IBM APAC, shed light on the steps taken by her organization to bring in diversity across the table by leveraging modern technologies. Ankush Arora, senior vice-president and head of human resources at Grofers, focused on the implicit advantages of a diverse and inclusive workforce. Tulanahina Maity Pandey, CVP and HR head, Bancassurance at Max Life Insurance Company Limited, spoke on the changing dynamics of leadership, particularly in the BFSI domain and connecting it with the increasing influence of diversity. Saugata Ganguly, director (HR), South Asia and global head, industrial relations at Avery Dennison illustrated the effectiveness of a participative workforce, outlining solutions for building collaborative workplaces in the new normal and implementing global best practices into policies on diversity and inclusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/diversity-focus-at-iit-kgp-conclave/articleshow/78758510.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah court grants bail to Balwinder Singh||HOWRAH: A Howrah court on Monday granted bail to Balwinder Singh, who was arrested during BJP’s Nabanna Aviyan on October 8. He was released on a personal bond of Rs 2,500. Singh, working as private security officer of a BJP leader, was arrested for carrying a firearm during the agitation where Howrah police had clamped Section 144. Things started looking up after Singh’s wife Karamjit Kaur and members of the Sikh community in Kolkata and Delhi had a meeting with the director general of police at Bhabani Bhawan on Saturday, during which the police assured the family of an early solution. The meeting was organized at the behest of chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Video clippings of Singh’s arrest during the demonstration and the turban going off his head while police dragged him away went viral on social media, sparking a strong reaction from a large section of the Sikh community, who said police showed “disrespect” to their religion by “taking off” Singh’s turban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-court-grants-bail-to-balwinder/articleshow/78758515.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||Ahead of Pujas, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina sends gifts to Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Monday sent four saris and 10kg sweets from Gopalganj, along with a congratulatory note, to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The gifts, which come on the eve of Durga tritiya, were handed over to Banerjee by Bangladesh’s deputy high commissioner Toufique Hassan at Nabanna. According to an official at the Bangladesh deputy high commission in Kolkata, exchange of pleasantries between the two leaders is nothing new. Hasina has often sent gifts and congratulatory notes to the Bengal CM. “Their ties are more like the relationship between two sisters. She (Hasina) does not miss any occasion to send her best wishes to Mamata Banerjee. Their close bond was noticeable when they met at a cricket match at Eden Gardens in November last year,” the official said. Banerjee too sends her wishes on every occasion. In September this year, she sent a letter to Hasina on her birthday, wishing her a long and healthy life. The letter was accompanied by a bouquet of flowers and sweets. Hasina did not spare a moment to reply to her “Priyo Mukkhomontri (Dear chief minister)”. Banerjee had also congratulated Hasina’s family and the people of Bangladesh on Eid. “After Cyclone Amphan ravaged Bengal, Hasina had called our CM to enquire,” said an official at Nabanna. Despite a ban on the export of hilsa to India, the Bangladeshi PM ensured that consignments reached Bengal during monsoon this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ahead-of-pujas-hasina-sends-gifts-to-mamata/articleshow/78758392.cms||---
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||CAA rules in the making, Nadda says in North Bengal||SILIGURI: BJP president J P Nadda revived the citizenship issue at the party’s Siliguri organizational meeting, 10 months after Citizenship (Amendment) Act — passed in Parliament in December 2019 — was put on the backburner following an intense debate in West Bengal social circles. “You will get CAA. Rules are in the making. The process got delayed due to the pandemic. We will be releasing the rules as and when the country is back on the Covid recovery path,” Nadda said on Monday, clearly indicating that BJP was committed to giving citizenship to non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The BJP president’s announcement, read with Union home minister Amit Shah’s comment on the possibility of President’s Rule in Bengal, makes it apparent the party brass wants to pursue CAA in Bengal ahead of the 2021 assembly polls amid stiff opposition of political rivals who see CAA as a “discriminatory” Act. BJP sources hinted the party couldn’t afford to go slow because it would create “misgivings” among refugees, particularly Matuas, a large section of which went with BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Matua leader and BJP’s Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur has already expressed his “impatience” over CAA implementation in Bengal. Nadda addressed two crucial issues — CAA and tribal status for 11 Gorkha communities in the Hills — that can act either way if handled without care. BJP’s game plan for Bengal is to combine identity politics with that of empowerment in an attempt to consolidate the anti-incumbency, plus a bonus on the identity question when the ruling Trinamool has started addressing issues of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and general caste Hindus. “TMC was biased towards a community till the other day. The party is now desperate to build bridges with the Hindu community after it sensed the dissent,” Nadda said. At the same time, the BJP president pointed out in the Samajik Samuha meeting how the Bengal government was coming in the way of several welfare measures undertaken by the Modi government. “Prime Minister Modi arranged for an annual Rs 5 lakh medical support for a total 55 crore people in the country. A rickshaw-puller is also entitled to get this support under Ayushman Bharat. But it is not working in Bengal,” Nadda said. BJP seniors Kailash Vijayvargiya and Mukul Roy received the party chief at Bagdogra airport, where he landed in a special aircraft from Delhi on Monday. Nadda paid tribute to the statue of Rajbanshi icon Panchanan Barma and offered prayers at a local Kali temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/caa-rules-in-the-making-nadda-says-in-n-bengal/articleshow/78758425.cms||Roshan Gupta
October 20, 2020||Kolkata||TMC lashes out at BJP ploy on ‘divide & rule’||KOLKTATA: Trinamool Congress on Monday took a dig at BJP national president J P Nadda’s comment on implementing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. It, however, refrained from a point-by-point rebuttal, like it did in the past, keeping the “auspicious occasion” of Durga Puja in mind. On Monday evening, TMC’s parliamentary party leader in Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, issued a statement saying: “The irony is not lost when the president of BJP talks about divide and rule. Divide and rule is a ploy learnt from the colonial past and played out deviously everyday by your party.” While it did not mention CAA, TMC in the statement said, “Over the last six years, your party has done everything it can to divide and rule the people of this great nation.” Meanwhile, TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter to criticize Union home minister Amit Shah’s statement in a televised interview. Shah had said that BJP has every right to seek President’s rule in Bengal if the law and order situation worsens. “Ironic that Mr Amit Shah has found data on bomb factories but when it comes to data on migrants, his government is clueless,” he tweeted. He alleged that BJP was trying to disrupt social harmony by threatening the state with imposing President’s rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-lashes-out-at-bjp-ploy-on-divide-rule/articleshow/78758484.cms||---
October 20, 2020||India||Japan’s new PM endorses Abe’s Indo-Pacific policy||NEW DELHI: Indicating that his foreign policy would be a continuation of his predecessor, the new Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga offered a full-throated endorsement of Shinzo Abe’s Indo-Pacific policy. In his first address outside Japan, Suga told university students in Vietnam “Japan is strongly opposed to any actions that escalate tensions in the South China Sea. Japan has been consistently supporting the preservation of the rule of law in seas.” China has exerted tremendous pressure on Vietnam in the past months on the South China Sea, but Suga’s remarks included implied criticism of China’s aggressive posture in building on uninhabited islands in the South China Sea. Suga also reaffirmed support for the Asean Outlook for the Indo-Pacific, pointing out the similarities with Japan’s own “Free and Open Indo-Pacific policy”. “The Asean Outlook powerfully sets forth the rule of law, openness, freedom, transparency and inclusiveness as the Asean’s principles for behavior. The fact that it shares many fundamental commonalities with the “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” Japan is advocating for is tremendously encouraging …” Suga’s remarks indicate that while there may be changes in nuance and focus, the core of his foreign policy would toe the Abe line. This has been watched carefully by India which had developed a strong bond with Abe and his government. Suga also touched on “Asean centrality” a key feature of the Indo-Pacific strategy of the Quad countries. Suga presided over the first standalone Quad foreign ministers’ meeting in Tokyo on October 6. The importance of resilient supply chains was emphasised. This was something other countries were keen to see where Suga would fit in — particularly as India, Japan and Australia recently signed an agreement to work together to create such supply chains. “Examples of this cooperation include the East-West Economic Corridor and the Southern Economic Corridor running through Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand and Myanmar,” Suga said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/japans-new-pm-endorses-abes-indo-pacific-policy/articleshow/78759367.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 20, 2020||India||Positivity rate: ‘Backward’ states beat developed ones||NEW DELHI: Amid the pandemic gloom, the ‘backward’ states of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Assam have positive news to share. They have all brought down Covid-19 positivity rates (confirmed cases per 100 tests), measured over 14-day periods, to below 2% (October 5-18) — a remarkable achievement when more developed states are still struggling. These states are also screening a higher number compared to hotspots like Maharashtra and Kerala, indicating that while raising testing levels will result in more cases being detected, over time — when combined with diligent contact tracing and containment — the prevalence of infection can be brought down as officials zero in on nascent clusters and worrisome hotspots. Bihar is doing twice as many tests in 14 days as Delhi while UP, with the highest tests by any state, is conducting twice as many as Maharashtra. The UP administration has conducted a record 21 lakh tests in the last two weeks alone, and Bihar around 14 lakh. A caveat about Delhi is that while it is classified as a state, it is in many ways a large city. Looking at tests per million, Delhi leads with 1,17,890 while Assam is at 81,961, Bihar at 43,754, Jharkhand at 41,886 and UP at 35,598. Maharashtra's tests per million is 43,494. A key indicator is the positivity rate which tells if a state is testing, tracking and containing enough. Here, Gujarat, Punjab, Telangana and Haryana seem to have reined in the spread. While Gujarat’s positivity rate has remained at 2% over the last two fortnights (measured separately), Punjab has brought it down from 5% (during September 22-October 5) to 2.4% during October 5-18. Telangana and Haryana have brought it down to 4%. A TOI analysis of positivity rates (over 14-day periods) shows Maharashtra, despite having moderated, continues to remain in the danger zone with a positivity rate of 15% during October 5-18. In the previous fortnight, the rate was more than 18%. A positivity rate of 5% or below over a 14-day period is considered a ‘green zone’ where a state can safely relax lockdown measures. Anything above that mark is considered a ‘red zone’. Also, higher the positivity rate, more likely that only the sickest are being tested and a large infected population remains untested. The states with highest positivity rates (between October 5-18) were Maharashtra (15%), Kerala (14%), Chhattisgarh (10%), Rajasthan (10%) and Karnataka and West Bengal at 9% each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/positivity-rate-backward-states-beat-developed-ones/articleshow/78759376.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 20, 2020||Chennai||AAI to hire cab firm as traffic goes up at Chennai airport||CHENNAI: With the number of domestic passengers growing and flyers finding it difficult to hire cabs, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has started to look for a firm to operate cabs from Chennai airport. Passengers now depend on cabs which they hire using apps and also the black- and-yellow cabs run by a drivers cooperative. The move aims to finalise a firm by next month because two companies which had been running cab services from the terminals have exited a few months ago. A ride hailing was offering cabs but their term also got over by the end of January. Around 8,000 domestic passengers land at the airport every day. The airport also has started to handle 78 arriving flights per day which is going to increase in the coming days as the government has permitted 100 arrivals per day. The black-and-yellow cabs are the only non-premium service attached to the airport. But they have only around 100 cabs which are not enough as domestic passengers are increasing and international passengers too have started to hail cabs because institutional quarantine is not there anymore. A tender has been floated to appoint a new firm which will be allowed to open a counter inside the terminal and also will be allowed to park their cars inside the airport campus. An official said that a majority of the passengers have been arranging their own vehicles because of the shutdown and Covid-19 restrictions. "The choice of firms available to rope in on a contract basis is only a few. We have to bring in a reputed firm with a good number of cars. It may not work out. The plan now is to replace the operator who was a licensed cab operator at the terminal," he added.  It has become a hassle for passengers to book cabs because fewer app-based cabs are available near the airport.  Major metro airports have one or two cabs services in addition to premium car services for passengers to book from inside the arrival terminals. But in Chennai, people have to come out and look for the booth of black-and-yellow cab service as it is located across the road that runs in front of the terminal. International passengers, who come with four to five bags, find it difficult to get the right vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aai-to-hire-cab-firm-as-traffic-goes-up-at-chennai-airport/articleshow/78759388.cms||---
October 20, 2020||India||PM Modi says flexible lockdown helped contain deaths||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said India was one of the first countries to adopt a “flexible” lockdown approach and managed to keep death rates from Covid-19 relatively low. “India is almost four times the size of the USA’s population. And many of its states are as populated as European nations. Yet, India kept its Covid-19 death rate very low. Today, we are seeing a decline in the number of cases per day and the growth rate of cases. India has one of the highest recovery rates of 88%,” the PM said while delivering the keynote address at the inaugural function of the 16th Grand Challenges Annual Meeting 2020, organised by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. “This happened because India was one of the first countries to adopt a flexible lockdown when the total cases were just a few hundred,” he added. The PM said India was one of the first to encourage the use of masks and actively began to work on effective contact tracing. India was also one of the earliest to deploy rapid antigen tests and innovated with the CRISPR gene editing technology, he said. “India is now at the forefront of vaccine development for Covid-19. More than 30 indigenous vaccines are being developed in our country and three of them are in an advanced stage,” he said. “We are not stopping here. India is already working on putting a well-established vaccine delivery system in place. This digitised network along with digital health IDs will be used to ensure immunisation of our citizens,” he said. The PM said India was known for its capacity to produce quality medicines and vaccines at low cost. “More than 60% of vaccines for global immunisation are manufactured in India. We included Indigenous Rotavirus Vaccine in our Indradhanush immunisation programme. This is a successful example of a strong partnership for long lasting results,” he added. Modi said the Gates Foundation was a part of this particular effort. “With India’s experience and research talent, we will be at the centre of global healthcare efforts. We want to help other nations enhance their capacities in these sectors,” he said. Modi said the future would be shaped by societies that invest in science and innovation, which could not be done in a short-sighted manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-says-flexible-lockdown-helped-contain-deaths/articleshow/78759394.cms||---
