October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Smaller venues and restricted footfall for Durga Puja in Bengaluru||For the city’s Bengali population, Durga Puja was always a grand affair, celebrated at multiple venues. This year, though, will be a marked departure from all that grandeur, what with restrictions in place owing to the ongoing pandemic. Priyanka Sinha Roy, core committee member of the Bengali Association for the Residents of Sarjapur and HSR-layout Area (BARSHA), says, "Until last years, the puja venue used to be the BBMP playground that could accommodate 15,000 people at any given time. This year, we have chosen the Sidhartha Convention Hall at HSR Layout and are looking at not more than 50-100 people per slot." Mayukh Patra, Secretary of Harmony Cultural Welfare Association adds, "We are also going for a closed door event at the Bharat Sevashram Sangha in Jakkur, which can accommodate 100 people only." Aninda Chatterjee, President of Utsav says that they have shifted from their big venue in JP Nagar to a smaller hall in Bilekahalli, where only a maximum of 100 people will be allowed at a time. Not everyone has changed venues, though, and those who haven’t have instead scaled down the festive atmosphere. Achintya Lal Roy from Bengaluru Durga Puja Committee says, "This year we have gone for a smaller hall at the Manpho Convention Center, with entry restricted to people by invitation and registration only. Apart from the standard precautions, everyone entering the venue needs have the Arogya Setu app as per the BBMP directive." Anshuman Sarkar, joint secretary of Spandan Cultural Association at Begur, says puja will be on only one floor of the convention hall they usually conduct it at. "The venue is the same, but we are not renting the entire premises. This time it is only one floor for the ghat or Kalash Puja," he says. SOPs to be followed at the PujaFOR THE PUJA OR PUSHPANJALI- No more than 50 people to gather during prayers; social distancing to be followed - Staggered entry with tokens allotting time slots for members - No usage of flowers and water during prayer - Sweet boxes, fruits and other offerings from outside the venue are prohibited - Distribution of fruits, flowers is prohibited FOR THE COMMUNITYLUNCH-No more than 100 people at a time - Public queue for prasadam prohibited - Staggered entry with tokens allotting time slots for members FOR THE CULTURALPROGRAMMES- All cultural programmes to be streamed online AT THE FOOD STALLS- No more than four food stalls at a venue - Food should be served hot - Sale of cold drinks is prohibited - Sindhur Khela restricted to only 10 members at a time - No more than 10 members at a time for visarjan or Debi boron||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/smaller-venues-and-restricted-footfall-for-durga-puja-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78773935.cms||Joyeeta Chakravorty
October 21, 2020||Mysuru||Despite being a low-key celebration, Mysuru lights up for Dasara||The illuminated Mysore palace, main thoroughfares and major streets of Mysuru are a sight to behold during Dasara festivities. Owing to the pandemic, as Dasara is being celebrated in a simple way this year, only a stretch of 50 kms of road has been illuminated, compared to the 70 kms last year. This stretch will remain illuminated only for two hours, between 7 pm and 9 pm.  According to the officials of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation, the electricity consumption per night is 5,000 units. In key junctions, the lighting has been designed to create awareness about COVID-19. The city will be illuminated for 10 days, ending on October 26. Tourists can be seen driving through the main thoroughfares of the city to enjoy the lighting. The insignia lighting which depicts Mahatma Gandhi, Ambedkar, Eiffel Tower, KRS and Palace have been erected in different parts of the city.  On Saturday morning, Naada Habba Mysuru Dasara kicked off on a low-key note atop Chamundi Hills. This festival was inaugurated by cardiologist Dr CN Manjunath, who said, “For the first time, someone from the medical field has been given the opportunity to inaugurate the Dasara festival, which this year, is being held in honour of the Corona warriors.” The festival will culminate on October 26 with the popular Jamboo Savari. Mysuru’s popular tourist destinations Chamundi Hills, Mysore Palace, Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens and Nanjangud Temple will be opened for visitors during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/despite-being-a-low-key-celebration-mysuru-lights-up-for-dasara/articleshow/78772602.cms||Vinay Lokesh
October 21, 2020||Chennai||Sanitisers, masks find a place in this year’s kolu thamboolam||Celebrating Navratri amid pandemic is a new experience, but that hasn’t dampened the spirit of Chennaiites. From limiting their guest list to doing virtual kolu visits, people have found new ways to ring in the festivities. Among them is the inclusion of sanitisers and face masks in the kolu thamboolam! Sunitha Vaidy, a teacher, says that this is the need of the hour. “We need to adapt to the new normal, right? Instead of the usual gift items, I felt giving masks and sanitisers would be useful. I am anyway calling only a few people this year. So, I ordered a bunch of good-quality cloth masks, which are reusable, and a pocket sanitiser,” she says. Nirmala Ramesh, a homemaker, adds, “I used to give blouse pieces as part of thamboolam, but not everybody uses them. In fact, they get passed on to others! This time, I wanted to give something that is of use to people. So, I added a five-layer mask and sanitiser kit to the thamboolam, along with vethala-paaku, kumkumam and turmeric.” The idea behind including masks and sanitisers is to also reiterate that the pandemic is still not over and we should continue to take precautions. “When you step out, you will invariably find 20 per cent of the population walking around without masks. Sanitisers and masks are essentials now, and you are definitely bound to buy them over and over again. So, we decided to give our guests N95 masks and herbal sanitisers. We also ensure that whoever is coming inside our home is wearing masks; they sanitise themselves at the entrance,” says Kavya Raj, who works in the healthcare sector. Cloth masks, scarf masks and reusable bags in the list!Fashion designer Niketa Shah has been busy making cloth masks from leftover fabrics for her customers, who are using them as part of their thamboolams. “I started making them casually when the pandemic began. But soon, word spread and people have been ordering these masks in bulk. From embroidered ones to three-layer reversible cloth masks, the demand is high this time,” says Niketa. Some of them have ordered scarf masks as kolu gifts, too, she says. “Scarf masks are in now!” she says, adding, “To avoid plastic use, many are buying reversible cloth bags and pouches as well. Some have even enquired about cloth gloves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sanitisers-masks-find-a-place-in-this-years-kolu-thamboolam/articleshow/78769704.cms||Sharanya CR
October 21, 2020||India||Centre considering removing plasma therapy from Covid-19 clinical management protocol||NEW DELHI: The Centre is considering to remove convalescent plasma therapy from the national clinical management protocol for COVID-19, a top ICMR official said on Tuesday. Presently, the use of off-label convalescent plasma for treating COVID-19 patients in the moderate stage of the illness is allowed under "investigational therapies". However, a randomised controlled trial, led by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), on 464 patients in 39 hospitals in 25 districts across 14 states and UTs has shown that plasma therapy does not reduce mortality or prevent progression of COVID-19 from moderate to severe. At a press conference, ICR Director General Balaram Bhargava said, "We have had discussions in the national taskforce and we are in discussion with the joint monitoring group that this (convalescent plasma therapy) may be deleted from the national guidelines. The discussion is ongoing and more or less we are reaching towards that." He was responding to a query on continued use of plasma therapy despite the ICMR-led controlled trail revealing otherwise, the result of which has been public. The 'open-label parallel-arm phase II multicentre randomized controlled trial' (PLACID Trial) was conducted between April 22 to July 14 to investigate the effectiveness of convalescent plasma for treatment of COVID-19. The therapy involves taking anti-bodies from the blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 and transfusing those into a COVID-19 patient to help kickstart the immune system to fight the infection. On the interim results of WHO Solidarity Trial indicating four repurposed drugs for COVID-19, including remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine, have little or no effect on reducing mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay, Bhargava said debate and discussion were ongoing at the National Taskforce and at the Joint Monitoring Group, and advisories would be issued accordingly. "WHO solidarity trial is a 30-country trial in which India has been a participant. Interim results of this have been put on a website, which has not yet been peer-reviewed. "However, we find that these drugs are not performing as we had expected. Debate and discussion are ongoing at the National Taskforce and Joint Monitoring group and we will take into cognizance the results of this trial and issue advisories accordingly," he said. Remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon regimens were tested in 405 hospitals of 30 countries covering 11,266 adults to look into the effects of these treatments on overall mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay. The trial was conducted from March 22 to October 4. "Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir and Interferon regimens appeared to have little or no effect on hospitalized COVID-19, as indicated by overall mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay," the study which appeared on medRxiv, a preprint server, on October 15 said. The trial findings are set to be published in the British Medical Journal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-considering-removing-plasma-therapy-from-covid-19-clinical-management-protocol/articleshow/78776360.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Delhi High Court allows Anwar to play till AIFF decision||Panaji: The Delhi High Court has allowed Anwar Ali to join a club and play football, until the All India Football Federation’s medical committee decides otherwise. The court passed its order on Tuesday while hearing a petition filed by the India defender challenging the AIFF's directive barring him from playing. Anwar, 20, has a congenital heart condition which some experts have said poses a risk to his life, if he continues with competitive football. “The court said the AIFF letter (issued on September 7) which asked him not to play will no longer prevent him from playing till the medical committee decides. If the committee decision goes against Anwar, then we are at a liberty to challenge that verdict,” Anwar’s lawyer, Amitabh Tewari, told TOI on Tuesday. The AIFF panel will take a decision in three or four weeks. While previously the committee had decided against allowing Anwar to play competitive football – with advice from the AFC medical council– the footballer’s case has been helped by Professor Sanjay Sharma, chairman of the Cardiology Consensus Panel for England’s Football Association. Sharma told the AIFF’s medical council that the former Indian Arrows defender should be allowed to play, if he is keen, and accepts the small risk of potentially serious arrhythmias. A reputed member of the European Society of Cardiology, Sharma said recent recommendations published by the ESC on August 29, 2020, are more liberal and suggest that it may be reasonable for some affected individuals with morphologically mild disease to participate in high intensity exercise provided they were asymptomatic, had a low ESC risk profile and did not have left ventricular outflow obstruction 30 mm Hg. Sharma’s opinion is vital in this case, particularly since he oversees the cardiovascular screening programme for Youth Academy players of the 92 clubs affiliated with the FA in England.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-high-court-allows-anwar-to-play-till-aiff-decision/articleshow/78776624.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa include young Mohit, Ruthvik among probables||Panaji: Goa under-19 allrounders Mohit Redkar and Ruthvik Naik have found a place among the probables for the Ranji Trophy this season. Apart from Mohit and Ruthvik, under-23 players Ishan Gadekar, Nihal Surlakar and Samit Mishra also made the cut following their good show in age group tournaments. The Goa Cricket Association is planning to start training from early November after BCCI president Sourav Ganguly said that the much-awaited domestic cricket season will start from January 1 with the Ranji Trophy. "We need a minimum of two months to prepare for the season. If it is a full-fledged season, we need to go through various aspects of cricket drills, not to forget the government and BCCI guidelines," said Prakash Mayekar, GCA’s director of coaching and cricket operations. GCA includes promising newcomers among the probables where they are judged whether they are ready for the big move. "GCA has taken a collective decision. We must go through a fitness test, have to take consent from the players. We will carry out Covid-19 tests too. Due to the pandemic, we are going to start training in batches of four or five players, keeping safe distance," he said. Probables: Amit Verma, Ashok Dinda, Eknath Kerkar, Amogh Desai Snehal Kauthankar, Sumiran Amonkar, Suyash Prabhudesai, Vaibhav Govekar, Adithya Kaushik, Deepraj Gaonkar, Samar Dubhashi, Rajshekar Harikant, Keenan Vaz, Darshan Misal, Felix Alemao, Heramb Parab, Lakshay Garg, Vijesh Prabhudesai, Abhilash Raikar, Malik Sirur, Shubam Desai, Vedant Naik, Vishwambar Kahlon, Amulya Pandrekar, Srinivas Fadte, Harshad Gadekar, Ishan Gadekar, Nihal Surlakar, Samit Mishra, Mohit Redkar, Ruthvik Naik||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-include-young-mohit-ruthvik-among-probables/articleshow/78776687.cms||Paresh Mokani
October 21, 2020||India||Top Covid-hit states see fewer infections; active cases below 7.5 lakh||NEW DELHI: Except West Bengal where cases increased slightly, all other states in the top 10 category contributing to the country’s caseload showed a decline in new cases on Monday as compared to previous day even as Chhattisgarh replaced UP among the high burden states reporting fresh cases. For the first time in nearly three months, less than 50,000 new cases of Covid-19 were detected while daily testing also rose to over 10.32 lakh samples on Monday as compared to less than 10 lakh samples tested during three previous days.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Powered by the drop in new cases and rising number of recoveries among patients, active cases also declined fur ther to below 7.5 lakh, comprising less than 10% of the total Covid-19 load so far.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Monday, 46,790 people tested positive for the disease. This is the lowest number of daily Covid-19 cases reported since 26 July. The new cases were 47,703 on July 27, after which it had remained above 50,000 for 84 days. While a total of more than 9.6 crore samples have been tested in the country so far, the total number of confirmed cases in India now stands at 75,97,063. The cumulative positivity now stands at 7.9%, whereas the weekly average is 5.9%. On Monday, the positivity rate was recorded at 4.5% — lowest since June. Improved numbers have raised hopes that the rate of infection may be slowing. Watch Covid-19: Most worst-hit states improve; active cases below 7.5 lakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-covid-hit-states-see-fewer-infections-active-cases-below-7-5-lakh/articleshow/78778321.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 21, 2020||India||No witness so far to contest cops’ version of Vikas Dubey killing: SC panel||NEW DELHI: Four months after the Supreme Court appointed the Justice Chauhan Commission to inquire into UP police’s encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and his associates, the panel has found it intriguing that no eyewitness has so far deposed to contradict the police version of the encounters. Within a week of the July 3 ambush of a police raid party by Dubey and his criminal gang in Bikru village near Kanpur, police had killed Dubey and his associates in five encounters. The SC had on July 22 set up the panel headed by former SC judge B S Chauhan, former Allahabad HC judge S K Agarwal and former UP DGP K L Gupta and asked it to submit its report to the court within two months, which was extended by one month. The panel visited all five encounter sites and tried to talk to people in search of eyewitnesses. “Despite repeated advertisements issued by the commission inviting witnesses to come forward and tell their version, it has at best evoked lukewarm response,” a source told TOI. What intrigued the commission was that though several elec tronic media teams tailed the police convoys transferring Dubey from Ujjain to Kanpur and telecast news reports raising doubts about the veracity of the police version of the encounter, “not a single mediaperson has so far come to depose before the panel”. “Even Dubey’s relatives have not come forward to give their statements before the panel. So far, it is mostly the police witnesses who have narrated the sequence of events leading to the encounter on July 10,” the source said. One factor could be the heavy rain on that day, restricting movement of people at the en counter site. It could also be because of Covid-19 that people mostly remained indoors. The fact-finding work of the commission was also impeded as first Justice Agarwal was indisposed and then Justice Chauhan underwent a procedure, which required them to be confined to their homes. The Lucknow-based commission of inquiry will be moving the SC seeking another extension of time for completion of the task. On July 22, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had ordered, “The commission shall submit a report to this court and the state governmentwithin a period of two months.” While appointing the commission of inquiry, the SC had directed that “the special investigation team already constituted by the state government would be free to inquire into any of the related incidents which are the subject matters of this case”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-witness-so-far-to-contest-cops-version-of-vikas-dubey-killing-sc-panel/articleshow/78778644.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 21, 2020||India||Will review Punjab bills, says Centre; Congress seeks quick nod||NEW DELHI: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said the Centre will review the farm bills passed by the Punjab assembly and take suitable action in the interest of the country’s farmers. “There could not be any legislation equivalent to the bills passed by Parliament in terms of ensuring welfare of farmers. However, state assemblies can pass such bills. I have heard that the Punjab assembly has passed three bills on the same subject. Once these bills reach the Centre, the government will review these bills and take suitable action in the interest of farmers,” Tomar told reporters. After a marathon five-hour discussion, the Punjab assembly on Tuesday, unanimously passed bills to negate the Centre’s three farm laws. The legislation was backed by opposition parties, including SAD, AAP and MLAs of Lok Insaaf Party even though BJP did not take part in the proceedings. Tomar said the Modi government has been making concerted efforts to empower the country’s farmers and steps like increasing profit under MSP by 50% were taken in this direction. This came even as Congress urged BJP-led government at the Centre to provide a quick clearance to the bills brought by Punjab, adding they presented a window to the Modi government to make up for its recent actions that have infuriated the farmers across the country. Addressing a press conference, spokesman Abhishek Singhvi and Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal said, “These bills give the BJP and the PM another chance to rectify their historic blunder. Not giving them a Presidential assent will expose the BJP and the PM further.” Badal said all state MLAs cutting across party lines had urged the Punjab governor to sign the bills into Act without delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-review-punjab-bills-says-centre-congress-seeks-quick-nod/articleshow/78778672.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||PLA soldier to be freed 'after due process' in 'a few days': Army||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army on Tuesday said that it would take another “few days” to release the Chinese soldier who was apprehended after he inadvertently crossed over into Indian territory in the Demchok sector of eastern Ladakh on Monday. The Army said there was “laid down protocol and due process” that was followed in such cases. “The Chinese soldier, Corporal Wang Ya Long, is fine after receiving medical assistance. He is also being questioned by Chinese language experts, even though there does not seem to be any espionage angle,” an officer said. “He will be handed over to the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at the ChushulMoldo border point after the formalities are completed, as per the protocol, within the next few days,” he added. Earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson in Beijing said Wang was helping local herdsmen find their yaks when he went missing. “The Indian side promised support and promised to return the soldier in time after medical checks. We hope it will stick to its commitment and return the soldier at an early date,” the spokesperson said. The PLA soldier, who had his identity card in his pocket and belongs to Shangxizhen town of central Zhejiang province in China, was disoriented when he was taken into custody by Indian troops in the Demchok sector, as reported by TOI on Monday. The incident took place when India and China are preparing for the eighth round of corps commander-level talks later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pla-soldier-to-be-freed-after-due-process-in-a-few-days-army/articleshow/78778712.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||Punjab passes bills against farm laws||CHANDIGARH: Punjab became the first state in the country to legislatively counter Centre’s contentious farm laws when its assembly unanimously passed on Tuesday three agriculture bills, along with another bill protecting the state’s farmers from attachment of their land hol ding up to 2.5 acres in any recovery proceeding by any court in the state. The assembly also passed a unanimous resolution seeking immediate annulment of the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws and promulgation of a new law to protect minimum support price (MSP) and ensu re continuance of procurement of foodgrains by the Centre through FCI and other agencies.The four bills, tabled by CM Captain Amarinder Singh, were passed by a voice vote with the two BJP MLAs skipping the special session. Punjab’s bills essentially seek to amend the provisions of the three central laws and, among other things, provide for imprisonment of not less than three years and fine for a person who “harasses/ compels a farmer to sell his agricultural produce below MSP”. Seeking to protect the interest of farmers, farm labourers and those engaged in ancillary and incidental activities related to production, sale and marketing of agricultural produce, the amendments ensure that no sale or purchase of wheat or paddy shall be valid unless the price paid for it is equal to or greater than the MSP. Punjab’s bills also restore the primacy of Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act over the central legislations. They also protect consumers from hoarding and black marketing of agricultural produce. Later, Amarinder led an all-party delegation, without the BJP, to Raj Bhawan and presented governor VP Singh Bandore a copy of the four bills and the resolution passed by the assembly. “If the constitutional head fails to sign the four amend ment bills passed in the assembly for the welfare of farmers, the Punjab government is ready to take legal recourse,” the CM said after the meeting. When asked whether Punjab’s confrontation with the Centre could lead to imposition of President’s Rule in Punjab, the CM said, “Let’s wait and see… we will move step-by-step… In case such a situation arises, the Centre would not need to dismiss me as I carry my resignation in my pocket and would give it willingly, rather than compromising on the interests of Punjab and its farmers.” The CM had spoken on similar lines in the assembly: “I am not afraid of resigning. I am not afraid of my government being dismissed. But I will not let the farmers suffer or be ruined,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-passes-bills-against-farm-laws/articleshow/78778792.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||NCW chief claims ‘rise in love jihad’ in Maharashtra, but gives no data||MUMBAI: The National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson, Rekha Sharma, who was on a three-day visit to Mumbai to inquire into safety concerns of women, reviewed the implementation of schemes meant for women and raised the issue of “the rise in love jihad” cases in Maharashtra with governor B S Koshyari. Highlighting a distinction between consensual inter-faith marriages and love jihad, Sharma said the latter required attention. She, however, did not provide any data to show the rise in love jihad complaints in the state. The NCW tweeted a picture of the meeting and said that they “discussed issues related to women safety in the state, including defunct onestop centres, molestation and rape of women patients at Covid care centres and the rise in love jihad cases”. In her earlier meetings with senior functionaries, including state chief secre tary and Mumbai police commissioner, Sharma raised concern over the posts of chairperson and members of the state women’s commission lying vacant and the need to fill them urgently as nearly 4,000 cases are not being attended to and redressed. A member of the NCW will visit the state on a monthly basis until the chairperson’s post is filled, she said. “She expressed her anguish at the number of reported cases of molestation and rape of women patients and doctors at Covid centres. She has recommended that strict background checks be conducted before assigning male attendants and CCTV cameras be installed in these centres,” a NCB statement said. Sharma also highlighted that around 188 cases filed under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act are pending beyond the statutory three-month period. She asked the state authorities to look into this matter on a priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncw-chief-claims-rise-in-love-jihad-in-maharashtra-but-gives-no-data/articleshow/78778822.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Guwahati||Assam seizes locomotive for ‘murdering’ elephants||GUWAHATI: Assam forest officials “seized” on Tuesday the engine of a goods train that had mowed down a mother elephant and her calf inside Lumding Reserve Forest through which the tracks pass, the first time such action has been taken by the authorities. “The department shall not fail to take a tough stand against the Railways. The killing of elephants on tracks must stop forthwith,” Assam environment and forests minister Parimal Suklabaidya said. Assam chief wildlife warden Mahendra Kumar Yadava said, “The killing of a female elephant and her calf by a goods train engine in Lumding RF on September 27 has been very vigorously pursued under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 against the railway authorities. The department instituted an inquiry under the act. Accordingly, a team of forest officials proceeded to Bamunimaidan Loco Shed on October 20 and seized the diesel loco engine (No. 12440). Earlier, the loco pilot and his assistant were suspended by the railways after an internal inquiry.” Yadava added, “The Indian wild elephant (Elephas maximus) is a Schedule-I animal under the entry 12-B of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Therefore, a forest offence has been listed against railway officers and employees of the railway authority under Lumding division of NF Railway for the killing of the two wild elephants, which is an offence under Section 9 of the said act and punishable under Sec 51 of the act, for onward necessary action.” Yadava said the railway authorities have been informed through written instructions to restrict the speed of trains in areas of wild elephant movement inside Lumding Reserve Forest. He added that several decisions have already been taken to run trains at 30 kmph through the elephant corridor in Lumding Elephant Reserve. Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) chief PRO Subhanan Chanda said, “The Assam forest department wrote to us that it needs to inspect the engine, which was at Bamunimaidan railway yard (in Guwahati). After half an hour, the engine was released and we have put it back in service.” “The railways has carried out its own inquiry and it has been found that train was overspeeding at that point when the mother elephant and her calf were mowed down. We have placed the driver and the assistant driver under suspension and initiated departmental proceedings,” the CPRO added. Sailendra Pandey, PRO to the forest minister, said, “The train was used by the railways for carrying goods to its own project sites and its speed was so high so that it could not be stopped before the occurrence. When the forest staff of Lumding range rushed to the spot, they found the carcass of one female elephant, aged about 35 years, and of a male calf, aged about one year. The calf was dragged nearly a kilometre from the carcass of its mother.” “On investigation, it was found that the Jiribam Cement Goods train, after crossing Lamsakhang railway station, hit the mother elephant and her calf while they, in a herd, were trying to cross the tracks. The calf was found severed into three pieces,” the PRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-seizes-locomotive-for-murdering-elephants/articleshow/78778841.cms||Prabin Kalita
October 21, 2020||India||Uttarakhand MoS rank for triple talaq crusader||DEHRADUN: Shayara Bano, the main petitioner in the triple talaq case in the Supreme Court, was on Tuesday accorded the minister of state (MoS) rank by the Uttarakhand government, just 10 days after she joined the ruling BJP. Apart from Bano, two more women were given the MoS-rank posts. All three were made vice-presidents of the state women commission. Soon after the appointments, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “These three posts will help us address the womenrelated issues more effectively. All the pending matters will be resolved expeditiously.” A resident of Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, Bano had approached Supreme Court against the practice of instant talaq way back in 2014, four months after she was divorced by her husband through speed post. Her case was clubbed with some other petitions. In 2017, the apex court had declared the practice as unconstitutional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-mos-rank-for-triple-talaq-crusader/articleshow/78778842.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 21, 2020||India||Death for 1, life for 24 for killing Assam doctor||GUWAHATI: A local court on Tuesday awarded death sentence to one convict and life imprisonment to 24 others in a case where a doctor was lynched at Teok Tea Estate in Assam’s Jorhat district 13 months ago, reports Mukut Das. The court awarded death sentence to Sanjay Rajowar, the prime accused in the case. The case pertains to Dr Deben Dutta, a resident doctor at Teok Tea Estate, who was lynched on August 31 last year. After the incident, a police team led by DIG Siva Prasadarrested 32 people and filed a 602page chargesheet. The court examined 56 witnesses during the procedure. “This is the first case in the country where Witness Identity Concealment Approach was used,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/death-for-1-life-for-24-for-killing-assam-doctor/articleshow/78778852.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||Punjab refuses to hand over gangster Ansari to UP police||VARANASI: Punjab police refused to hand over mafia don Mukhtar Ansari to an Uttar Pradesh police team, which reached Ropar prison on Tuesday with a court order, citing a 68-day-old medical board report that diagnosed Ansari with recurrent depression, type-2 diabetes, and other ailments, Punjab prison brass did not budge from their stand despite several rounds of talks between senior police officers of the states. A team of Ghazipur police had gone to Rupnagar (Ropar) jail to fetch Ansari and produce him before the MP-MLA court at Prayagraj, besides questioning him on arms licences issued on fake documents. A three-member medical board of Rupnagar civil surgeons had stated in its August 13 report that Ansari was diagnosed with radiculopathy in left lower limb, type-2 diabetes, and recurrent depression with somatic symptoms, advising treatment and bed rest for three months. Ansari was in Banda jail in January 2019 when Punjab police took him to Mohali on a production warrant in a case of a Rs 10-crore extortion threat to a real estate businessman and lodged him in Rupnagar jail since then. Mukhtar, his family, and members of his gang have been facing action since May when the UP government launched a crackdown on organised crime and smashed his extortion racket, monopoly in coal and fish trade, and illegal slaughtering of animals across several districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-refuses-to-hand-over-gangster-ansari-to-up-police/articleshow/78778866.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 21, 2020||Business||Logistics, finance, travel see most e-frauds||MUMBAI: Logistics, financial services, travel and leisure saw the biggest increase in digital frauds since May 2020 even as these incidents declined in other sectors after businesses opened up at physical locations. According to a report by TransUnion, retail, telecom and healthcare have seen the biggest decline in fraud attempts in India after businesses ramped up protection measures. TransUnion said that it recently observed a decrease in such attempts based on intelligence from billions of transactions and more than 40,000 websites and apps. Specifically, TransUnion found that suspected online fraud from India against businesses increased 121% from right before the pandemic (Jan 1-March 10) when compared to the first phase of the pandemic (March 11-May 18). Compared that phase, the second one from May 19 to July 25 saw a 29% decrease in suspected digital fraud attempts from India against businesses. Overall, the drop in frauds in India (in the second phase over the first) has been better in the country compared to worldwide numbers. Globally, suspected fraudulent digital transactions against businesses decreased 9% from the beginning of the pandemic phase 1 to when businesses began reopening in phase 2. “With the rush for businesses to go digital as many were forced to go completely online almost overnight, fraudsters tried to take advantage,” said Shaleen Srivastava, EVP and head of fraud, solutions and alternate data at TransUnion in India. “They were most likely unsuccessful in their attempts and took their scams elsewhere as those businesses ramped up their digital fraud prevention. Conversely, with consumers, fraudsters are increasingly using Covid-19 to prey on those persons who are facing mounting financial pressures.” According to TransUnion, the financial services and logistics companies need to maintain vigilance and undertake astute monitoring of transactions to contain losses. “Given the billions of people globally that have been forced to stay at home, industries have been disrupted in a way not seen on this massive scale for generations,” said Srivastava. “Now that many transactions have shifted online, fraudsters have tried to take advantage and companies must adapt. Businesses that come out on top will be those leveraging fraud-prevention tools that provide great detection rates and friction-right experiences for consumers,” Srivastava added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/logistics-finance-travel-see-most-e-frauds/articleshow/78777417.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VS celebrates 97th birthday||Thiruvananthapuram: Veteran CPM leader VS Achuthanandan celebrated his 97th birthday on Tuesday. In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, only immediate family members attended the celebrations held at his official residence, Kowdiar house. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, CM Pinarayi Vijayan, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Congress leaders Ramesh Chennithala AK Antony and VM Sudheeran, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and CPM leader MA Baby were among those who wished VS on his birthday. Khan, who made a video call to the veteran leader, wished him happiness, good health and the continued love of the people of Kerala. “He is one leader who taught all of us (that) life and struggle are one and the same,” the speaker said in his message. Though VS doesn’t celebrate birthdays, he used to welcome those who visited his residence with a cup of payasam on his birthday in the past. On Tuesday, his wife Vasumathi, son VA Arunkumar, daughter VA Asha and grandchildren cut a cake to celebrate his birthday. VS is currently the chairman of the administrative reforms committee. He has not been attending office for a year because of ill health. ARC member secretary Sheela Thomas visits him frequently to discuss administrative matters regarding the commission. Achuthanandan was born at Punnapra in Alappuzha on October 23, 1923. He had to give up formal education at class VII as he had to start working and support his family. He had served as opposition leader thrice and headed the LDF government from 2006 to 11. He is also the only living CPI leader, who walked out of the party in 1964 along with 31 others, to form CPM. In October last year, VS suffered a brain haemorrhage and has been confined to his official residence at Kowdiar since then. He hasn’t attended public programmes, but conveyed messages to followers through his FB page occasionally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vs-celebrates-97th-birthday/articleshow/78776361.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||79kg doda chura seized in Chittor||Udaipur: Under a joint action by the Chittorgarh special force and a team from Gangrar police station, cops seized 78.5 kilogram of doda chura from a car on Tuesday. The driver of the vehicle has been arrested. The cops were tipped of the car's movement from Nagar Biliya and under the supervision of ASP Sarita Singh, the special force in-charge Shivlal Meena and Gangrar SHO Shivraj Gurjar held a nakabandi at RIICCO industrial area Ajoliya. Seeing the police net, the driver halted 50 metre ahead of the check-post and tried to flee but the cops managed to nab him. The cops found the doda chura stock in a bundle of clothes kept inside the dickey. It weighed around 78.5 kilogram. The driver Mukna Ram, a resident of Bhed of Nagaur district, couldn’t give a satisfactory reply about the substance. The accused driver told the police that he had picked the lot from Rakesh Lohar, a resident of Arnod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/79kg-doda-chura-seized-in-chittor/articleshow/78777661.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Surat||AAI short on funds to deploy CISF at Surat airport!||SURAT: While it invests crores of rupees on deployment of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the State police personnel at airports across the country, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) takes refuge in shortage of funds when it comes to securing the Surat airport! In a letter to the Director General (DG) of CISF obtained under Right to Information Act (RTI), AAI has clearly stated that the pre-induction of CISF personnel as approved by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) at Surat airport will be an additional burden due to fund shortage following Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, the competent authority of AAI decided to defer the proposed deployment and induction of CISF at Surat airport till the next financial year which will be reviewed in March-2021 again. As per information gathered under the RTI, AAI spent Rs 1,200 crore for CISF deployment at the airports managed by it across the country and Rs 35 crore was spent for the state police deployment at some of the airports in 2018-19. Surprisingly, Surat airport which falls in the category of top 30 airports in the country with approximately 1.5 lakh passengers travelling to and from the airport per month pre-Covid-19 has been deprived of CISF security from the last many years. Interestingly, AAI spent Rs 20.58 crore on CISF at Vadodara airport and Rs 10 crore at Rajkot airports respectively in 2018-19. Both these airports have lesser footfalls compared to Surat airport. Sources said that the AAI had estimated Rs 10 crore worth of expenditure on the CISF induction at the Surat airport for the setting up of barracks and office, furniture, communication and security gadgets, utensils, electrical work, renting of the residential for the CISF personnel etc. It must be noted that the Gujarat government and the AAI had entered into an agreement and signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in 2003 for the development of the airport for scheduled operations. However, in last 17 years, the Gujarat Govvernment has spent Rs 18 crore on electricity and water supply bills along with Rs 70 crore on the state police deployment at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-short-on-funds-to-deploy-cisf-at-surat-airport/articleshow/78775497.cms||---
October 21, 2020||---||Tejashwi Yadav will stand to expectations of people as CM: Tej Pratap||Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap, who is in fray from Hasanpur assembly constituency, tells Faryal Rumi in an interview that twin issues of employment and development will be his priorities. Excerpts: Why did you shift to Hasanpur from Mahua? In Hasanpur constituency, no development work has taken place. The road network, health sector and education need attention in the constituency. Do you think you have done enough work for the people of Mahua?Development is there for everyone to see in Mahua. Better road connectivity, establishment of Mahua Medical College, schools and health centres were some of my good works there. What are the vexed issues in Hasanpur? In Hasanpur, people are looking forward to establishment of medical and degree colleges. Fulfilling these demands of people will be my priorities. I will also improve health, education and road facilities in the constituency besides creating job opportunities for youth. If anyone falls sick in the interior areas of Hasanpur, they do not even get ambulance. Schools lack teachers. This election in state, according to experts, is between young and old. Is your party concerned about the youth?Proving jobs to 10 lakh youths is RJD’s poll plank. The Centre and state government have done nothing to provide employment to educated youths. They were, instead, asked to sell ‘pakodas’. Mahagathbandhan’s CM face and my younger brother, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, has already promised to provide 10 lakh jobs at the first cabinet meeting of the alliance, if it is voted to power. Will Tejashwi be a good CM?Tejaswhi will live up to the expectations of people. As a road construction minister, he had played a key role in timely construction of J P Setu and a rail-cum-road bridge. As a CM, he will take the state to new heights. Are you missing your father Lalu Prasad? Will your mother, Rabri Devi, and elder sister, Misa Bharti, campaign for you?Though my father is not around in the state, people have not forgotten him. My mother and sister have talked to me and they will join my campaign soon. How do you see CM Nitish Kumar’s development work?Nitishji has done 60 scams in 15 years, including Srijan. He has destroyed the state. Will you seek a ministerial berth for yourself if Mahagathbandhan is voted to power?Tejashwi is my Arjun and I am his Krishna. He will take a call on my ministerial post. Why are you keeping a low profile this election?I don’t believe in branding like other netas. I am a down-to-earth person who only believes in working for the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-will-stand-to-expectations-of-people-as-cm-tej/articleshow/78776914.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav will stand to expectations of people as CM: Tej Pratap||Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap, who is in fray from Hasanpur assembly constituency, tells Faryal Rumi in an interview that twin issues of employment and development will be his priorities. Excerpts: Why did you shift to Hasanpur from Mahua? In Hasanpur constituency, no development work has taken place. The road network, health sector and education need attention in the constituency. Do you think you have done enough work for the people of Mahua?Development is there for everyone to see in Mahua. Better road connectivity, establishment of Mahua Medical College, schools and health centres were some of my good works there. What are the vexed issues in Hasanpur? In Hasanpur, people are looking forward to establishment of medical and degree colleges. Fulfilling these demands of people will be my priorities. I will also improve health, education and road facilities in the constituency besides creating job opportunities for youth. If anyone falls sick in the interior areas of Hasanpur, they do not even get ambulance. Schools lack teachers. This election in state, according to experts, is between young and old. Is your party concerned about the youth?Proving jobs to 10 lakh youths is RJD’s poll plank. The Centre and state government have done nothing to provide employment to educated youths. They were, instead, asked to sell ‘pakodas’. Mahagathbandhan’s CM face and my younger brother, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, has already promised to provide 10 lakh jobs at the first cabinet meeting of the alliance, if it is voted to power. Will Tejashwi be a good CM?Tejaswhi will live up to the expectations of people. As a road construction minister, he had played a key role in timely construction of J P Setu and a rail-cum-road bridge. As a CM, he will take the state to new heights. Are you missing your father Lalu Prasad? Will your mother, Rabri Devi, and elder sister, Misa Bharti, campaign for you?Though my father is not around in the state, people have not forgotten him. My mother and sister have talked to me and they will join my campaign soon. How do you see CM Nitish Kumar’s development work?Nitishji has done 60 scams in 15 years, including Srijan. He has destroyed the state. Will you seek a ministerial berth for yourself if Mahagathbandhan is voted to power?Tejashwi is my Arjun and I am his Krishna. He will take a call on my ministerial post. Why are you keeping a low profile this election?I don’t believe in branding like other netas. I am a down-to-earth person who only believes in working for the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-will-stand-to-expectations-of-people-as-cm-tej/articleshow/78781311.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Vadodara||High-yielding ‘desi’ cotton gets national recognition||Vadodara/ Anand: An indigenously developed cotton variety in Gujarat state, one of the largest producers of natural fibre in the country has received national recognition.Gujarat Anand Desi Cotton-2 (GADC-2) – a ‘desi’ cotton variety developed by Anand Agricultural University’s regional cotton research station (RCRS) at Viramgam has been notified by the government of India’s The Plant Varieties Registry.With the notification, AAU has got exclusive rights to produce, sell, market, distribute and export this variety of cotton for an initial term of six years, which can be further renewed.This cotton variety is suitable for Wagad region of the state that accounts for 20% of total cotton production in the state. The Wagad region includes areas north of Viramgam, areas near Little Rann of Kutch, Rapar and Bhachau. The soil and wind in this region is saline.Interestingly, only ‘desi’ cotton — which has a very low cost of production — can grow in this belt.“American cotton or Bt-cotton cannot survive in the Wagad region. The desi cotton species is grown in the peripheral areas of 50 km in the eastern part of Kutch from Rapar and Bhachau talukas,” said Tikendra T Patel, associate research scientist at RCRS, Viramgam.“GADC-2 is an improvised ‘desi’ cotton variety. Its yield potential is 1,640 kg/ hectare which is 8-10% higher compared to the earlier ‘desi’ varieties. But more than its yield, the improvised quality makes it important,” he said.Before GADC-2, the fibre length of all ‘desi’ cotton varieties was 22mm which fell short by 2 mm to be used in making fabric. The ideal fibre length of cotton, especially when it comes to its use in the denim industry, is 24 mm.“The fibre length of GADC-2 is more than 24 mm. Its micronaire value (MV) which is an important measure of quality in cotton fibre, is in the range of 4 MV to 4.8 MV. This makes this cotton variety of high value,” said Patel.Since Wagad is a rain-fed area the ‘desi’ cotton grown here remains comparatively free from pest attacks and its dependency on fertilizers too is low. As irrigation cost is almost nil, the cotton is cheaper compared to BT cotton which requires intense use of fertilizers and pesticides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/high-yielding-desi-cotton-gets-national-recognition/articleshow/78774449.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 21, 2020||Business||Indian Bank offers collateral less loans for startups||Chennai: State-owned Indian Bank on Tuesday launched an exclusive collateral less loan scheme for startups — Ind Spring Board — of up to Rs 50 crore at a minimum cost of 9.85% and maximum of 12.3% with a repayment period of up to 10 years.Under this loan scheme, startups’ share of capital (i.e margin) is allowed at a minimum of zero and goes up to 25%. This move comes a month after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said loans of up to Rs 50 crore towards startups would qualify for the priority sector, alongside renewable energy used for agriculture.The bank has partnered with IIT Madras Incubation Cell (IITMIC), which would assist in screening and identifying well-qualified startups to avail funding under this scheme. The loan amount disbursed for startups will be used to meet their operational expenditure (OPEX) and capital expenditure (CAPEX) which includes working capital, purchase of fixed assets and expenses incurred in filing for patent.Credit guarantee fund trust for micro and small enterprises (CGTMSE) coverage will be provided for eligible micro and small scale enterprises (MSE) accounts.“It is known that banks find it difficult to fund startups, as they do not meet the requirements under traditional models of financing. The business models involving high technology, the lack of visibility of cash flows, credit history, the high burn rate, the high failure rate among start-ups make the process of due diligence for assessing viability by banks difficult. Thus, we have stepped in to bridge this gap in funding for startups through this collaboration with IITMIC,” said MD& CEO Padmaja Chunduru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-bank-offers-collateral-less-loans-for-startups/articleshow/78776280.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Patna||392 new Covid-19 cases in Patna, 8 more die in Bihar||PATNA: There was a slight surge in Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours as state health department reported 1,837 more patients on Tuesday, taking tally to 2,06,961 in the state.  It is the highest number of Covid positive cases in Bihar on a single day this month. Earlier, the average single day positive cases remained below 1,350 for the last two weeks. Patna reported 392 fresh Covid cases, taking the corresponding tally to 33,257 in the district. With 30,278 recoveries, the district has 2,732 active cases. Other districts with high number of new Covid-19 cases were Sitamarhi (114), Nalanda (98), Saharsa (66), Gaya (64), Araria (59), Madhubani (57), Muzaffarpur (55) and Bhojpur (53). However, the silver ling was that 1,195 patients got cured and discharged on Tuesday, taking the number of recovered cases to 194,889. The state has only 11,061 active cases with recovery rate at 94.17%, which is 5.54% higher than the national average of 88.63%. A total of 1,41,294 samples were tested on Monday. So far, 93,89,946 samples have been tested in the state since March. The state health department reported eight deaths, taking the Covid toll to 1,011 in Bihar. Two deaths were registered in Gopalganj, taking the district toll to seven. One death each was reported from Patna, Buxar, Gaya, Rohtas, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur. Unofficially, five people succumbed to the virus attack at AIIMS- Patna on Tuesday, including four from Patna and one from Purnia. The Patna victims were 64-year-old woman from Mithapur area and three men in their 60s and 70s from Patliputra, Danapur and Parsa Bazaar localities. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said altogether 18 Covid patients were admitted while seven were discharged on Tuesday. No new Covid death was reported from NMCH where two Covid patients were admitted while one was discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/392-new-covid-19-cases-in-patna-8-more-die-in-state/articleshow/78775787.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||‘DMs liable for laxity in paddy procurement’||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday that district magistrates will be held accountable if any laxity is found in the procurement of paddy in the state. The announcement came amid the state government’s effort to expedite the procurement process. Already one lakh metric tons of paddy has been procured as against the last year’s 10,000 metric tons. This way the procurement of paddy has scaled up by 10 times this year in comparison to previous year. Yogi said the state government was committed to procure all the paddy produce from farmers on the minimum support price or above. The CM directed the DMs to carry out the procurement process smoothly and ensure the farmers do not face any problems at the purchase centres. To ensure that the process is carried out smoothly, the state government has increased the number of purchase centres to 4,000 a few days ago from the existing 3,000. The Chief Minister also asked to ensure that the payment for procurement of paddy is transferred in the accounts of the farmers within 72 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dms-liable-for-laxity-in-paddy-procurement/articleshow/78778383.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Business||September to help keep Q2 GDP drop to 12.5%: ICRA||MUMBAI: Rating agency ICRA has said that the contraction in India’s real GDP will narrow to 11-12.5% in the second quarter of FY21 from the sharp 23.9% recorded in the first quarter as economic recovery “broadened and strengthened” in September. Nine of the tracked 15 non-financial high-frequency indicators recorded growth last month, while five posted a narrower year-on-year (YoY) contraction. The parameters which recorded an improvement in September include an increase in GST e-way bills and higher consumption of electricity, petrol and diesel. “The improvement in some of the other indicators, such as auto output, reflects a combination of pent-up demand, healthy rural sentiment, and inventory build-up, ahead of the upcoming festive season. This trend may persist in the coming one to two months, before settling at more sedate levels after the festive season is over,” said ICRA principal economist Aditi Nayar. Electricity generation turned around to a growth of 4.2% in September from the 3.3% YoY decline in the previous month of August, reflecting a broader economic recovery as well as a favourable base. “The healthy 9.6% increase in the generation of GST e-way bills on a YoY basis in September, in contrast to the contraction of 3.5% in August, signals a wider revival in economic activity,” Nayar added. Aggregate auto production jumped 11.7% in September, after a sustained year-on-year contraction for the previous 22 months. However, retail sales were less positive with vehicle registrations below the pre-Covid levels last month, across most automotive segments. The monthly indicators tracked by ICRA include the production of passenger vehicles, motorcycles, and scooters. It also tracks vehicle registrations, coal output, electricity generation, non-oil merchandise exports, ports cargo traffic, rail freight traffic, generation of GST e-way bills, domestic airlines passenger traffic, consumption of ATF, petrol & diesel, aggregate deposits and non-food credit of scheduled commercial banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sept-to-help-keep-q2-gdp-drop-to-12-5-icra/articleshow/78777331.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Business||Worst may be over for HUL, posts 9% growth in Q2 net||MUMBAI: In a clear indication that the worst may now be over, Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has reported a 9% growth in standalone net profit at Rs 2,009 crore for the second quarter (Q2) ended September, as compared to Rs 1,848 crore in the corresponding quarter of previous year. As lockdowns eased and people came out to socialise, the FMCG bellwether’s Q2 total income rose 16% to Rs 11,593 crore compared to Rs 10,032 crore in the year-ago period. Sequentially, but excluding the financials from the GSK consumer business acquisition, the pendulum of growth has swayed from a minus 7% in the preceding June quarter to 3% in the September quarter. In the March quarter, the growth was at a negative 9%. HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta said rural consumption has remained resilient, while urban consumption is still muted due to confined living. Home care declined 1% as people, confined to their homes, consumed less of premium laundry powders. “We believe that the worst is behind us and we are cautiously optimistic on demand recovery. When people get the confidence and step out — done in a calibrated manner — discretionary categories will get a boost,” said Mehta. Helped by the GSK consumer health care portfolio, which includes Horlicks, food and refreshments grew by 83%. Beauty and personal care category, which de-grew by 45% in the June quarter, improved to a zero in the September quarter. While discretionary categories continued to remain in the negative territory (a 25% decline year-on-year), they witnessed a marked improvement over June quarter’s 45% decline. The out-of-home business, which consists of ice-creams, vending and water filter, which fell by a steep 69% in the June quarter, improved to -25% in the September quarter. The volume growth, to which major contributors are the discretionary categories, was 1% during the September quarter. Health, hygiene and nutrition, which forms 80% of HUL’s portfolio, grew in double digits. This portfolio had posted 6% growth in the June quarter. A key reason behind better financials is that pipeline issues, which were witnessed in the June quarter, normalised in the September quarter. HUL CFO Srinivas Phatak said, “We have seen a progressive improvement with urban lockdowns easing and rural performing better. Today, the operations are humming and back to pre-Covid levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/worst-may-be-over-for-hul-posts-9-growth-in-q2-net/articleshow/78777087.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Business||‘Resorts are seeing increased demand’||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com The hospitality industry will have to wait up to two years to pop the champagne. While domestic travel will recover as restrictions are lifted, the international segment will be vital for the industry to achieve business levels of pre-Covid times. In the meantime, Marriott International senior vice-president (South Asia) Neeraj Govil wants a sector-specific stimulus package as it would offer some respite to the bruised industry... How far would you say has your business returned to normal? While the industry is resilient, and the long-term viability is strong, normalcy in the business is some way off. Current levels are fuelled by special purpose business, some essential business travel, staycations, social events within prescribed guidelines, and food delivery. Resort locations that have been allowed to resume operations are beginning to see increased demand as are many tier-2 cities. How do you get new business amid the pandemic? We recently launched our staycation campaign that allows our guests to custom-make their package. While we move to contactless service and operations, the core of our business — which is hospitality — will continue in all its authenticity as we aim to deliver human-centric experiences while mitigating risks along the way. When do you expect the situation to go back to pre-Covid times? It is hard to say and, based on most estimates, we are looking at 18-24 months. It will depend on when a vaccine or cure can be administered, economies around the world rebound and travel can resume to pre-Covid levels. International travel will be key to the timing of this panning out. Domestic travel will lead the recovery as restrictions are lifted. International travel will be vital for us to achieve business levels of pre-Covid times. What additional steps are required from the government? Tourism as an industry contributes about 9% of GDP and is a major job creator. From an industry standpoint, the request is that we see a sector-specific relief package that can offer respite to our business and ensure continuity, especially in the short term, easing of fiscal policies, facilitating the rebound of travel and collaborating to support destination marketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/resorts-are-seeing-increased-demand/articleshow/78771697.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 21, 2020||Business||Freshworks appoints new chief revenue officer||Chennai: Customer engagement software firm Freshworks has appointed tech executive José Morales as chief revenue officer. Morales succeeds Sidharth Malik, who has assumed a new and expanded role as the chairman of Freshworks India and continues to be part of the company’s senior leadership team. Freshworks expects Morales to be instrumental in driving its growth trajectory as he leads Freshworks’ 1000+ person sales and go-to-market team. He will report to Freshworks founder and CEO Girish Mathrubootham. Morales most recently served as head of global field operations at Atlassian Corporation and specializes in driving revenue for hyper-growth companies. During his 10-year tenure there, Morales helped grow the company from under $100 million in revenue to nearly a $1.8 billion annual run rate. Before Atlassian, Morales held sales leadership roles with Silicon Valley software companies including PeopleSoft, Epiphany. and Jaspersoft Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/freshworks-appoints-new-chief-revenue-officer/articleshow/78776230.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Campaign for MLC elections ends, polling on October 22||PATNA: Following the Election Commission of India guidelines, the ongoing campaign in all eight MLC constituencies for the biennial Bihar Legislative Council elections for Graduates’ and Teachers’ has come to an end on Tuesday, 48 hours before the polling date. Voting in the four graduates- Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi, and four teachers’ constituencies- Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga, and Saran would be held on October 22. The counting of votes will be done on November 12, two days after the assembly poll results. Four-time MLC from Patna teachers’ constituency Nawal Kishore Yadav, NDA candidate has fighting again to retain his seat. He told this newspaper on Tuesday that during the campaign, he met all the teachers from Patna, Nalanda and Nawada, and 95% of them have shown support. “Teachers are happy with all the development work that has been done in my tenure. Earlier, they used to get Rs 5,000, now they are getting more than Rs 35,000 per month. Now, I have assured them that I would take care of their demand for equal pay for equal work,” he said. Nawal added, “I’m confident about my winning. I would now relax and pray to God. Before the voting, I would take blessings of Ma Durga at a temple near Sachivalaya.” His opponent Nayab Ali from Congress said the teachers want a change and they are ready for it. “There is so much anguish among the teachers about the new service condition rule for contractual teachers. None of their demand has been met and the teachers are dissatisfied with the work of sitting MLC,” he said. There are eight candidates in the poll fray for the graduates’ constituency in Patna while 14 candidates from teachers’ constituency. JD(U) leader Neeraj Kumar, who represented the Patna’s graduates’ seat is also confident of his winning and now devotes his time for prayers at home. While his opponent from RJD, Azad Gandhi said the electors are happy with the announcement of 10 lakh jobs in the government department including vacancies in a teaching post in universities. “They would vote for us,” he added. Altogether 80 polling booths have been prepared for teachers’ constituency while 181 for graduates’ constituency. Around 1,20,450 electors have enrolled for graduates’ constituency and 9,555 for teachers’ constituency. Meanwhile, 40,553 voters would cast votes for teachers’ constituencies at 341 polling booths while 4,05,683 voters for teachers’ constituencies at 606 booths. NDA candidate Suresh Prasad Roy (BJP) would have a tough battle against the outgoing MLC and state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency while Dilip Kumar Choudhary of JD(U) would contest against RJD leader Anil Kumar Jha from graduate’s constituency. Sitting MLC Kedarnath Pandey of CPI and BJP’s Chandra Singh are contesting for Saran’s teacher constituency. Narendra Prasad Singh (BJP), Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI-M) are some of the prominent candidates who are contesting from Tirhut’s teacher constituency while Devesh Chandra Thakur (JD-U), Manish Mohan (RJD) and 12 other candidates from graduates’ constituency. NK Yadav (BJP) and Nitesh Kumar of RJD are in the poll fray from Kosi’s graduate constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-campaign-for-mlc-elections-ends-polling-on-october-22/articleshow/78775773.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 21, 2020||Business||Cos must accept change, not be blinded by past success||By Prabir JhaMindsets are like stubborn stains. You can’t get rid of them easily. And as operating contexts change as fast as they do, mindsets often ignore the changes. Worse, they deny them altogether. If at all these get acknowledged, the ability of the system and its leadership to respond with speed and innovation is often found wanting. How can companies change mindsets that are more appropriate to contemporary times? Or at least flex their mindset to read the need for change better, and possibly respond sharper? In my advisory experience, There are some key bottlenecks that need to be worked on… * Past success is blinding: Organisations that have grown and succeeded in the past by operating and behaving in a certain way that may have worked find it difficult to fight this Icarus syndrome. Comfort with the past secret formulae is very difficult to remove. Sometimes they still have some shelf life left, but often they are past their expiry dates. Some indeed are open to revisiting the model, but many only offer false starts. And as a promoter once told me, “…otherwise we would not have succeeded all these years!” — just the problem of a mindset clouded by past success. But one that could melt you now. * Just execution, not deliberative enough: While an execution mindset is a great virtue to have, at times I see leadership teams overly in that mode. Who is then the challenger? Who is on the deck looking out for a possible storm coming? While an execution mindset is critical for delivery, an inadequately honed mindset to observe, critique and deliberate can get you on a dead-end track. Is your leadership team then adequately demonstrating a ‘learning’ mindset, beyond a here-and-now delivery mindset? * Challenge of a fixed mindset: Research has talked enough about the virtues of a ‘growth’ mindset over a ‘fixed’ mindset. I must admit this is one of the most common coaching interventions I am invited to help with. And unfortunately, it is not just an odd individual who needs help, organisational cultures need support. Essentially, this mindset is the classical one: People are the problem and need to be instructed and pushed to deliver. A fixed mindset thus appreciates little the value of feedback for self, developmental real-time coaching for their reports and the benefits of inclusive problem-solving. Typically flowing from the top leadership, the mindset closes itself to inputs and ideas from their rank and file. Bereft of crucial ground inputs and team commitments, a fixed mindset can be a corporate suicide technique. * Risk avoidance is better than bold bets: Another mindset one observes is the ‘play safe’ approach. At times, it may seem bureaucratic. It is manifest in just ensuring there are no accidental fires. Largely compliance-led, overly procedural, such a mindset is about keeping oneself ‘safe’. In the process, not only do they miss the opportunities, they also make themselves and their firms more vulnerable. And over time, this mere order-executing mindset stubs out new ideas for efficiency, economics and experience. * Flavour of the season: Often mostly flowing from the entrepreneur or the CEO, this also is a fairly common mindset I have observed. Some organisations have very erudite and inquisitive leaders. While it is a great plus, when overdone, the mindset can be joked about over lunch. What one just read in a book or an article, or heard about as a practice from a peer, becomes an overnight mandate to execute in the firm. This could lead to inadequate follow-through, insufficient for a new change to settle in and eventually much confusion, atrophy and mirth. Given that role-modelling is pervasive, it could lead to a multitude of experiments at various levels and departments, often at cross-purposes. Also, what makes sense for some company may not really be the most strategic fit for you. Mindset — the collective lens that companies and its leaders receive to process information, cues, risks, opportunities — then becomes a lot of what an organisation is. It needs very deliberate assessment and choice. And finally, like every change, the curation needs skilful handholding. But the biggest question is do we have a mindset to pause, reflect and resolve to make the shift? (The writer is the founder & CEO, Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-must-accept-change-not-be-blinded-by-past-success/articleshow/78777647.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||Uttarakhand HC notice to Maharashtra governor on contempt plea||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand HC on Tuesday sought Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s response on a plea for starting contempt proceeding against him for his failure to follow a court order to pay market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him as a former CM. Justice Sharad Kumar issued notice to Koshyari through his counsel after hearing arguments of the petitioner’s counsel on maintainability of the contempt plea. The plea, filed by Dehradun-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), accuses Koshyari of committing “willful non-compliance” of the court’s May 3, 2019 order which had asked him to pay market rent of the bungalow occupied by him as ex-CM within six months of the direction. Koshyari has till date not paid the market rent to the government as calculated against him, the petition said. In May 2019, the court had directed four former chief ministers – Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, BC Khanduri, Vijay Bahuguna and Bhagat Singh Koshyari – to pay the market rate for the services they availed after demitting the office of the CM. While the SC stayed the contempt proceedings against Bahuguna and Khanduri, the proceedings against Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank are still on. The court will now hear Koshyari's case along with the contempt case against Nishank. Speaking to TOI, Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for RLEK, said that though there were questions about the maintainability of the petition, he has complied with the requirement under Article 361. Article 361 grants immunity to the sitting governors as well as President of India from any court proceedings against them. However, constitutional experts say that that immunity is only for criminal cases while, in this case, the notice has been issued under a civil contempt proceeding. Faizan Mustafa, vice-chancellor, NALSAR University of Law, however, said that the development is a rarity and it is difficult to recall an instance when this happened earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-hc-notice-to-maharashtra-governor-on-contempt-plea/articleshow/78778869.cms||Prashant Jha
October 21, 2020||Salem||Water enters many houses after rain lashes Salem city||SALEM: Many houses in the city were left inundated with rainwater after continuous rain that started on Monday night lasted until the next morning. Dhadhubaikuttai, Kitchipalayam, Narayana Nagar, Rajapillai Kadu, Arisipalayam, Chatram, Ammapet, Pachapatty, Nethimedu, Chinnerivayal Kadu were some of the areas most affected by the rain. The Salem municipal corporation pressed workers into service to drain water from residential areas. “We were staying outside as water entered our house,” T Kayalvizhi, a resident of Kitchipalayam, said. Vehicular movements in these areas were halted and police have diverted traffic in several routes to reach other parts of the city. “Salem city received 87mm of rainfall, Anaimaduvu 56, Gangavalli 52, Kariakoil 50, Veeraganur 38, Thammampatty 18, Yercaud 14, Kadayampatty 9 and Pethanaickenpalayam 6mm,” said a meteorological department official. The district recorded about 381mm of rain, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/water-enters-many-houses-after-rain-lashes-salem-city/articleshow/78777674.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||4.2 lakh patients cured, Covid recovery rate crosses 92% in state||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate for UP crossed the 92% mark on Tuesday even as the tally crossed 4.59 lakh on Tuesday with 2,351 fresh cases in the past 25 hours. Speaking at an official programme, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said: “Despite having a huge population, the state has been able to keep the Covid-19 mortality low and recovery rate high. As on date, 92% of all the patients in UP have recovered.” Earlier, ACS health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 3,339 persons were discharged after full recovery during the same period. With this, the total number of recoveries reached 4,22,000. They also noted that 30 persons lost their life to the infection taking the total number of deaths due to coronavirus pandemic to 6,714. Stating that over 18,000 of the total active infections were under home isolation, Prasad said: “The number of active infections in the state is almost half of what was at the peak.” He also said that though the number of cases was declining rapidly, the risk of the infection loomed large especially during the festive season that began with Navratri. “In fact this is the time for utmost caution as economic and public activity will go up. And since humans are the host of this infection therefore it is most important to follow prevention protocol most seriously,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-2l-patients-cured-covid-recovery-rate-crosses-92-in-state/articleshow/78778386.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: District gets 58 child welfare police officers||COIMBATORE: At least 58 cops in the rank of sub-inspector have been deployed as child welfare police officers in the district and it would be their responsibility to handle child abuse cases at their police stations. A day-long orientation programme was organized for them at the police community hall in the city on Tuesday to sensitize them on their role and responsibilities, the Juvenile Justice Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, among others. A police official said, “Fifty-eight police stations in the district have now got child welfare police officers, who would be in civil dress whenever they attend to child abuse cases. There are 19 such officers in the city police limits and 39 in rural limits.” Addressing the gathering, Judge J Radhika, special court for Pocso cases, said the child welfare police officers have to hold inquiry with the victims and record their statement within 24 hours of lodging the compliant as children might forget the details of the crime as time lapses. She also requested them to register a detailed chargesheet. Speaking to the media, V Jeyashri, superintendent of police, crime against women and children, said the orientation programme was organized to help the officers understand their duties and responsibilities, and the laws comprehensively. “They would also create awareness among the public along with the social welfare and social defence departments.” She said more people were coming forward to lodge child abuse cases, which, as a result, have gone up in the district. “Earlier, there was an apprehension among the people to report such cases. They are more aware now and started lodging complaints. In future, more such incidents should be reported, ensuring justice for the victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-gets-58-child-welfare-police-officers/articleshow/78777709.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Mulayam Singh Yadav, Azam to be SP’s star campaigners||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav and party’s Muslim face Mohammed Azam Khan have been listed as star campaigners of the party for the bypolls to seven Assembly seats slated to be held on November 3. While Mulayam is currently undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at Medanta hospital in Gurgaon, Azam happens to be in jail in connection with criminal cases pending against him with Rampur police. Others in the list of star campaigners include SP president Akhilesh Yadav, vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda, principal general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav, Indrajeet Saroj, leader of the opposition in the state Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary and state president Naresh Uttam Patel. The list comes days after party national president Akhilesh Yadav announced that he would not take part in the Bihar election campaign owing to his engagement in the bypolls in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mulayam-azam-to-be-sps-star-campaigners/articleshow/78778390.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
October 21, 2020||Kochi||‘20 new IT cos created 300 job openings’||Kochi: During Covid-19 lockdown, 20 new IT companies have set up shop in Kerala. Along with this, five existing companies have also been seeking more space as part of their expansion plans, a statement from the public relation department said. With the advent of new companies, more than 300 new job opportunities were created. It is expected that within 100 days, 500 new jobs will be created in Technopark, Thiruvananthapuram; 1,000 in Infopark, Kochi and 125 in Cyberpark, Kozhikode, the statement said. Winwish, a company currently operating in Technopark, has decided to build its own campus on 1 acre with an investment of Rs 100 crores. More companies have expressed interest in moving to Kerala and discussions are progressing, the statement said. The government is constructing a two lakh sq ft building in Technocity, Thiruvananthapuram, at a cost of Rs 100 crores. The building will be commissioned in December this year. The completed Koratty Infopark and IBS’s IT campus will be operational by next year. The work on the Caspian Technology Park, Media System India Solutions and Plug n Play Business Office at Kozhikode Cyberpark is also in progress, the statement said. In the post-Covid scenario, IT companies are shifting to a hybrid working system where they combine work from home and work from the office. Currently, IT parks are staffed by 5-10% of employees only. According to the companies, 20% of employees will continue to work from home even after Covid. IT parks in the state employ around 1.10 lakh people. The parks have so far helped generate 3.30 lakh indirect employment opportunities, the statement said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/20-new-it-cos-created-300-job-openings/articleshow/78776381.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Varanasi||Srinet Rajputs offer blood in Bansgaon Durga temple||Gorakhpur: Devotees worship Goddess Durga during Navaratra by fasting for nine days at a stretch, praying and making offerings, but a clan of Rajputs in Bansgaon tehsil of Gorakhpur also offers blood to the goddess on Navami, the ninth day of Navaratra. The males of Srinet Rajputs offer blood to Goddess Durga at Sri Durga Mandir in Bansgaon on the ninth day of Durga Puja. The tradition started several decades ago in the clan known for valour and honour, and will continue this year too, but Covid protocol will be followed and a health department team will remain present on the day, said former block head Chatrabhuja Singh, a Srinet Rajput. The offerings will start from 7am on October 25.  Blood is taken from a small cut and applied on ‘Belpatra’ which is then offered in the temple. “This year, only one, and in special conditions, two women from a family will be allowed entry,” Singh added. On the ninth day of Navratra, married men of the Srinet clan offer blood from nine places in their body and unmarried ones from one spot. Even a male child of 13 days offers blood, though it is not mandatory for all and is an act of faith. Sacrifice of animals was stopped in 1943, said Ashok Singh of the clan. The tradition is said to have started decades ago, though some claim it began 300 years before. “Srinet Rajputs came to Bansgaon from Srinagar of Garhwal region in Uttarakhand and brought a pindi of Lalita Devi from there and installed it here at this Durga temple in Bansgaon,” Ashok added. The famous temple was renovated by the tourism department this year and Rs 1.25 crore were spent on it by the Yogi government, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/srinet-rajputs-offer-blood-in-bansgaon-durga-temple/articleshow/78795547.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Surat||Rain hits onion supply, prices go through roof in Surat||SURAT: Curries in kitches of the Diamond City are tasting bland with the key ingredient - onion - fast becoming out of bounds due to skyrocketing prices. The prices of the poor man’s bulb have soared to Rs 100- Rs 120 per kg in the retail market due to severe supply shortage at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) after heavy rain in Maharashtra and Saurashtra and rotting of ready crops. APMC office-bearers said the wholesale prices in the market yard have soared from Rs 47 per 20 kg to Rs 80 per 20 kg in the last fortnight. As against the daily requirement of 350 metric tonnes of onion, the APMC is receiving less than 140 metric tonnes from Maharashtra which fulfils around 70% of Surat city’s supplies. APMC secretary Nilesh Thorat told TOI, “The prices are only expected to rise due to the short supply and recent wet spell in Maharashtra and Saurashtra.” According to Thorat, the spot price of onion at Asia's biggest onion market in Lasalgaon in Maharashtra has crossed Rs 90 per kg and the rates are expected to soar further till around Diwali. Babu Shaikh, a wholesaler of onion told TOI, “When it was time for harvesting in Maharashtra, the unseasonal rains destroyed the crop in the ground itself. At the onion markets like Pipalgaon, Lasalgaon and Satana in Maharashtra, onion prices in the wholesale market have touched Rs 90 per kg.. We fear the prices in Surat’s retail market will be around Rs 150 per kg before Diwali festival.” They are not just onions, but potatoes and tomatoes too that have left a bitter taste. Potatoes are being sold for Rs 40 per kg to Rs 55 per kg for the last one week while tomatoes for Rs 60 per kg now. Munna Patel, a vegetable vendor said, “People have reduced their purchases drastically.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rain-hits-onion-supply-prices-go-through-roof/articleshow/78774034.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||BU to study solid waste generated in corporation areas||COIMBATORE: The Bharathiar University will soon study the characterization and quantification of solid waste that is generated in the city corporation limits. A few months ago, the environmental science department of the university had sought permission from the civic body for its study titled ‘Municipal solid waste characterization and quantification as a measure towards effective waste management for Coimbatore city municipal corporation’. “The corporation has given its nod to conduct the study at a particular area. Now, we are in the process of recruiting junior research fellows (JRFs) and field assistants for the study which is still in the initial stage. The duration of the study is three months,” a professor from the department said. A corporation source said they had approached the university to conduct the study after the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University (TNAU) declined its request, citing shortage of manpower. “The corporation wants to measure the percentage of each types of wastes like plastics, metals, sanitary and dry wastes generated in the city. It also wants to measure the percentage of heavy metal, its caloric values and pH value, found in garbage collected daily and devise an effective disposal mechanism. The study should be carried out in all the five zones and during multiple periods like festival season and weekends,” the source added. After the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 in March, the city’s garbage collection came down to 700 to 850 tonnes per day. Now, it has gradually increased to 850 to 950 tonnes per day. The quantity is still less when compared to the quantity generated before the lockdown period – 950 to 1,000 tonnes per day. Meanwhile, chairperson of the state monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for solid waste management P Jothimani conducted a review meeting with corporation officials on Tuesday. During the meeting, he directed the officials to speed up the solid waste management related works including construction of micro composting centres, source segregation of wastes and bio-mining process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-to-study-solid-waste-generated-in-corpn-areas/articleshow/78777736.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||21kg banned plastic seized in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: At least 20.9kg banned plastic was seized during a massive anti-plastic drive in the Nilgiris district on Tuesday. The drive was carried out at all municipalities, panchayat unions and town panchayats in the hill district simultaneously to curb the use of banned plastic items and check littering in public places. Headed by municipal officials, tahsildars and panchayat officials, several teams conducted surprise checks at shops during the drive and seized banned plastic bags, cups, plates and bottles. They collected a total of Rs 48,470 as fine from the erring shopkeepers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/21kg-banned-plastic-seized-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78777742.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 31 cases; website on Covid launched||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Continuing the trend of decline in the number of new Covid cases reported, Nilgiris district saw 31 cases on Tuesday, while as many as 111 patients were discharged. There are 479 active cases in the district. With the recovery rate of 91.6%, the total number of discharged patients stands at 5,665. Of the new cases, five cases had travel history to other districts. The rest of the cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. Of the active cases, 14 patients are being treated at the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 69 patients are kept in home quarantine. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides Covid care centres. Meanwhile, a website which gives various information related to Covid-19 was launched in Coonoor here on Tuesday. The website (www.nilgiriscovidcare.in), designed by members of ‘Clean Coonoor’, was lauched by Supriya Sahu, CEO, Indcoserve and district monitoring officer, in the presence of collector J Innocent Divya. Sponsored by Bengaluru-based Microland, the website gives information on nature of Covid-19, how to take precautions, who is vulnerable, where to get tested, details of public and private hospitals and Covid care centres, SOPs for businesses and educational institutions, Covid tracker, how to apply for an e-pass as well as Covid-19 news for Tamil Nadu and across the world. The website is in Tamil and English.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-31-cases-website-on-covid-launched/articleshow/78777735.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Sero survey kicks off in Trichy and Madurai to check for Covid antibodies||TRICHY/ MADURAI: Special teams have kicked off sero-surveillance in the clusters identified by the state public health and preventive medicine department in Trichy and Madurai to ascertain Covid-19 antibodies in residents. Rolled out in the corporation and rural areas of Trichy on Monday, the drive will be carried out in 32 clusters handpicked by the department. In Madurai, a total of 38 clusters were identified, from which samples will be collected from 1,140 households. A total of seven teams including four for Trichy corporation and three for rural areas will be carrying out the survey in 30 houses each in the 32 clusters — 10 in the corporation limits and 22 in the villages, town panchayats and municipalities. Each team will have a male and female health worker, a sector health nurse and a lab technician. The block medical officers in the areas will be supervising the survey. District epidemiologist Dr A Aravinthkumar will be the nodal officer of the survey in Trichy. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of groups of individuals in a population for the presence of antibodies to Covid-19. The samples are to be processed via chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA) test, which makes use of the emission of electromagnetic radiation caused by a chemical reaction to produce light, for the detection of antibodies to SARS CoV-2 in the blood serum. Deputy director of health services, Madurai, Dr K V Arjun Kumar said, “Three clusters will be covered per day, collecting 90 samples for processing and the exercise will carry on till November 11.” The 38 clusters include various areas like Anaiyur, Alwarpuram, Anna Nagar/Chockikulam, Jaihindpuram, Narimedu, Alanganallur, Usilampatti, T Kallupatti and Paravai. Health officials said the respondents will be given a questionnaire and samples would be drawn from them only with their consent. A methodology has also been given by the state government for officials to follow in choosing respondents. “We clearly explain that the blood samples are to be tested for presence of antibodies only and hence even if a person tests positive, there is no need for hospitalisation since the antibodies could have been possibly developed at any point of time. Both those who had Covid-19 and those who had never got Covid-19 will be part of the survey,” said Dr Arjun Kumar. A CLIA machine has been installed at Samayanallur Community Health Centre (CHC) in Madurai while for Trichy, it has been set up at the laboratory of government headquarters hospital in Manapparai. The centres will process samples from not only these districts but also neighbouring ones. At Sivaganga, 15 clusters have been identified from which 30 samples are to be taken for each. In Kanyakumari, as many as 22 clusters have been identified from which a total of 660 samples will collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sero-survey-kicks-off-in-dists-to-check-for-covid-antibodies/articleshow/78784445.cms||R Gokul
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Sero survey kicks off in Trichy and Madurai to check for Covid antibodies||TRICHY/ MADURAI: Special teams have kicked off sero-surveillance in the clusters identified by the state public health and preventive medicine department in Trichy and Madurai to ascertain Covid-19 antibodies in residents. Rolled out in the corporation and rural areas of Trichy on Monday, the drive will be carried out in 32 clusters handpicked by the department. In Madurai, a total of 38 clusters were identified, from which samples will be collected from 1,140 households. A total of seven teams including four for Trichy corporation and three for rural areas will be carrying out the survey in 30 houses each in the 32 clusters — 10 in the corporation limits and 22 in the villages, town panchayats and municipalities. Each team will have a male and female health worker, a sector health nurse and a lab technician. The block medical officers in the areas will be supervising the survey. District epidemiologist Dr A Aravinthkumar will be the nodal officer of the survey in Trichy. A sero-survey involves testing of blood serum of groups of individuals in a population for the presence of antibodies to Covid-19. The samples are to be processed via chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA) test, which makes use of the emission of electromagnetic radiation caused by a chemical reaction to produce light, for the detection of antibodies to SARS CoV-2 in the blood serum. Deputy director of health services, Madurai, Dr K V Arjun Kumar said, “Three clusters will be covered per day, collecting 90 samples for processing and the exercise will carry on till November 11.” The 38 clusters include various areas like Anaiyur, Alwarpuram, Anna Nagar/Chockikulam, Jaihindpuram, Narimedu, Alanganallur, Usilampatti, T Kallupatti and Paravai. Health officials said the respondents will be given a questionnaire and samples would be drawn from them only with their consent. A methodology has also been given by the state government for officials to follow in choosing respondents. “We clearly explain that the blood samples are to be tested for presence of antibodies only and hence even if a person tests positive, there is no need for hospitalisation since the antibodies could have been possibly developed at any point of time. Both those who had Covid-19 and those who had never got Covid-19 will be part of the survey,” said Dr Arjun Kumar. A CLIA machine has been installed at Samayanallur Community Health Centre (CHC) in Madurai while for Trichy, it has been set up at the laboratory of government headquarters hospital in Manapparai. The centres will process samples from not only these districts but also neighbouring ones. At Sivaganga, 15 clusters have been identified from which 30 samples are to be taken for each. In Kanyakumari, as many as 22 clusters have been identified from which a total of 660 samples will collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sero-survey-kicks-off-in-dists-to-check-for-covid-antibodies/articleshow/78777738.cms||R Gokul
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Transwoman Sajana in hosp after medicine overdose||Kochi: Sajana Shaji, the transwoman from Kochi who faced public harassment for starting wayside food vending, was hospitalized for taking medicine overdose in a suspected attempt to commit suicide. Sajana was brought to Ernakulam General Hospital on Monday night by her transgender friends but later shifted to a private hospital in the city due to her critical condition. She is presently in the ICU and her condition is stable. According to police, she tried to commit suicide after making a Facebook post in which she sounded disappointed about the controversies and alleged fake campaign against her. In the post, she alleged that certain people edited her voice clip and used it to mislead the public and tarnish her image. After reading her post her friends rushed to her house to find her unconscious.Police will start a probe. Sajana started selling biryani packets on the street during lockdown and some people tried to stop her business. She shared a Facebook live video about her bad experience. Following this, she has received support from the public, including health minister K K Shailaja, film actors Jayasurya and Santhosh Keezhattoor. However, a few audio clips claiming to be recorded by Sajana were circulated in the social media and many people reacted to this by insulting Sajana over the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/transwoman-sajana-in-hosp-after-medicine-overdose/articleshow/78776395.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Outer ring road to be ready by December next year’||LUCKNOW: Union defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the 104-km Outer Ring Road will be completed by December next year. Once operational, the eight-lane carriageway will help in decongesting the entire city and ensure smooth traffic movement. While dedicating two newly-constructed flyovers in the state capital to the people, Singh said the proposal for construction of an expressway between Lucknow and Kanpur has also been approved. The virtual function was also addressed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya. “The widening of Lucknow-Sultanpur road into a four-lane highway has already been completed. Lucknow-Hardoi-Shahjahanpur-Ballia road has been declared a national highway (NH 731) and the work to make it four-lane is underway,” Singh said. The two flyovers – one from Guru Gobind Singh Marg to DAV College via Naka and second from Meena Bakery (Rajajipuram) to Victoria Street – were completed in a record time despite Covid-19 pandemic and will serve as a lifeline for over 8 lakh residents in old city areas. Singh requested the state government and the Lucknow Municipal Corporation to repair roads around flyovers and create green areas under them, protected with iron grills to check encroachments. He also highlighted projects being implemented under the Smart City Mission and thanked the CM for expediting the work of Haider Canal and Daulatganj STPs. Inaugurating the new super-speciality cancer hospital, Singh said the facility would benefit people, particularly the poor from across the state. Meanwhile, thanking the Lucknow MP for fulfiling the promise made to them, residents of Bazarkhala, Rajajipuram, Mehndiganj and Tikait Rai Talab areas said the opening of flyover from Hussainganj to Aishbagh and Haiderganj to Mill areas would be a big relief for commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/outer-ring-road-to-be-ready-by-dec-next-year/articleshow/78778391.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Manachanallur bypass work on fast course||Trichy: The state highways department has completed over 70% of civil work of Manachanallur bypass, to be opened for traffic by March 2021. Tourists have to cross Manachanallur town, 16 km from Trichy city, to reach places such as Pachamalai hills, Puliyancholai stream and Thiruvellarai temple near Thuraiyur. Since the town is crowded with vehicles parked well over the Trichy-Thuraiyur highway, visitors struggle to pass through the town. As a solution, the state highways department launched the work on a bypass in May at a cost of Rs 25.15 crore funded under new service scheme.  The 2.6-km bypass will branch off from Panguni bridge and links the Poonampalayam village. The work on the 13.5-metre wide bypass was inspected by district collector S Sivarasu and P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways, on Tuesday. Close to 7 hectares was acquired for the road project that has 18 culverts and minor bridges. Retaining walls are being built along the bypass road bordering irrigation canals. The road will cut down the travel time of people commuting between Trichy city and Thuraiyur town. The senior highways department officials and district collector also inspected the Karur Road widening work.  The 10.8-km road widened will eliminate the vulnerable points in the accident-prone stretch. The project, to be completed at a cost of Rs 55.75 crore, is expected to be completed before November 2021. Around 55% of the work is completed. The officials said that 2,000 native tree saplings will be planted along the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/manachanallur-bypass-work-on-fast-course/articleshow/78777794.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Banarasi silk demand up 75% in international market||LUCKNOW: While the country faced a massive economic slowdown during the Covid-19 pandemic, Varanasi’s silk industry actually reported a major boost. A government spokesperson on Tuesday said that the demand for Banarasi silk products went up by 75% internationally and 70% in the domestic market in the past seven months, thanks to the new MSME policies of the UP government. In 2019, the export value of Varanasi silk products was Rs 216 crore under the ODOP scheme. “There has been fresh demand for silk in cities like Mumbai, Chennai, Jaipur, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhagalpur, Jaunpur, Shahjahanpur and in Kerala. A similar trend has been witnessed in the markets of Canada, Malaysia, Dubai and Singapore,” said the spokesperson. The government has disbursed loans of Rs 20 crore under the ODOP margin money scheme while 450 weavers were given training and tool kits under a scheme for it. Varanasi has about 7,500 powerlooms, over 18,000 handlooms and about 30,000 artisans who are engaged in the silk industry. The CM has also laid the foundation stone of a common facility centre which will train weavers in modern techniques of weaving, screen printing, etc. Shailja Arora, a businesswoman associated with the industry, credited the state’s one district-one product scheme for the boost. Arora said that the scheme enabled her to purchase a loop edger machine in 2019 and now her unit was weaving 200 saris in 20 minutes, against 45 saris in 30 minutes which were being produced earlier. Arora has about 500 men and women working in her unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/banarasi-silk-demand-up-75-in-intl-market/articleshow/78778393.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Satara admin allows taxis, boating, horse riding at popular hill stations||KOLHAPUR: Satara district administration has allowed operation of boating, horse riding and yellow-black taxi services at the popular hill stations of Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani. The permissions are, however, conditional. District collector Shekhar Singh issued an order late on Monday allowing the services to resume after a gap of seven months. Singh has asked the local administration to ensure that all the rules of Covid-19 safety protocol are followed. Those, who will violate the rules, will be penalised, Singh has warned. The hotels and lodges in the two hill stations have already been started. Meanwhile, the district registered new 209 Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in the past seven days. Satara taluka recorded the highest number of cases – 46 and 33 of them are from Satara town. Karad taluka added 44 cases. Four each were from Malkapur, Umbraj and Aagshivnagar. Seven patients were found in Karad town. Wai and Patan reported six and four patients, respectively. Mahabaleshwar taluka had two new cases on Monday. Khatav taluka recorded 26 cases, including seven from Pusegaon and five from Mayni. Phaltan taluka had 24 patients, which included five from Nimbhore and Wathar Nimbalkar each. Maan taluka identified seven cases while Koregaon taluka 23. Six cases were known in Rahimatpur. Jawli taluka had 16 new cases and 11 of them are from Malchaundi village. According to the officials, ten out the 11 deceased were senior citizens. Nine were men and two were women. Karad taluka recorded three deaths, while two each were registered in Khatav and Koregaon taluka. The district has now 43,865 positive patients and 37,308 of them are discharged. The district has recorded 1,449 deaths while there are 5,108 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-admin-allows-taxis-boating-horse-riding-at-popular-hill-stations/articleshow/78776396.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||BTU introduces ‘destress’ course||Jaipur: Bikaner Technical University has introduced Anandam, a pilot programme to destress students enrolled in higher education institutes. The programme will be introduced in other universities and colleges later, an official at higher education department said. Under the programme, every student has to undertake 2-3 classes in a week based on society and social service. “The idea is to de-stress students by adding programmes which talk about our collective value system based on the principle of brotherhood,” said BTU VC HD Charan. To make classes relevant, the university has linked it with credit system. The programme is applicable for students pursuing engineering and management. It revolves around four levels of human life — self, family, society and nature. “So far, the content of the programme has touched 7000 people and results are astonishing. Most of the students have found it de-streesing and stimulating to their minds,” said Charan. For its smooth implementation, the university has asked volunteers from every college for training in the programme. “Its success will help us in introducing it at national level,” said an education official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btu-introduces-destress-course/articleshow/78777778.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Samrala woman succumbs to Covid, 46 test positive||tnnLudhiana: A woman of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 46 residents tested positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the 60-year-old woman of Kuliewal village, Samrala, died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.The day also saw a resident of Amritsar succumbing to the virus and 16 outsiders testing positive here.With this, the district toll tally has mounted to 821 and that of outsiders to 299.Of the 46 new cases, six were contacts of positive patients, eight were from OPD, 22 from flu corner, two healthcare workers, one pre-operative case and seven through tracing process. The district case count now stood at 19,747. As many as 18,654 (94.46 %) patients have recovered from the disease so far.On Tuesday, 1,161 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/samrala-woman-succumbs-to-covid-46-test-positive/articleshow/78775152.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Heavy rain pounds city, throws traffic out of gear||COIMBATORE: Heavy rain lashed the city on Tuesday for almost an hour, bringing traffic on Avinashi Road flyover and other parts of the city such as Sowripalayam and Kattoor to a standstill. Many vehicles were stuck for an hour on the flyover and Sukrawarpet Road. The downpour started at noon and lasted for almost an hour. Many underpasses, including the ones below the Avinashi Road flyover and Ramnagar bridge, and the one at Lanka Corner, were inundated within minutes after the rain started to lash the city, obstructing the vehicle movement. R Shriram, a commuter, said, “On Avinashi Road, two vans got stuck at the underpass, forcing police to stop vehicle movement there completely. As a result, all vehicles had to take the flyover. Traffic came to a halt as vehicles moved at a snail’s pace.” He said it took motorists 45 minutes to cross Uppilipalayam signal, get on to the flyover, take Sukrawarpet Road exit and reach Gandhi Park - a drive that would otherwise have taken only less than five minutes. Weather experts said the district might have recorded 12mm to 15mm of rainfall on Tuesday. The exact reading would, however, be available only on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-rain-pounds-city-throws-traffic-out-of-gear/articleshow/78777775.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Three of family dupe nursery school owner of Rs 65L||COIMBATORE: Three members of a family were booked by the district crime branch (DCB) police for allegedly cheating a nursery school owner of Rs 65 lakh by promising to get him a central government job. M Ashok Kumar, 38, of Seeranaickenpalayam, runs a nursery school at New Thillai Nagar, Vadavalli. In a petition submitted to the DCB police, Ashok Kumar said Teena from Periyar Nagar at Vadavalli was working as a teacher in his school. Her husband Joe Anthony, a businessman, told Ashok Kumar that he has a good rapport with bureaucrats. Anthony also promised Ashok Kumar that he would help him to get a central government job. Believing his words, Ashok Kumar gave Rs 65 lakh on several installments to Antony and Teena from September 2017 to July 15, 2019. But Anthony failed to get him a job. All the efforts taken by Ashok Kumar to get back the money from Antony went in vain. Following his complaint, DCB sub-inspector of police J Lenin Appadurai registered a case against the couple and Teena’s mother under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said they would issue summons to the trio for questioning soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-of-family-dupe-nursery-school-owner-of-rs-65l/articleshow/78777773.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Trichy||NHAI issues notification to acquire land for Trichy semi-ring road project||TRICHY: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has issued a 3D notification to acquire the required land to construct a portion of the Trichy semi-ring road project. The declaration of acquisition notification was issued by NHAI Karur project implementation unit (PIU) to link Trichy-Karur national highway with the Trichy-Madurai NH. The NHAI in April 2018 conducted a public hearing meeting to acquire 46 hectares of land situated between Panchapur (Trichy-Madurai) and Jeeyapuram (Trichy-Karur) via Thayanur on the Trichy-Dindigul NH. In September 2019, the NHAI submitted 3A notification (power to acquire land) to the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). Since then, the project, aimed at reducing the travel time and decongest the city, was put on hold. Meanwhile, the NHAI on Tuesday published the 3D notification to acquire land in Panchapur, Pirattiyur, Thayanur and Kallikudi villages, for which the revenue department will initiate compensation to the land owners. “We will prepare the project cost estimate to float a tender. Once the land acquisition is complete, a suitable contractor will be identified to initiate the civil work,” a senior NHAI official said. The land acquisition process is slated to be completed within six months. “As landowners are cooperative, there will not be any further hurdle in completing the project,” the official added. The 43km-long project is sectioned into two stages - stage 1 covers Jeeyapuram to Panchapur and stage 2 between Panchapur and Thuvakudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nhai-issues-notification-to-acquire-land-for-trichy-semi-ring-road-project/articleshow/78777777.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Health department to focus on anti-dengue drive||COIMBATORE: Now that the Covid-19 cases have come down, health department officials have decided to shift some of their focus on dengue prevention ahead of the northeast monsoon, which is likely to set in by this month-end. Unlike the previous years, when the city corporation and health department officials used to inspect all houses for the presence of mosquito breeding sources, this year they are working on a system in which the public will be made to remove such sources from their houses. A senior health department official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “We distributed dengue test kits to the Pollachi government hospital laboratory on Monday. “Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital has already started testing people, who have turned negative for Covid-19 despite having symptoms, for dengue. We will create awareness among hospitals and clinics to test people with fever and tiredness for dengue after the onset of rain.” The health department plans to write to all hospitals, asking them to notify all fever cases, especially dengue cases, in the district under the integrated disease surveillance programme and not to consider them as just Covid-19 cases. All private laboratories have also been instructed to notify every dengue positive case that they test. Because of the pandemic, both the corporation and municipality officials won’t be able to enter houses to inspect for mosquito breeding sources such as unclean water tanks, pots with water or old tyres in their backyard. So, unlike the previous years, residents are less likely to be fined (anywhere between Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,000) for keeping their premises unhygienic. The official said, “We are thinking of ways to motivate residents to keep checking their houses and keeping them free of mosquito breeding sources.” Dengue is transmitted by the aedes aegypti mosquitoes that breed in fresh water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-dept-to-focus-on-anti-dengue-drive/articleshow/78777795.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai goes on a shopping spree, but businesses yet to hit pre-Covid level||CHENNAI: The festival season is on and the city’s shopping hubs have begun recording a substantial rise in footfalls, with retailers drowning customers in offers to sell off existing stock. Shops in places such as MC Road at Washermenpet, Purasawalkam, Pondy Bazaar, T Nagar and Chromepet are seeing anywhere between 65% and 70% of their customer base returning, most of it in the past 10 days. Scenes of shoppers relishing snacks seated over staircases at big shopping complexes, familiar sights in pre-Covid times, are back. The trend of more people on the roads and shops packed with buyers will continue for another week before a small break, say traders. Buyers from the salaried class are expected to hit shops big time after November 1. It has already become tough to find parking slots in places like Purasawalkam and T Nagar. With Greater Chennai Corporation officials conducting surprise checks, shop managers are torn between trying ensure social distancing norms and the pressure to draw crowds to increase businesses. Weekends have become busy, but traders are not bullish about reaching pre-Covid levels, with delay in resumption of suburban train services being one reason why buyers from suburbs in Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts are not being able to reach Washermenpet and T Nagar. J Mohammad Yusuf Khan, a trader at Pursawalkam, said weekday crowds in the past one week have been 60%-70% of pre-Covid levels. On weekends, it is about 10% more. “We are seeing brisk business in multi-product shops including dry fruits stores, jewellery and textile showrooms. More shops are offering discounts, continuing from Aadi offers,” he said. This level of revival was expected before Diwali, but the sale during Navarathri is a bonus, said the trader in gold covering ornaments. Until the Covid-19 pandemic struck, T Nagar, the city’s largest retail hub, had been generating an annual turnover of `50,000 crore, while Washermenpet in North Chennai, the centre of the apparel trade, had a turnover of nearly `7,000 crore annually. A floor manager of a leading textile showroom on Usman Road, T Nagar, said the crowds were expected to peak as Diwali nears. Vishal Hasti Surana, committee member of Washermenpet Cloth Merchant Association at MC Road and member of Retailers Association of India, said the same level of retail and wholesale customers is expected to continue till Pongal. “While 65 to 70 per cent of retail customers are back to Washermenpet, it is 10 per cent less in the wholesale vertical. Textile business can touch the pre-Covid levels by Pongal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-goes-on-a-shopping-spree-but-biz-yet-to-hit-pre-covid-level/articleshow/78776387.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||800 row: Cops book man for threat to actor’s family||CHENNAI: The Chennai police’s cybercrime wing booked a man on Tuesday for threatening actor Vijay Sethupathi’s family over his role in “800”, the biopic on former Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan. The suspect is yet to be traced. The actor has already withdrawn from the film following Muralitharan’s request. After Rithik Raj’s threat on Twitter handle @itsrithikrajh, DMK Lok Sabha member Kanimozhi termed it “barbaric” and “extremely dangerous” and several others demanded action against the suspect, who deleted his Twitter account. “We have approached Twitter to give us details of the man to track him with the help of his URL and internet protocol (IP) address. We have also approached a few central government agencies to support us in tracing the suspect,” said an investigation officer. Vijay Sethupathi had been facing flak for agreeing to portray a former cricketer who remained allegedly silent on the “atrocities” of the Sri Lankan government against Tamils. The hashtag #ShameOnVijaySethupati had been trending over the past week, but the latest threat on Twitter has sparked outrage. “The perverse intimidation … is not only barbaric but extremely dangerous to the very fabric of our society … Police should take stern action against the perpetrator,” tweeted Kanimozhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/800-row-cops-book-man-for-threat-to-actors-family/articleshow/78778888.cms||A Selvaraj
October 21, 2020||Trichy||TRICHY: 66% candidates clear PhD qualifying exam||TRICHY: A total of 66% candidates have cleared PhD qualifying examination conducted by Bharathidasan University on October 11. This is the first time that the examination was conducted online where 834 candidates appeared for the examination. A total of 556 candidates cleared the exam and can look for research guides in BDU and its affiliated colleges to enroll in PhD programme in their respective discipline. PhD qualifying examination, Conducted twice a year in February and August, was made mandatory from 2018 for post-graduate students who want to join PhD programmes in BDU and its affiliated colleges. The exam scheduled for August was postponed to October due to Covid-19 pandemic. The number of candidates appeared for the examination this time is less compared to the examination conducted in February, but the pass percentage has increased. The pass percentage was 61% last time when 769 candidates qualified for the examination out of 1,110 candidates appeared for the exam, said S Muthusamy, director–research, BDU. The results were also declared within a week, he said. The university wanted to have a robust system for the qualifying examination without giving any room for malpractices. A private firm was hired by the university for technical support and the candidates were monitored through web camera. A minimum 3G internet speed was required for the candidates to appear for the examination. To reduce data consumption, the examination was cut short to one hour with 50 multiple choice questions. There are a total 460 research centres and more than 2,000 research advisors in BDU and its affiliated colleges with whom students can join for their PhD program, said Muthusamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/66-candidates-clear-phd-qualifying-exam/articleshow/78777826.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 21, 2020||Surat||Constables undergo training to investigate minor offences||Surat: The police will soon have helping hands to conduct investigations in criminal cases registered in the city. Over 563 police constables having experience of at least five years are being trained to conduct investigations in various cases. The move came after the state government recently decided to allow police constables to investigate cases in which the quantum of punishment is up to five years for disposing minor cases quickly.“Constables having five years of experience have good knowledge of various aspects of investigation. But we are giving them further training to sharpen their investigation skills. This will help reduce burden on existing investigating officers and speed up the police department’s work,” said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, who is coordinating the training.The constables are being given basic training in duties like doing panchnama, registering FIR and how to deal with cases under the Motor Vehicle Act. Once trained, they are likely to be handed over investigation of minor cases like accidents, fights and thefts of small amounts.Initially, the constables were imparted three hours of online training. But the senior police officials felt that they didn’t get enough knowledge about handling investigations. So a fresh training programme was initiated to train them in various aspects of investigations. Retired deputy superintendents of police, Vinay Shukla and Siraj Zabha have been appointed by the police department to train the cops. The constables are being trained in a batch of 60 and they are supposed to attend multiple sessions of 45 minutes each from Wednesday to Saturday before appearing for exams on Sunday. “We decide if the batch needs revision based on their exam results. If they score good marks, the constables are imparted trained in the next subject,” Chaudhary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/constables-undergo-training-to-investigate-minor-offences/articleshow/78775532.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Revised health insurance plan launch in November||JAIPUR: While the state government is implementing Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna (AB-MGRSBY), a lot of beneficiaries are facing difficulties in getting treatment. The health department claimed AB-MGRSBY will be launched fully in the first week of November. “We are finalising things such as software and the process of empanelling of hospitals. So far, 160 hospitals have been empanelled,” said a senior health department official. Patients have been facing difficulties in getting treatment under the government-run insurance scheme for BPL. Rubina (30), whose kidneys have failed, is getting her dialysis done regularly. “Till last year, I was getting the benefit under the scheme. The coverage under the scheme was Rs 3lakh but that amount exhausted in November-December last year and since then I have been paying for dialysis. I tried a lot of times but my coverage has not been increased. My husband has disowned me and I have two daughters. My dialysis is possible only because some relatives are helping me,” said Rubina, a resident of Walled City. The hospital has also agreed to give her discounts because of her financial condition. The hospital is providing dialysis at Rs 750 per visit and it is being done twice a week. Tonk-based farmer Rajesh Saini is also undergoing dialysis. Earlier, he was getting benefit of insurance scheme, but for the last 6 months, he has been paying from his pocket. He said his insurance amount has exhausted and its coverage has not been enhanced despite repeated attempts. However, health department officials claimed that they are regularly raising the coverage of beneficiaries whose Rs 3 lakh have been spent. Indian Medical Association (Rajasthan-branch) president Dr MN Thareja said, “Since a lot of hospitals dues have not been cleared, they are not showing interest in the scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/revised-health-insurance-plan-launch-in-nov/articleshow/78777822.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
October 21, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan reports more Covid recoveries than cases for 7 days in a row||JAIPUR: For seven days in a row, the state has been reporting more recoveries than new infections, leading to decline of active cases to 20,254, the lowest in 22 days. On Tuesday, 2,522 persons recovered from Covid against 1,897 new infections. The tally of recovered cases rose to 1,55,095, while the overall tally touched 1,77,123, taking the recovery rate to 87.5%. The health department tested 24,667 persons out of which 1,897 were found infected. The positivity rate remained close to 8%, which means that out of 100 persons who underwent Covid test, eight tested positive. In Jaipur, out of 4,997 persons who underwent the test, 386 tested positive. “Although the number of daily infected persons is going down, but looking at the winter, the number may increase in November,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died due to Covid, taking the state’s toll to 1,774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (386), Jodhpur (233), Alwar (155), Bikaner (148), Ajmer (121), Udaipur (102), Sikar (101), Sriganganagar (99), Nagaur (90), Kota (74), Bharatpur (70), Jhunjhunu (66), Jalore (43), Pali (37), Barmer (28), Churu (23), Hanumangarh (18), Dausa (17), Bhilwara (17), Sawai Madhopur (12), Jaisalmer (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (6), Chittorgarh (6), Bundi (5), Dholpur (5), Tonk (5), Jhalawar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dungarpur (3) and Karauli (1). Two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 169th, Jaipur reported its 353rd Covid-19 death, Bikaner 131th, Ajmer 129th, Kota 113th death, Bharatpur 90th, Alwar 51th, Sikar 47th, Rajsamand 27th, Chittorgarh 26th, Sirohi 24th, Tonk 24th and Sriganganagar reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-more-recoveries-than-cases-for-7-days-in-a-row/articleshow/78779329.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan reports more Covid recoveries than cases for 7 days in a row||JAIPUR: For seven days in a row, the state has been reporting more recoveries than new infections, leading to decline of active cases to 20,254, the lowest in 22 days. On Tuesday, 2,522 persons recovered from Covid against 1,897 new infections. The tally of recovered cases rose to 1,55,095, while the overall tally touched 1,77,123, taking the recovery rate to 87.5%. The health department tested 24,667 persons out of which 1,897 were found infected. The positivity rate remained close to 8%, which means that out of 100 persons who underwent Covid test, eight tested positive. In Jaipur, out of 4,997 persons who underwent the test, 386 tested positive. “Although the number of daily infected persons is going down, but looking at the winter, the number may increase in November,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died due to Covid, taking the state’s toll to 1,774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (386), Jodhpur (233), Alwar (155), Bikaner (148), Ajmer (121), Udaipur (102), Sikar (101), Sriganganagar (99), Nagaur (90), Kota (74), Bharatpur (70), Jhunjhunu (66), Jalore (43), Pali (37), Barmer (28), Churu (23), Hanumangarh (18), Dausa (17), Bhilwara (17), Sawai Madhopur (12), Jaisalmer (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (6), Chittorgarh (6), Bundi (5), Dholpur (5), Tonk (5), Jhalawar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dungarpur (3) and Karauli (1). Two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 169th, Jaipur reported its 353rd Covid-19 death, Bikaner 131th, Ajmer 129th, Kota 113th death, Bharatpur 90th, Alwar 51th, Sikar 47th, Rajsamand 27th, Chittorgarh 26th, Sirohi 24th, Tonk 24th and Sriganganagar reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-more-recoveries-than-cases-for-7-days-in-a-row/articleshow/78779330.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Policies of Congress, RJD behind terrorism and Naxalism spread: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW/PATNA: UP chief minister and BJP’s saffron mascot, Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday tore into opposition, accusing it of pursuing the policy of caste and religious appeasement that ‘helped terrorism and Naxalism spread its wings in the country over the years’. Kicking off his election campaign from Ramgarh seat in Bihar, Yogi launched a blistering attack on Congress and Lalu Prasad-led Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) saying that the two parties have only spread anarchy and communal enmity in the poll-bound state. “The people of Bihar will have to make a strong decision. And that’s exactly what I have come here for,” said Yogi who also addressed a rally in Araval and Karakat assembly constituencies. Exhorting the electorate to realise that unlike the previous Congress-led UPA government, Yogi said that the BJP-led NDA was executing various development schemes without taking into consideration caste and religion. “We speak of development, they speak of caste. We speak of country, they speak of family. We speak of 'sabka saath sabka vikas', they speak about people of one particular religious community of having the right over resources of the country,” Yogi said, maintaining that it was this very mentality was taking the country towards division even as BJP and its allies wanted to make the dream of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ turn true. “Development of the poor, farmers and women were never the agenda of the Congress. They just wanted one family to rule the country just like RJD aspired in Bihar,” he said.He said that earlier youth of Bihar used to hide their identity because of the poor image of their home state. “We do not want such government which pushes the youth into crime and terrorism,” he said. Making an indirect reference to the fodder scam during the previous RJD government, Yogi took a pot shot calling the RJD leaders of having a big fat stomach. “They not only digested the food of the poor but also gulped the fodder of the cattle,” Yogi said, while accusing the Congress and RJD of executing corruption at the grass-roots level. He said that it was only under Nitish Kumar's government that Bihar touched new heights of development with the help of PM Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. Yogi said that the opposition needed to be asked how many ration cards they issued, how many homes they provided to the people and how many health insurance cards were issued. “All this has been done by the Modi government,” he said. In the Arval assembly constituency, Yogi slammed the Congress, RJD and Communist while accusing them of being the biggest road block in construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. “But the BJP-led NDA government fulfilled their promise by getting construction of the temple started,” he said. Taking a jibe at Congress, Yogi said that some of the leaders of the grand old party were favouring Pakistan. Speaking in Karakat, Yogi said that the Congress-RJD combined left the seat for CPI (ML) to bring back the memories of human massacre for which it has been known for long. He said that the slogans like ‘Bharat tere tukde honge’ which were raised in JNU no longer exist.“For the past seven months, the whole country is battling Corona. The timely decision taken by the Modi government helped control the pandemic. The poor got free ration, which would not have been possible in the RJD government,” he said. Yogi said that during the pandemic when scores of youth from Bihar were passing through UP, the state government treated them well and arranged buses for them to reach their home state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/policies-of-cong-rjd-behind-terrorism-and-naxalism-spread-yogi/articleshow/78778406.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 21, 2020||Rajkot||Fish exporters staring at bleak Christmas, New Year||Rajkot: While a number of sectors including manufacturing and exports are recovering from the coronavirus-induced slowdown, the Gujarat fishing industry is staring at a bleak future.The fish exporters are already reeling under financial crunch due to the global lockdown during the peak summer season which accounts for over 70% of the annual exports from Veraval. Industry experts say that annual fish exports from Gujarat is to the tune of Rs 5,000 crore.But with European nations contemplating lockdown ahead of Christmas season and China too imposing stricter checking of imported goods, the exporter fear that they would lose orders in November and December, which account for nearly 25% of the annual exports.The fall in exports may have a trickling effect and could impact income of local fishermen as exporters will not have enough money to make payments to them.According to exporters, before Christmas they export fish worth Rs 250 crore to European nations every year. But this year the export orders have reduced to 50% because the buyers are very cautious and not buying aggressively like every year. Kenny Thomas, a leading fish exporter from Veraval said, “Summer holidays in Europe account for 70% export from Veraval. This year the export was very low because of world-wide lockdown. Also, for Christmas and Chinese New Year, buyers are very conservative in placing orders.” He added, “The Kerala fish industry too has been hit hard because of the strict lockdown there. So the export orders of Kerala got diverted to Gujarat and as a result, we got some business. Otherwise, the export figures would have been more disappointing.” Veraval’s cuttlefish, pomfret, lobsters, jumbo shrimps are favourites among the European countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fish-exporters-staring-at-bleak-christmas-new-year/articleshow/78775208.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Relatives of missing man identify body, cops differ||tnnLudhiana: Over a fortnight after Charanjit Singh, 45, of Gian Chand Nagar, Lohara, went missing, his family identified the body recovered from a canal near Dhaipai, Ludhiana rural, as his. The police, however, plan to go for a DNA test as the body is headless. On Monday evening, the police had recovered the decomposed body, which was without head and right hand, from the water body.Baljeet Singh Malra, brother of Charanjit, said, “Charanjit had polio. His left foot was a little twisted. The recovered body, too, has the deformity. Therefore, it is Charanjit’s body.” The cops differ with the family.Daba police station SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said, “Though the family is claiming that the body is of Charanjit, we need to ascertain it as it is headless. There are no clothes on the body and the right hand is chopped off. Besides, it seems to be of an old man.”“We have sent the body for autopsy. It will confirm when the man had died. We will also get a DNA test done for confirmation,” the inspector added. Charanjit had gone missing on the night of October 2. The Daba police, on October 17, had booked his friend Veeram Singh, the latter’s brothers Gurdit Singh and Dupinder Singh and auto driver Simran Singh, all residents of Basant Nagar. Veeram and Simran were arrested the same day. Charanjit’s family said Veerma had borrowed Rs 20,000 from them. On October 2, Charanjit had gone to Veeram’s house to get the money back. But Veeram, along with his brothers, thrashed Charanjit and kidnapped him in Simran’s auto. In the vehicle, they stabbed Charanjit and then dumped his body in Kaind canal in Khanpur village. A case under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/relatives-of-missing-man-identify-body-cops-differ/articleshow/78775188.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury dips across Rajasthan, Churu logs 14.3°C||JAIPUR: There has been a constant dip in the minimum temperatures across the state as winters are creeping in. Early morning temperatures at many places in the state are below 20°C. Churu remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 14.3°C was recorded, the Met reports said on Tuesday. Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, the Met office said that temperatures across the state will further dip in the coming days. People in Jaipur witnessed coldest morning of the season so far as a minimum temperature of 20°C was recorded. In past five days, there has been a continuous dip in the minimum temperature of Jaipur. On last Friday, a minimum temperature of 25°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a lesser warmer afternoon as a maximum temperature of 34.8°C was recorded. Jaipur Met office stated that within a week, many places in the state would witness winters. In Jaipur, it is going to take another fortnight to welcome winters and minimum temperatures on or below 15°C. “Temperatures will first dip in the districts, including Churu, Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Barmer and Jodhpur and thereafter to the other parts of the state. By the next fortnight, the whole state would witness winters,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Churu was followed by Pilani where a minimum temperature of 15.2°C was recorded, Sriganganagar 15.9°C, Ajmer 20.2°C, Alwar 21.6°C, Bikaner 22°C, Chittorgarh and Jaisalmer 23°C each, Jodhpur 23.7°C, Udaipur 24°C, Kota 24.3°C and Barmer 25.2°. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that temperatures will further dip in the northern and western parts of the state, while in some parts of southern and eastern Rajasthan, there is a possibility of thunderstorms and mild showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-dips-across-raj-churu-logs-14-3c/articleshow/78777796.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Vadodara||Bus hits 5 vehicles, kills two siblings||VADODARA: The joy of relishing pani-puri turned into a tragedy for two young brothers who died after being hit by a staff bus of a private company, which veered out of control after the driver suffered a mild heart attack and hit as many as vehicles on the Padra-Jambusar highway on Tuesday. The bus driver lost control over the vehicle while passing by Fulbaug junction on the highway. The driver coming from Dabhasa first brushed his bus with a parked truck and then mowed down the two children identified as Vishal Sonone (14) and his six-year-old brother Golu. Police said the brothers were walking back to their home in Padra town after eating pani-puri at a roadside kiosk when the speeding bus hit them When their father Ramesh learnt about it, he rushed to the accident spot and the unconscious boys were taken to a government hospital in Padra. However, they were declared dead on admission. After hitting the children, the bus rammed a parked sedan car and a scooter before injuring a woman named Asha Godadiya who was selling clothes on the roadside. The driver, who apparently failed to apply the brakes, then jumped the bus over the divider and crashed the vehicle with two bikes parked outside a garage. Godadiya suffered minor injuries on her legs. Ramesh told police that when he reached the accident site, the bus driver had escaped from the spot. The bus is owned by a private travels company in Vadodara and was used as a staff bus for a company in Padra taluka. An offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered at Padra police station. Padra-Jambusar road has turned into a killer highway in the district as it has claimed many lives in the past too. Connecting several industries with Padra and Vadodara, the highway is a busy road throughout the day. Locals have demanded several times that the highway be broadened to four-lane from existing two-lane, but there has hardly been any development regarding this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bus-hits-5-vehicles-kills-two-siblings/articleshow/78774483.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: New cases continue to decline in district||COIMBATORE: The district count of fresh Covid-19 cases fell further to 263 on Tuesday, which is the second consecutive day that it fell below the 300-mark. The total number of cases stood at 40,374. The number of people who got discharged was again more than new cases at 498, which brought down active cases to 3,831. The total number of people discharged stood at 36,017 which took the recovery rate further to 89.2%. The district also recorded two more deaths, taking the toll to 526. The two deaths include a 68-year-old hypertensive and diabetic man who died on Sunday morning after three days of hospitalization and a 63-year-old man with heart problems and hepatitis B died on Tuesday after 20 days of hospitalization. From Monday, a group of health department officials have been visiting certain pockets in the district and collecting blood samples from residents, to check for the presence of antibodies to Covid-19. This comes after the state health department ordered for a sero-surveillance study to be done in districts across the state, to check the level of immunity the community or district has to the virus. The health department has identified 42 clusters across the district, where it would collect serum samples from 30 people in each cluster, totalling 1,260 people in the district. The 42 clusters where the sero surveillance study would be conducted include Sowripalayam, Neelikonampalayam, Seeranaickenpalayam, Selvapuram, Mettupalayam, Pollachi, Anamalai, Karamadai and Valparai. Unlike the earlier two sero surveys when ICMR’s team came and collected blood samples, the health department itself has allotted staff to collect the serum samples this time. “Six mobile health teams have been formed. Each team comprises of a lab technician, sector health nurse and health inspector or sanitary inspector. They would visit the cluster, invite residents to give blood samples after explaining what its for,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar. Only one person from each house in each cluster will participate in the study. All the serum samples collected would be tested through the chemiluminescent immunoassay (CLIA) equipment. The machine has been allotted to Coimbatore and has arrived in the city. “The samples collected are being kept in preservation. We hope the machine gets installed by Thursday night. We can start running the samples by Friday,” said an official. Serum samples collected from Tirupur, the Nilgiris and Erode districts would also be tested using the machine Recently, the ICMR conducted the second round of sero-survey at ten places in Coimbatore and found that 31 of the 428 people are immune to the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-cases-continue-to-decline-in-district/articleshow/78777819.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Two men who were moonlighting as burglars arrested||COIMBATORE: The rural police arrested two burglars and recovered around 25 sovereigns of gold ornaments from them in the city on Monday. They were working as construction workers during the daytime. S Seeman alias Alazhu Murugan, 36, from Viralipatti in Madurai district and A Prabhu, 33, from New Ellis Nagar in Madurai were involved in series of burglaries reported from Narasimmanaickenpalayam, Rakkipalayam Pirivu, Veerapandi Pirivu in the past few months, police said. Based on a tip, a special police team formed to solve the cases arrested the duo at Kannappa Nagar in the city. The team took the duo to the Periyanaickenpalayam police station and inquired them. Preliminary investigation revealed that the duo was involved in three burglaries in Periyanaickenpalayam police station limits and one burglary in Thudiyalur police station limit. About 25 sovereigns of gold ornaments and a motorcycle were recovered from them. The culprits were ex-convicts. While Alazhu Murugan is facing at least 15 criminal cases in Madurai district, Prabhu is wanted in two cases in Coimbatore. The arrested men were remanded in judicial custody on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-men-who-were-moonlighting-as-burglars-arrested/articleshow/78777798.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rosecott Krishna Pillai passes away||Thiruvananthapuram: Veteran journalist and legendary Malayalam novelist CV Raman Pillai’s grandson Rosecott Krishna Pillai passed away on Tuesday at the age of 92. Regarded as one of the pioneers in science journalism, Pillai had published a good number of scientific articles in English and Malayalam during his long and illustrious career as a journalist. He was the first editor of the Malayalam version of Yojana when Khushwant Singh was the editor of its original version in English. Pillai –who was in the good books of former PM Indira Gandhi – had retired as a senior official from the Indian Information Service. He had pioneered the publication of an index dictionary-based on CV Raman Pillai’s novels. He worked in various roles at All-India Radio (AIR) and had read Malayalam news over radio from Delhi. He was the chief of Malayalam news division in AIR in the 60s. He retired as deputy principal information officer of press information bureau from Thiruvananthapuram. Old timers recollected Pillai as a sharp journalist, a presenter par excellence, a translator of rare finesse and a humanist to the core. His column ‘Arante Petti’ (Someone’s box), a critical analysis of media, was a popular column in Yojana. A graduate in chemistry, his inimitable skill in presenting scientific knowledge in both English and Malayalam took him from CSIR to the publication and broadcast divisions of Union ministry of information and broadcasting. According to family sources, he was admitted at a private hospital on October 3, following age-related illness and uneasiness, and tested positive for Covid-19. His body is in the hospital mortuary and cremation time and date have not been fixed. "Since Covid protocol calls for a different set of requirements, we are not really sure about the cremation time. Hope it would be held on Wednesday," said a close relative of Pillai. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran were among those who condoled his death. Chennithala remembered his as an ace broadcast journalist and editor who made invaluable contributions to art and culture. Surendran said he had been maintaining close relationship with him. Pillai was an authority in Travancore history, he said. He is survived by daughters Radhika Menon, Devika Pillai and son Gireesh Chandran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rosecott-krishna-pillai-passes-away/articleshow/78776419.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports more Covid recoveries than cases for 7 days in a row||JAIPUR: For seven days in a row, the state has been reporting more recoveries than new infections, leading to decline of active cases to 20,254, the lowest in 22 days. On Tuesday, 2,522 persons recovered from Covid against 1,897 new infections. The tally of recovered cases rose to 1,55,095, while the overall tally touched 1,77,123, taking the recovery rate to 87.5%. The health department tested 24,667 persons out of which 1,897 were found infected. The positivity rate remained close to 8%, which means that out of 100 persons who underwent Covid test, eight tested positive. In Jaipur, out of 4,997 persons who underwent the test, 386 tested positive. “Although the number of daily infected persons is going down, but looking at the winter, the number may increase in November,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died due to Covid, taking the state’s toll to 1,774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (386), Jodhpur (233), Alwar (155), Bikaner (148), Ajmer (121), Udaipur (102), Sikar (101), Sriganganagar (99), Nagaur (90), Kota (74), Bharatpur (70), Jhunjhunu (66), Jalore (43), Pali (37), Barmer (28), Churu (23), Hanumangarh (18), Dausa (17), Bhilwara (17), Sawai Madhopur (12), Jaisalmer (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (6), Chittorgarh (6), Bundi (5), Dholpur (5), Tonk (5), Jhalawar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dungarpur (3) and Karauli (1). Two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 169th, Jaipur reported its 353rd Covid-19 death, Bikaner 131th, Ajmer 129th, Kota 113th death, Bharatpur 90th, Alwar 51th, Sikar 47th, Rajsamand 27th, Chittorgarh 26th, Sirohi 24th, Tonk 24th and Sriganganagar reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-more-recoveries-than-cases-for-7-days-in-a-row/articleshow/78777799.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan reports more Covid recoveries than cases for 7 days in a row||JAIPUR: For seven days in a row, the state has been reporting more recoveries than new infections, leading to decline of active cases to 20,254, the lowest in 22 days. On Tuesday, 2,522 persons recovered from Covid against 1,897 new infections. The tally of recovered cases rose to 1,55,095, while the overall tally touched 1,77,123, taking the recovery rate to 87.5%. The health department tested 24,667 persons out of which 1,897 were found infected. The positivity rate remained close to 8%, which means that out of 100 persons who underwent Covid test, eight tested positive. In Jaipur, out of 4,997 persons who underwent the test, 386 tested positive. “Although the number of daily infected persons is going down, but looking at the winter, the number may increase in November,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died due to Covid, taking the state’s toll to 1,774. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (386), Jodhpur (233), Alwar (155), Bikaner (148), Ajmer (121), Udaipur (102), Sikar (101), Sriganganagar (99), Nagaur (90), Kota (74), Bharatpur (70), Jhunjhunu (66), Jalore (43), Pali (37), Barmer (28), Churu (23), Hanumangarh (18), Dausa (17), Bhilwara (17), Sawai Madhopur (12), Jaisalmer (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (6), Chittorgarh (6), Bundi (5), Dholpur (5), Tonk (5), Jhalawar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Dungarpur (3) and Karauli (1). Two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 169th, Jaipur reported its 353rd Covid-19 death, Bikaner 131th, Ajmer 129th, Kota 113th death, Bharatpur 90th, Alwar 51th, Sikar 47th, Rajsamand 27th, Chittorgarh 26th, Sirohi 24th, Tonk 24th and Sriganganagar reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-more-recoveries-than-cases-for-7-days-in-a-row/articleshow/78779327.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man beaten up by brother dies after two weeks of agony||COIMBATORE: A 57-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital on October 4 with injuries that he reportedly sustained after falling on an iron rod during an epilepsy attack. However, after his death on Monday night, his younger brother confessed to police that it was a case of murder and that he had assaulted his elder brother with an iron rod. Police subsequently arrested R Lakshmanan, 48, of Srinivasa Nagar at Press Colony near Periyanaickenpalayam for murdering his brother R Ramakrishnan, 57, of Sri Ram Nagar at Press Colony. A daily wage labourer, Lakshmanan is deaf and dumb. A police officer said Ramakrishnan had visited Lakshmanan at his house on October 4 and scolded him for keeping the house untidy. “In a fit rage, Lakshmanan assaulted his elder brother with an iron rod. He later took his elder brother, who sustained severe head injury, to a private hospital at Veerapandi Pirivu, where he gave a written statement that the injury was caused after Ramakrishnan suffered an epilepsy attack and fell on an iron rod. As it wasn’t a medico-legal case, the hospital management didn’t inform police.” On Friday (October 16), Ramakrishnan was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries on Monday night without responding to treatment. Hospital authorities subsequently alerted the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who held an inquiry with the family members of the deceased. “We questioned Lakshmanan with the help of a sign language expert and he confessed to the crime. We registered a case against him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and detained him on Monday night itself,” the officer said. On Tuesday afternoon, Lakshmanan was produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-beaten-up-by-brother-dies-after-2-weeks-of-agony/articleshow/78777837.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: She, he, ze, or xi? Pronouns make a difference||CHENNAI: Sitting at a restaurant with two friends who were constantly referring to her with the wrong pronouns as well as deadnaming (name used before the transition) was extremely hurtful for Natasha, a volunteer at Orinam, an LGBTQI+ support group, Chennai. "I had to get up and walk away," says the 28-year-old non-binary transgender womxn. Natasha says she identifies with the pronouns she/her/they. “Pronouns aren't preferred, they are mandatory,” she says, adding that no one ever questions a cisgender person’s pronoun preference. Each year, the third Wednesday of October is recognized as International Pronouns Day. This year, the day falls on October 21. Several people within the city’s LGBTQI+ community view this day as an assertion of their identities and as an occasion to spread awareness of their diversity.  “Some might find it hard to accept new pronouns. However, they can always make an effort to use the correct ones. Language makes a difference in the affirmation of identities,” says Natasha, who began her transitioning journey 14 months ago. Gopi Shankar, for instance, goes by the pronoun ‘ze’. “I prefer using ze to refuse the stereotypes and misconceptions about me. This is a form of refusal and also a form of education for those who do not know who or what I am,” says Gopi, the South Regional Representative, National Council for Transgender Persons. In the past few years, there have been over 50 new gender-neutral pronouns such as ze, xe, ve, ey, per, among others. There are new pronouns coming up every other day and there are challenges in finding an acceptable commonly used pronoun, says Gopi. While many are particular about pronouns, there are some from the city’s queer community, who are okay with any pronoun. Queer activist and independent filmmaker Malini Jeevarathnam identifies as a gender-fluid, non-binary person and I do not mind being addressed with any pronoun. Asking a person their preferred pronouns and making efforts to put the term to use can help in the process of inclusion, she says. Misgendering, though very common, can be hurtful, says Magdalene Jeyarathnam, founder and director of East West centre for counseling and training, Alwarpet. “Loved ones, especially parents, stressing on using birth pronouns can take a toll on one’s mental well-being,” says Magdelene, who provides therapy and peer counseling for those from the queer community. (With input from: Harshitha Kumayaa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/she-he-ze-or-xi-pronouns-make-a-difference/articleshow/78776423.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||70% trains run with full passenger load||Jaipur: Passenger load is increasing in most trains this festive season. At least 70 per cent of the trains are more than 100 per cent full and passengers are getting wait-listed tickets. Authorities at North Western Railway (NWR) said trains which resumed services on Tuesday too will gradually pick up good passenger load.“At least 15 trains run by us are getting 100 per cent more occupancy. With Covid protocols strictly in place, passengers are having hasslefree journeys to their respective destinations,” said Mukesh Saini, senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) of Jaipur divison of NWR said. Trains which are doing well in terms of passenger load include Jaipur-Mumbai superfast, Delhi-Ahmedabad special, Bikaner-Howrah special, Jaipur-Delhi double decker, Jaipur-Mysore special and Delhi-Jaipur special. On Tuesday, trains including Jaipur-Pune and Jaipur-Chandigarh resumed services. “Though there was less load factor, but we are getting good reservation response from passengers for festival special trains,” said a senior officer of NWR. Adequate number of Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel were seen at Jaipur station asking passengers to follow guidelines. “I had travelled to Delhi last week for the first time after almost seven months and was jittery. But now it is back to normal. Only thing is I avoid is eating inside trains and also carry soap and sanitizer,” said Sapna Bhatt, who works in a private company in Gurugram. Authorities said in the next couple of days, more than 10 trains will also be added to the list of running trains. “We have many trains originating from Jaipur while for many other trains the city is a main halt station. We are hopeful to get the things back to normal in terms of passenger load in upcoming trains within a week time,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/70-trains-run-with-full-passenger-load/articleshow/78777836.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Jallikattu’ bags critics award||Thiruvananthapuram: Director Lijo Jose Pellissery’s movie ‘Jallikattu’ bagged the 44th Kerala Film Critics Award for the best film in 2019. Geetu Mohandas was adjudged as the best director for her movie ‘Moothon’ with actor Nivin Pauly winning the award for the best actor for his portrayal of the protagonist in the same movie. Manju Warrier won the best actress award for her role in ‘Prathi Poovankozhi’. Kerala Film Critics Award is the only private award in Kerala other than the state awards that is adjudged by a jury. The awards were declared by jury chairman and president of the association Dr George Onakkoor. The awards were adjudged by a jury comprising Thekkinkad Joseph, Balan Thirumala, Prof Joseph Mathew Palai, Dr Aravindan Vallachira and A Chandrasekhar as members. A total of 40 films were submitted for the awards. The Chalachithra Retnam lifetime achievement award was bestowed on filmmaker Hariharan. Mammootty was awarded with the Ruby Jubilee Award instituted to commemorate 40th year of the association for his outstanding contributions to Indian cinema. Cinematographer S Kumar, director and art director Nemom Pushparaj, senior actress Sethulekshmi and Nana photographer Kollam Mohan were selected for Chalachithra Prathibha awards. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jallikattu-bags-critics-award/articleshow/78776484.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-wary MC says no to stalls outside shops||Ludhiana: The festival season has kicked off, but the civic body has decided not to issue permission for stalls outside shops as it will add to traffic woes, besides the Covid-19 norms prohibit large gatherings. The officials claimed that the traffic police and the municipal corporation were also running an anti-encroachment drive and allowing stalls would ruin all the efforts. Last year too, the civic body had not allowed stalls due to traffic congestion. Sources said, “The step has been taken to curb corruption by tehbazaari officials, who take money from shopkeepers for permissions. From these permissions, the civic body used to generate Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh during the festival season. The MC authorities say they cannot let residents suffer for money.” Recently, the cops had started serving notices on shopkeepers for removing illegal stalls from outside the shops. On Tuesday, illegal vends outside shops in Jawahar Nagar Camp were removed. The officials said coronavirus cases have come down and if there was congestion and large gatherings, the situation would deteriorate again. While refuting the corruption allegations, tehbazaari wing superintendent Abdul Sattar said, “We will not give permission for setting up of stalls as it will add to congestion. And if a fire incident happens, it will become difficult for the fire brigade to pass through rush.”Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “Permission will not be given this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-wary-mc-says-no-to-stalls-outside-shops/articleshow/78775241.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Meerut||In UP's Muzaffarnagar, villagers install nameplates with girls’ names||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Following the villages of Punjab and Haryana, hundreds of homes in UP’s Muzaffarnagar district have installed nameplates with the daughters' names written on it. An awareness campaign about it was launched about two months ago by the department of women and child development. During the period, hundreds of people came forward and installed the nameplates as a mark of respect to the girl child. “The campaign is still on. More than 200 nameplates were put up on the doors of the houses in various villages in the last few days,” said district probation officer Mohammad Mushfakeen. “The families with no daughters were told to put the names of their women members. Like people can put the names of their wives on the nameplate,” he said. In the last two months, officials went to scores of villages encouraging people to adopt this practice and they did it happily, the officer said. The drive had evoked a similar response in Punjab and Haryana. In Haryana’s Nuh, over 250 homes have put up plaques with the girl’s name. A similar trend was witnessed in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur where over 200 homes have installed such nameplates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-of-homes-in-up-district-install-nameplates-with-daughters-names/articleshow/78775239.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Education minister lauds NIT-Trichy’s teaching club||TRICHY: The country will progress in the years to come if students pursuing higher education adopts one rural student and provide them education, said union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' while lauding the efforts of National Institute of technology (NIT) Trichy students for preparing rural government school students for JEE. The teaching club of NIT Trichy – IGNITTE has trained 20 students from government schools for JEE this year from Trichy district, of which two have secured seats at NIT Trichy. Pokhriyal was speaking after the inaugurating the golden jubilee building of the department of chemical engineering in NIT Trichy through virtual mode on Tuesday. The building was constructed at an outlay of Rs 7.7 crore with furnished seminar hall, modelling and simulation laboratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/edu-minister-lauds-nit-ts-teaching-club/articleshow/78777842.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Salem||Video of rats biting oxygen lines at ICU of Salem GH goes viral on social media||SALEM: After a video of rats straying into the intensive care unit (ICU) of the Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital went viral on social media on Tuesday, administrative staff members and officials in the hospital swung into action to end the rodent menace on the hospital premises. “We caught more than 100 rats in a single day on Tuesday,” an official of the hospital said. A patient’s attendant, whose father was getting treatment at the ICU, found rats freely roaming around in the room. “I was in the ICU with my father since Monday morning and I had seen more than 20 rats that were straying freely in the room,” Raja (name changed) said. He said the rats were also trying to bite oxygen lines in the ICU. When Raja informed about the rat menace to staff nurses, they replied to him to adjust with it as the rats would not trouble patients and their attendants. Shocked Raja took the video of rats in the ICU and forwarded it on social media. Dean Dr R Balajinathan who came to know about the video, immediately directed the administrative staff to catch the rats. Based on the dean's direction, rat trappings were set up at each ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/video-of-rats-biting-oxygen-lines-at-icu-of-salem-gh-goes-viral-on-social-media/articleshow/78777838.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Agra||AMU’s medical college terminates services of 2 docs, one of them says ‘paid for opinion on Hathras case’||Agra: The services of two temporary casualty medical officers (CMO) of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) were on Tuesday terminated. Soon a row erupted after one of them, Dr Mohammad Azimuddin Malik, alleged that his “opinion” in the Hathras case could be one of the reasons for his removal. The government hospital, however, has denied the charges.Dr Malik said, “We had never given any statement, but presented our opinion as a doctor to the media persons in Hathras case and that could be one of the reasons for my removal from JNMC.”Malik had contradicted the UP police, which alleged that there was no sign of rape on the body of the slain Dalit girl.He had given a statement that the samples taken for Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) examination 11 days after the September 14 assault “held no value”. This contradicted the police, which, while citing the FSL report, said that there was “no” semen on the body, so there was no rape. The other CMO whose services were terminated was Dr Obaid Imtiyazul Haque. But he wasn’t sure about the reason for his removal.They were issued an “urgent letter” on Tuesday saying, “Not to perform any further duties in the medical college.” The reason for their removal was not given in the letter issued by hospital in-charge Dr SAH Zaidi. Dr Malik said that he was appointed against “leave vacancy”. “We passed the post graduate exam this year and were invited to join here as many doctors were infected with Covid-19. And now they don’t want us to continue,” he said. Malik said that he has given a memorandum to the vice chancellor now. Meanwhile, Resident Doctors Association (RDA) president Mohammad Hamza Malik threatened to go on strike if the termination of the two doctors was not revoked.But, spokesperson of the varsity, Shafey Kidwai, said there was no connection between the termination and the Hathras rape case.The duo was appointed against “leave” vacancy when there was a pressure of Covid-19 patients in the hospital.“The doctors had sent a proposal for extension. But it was not approved by the vice-chancellor, as their services were no longer required,” he said, adding that they can be taken back if the hospital in-charge demands their services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amus-medical-college-terminates-services-of-2-docs-one-of-them-says-paid-for-opinion-on-hathras-case/articleshow/78776439.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||GB gives nod to piped gas supply in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The general body of the civic administration gave its approval to the proposal of laying gas pipelines in the city with the condition that the company which takes up the work would be responsible for restoring the roads that will be dug up for laying the pipelines. A few weeks ago, Sambhajiraje had lashed out at the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) for obstructing the project to provide piped gas supply to households. In the first phase, a substation of the gas supply network will be set up in the city with a capacity to provide cooking gas to 38,000 households. Congress corporator Sharanghdar Deshmukh said, “We never obstructed the project. We were concerned about the damage that will happen to the roads for laying the pipelines. We want the assurance from the company undertaking the project to restore the roads properly as and when they are dug.” The corporators were also furious about the delay in clearing the insurance claims of the civic staff who died during Covid duty. They claimed that out of the 13 people who died, the claim of only one has been considered. Senior corporator Jayant Patil said, “We have learnt that the claims are not being considered because those who died tested negative in the RT-PCR tests. However, their HRCT score was low and that is also considered to be one of the tests for determining Covid-19. The KMC must get the clarification about settling the claims in such cases from the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gb-gives-nod-to-piped-gas-supply-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78776426.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Video of moral policing goes viral in DK||Mangaluru: A video of moral policing, in which some unidentified men are seen caning a person accusing him of attempting to rape a girl, has gone viral on social media. The video also shows the man being beaten pleading with the unidentified men (with two of wearing masks) to pardon him. The man is accused of attempting to rape a girl on a hill in the outskirts of Mangaluru city. When contacted, Vinay Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru, said he is not aware about the viral video. “I will get it checked,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/video-of-moral-policing-goes-viral-in-dk/articleshow/78775231.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||City woman, friend do 75km cycle trek to Manali||OFF-ROAD CYCLING Ludhiana: Hers was a dream that even mountains could not stop. For, she knew how to manoeuvre through them, tirelessly. City’s Roopali Beri went to Manali with her Mumbai-based friend on a 75km bicycle trek. She claims to be the only woman from the city to have done the trek, which filled her with thrill and much-cherished experiences. Roopali, a resident of New Aggar Nagar who works in a private firm as general manager, says, “I have been cycling for the past three years, but on plains. During lockdown, I developed interest in off-road cycling. It is more adventurous. I made a plan with my friend Anurita Jha, who is an actress and part of a web series. Earlier, we were planning to go towards Shimla, but then decided to cycle to Atal Tunnel-Rohtang Pass and Manali.” She says they had started early morning on October 18 and finished by evening. About the trek, she says it is difficult to describe the experience in words. “I have seen Switzerland, but the beauty of this off-road trip was so much better. It was so beautiful and serene. It was a new kind of experience passing through Atal Tunnel on a bicycle. We could not click pictures inside the tunnel as photography is not allowed due to security reasons.” Regarding her future plans, she says she has decided to go on the Manali-Leh route in June and July. She says being a woman, it was quite challenging to do off-road cycling, and she will encourage others to do it but with all safety measures. Her friend says she will love to do some more adventure trips in the coming days. Both of them are still in Manali and will be back in the city by Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-woman-friend-do-75km-cycle-trek-to-manali/articleshow/78775225.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: BDO, aide held taking Rs 5,000 bribe||THANJAVUR: Sleuths of the Thanjavur unit of the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) arrested a block development officer (BDO) and his assistant here on Tuesday for seeking bribe from a private company employee for approving a housing plot. According to officials, Navinkumar of Ramakrishna Nagar in Thanjavur had bought a plot at Badmanaban Nagar near his residence in his wife’s name. He approached the office of the BDO at the Thanjavur union office and remitted the fee along with the application. However, when Navinkumar approached the office to know the status of his application, Mahadeva Rao, 56, office assistant, demanded Rs 5,000 as bribe to hand over the approval certificate. He filed a complaint with the DVAC department, who instructed him to hand over Rs 5,000 to Mahadeva Rao at his office on Tuesday. The DVAC sleuths who were around caught him red-handed. During interrogation, Rao told the officials that he had acted on the instruction of BDO Balasubramanian, who was also arrested subsequently. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdo-aide-held-taking-rs-5000-bribe/articleshow/78777862.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Agra||AMU’s medical college terminates services of 2 docs, one of them says ‘paid for opinion on Hathras case’||Strap: Medical college says they were hired on contract to deal with the Covid-19 rush, not needed anymoreAgra: The services of two temporary casualty medical officers (CMO) of AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) were on Tuesday terminated. Soon a row erupted after one of them, Dr Mohammad Azimuddin Malik, alleged that his “opinion” in the Hathras case could be one of the reasons for his removal. The government hospital, however, has denied the charges.Dr Malik said, “We had never given any statement, but presented our opinion as a doctor to the media persons in Hathras case and that could be one of the reasons for my removal from JNMC.”Malik had contradicted the UP police, which alleged that there was no sign of rape on the body of the slain Dalit girl.He had given a statement that the samples taken for Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) examination 11 days after the September 14 assault “held no value”. This contradicted the police, which, while citing the FSL report, said that there was “no” semen on the body, so there was no rape. The other CMO whose services were terminated was Dr Obaid Imtiyazul Haque. But he wasn’t sure about the reason for his removal.They were issued an “urgent letter” on Tuesday saying, “Not to perform any further duties in the medical college.” The reason for their removal was not given in the letter issued by hospital in-charge Dr SAH Zaidi. Dr Malik said that he was appointed against “leave vacancy”. “We passed the post graduate exam this year and were invited to join here as many doctors were infected with Covid-19. And now they don’t want us to continue,” he said. Malik said that he has given a memorandum to the vice chancellor now. Meanwhile, Resident Doctors Association (RDA) president Mohammad Hamza Malik threatened to go on strike if the termination of the two doctors was not revoked.But, spokesperson of the varsity, Shafey Kidwai, said there was no connection between the termination and the Hathras rape case.The duo was appointed against “leave” vacancy when there was a pressure of Covid-19 patients in the hospital.“The doctors had sent a proposal for extension. But it was not approved by the vice-chancellor, as their services were no longer required,” he said, adding that they can be taken back if the hospital in-charge demands their services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amus-medical-college-terminates-services-of-2-docs-one-of-them-says-paid-for-opinion-on-hathras-case/articleshow/78775278.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Rajkot||Death penalty sought for rapist, killer of 12-year-old girl||PALANPUR: The Deaf and Mute Association in Palanpur has sought death penalty for the alleged rapist and killer of the 12-year-old girl who was brutally murdered in Deesa last week. The association members along with teachers of the deceased submitted a memorandum in this regard to the district superintendent of police Tarun Duggal in Palanpur on Tuesday. Kanchan Pandya, who used to teach the deceased girl in school said, “The accused has committed a heinous crime taking advantage of the disability of the girl. He needs to be given the maximum punishment which is death penalty. Such enemy of civil society do not have the right to live.” Pandya is also recipient of the President’s award for her work for the deaf and mute students. She is presently working at Mamta Mandir Palanpur. Decapitated body of the the 12-year-old was found in Moti Bhakar village of Dantiwada taluka, about 10 km from Deesa town. She had been missing since October 16 evening from her home. Police have arrested her 24-year-old cousin on charges of abduction, rape and murder. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/death-penalty-sought-for-rapist-killer-of-12-year-old-girl/articleshow/78775314.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||JMC prepares for polls, ensures Covid SOPs’ compliance||Jaipur: In order to protect the voters coming to the polling station from coronavirus infection, one nominee of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) will be appointed at each polling station and subsidiary polling station. The nominee will ensure that masks be given to the voters who will come without one and hands are sanitised before voting. Polling is scheduled for Municipal Corporation Jaipur Heritage on October 29 and for Greater on November 1. These instructions have been issued by commissioner, Municipal Corporation Jaipur Greater, Dinesh Kumar Yadav and Heritage commissioner Lok Bandhu, in a meeting held on Tuesday. Along with this, instructions have also been issued to get the polling booths sanitised two days before polling. Instructions have been given to all the deputy commissioners and the concerned officers that before the polling day, on the polling day and after the polling, there should be smooth cleaning around the area. Instructions have been given to maintain all the lights and drainage system around the polling station.To maintain social distancing, JMC has ordered three queues to be made at each polling station at a distance of 1-1 metres. The shells will be made at a distance of 1-1 yards on these three lines. This will ensure social distancing upwards and backwards. Along with this, a flag giving protective message on coronavirus will also be installed at each polling station. Apart from this, instructions have also been given to officers to arrange shade, water, light and emergency light, ramp construction etc. at polling stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-prepares-for-polls-ensures-covid-sops-compliance/articleshow/78777867.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Youth found murdered in Azamgarh village||VARANASI: A Dalit youth Pradeep Kumar of Dalitpur village under the limits of Pavai police station in Azamgarh district was found murdered in a sugarcane field of his village on Tuesday morning. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said that as per initial investigation it is suspected that Pradeep was strangulated and then his body was dumped in the field. The investigation is on and the case would be worked out soon, he added. The police said that Pradeep operated a boat in a river near the village to earn his livelihood. On Monday evening, he had left home after handing over his earnings of the day to his mother after someone called him over phone. However, when he did not return in night his family members tried to search him at various places but could not find him. On Tuesday morning, some women had gone to the fields to collect fodder for animals when they noticed a large numbers of dogs in a sugarcane field. When they reached the sugarcane field they spotted the body lying there and raised an alarm. Within a few minutes, hundreds of villagers gathered there. Police had to faced anger of villager over killing of Pradeep when they reached the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/youth-found-murdered-in-azamgarh-village/articleshow/78778419.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Sack Anna University vice-chancellor, CPM tells government||COIMBATORE: The CPM, led by MP P R Natarajan, protested against Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa on Tuesday. CPM cadres gathered in front of the south taluk office and raised slogans, demanding the state government to initiate steps to sack Surappa. Speaking to reporters, Natarajan said the state government had made a mistake by giving nod for the bifurcation of Anna University. It was following this decision that Surappa wrote to the Union government arbitrarily without the concurrence of the state government that the varsity could generate funds on its own and that it could be accorded the ‘Institution of Eminence’ status. “State education minister should have moved for dismissal of the vice-chancellor. But he and the law minister, who flayed the Surappa’s action, were soft in their criticism. We want the vice-chancellor, who acted arbitrarily, to be sacked immediately,” Natarajan said. The CPM also condemned the governor for not giving assent to 7.5% quota for the government school students in medical colleges. Similar protest was held in Tirupur by the party cadres in front of the corporation office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sack-anna-univ-vice-chancellor-cpm-tells-govt/articleshow/78777860.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Passion drives women to take up forest guard job||COIMBATORE: Guarding the forest wasn’t considered women’s forte in the past. But times have changed and women have proved it isn’t an impossible task for them. Today, you could see them patrolling the reserve forest sans any fear, with firecrackers and sickles in their hands. For some, it’s a passion. K Dhevaki, of Bodinayakanur in Theni district, had given up her lecturer’s post with an engineering college to become a forest guard. She could be seen patrolling the reserve forest behind the Bharathiar University premises. S Abisha Kumari, an engineering graduate from Kanyakumari district, is also a forest guard with the Coimbatore forest range today. Earlier, the Tamil Nadu Forest Department used to recruit only men for the post of forest guards, who have to cover a vast area of forest by walk, preventing poaching and animals from straying into human habitats. It was in 2019 that women were recruited for the post of forest guards for the first time in Tamil Nadu. They were given a six-month training at the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy in the district and the Tamil Nadu Forestry Training College in Theni district. They were taken to the reserve forest during the training and trained in catching snakes. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami subsequently handed them over the training completion certificates in September 2019 and they were appointed as forest guards. Dhevaki said, “I had completed Msc (physics) and MPhil and was working as a lecturer with a private engineering college. I applied for the post of forest guard and I was recruited by the government. Guarding the forest is one of the best jobs. We patrol the reserve forest by walk along with officials, anti-poaching watchers and anti-depredation watchers. We chase the wild elephants away into the reserve forest from villages that are located on the forest fringes.” Abisha Kumari is, meanwhile, a BE (agricultural engineering) holder. She said she was always interested in uniformed services. “After graduation, I applied for the post of the forest guard and I am one now. I love forest. Women can protect the nature as men do.” She was a member of ‘elite force’ which would act swiftly during the forest fire and prevent man-animal conflicts. She could ride motorcycles with gear through the rough reserve forest terrain. K Sarammal, who had completed MSc and Mphil (computer science), is another woman officer present with the Coimbatore forest range. Recruited as a forester in 2017, she was earlier working with the Boluvampatti forest range. “Initially, my parents and other family members were hesitant to send me for the post of forester. Later, they understood that all the staff are very supportive. I am proud of myself for protecting the forest.” More women are being trained to protect the forests. S Priya, from Erode, is one among them. She has completed BSc (forestry) from Mettupalayam forest college. She has been recruited for the post of forest range officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/passion-drives-women-to-take-up-forest-guard-job/articleshow/78777872.cms||A Subburaj
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Fear of Covid keeps readers away from libraries and study rooms in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Most libraries and study rooms in the city are going empty as the fear of the viral infection has got the better of citizens despite there being a sharp decline in the number of cases being reported on an average everyday. Since Thursday, the libraries and the study rooms have been allowed to open after staying shut for close to seven months. The standard operating procedure has been issued to run the libraries and study rooms. Currently, some big libraries are only making books available and not allowing readers to sit and read.An office-bearer of Shivaji University’s Balasaheb Khardekar Library said, “Right now, there are very few readers coming to read books in the library on a regular basis. Here, readers have to choose their books and transmission of Covid-19 may take place if any infected person comes in contact with other readers. We are now providing books to the readers at home.”The private study rooms are struggling to survive. Most study rooms are functioning out of rented properties. The operators are being troubled by the property owners to pay the rent. While some owners have been considerate enough to take the rent in part payments, many are demanding one-time payment.Tushar Shinde, a study room operator in Rajarampuri said, “Currently, there are no exams. No university or college has opened and, therefore, students from their hometowns are also not arriving to the city. Most of our customers are the students who have stayed back at their homes as either the competitive exams are postponed or the colleges are not scheduled to open anytime soon. By keeping the study rooms shut, we can at least save on power bills.”There are over 80 study rooms in the city. They are charged the power bills and property tax at commercial rates. Moreover, they are in a tight spot as they cannot charge a hefty monthy fee from students who are mostly from the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fear-of-covid-keeps-readers-away-from-libraries-and-study-rooms-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78776476.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Doorstep meetings, social media will be mainstays of poll campaign in Jaipur||JAIPUR: With filing of nominations for municipal elections coming to an end on Monday, candidates have chalked out a detailed plan for campaigning in the city. Door-to-door meetings with residents and social media blitz will be the mainstay of campaigns this year. More than 1,000 people will be contesting for 250 seats in both Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater and Heritage. Guidelines have been issued by the election commission to maintain social distancing while going for door-to-door survey. Mahesh Kalwani, BJP candidate contesting from Ward 95 in Jaipur Heritage, said that this year his main focus is social media. “I would have to meet people, but social media will be a major focus. Due to ongoing pandemic there is still fear in public. I have posted all my goals on the WhatsApp groups of colony people. On Facebook and Instagram, my IT team is updating constantly,” said Kalwani. Bhagwat Singh Deval, Congress candidate, do not have much knowledge of technology. So his children are helping him to update on social media. “This is a new generation and I have lot of catching up to do. I have decided to go to each household three times personally while following all the social distancing protocol. The civic problems of the residents, work I had done when I was councillor in the last term are been put on social media,” said Deval. Raghav Sharma, BJP district head, made it clear that the goal of their party has been decided. “From tomorrow, we will start distributing pamphlets, lotus print masks, sanitizers. Our women workers, SC/ST worker, youth wing all will work in co-operation to make this election a success. Public meetings in small number will be organised in parks but there will not be much noise this time,” said Sharma. Umar Daraz, a councillor of Congress from Adarsh Nagar legislative assembly, said that with fine balance in personal and virtual meet up will be helpful. Until a candidate shows his face to the public, he will not get vote but the frequency has to be reduced, he said. Many candidates from both parties filled up forms independently as they were denied tickets. Addressing the workers at the inauguration of the office of Congress candidate Uttam Sharma, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariwas on Tuesday said, “The Congress is in a very strong position in the municipal elections. In such a situation, it is the responsibility of all of us to unite and work for the victory of Congress candidate. Out of many applicants, only one of them got a ticket, selection was made transparent and qualified candidates were fielded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doorstep-meetings-social-media-will-be-mainstays-of-poll-campaign/articleshow/78777861.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chennai||Meeting on structure to facilitate fishing boats in Pulicat on October 29||CHENNAI: After much delay, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) is finally organising a meeting seeking public opinion on the proposed project to build training walls at Pulicat Lake. A training wall is a wall or jetty that confines and directs the flow of a river or tide. The construction, at a cost of Rs 27 crore, is aimed at preventing sand deposit at the lake’s mouth and ensure smooth operation of boats into sea throughout the year. While fishermen want the construction to begin soon, environmentalists say this could cause severe environmental damage. K Bharathi, president of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, who will represent concerns of 10 fishing villages near Pulicat, said sand dunes at the point where the lake joins the sea reduce the depth and width of the passage making the movement of boats very risky. “So many fishermen have lost their lives while crossing this stretch and hundreds of boats have got damaged. But the government doesn’t even dredge regularly to ensure smooth sailing,” he said. However, constructing of walls will prevent water exchange between the lake and the sea and this could affect reproduction of prawns and few other fish. Eventually this might affect the livelihood of fishermen there, said ecologist D Narasimhan. The creek is very fragile and once its nature is altered, it could cause severe environmental damage, he said, stressing on the need for TNPCB to consider all such aspects before going ahead with the clearance process. Though fishermen said exchange of water was inevitable, they want the government to adopt the Chennai Harbour model and not just construct two parallel walls with groynes and access roads. Such attempts at Rameshwaram and other coastal towns have not been very successful. A senior TNPCB official said the project was designed by the state fisheries department after consulting experts from IIT Madras (Department of Ocean Engineering) who inspected the site. “Opinions of all stakeholders will be considered and recorded,” he said. The public hearing meeting will take place at TNPCG district environmental engineer office at SIPCOT Industrial Complex in Gummidipoondi on October 29. It took many years for the project, mooted soon after the 2004 Tsunami, to materialize. The Centre had denied permission in 2018. Only now, considerable progress has been recorded after a two-year gap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/training-wall-at-pulicat-hearing-on-oct-29-fisherfolk-activists-divided/articleshow/78776440.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 21, 2020||India||ED attaches more assets, worth Rs 22cr, of Mirchis||NEW DELHI: One year into its investigation of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim aide Iqbal Mirchi and his family members, the Enforcement Directorate has attached properties worth Rs 800 crore, with Rs 22 crore worth of assets attached on Monday, including a cinema hall, a farmhouse and 3.5 acres in Panchgani in Maharashtra. The late Mirchi’s wife Hazra and two sons, Junaid and Asif, have fled to London from Dubai to escape arrest and deportation after the ED moved court and obtained open ended non-bailable arrest warrants against them, sources said. The agency had earlier attached Rs 200 crore worth of properties in Dubai, including hotels and private residences. The ED has filed a chargesheet in the case and is preparing to file for extradition of the fugitives. “ED has provisionally attached seven properties and bank balances totalling to Rs 22.4 crore of the kin of Iqbal Mirchi under Section 5 of PMLA,” the agency said. The agency had earlier attached assets worth Rs 776 crore, including overseas assets of Rs 203 crore, taking the total attachment in this case to Rs 798 crore. The ED’s investigation found that Junaid and Asif were still running Mirchi’s drug cartel based out of the UK and the UAE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-attaches-more-assets-worth-rs-22cr-of-mirchis/articleshow/78778959.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Rukmani Nagar folk denying access to corporation park, road’||COIMBATORE: A resident of Ramanathapuram petitioned the city corporation on Tuesday stating people residing at Rukmani Nagar were not allowing residents from adjacent layouts to use the park that was developed by the civic body and the access road to the same. The petitioner, J Swaminathan, said the park was set up by the corporation under its Smart City Mission one and a half years ago. It is the only park located in ward number 74. He said, “People residing near the park have been prohibiting us both from using the park and its access road by setting up a gate. As a result, people from Kamarajar Nagar, Karunandhini Nagar, Bharati Nagar and Arumugam Nagar could not use the road at all.” Whenever someone attempts to walk on the access road, they are being threatened of dire consequences, he said, adding that he had filed a complaint against five people with the Ramanathapuram police station after being threatened by them. Police are yet to file a FIR. He demanded the corporation to take necessary steps to ensure that people from other layouts are also allowed to use the park and to appoint a security guard for the park. When contacted, a corporation official said that they have not received any such complaints and assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rukmani-nagar-folk-denying-access-to-corpn-park-road/articleshow/78777873.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corpn release list of fever camps||Trichy: Trichy Corporation on Tuesday released the schedule for Covid-19 fever camps to be conducted for the next four days in all four zones here. Sunnambukara Street, Amma Mandapam Road, Khajamalai, Melachinthamani, Pandamanagalam and Sangliyandapuram localities will be covered on Wednesday. Duraisamipuram, Fort Station Road and Viswas Nagar will have fever camps on Thursday. Kempstown, Indian Bank Colony, Big Bazaar Street and West Boulevard Road will have fever camps on Friday, while Chinna Milaguparai, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, Viraguppettai and Thillai Nagar will be covered on Saturday. Residents can contact the helplines below to know the exact locations of the camps in their localities. Srirangam zone: 76395 11000, Ariyamangalam zone: 76395 22000, Ponmalai zone: 76395 33000 and K Abishekapuram zone: 76395 44000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-release-list-of-fever-camps/articleshow/78777884.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Congress vertically divided, says Union minister Shekhawat||Jodhpur: Taking a dig at the Congress for not releasing its list of candidates for municipal elections, Union jal shakti minister and MP from Jodhpur Gajendra Singh Shekhawat here said that Congress was vertically divided.He said that Congress was so apprehensive of the results that instead of releasing the list of its candidates, the party leaders informed the candidates on phone advising them to file their nominations. “Because of this confusion and indecision, two-three workers of Congress have filed nominations from one ward and interestingly none of them knew who would finally get the symbol,” Shekhawat said.He added that this was the condition of the Congress despite undertaking restructuring and division of wards.It may be noted that fearing rebellion, Congress didn’t declare the list of its candidates and thus triggered a state of confusion in the party unit in Jodhpur, which is the hometown of chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Gehlot’s son Vibhav Gehlot also remained present in Jodhpur for two days to be part of the candidate selection but he is said to have given in to the wishes and choices of the local leaders and MLA. Terming this situation detrimental to the prospects of the party in the election, one party worker said that nobody knew exactly what was happening and why there was no clarity on the name of candidates.“None of the leaders of the party here has been replying to our queries. This was not good for the party,” he said.Interestingly, even the authorized spokesperson of the party in Jodhpur Ajay Trivedi has not been accessible for three days keeping his phone switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-vertically-divided-says-union-minister-shekhawat/articleshow/78777896.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Molester still free as CCTV cameras go blind||AHMEDABAD: The net of CCTV cameras of the so-called smart city seems to fail when cases of molestation surfaces. This happened again in the Jodhpur molestation case where a 22-year-old woman was molested by a scooter-borne man on Sunday evening when she was on a walk. Earlier, city police could not nab a man who molested an Italian woman in Bodakdev in October 2019. Anandnagar police personnel probing the Jodhpur molestation case scoured footage from at least eight CCTVs installed by the city civic body and checked 25 cameras installed in private societies which have the dwelling places of leading lawyers, industrialists and builders, but got no clue. This is because many of them were not even working and were just installed for show. An officer of Anandnagar police who is part of the investigation team of five cops said they have not got any clues in the case so far. “We have for the last three days been checking CCTV cameras but many of them were not even working and the residents of these societies did not even know they were not functional,” said the officer. Apart from private CCTV cameras, cameras installed near an AMC (Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation) garden in the vicinity were also not working. “We have been relying on local residents to get clues about the molester,” added the officer. Police got two proper pieces of footage from a school nearby, but it did not capture the accused, said the officer. The incident took place at around 7pm on Sunday when the woman, who was on evening walk, was molested near the Bandhan party plot in the Jodhpur area. The woman could not recall even how the perpetrator looked, or his vehicle type, as she was too shaken up. She later approached police and filed a complaint of molestation against unknown man. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/molester-still-free-as-cctv-cameras-go-blind/articleshow/78776494.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Co-ordination cell to take action against illegal biz in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district collector and the Nashik city and rural police will soon be setting up a co-ordination cell to jointly take action against illegal activities or businesses in the rural areas of the district. In the near future, a dedicated number will also be floated by the collectorate so that citizens can inform about any illegal activity to the co-ordination cell.The decision about setting up a co-ordination cell comes close on the heels of the letters sent by commisoners of Nashik city police Deepak Pandey to district collector Suraj Mandhare, Regional Transport Office (RTO) and the superintendent of the excise department, Nashik.Mandhare said that departments like the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), RTO, state excise department, revenue department and forest department have their own inspectors. While these departments would continue to take action against illegal businesses or activities under their jurisdictions, the police would pitch in whenever the concerned departments need their assistance. Pandey said the police would not unnecessarily check documents and challan motorists as their primary role would be to streamline traffic. However, if there is any violation of rule in front of a policeman, the officer will be authorised to take action against the motorists and also check if he has the relevant documents. Mandhare said that with the help of the police, the FDA would also launch a drive to address the rampant use of ‘Kutta Goli’ in Malegaon. The pill induces drowsiness and a large number of youngsters are addicted to the pill. The police and the FDA would be taking joint action in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/co-ordination-cell-to-take-action-against-illegal-biz-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/78776489.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 21, 2020||Surat||Blast in Jhagadia chemical unit kills fabrication worker||Surat: A fabrication worker was killed following a blast in an air pressure tank at a chemical manufacturing company located in Jhagadia GIDC of Bharuch district late on Monday evening. The decease was identified as Anup Singhasan Pandey (24), a resident of Chemie Organic colony in Jhagadia GIDC.He is native of Uttar Pradesh. Police said that he died on the spot due to serious injuries on his face and chest. Sources said that the incident occurred at about 8.30 pm. The deceased was performing the fabrication work at the under-construction portion at the company when the blast took place in the air pressure tank. The deceased was a contractual worker of the HK Fabrication in Jhagadia and that was deployed for the fabrication work along with three other workers. P H Vasava, police inspector of Jhagadia police station said, “The deceased was working alone at the time of incident. His fellow worker, Ravi Pandey, who was working in another area inside the company, heard the blast and rushed to the spot to find the deceased lying in the pool of blood.” Vasava added, “A case has been registered and investigations are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/blast-in-jhagadia-chemical-unit-kills-fabrication-worker/articleshow/78774119.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KAL’s e-autos exported to Nepal||Thiruvananthapuram: The export of first batch of electric autorickshaws manufactured by the state public sector undertaking Kerala Automobiles Ltd (KAL), Neem G autos, to Nepal began here on Tuesday. Industries minister E P Jayarajan handed over the documents, of the autos to the dealers in Nepal at a function here. As many as 25 e-autorickshaws are being exported to Nepal in the first batch. The minister said that government’s interventions and the joint effort of KAL employees was able to rescue the PSU running in losses. On Tuesday, KAL received another order for eight autorickshaws from dealer Himalaya Motors Pvt Ltd. These will also be exported soon. KAL expects to sell 500 autos in Nepal per year.  KAL has restored the export that was stalled since 2007. In addition to Nepal, KAL is in talks with Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Kenya for exporting the e-autos. There are 17 dealers in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Andhra, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. As lockdown eased, commercial production of the e-auto is going on in full swing at KAL at Neyyattinkara in the capital.  The company aims to produce 200 autos per month. There will be nine sales and service centres for e-auto in the state. The company, that had a turnover of Rs 80 lakhs in 2017-18, expects a turnover of Rs 25 crore in 2020-21. Plans are afoot to produce batteries for the autorickshaws within the state. Travancore Titanium Products Ltd is planning to produce batteries using Lithium Titenate which is the main material required for Lithium-Ion batteries. KAL claims that the e-autos are capable of travelling around 100 km in a full charge but can increase the mileage even more if charged when the vehicle is resting. The company is also working out plans to begin electric charging stations across the state with help from KSEB. The e-auto at an approximate cost of Rs 2.5 lakhs can be operated with just 50paisa/km expense for owners, thus fetching better profits for rickshaw drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kals-e-autos-exported-to-nepal/articleshow/78776511.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Varanasi||Punjab police refuses to hand over Mukhtar Ansari||VARANASI: Citing a 68-day-old medical board report that diagnosed mafia don Mukhtar Ansari with recurrent depression, type 2 diabetes and other ailments, Punjab Police refused to hand over gangster Mukhtar Ansari to a UP Police team, which reached Ropar prison on Tuesday armed with a court order. Punjab prison brass did not budge to requests, despite several rounds of talks between senior police officials of two states. A team of Ghazipur police had gone to Rupnagar (Ropar) jail to bring Mukhtar for producing him before MP-MLA court at Prayagraj, besides questioning him on arms licences issued on fake documents. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan told TOI on Tuesday, “A team of Ghazipur police had gone to Rupnagar jail to bring Mukhtar. But Rupnagar prison authorities and police refused to hand over Mukhtar, citing his medical condition.” A three-member medical board of Rupnagar civil surgeon stated in its August 13 report that Mukhtar was diagnosed with radiculopathy in left lower limb, type-2 diabetes and recurrent depression with somatic symptoms, advising treatment and bed rest for three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/punjab-police-refuses-to-hand-over-mukhtar/articleshow/78778431.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Post NEET, spike in demand for management quota seats in engineering||TRICHY: S Srinesh from Trichy, who could not score well in the national eligibility cum entrance test (NEET) last year, had decided to repeat the exam this year. With the hope of cracking NEET, he had decided not to register for engineering counselling conducted by directorate of technical education (DOTE) to the engineering colleges affiliated to the Anna University. Unfortunately, Srinesh could not perform well this year as well in NEET, and he is now looking for management seats in self-financing engineering colleges. There are many such students as the self-financing engineering colleges in the city are witnessing an increase in enquires for the management quota seats. This is after the NEET results were announced last week as candidates who could not qualify for NEET have started looking for other options. As many students don’t apply for the engineering counselling assuming to be able to get medical seat, unsuccessful candidates look for seats in engineering colleges. D Valavan, principal of Saranathan College of Engineering (SCE) said that he received a few enquiries for management quota seats over the last few days. These are students who remain confident about cracking NEET by scoring at least 450 marks hoping that they would get medical seats in self-financing medical colleges if not government colleges. The number of such students is very less as most students keep alternative options open, said S Ravimaran, principal of MAM Engineering College, Trichy. Usually engineering counselling starts after medical counselling but Covid-19 outbreak has postponed NEET and the results were declared only last week. While the counselling is awaited, DOTE has already started engineering counselling. A portion of popular engineering college seats may go vacant once NEET counselling gets over. Supplementary counselling will be conducted for filling the vacant engineering college seats at a later stage, but it may not help candidates in getting a seat in their desired colleges, said Valavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/post-neet-spike-in-demand-for-mgmt-quota-seats-in-engg/articleshow/78777899.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Malviya Nagar residents want overhaul of sewerage network||Jaipur: For the residents of wards in Malviya Nagar assembly constituency, old sewerage network is the biggest problem. The municipal election is only 10 days away and people have started asking questions to the candidates for the pathetic sanitation condition.In wards, sewerage lines were laid 40 years ago and since then the population of the area has doubled. Tulsi Roopani, a resident of the area, said, “Every other day, sewer lines get choked. We have to call up the officials who usually come late. Till then, sewer water keeps flooding the roads.” Another issue people are facing is the sanitation problem. Door-to-door garbage collection survey is not working properly. “Vehicles are not coming to the area. The vehicle comes once or twice in a week if we are lucky. On every nook and corner, garbage is thrown by the people. Earlier, sanitation staff used to visit the area, but for the last three months, roads are not cleaned properly,” said Ramesh Sharma, another resident.Malviya Nagar colony has around 35 public parks which are neglected by the authorities. There are many complaints that parks are been encroached by the people who have started to open temporary shops adjoining the walls. In 2014, the BJP won all the nine wards in Malviya Nagar legislative assembly. This is considered to be a stronghold of the saffron party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/malviya-nagar-residents-want-overhaul-of-sewerage-network/articleshow/78777878.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||No headway in jewellery robbery case||Jaipur: The city police have sent teams to Punjab and Haryana to look for the three persons who robbed a jewellery store in Murlipura on Saturday.They decamped with valuables worth Rs 80 lakh. The police have identified one accused, but are yet to identify the two others. Pradeep Mohan Sharma, DCP (Jaipur West) said, “We have sent teams to other states to find the accused. We have the main accused who is from Jaipur and once we arrest him, he will tell us about the others as well.” Three armed robbers barged into a jewellery shop at Naadi Ka Phatak area in Murlipura locality and executed the robbery on Saturday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-headway-in-jewellery-robbery-case/articleshow/78777906.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mysuru||VTU tweaks names of 10 BE courses for students’ benefit||Mysuru: In a big move, which is expected to help thousands of students who graduated from the state-run Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), the university announced that 10 of its BE courses, which are not in demand, as equivalent to their peer courses which are in demand. For example, the university announced that BE in industrial production and engineering, automobile engineering and tool engineering are equivalent to BE in mechanical engineering. Similarly, BE in transportation engineering, construction technology and management and environmental engineering are equivalent to BE in civil engineering. “It is a big move which is expected to help a lot of students,” said authorities from the university. According to VTU vice-chancellor Karisiddappa, if any past graduates facing any issues due to the course name, they can approach the university seeking the equivalent certificate. According to sources, the proposal in this regard is old. “There were complaints that a few graduates not being able to climb the corporate ladder in the mid-career level due to the course name. In the last three years, there was a proposal in this regard,” said an officer from the technical education department. “Many courses have the same syllabus and teaching methodology even though the course names were different. Now these courses are announced as equivalent,” Karisiddappa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vtu-tweaks-names-of-10-be-courses-for-students-benefit/articleshow/78775331.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||SMS doctors stick to remdesivir for treatment, refutes WHO claims||JAIPUR: Refuting the claim made by World Health Organisation (WHO) on remdesivir, the core Covid-19 treatment group at Sawai Man Singh Medical College has said that the drug has been effective in preventing mortalities. The WHO had recently claimed that remdesivir had little or no effect on the overall mortality of patients. Rajasthan’s Covid management standard protocol, drafted by the SMS Hospital team, meanwhile, says, “Remdesivir may be considered in patients with moderate to severe disease (those on oxygen), preferably early disease.” ‘The Solidarity Trial’ interim results, published by WHO on October 15, found “that all four treatments evaluated (remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon) had little or no effect on overall mortality, initiation of ventilation and duration of hospital stay in patients”. The health department had issued Rajasthan’s Covid management standard protocol on October 17. “Remdesivir is one of the most effective drugs available for Covid patients and helps in preventing mortality. We completely disagree with WHO’s claim on remdesivir,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College, and head of the core treatment group. Doctors in government and private hospitals are now providing remdesivir injection to patients. While in children, doctors are not advocating using the combination of remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), in adults with moderate symptoms, doctors have prescribed remdesivir 200mg over 90-120 minutes on the first day, followed by 100mg for four days. The course is given while the doctors continuously monitored liver function. The health department provided remdesivir injections to every district hospital across the state to treat Covid patients after the core team advocated it as an effective drug, which has saved the lives of many patients. This is not the first time that there has been disagreements with WHO's findings. Earlier, when WHO had halted clinical trials of HCQ following safety concerns in May, the core group had called it “propaganda”. HCQ is still part of the Covid management protocol of the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-docs-stick-to-remdesivir-for-treatment-refutes-who-claims/articleshow/78777901.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Jumbo goes rogue in Jhalawar, tranquillised||JAIPUR: The forest department on Tuesday tranquillised a rogue elephant at Bilwari village in Jhalawar district. The enraged jumbo had unleashed panic in the area, chasing trucks and other vehicles on the highway near the village, on Monday night. The elephant was coming from Madhya Pradesh along with its mahout, a priest. Jhalawar DFO Hemant Singh Shekhawat said the elephant was in ‘musth’, a periodic condition characterised by highly aggressive behaviour owing to the rise in reproductive hormones in autumn and early winter. Watch: Forest department tranquillises a rogue elephant at Bilwari village in #Jhalawar district.… https://t.co/BFddsW35Dt— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1603259440000“On Monday night, our team and the mahout somehow managed to take the elephant to nearby fields and tied one leg. However, after a while, it turned violent again and uprooted trees. Our staff and the caretaker were on their toes round-the-clock to distract the animal from a distance,” Shekhawat said. As it was found necessary to tranquillise the aggressive animal, the forest department called a team from Kota. The elephant was kept in the fields near the village and forest officials prevented it from going berserk. On Tuesday, the veterinary doctor from Kota tranquillised the animal. “A pit has been dug near the elephant as experts said that it likes to drink a lot of water and food during this period,” said an official. Sources said this was the first time that a tame elephant had to be tranquillised in such circumstances in Rajasthan. Since the case was one of its kind, the forest administration also sought advice from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII-Dehradun) and NGOs dealing with jumbos. Balu Khan, a mahout at Hathigaon, said, “One can easily identify a 'musth' elephant. There will be a secretion over its ear and eye. It is prominent. An elephant in 'musth' can be dangerous and cause widespread damage to crops and property.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jumbo-goes-rogue-injhalawar-tranquillised/articleshow/78777911.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Allahabad||Being optimistic soothed double blow of Covid & ailments||PRAYAGRAJ: For Bhadohi native Hridya Narayan (50), his frequent visits to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital in Prayagraj for a dialysis were a necessary burden. Struggling with a kidney ailment, Narayan was devastated when he got to know that he had tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) during one such hospital visit for dialysis on August 25. “I was saddened thinking about how I would have to stay away from my loved ones and my chances of survival. However, I kept telling myself that I have to live longer and it was only a few days before I recovered.” A co-morbidity like a kidney ailment is known to complicate the treatment for Covid-19. However, there are many patients in Prayagraj who said that their positive mindset helped them defeat the fatal disease despite having a kidney ailment. “It is said that the more attention we pay to our problems, the weaker we become. So, I decided to face the problem instead,” said Narayan. Georgetown resident Deepmala (40) found out that she had Covid-19 while undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment in a private hospital of the city in August. “I stayed optimistic and kept my faith. There were times when I thought that everything was over, but I used to force myself to think positively and believed that I would be healthy soon,” she said. “Do not pay attention to small problems. When I tested positive for Covid-19, I was disappointed. I thought about how everything could end. However, as soon soon as I stopped paying attention to small problems, I felt lighter and more in control of the situation,” said Pradeep Singh, who battled the virus while reeling under a kidney ailment. Like Deepmala and Narayan, Singh too tested positive for Covid-19 in July last week while undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment. “Also, the love and support I got from my family helped me recover faster,” said the Ghurpur resident.“My confidence also inspired other Covid-19 patients who were being treated at the hospital. One of them, Jaikishan from Gopiganj, was also going through a dialysis, but he did not give up his hope of recovering,” said Narayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/being-optimistic-soothed-double-blow-of-covid-ailments/articleshow/78778447.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Cong will form boards in six civic bodies: Pilot||Jaipur: Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Tuesday said the Congress will form boards in all the six civic bodies in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota where polling will be held on October 29 and November 1.The names of candidates for the elections were finalised after due consultation and discussions, he said. Pilot added, "Those who have been given tickets are party workers. The tickets were given on the basis of feedback, chances of win etc. AICC too has sent observers." On the issue of the AICC committee which was formed to look into the issues raised by him and other MLAs in August after his rebellion, Pilot said that the committee would soon come to a conclusion."Whatever discussion they have to do, they are doing it. Everything is in their knowledge. Very soon, the committee will come to a conclusion and we should all wait for that," he said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-will-form-boards-in-six-civic-bodies-pilot/articleshow/78777902.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Onion-shallot prices shoot up in Tamil Nadu due to rain, crop loss in other states||TRICHY/MADURAI: The price of shallots and onion touched up to Rs 130 and Rs 100 respectively for a kilogram in Trichy on Tuesday with wholesale traders attributing it to the heavy downpour in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh which destroyed the crop and apparently led to hoarding. In Madurai, onion price touched a new high of Rs 100/kg which traders expect will go up to Rs 130/kg in wholesale in a few days, whereas shallot price may cross Rs 150/kg. Shortfall in supply due to non-arrival of stocks across the state had led to the steep price rise in the last two weeks. In the wholesale Gandhi market in Trichy, a kilogram of shallot was sold at Rs 100 and Bellary onion at Rs 80 on Tuesday. Shallot and Bellary onion were sold for Rs 70 and Rs 50 respectively a week ago. In Madurai, shallot is sold between Rs 90-Rs 120 depending on its quality, say traders. People have started purchasing in bulk to stock it up till Diwali. Unlike yesteryears, prices of all vegetables including onion shoot up during ‘Puratasi’ month, as a majority of people skip non-veg food, says P Maheshwaran, a resident of Puthur. “However, the price of both have been skyrocketing before the start of puja festival and it may touch its peak for Diwali”, he added. P S Murugan, president of All Vegetable Sellers Association, said that Nashik in Maharashra is the major supplier of onion for Madurai market. Due to rain, the quality of onion from Nashik is not good and they are getting consignments from Bengaluru now. “Madurai is the biggest market in south Tamil Nadu supplying vegetables to at least six districts. We are paying Rs 75-Rs 80 for onions and we have to sell it for at least Rs 90/kg, if not Rs 100/kg,” he said. Wholesale traders in Gandhi Market said that instead of the usual 300 tonnes of small onion and Bellary onion arriving every day, they have been receiving only half the quantity. “Wholesale traders are releasing the existing stock in meagre volume by escalating the price. That is the main reason for the price hike”, the general secretary of Trichy Onion Commission Mandi Traders’ Association, A Thangaraj said. A considerable quantity of onion from Egypt reached Madurai on Tuesday, but it will not bring down the price of onions for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/onion-shallot-prices-shoot-up-in-tn-due-to-rain-crop-loss-in-other-states/articleshow/78777903.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Foresters to seek Karnataka help to tame wild tusker||Kolhapur: The officials and leaders in Kolhapur are considering bringing in trained elephants from Karnataka to tame a wild tusker causing damage to the paddy crop in Ajara taluka of the district.As per the forest department official, one wild tusker has been spotted in Ajara and a few others have been seen in the forest areas of the Kolhapur district. The presence of the tusker has caused panic among the locals there. All efforts to stop the entry of the tuskers in the region have failed. Sanjay Mandlik, Kolhapur MP and the MLAs from Ajara, Bhudargad and Chandgad discussed the issue with forest officials. “In all these talukas, the wild elephants have entered the residential localities. They have already damaged crops. They need to be tamed immidiately. We have asked forest officials to co-ordinate with Karnataka forest department and bring trained elephants. These elephants are trained to tame the wild elephants and the method has been effective at many places,” said Mandlik.The MP has asked V Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur division, to coordinate with the Karnataka officials. Mandlik said that the work of wire fencing should begun along the forested areas at the border to ensure more wild elephants do not come into the border districts of Maharashtra. The wild elephants mainly come in search of food. “The wild tuskers raid the crops. The compensation given to the farmers is not sufficient. They should be paid as per the market price of the produce damaged. We have asked forest authorities to convey a meeting with the state forest minister, during which, the issue of compensation can be raised,” said Mandlik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/foresters-to-seek-karnataka-help-to-tame-wild-tusker/articleshow/78776502.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||HC defers school fees hearing till October 23||Jaipur: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday deferred the hearing on the appeals filed by the state government and others on school fees till October 23. Thus, the stay on payment of fees will continue till October 23.The Bench comprising Justice Sabina and Justice C K Songara passed this order on an appeal filed by the state government and others. Also during the hearing through video conferencing, counsels of some parties, including the state government, failed to attend the hearing.Meanwhile, the bench took the affidavit seeking a week’s time to present the proposal of fixing fees by the state government on record. The state government had submitted an affidavit on Monday, seeking a week’s time to present the report, informing the court about setting up a committee to determine the fees for the entire session. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-defers-school-fees-hearing-till-october-23/articleshow/78777913.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara reports 99 new Covid-19 cases||VADODARA: The number of new Covid-19 cases in a day reached the double figures again after August 3. In the 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening, 99 new cases were reported in the city and district taking the total number of cases to 14,009. The city and district had registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a single day on September 19 (135) after which the number of cases were on a decline. It took a month for the number of cases to fall below 100 after the peak. Sources in the health department of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) were optimistic that the situation would remain under control for now. “But things can stay this way only if people discipline themselves again. They have become negligent and the city can pay a heavy price for this,” said an official. The VMC did not confirm any more deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday and the death toll due to the disease remained at 209. At the other end, 99 patients were discharged from hospitals or home isolation taking the total number of discharged patients to 12,203.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-reports-99-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78774505.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Surat||Railway union threatens to halt trains||Surat: The Surat chapter of the Western Railway Employees Union (WREU) has threatened to stop the train movement from October 22 if the central government fails to accept the long-pending demands including the bonus payment to the railway employees for the period of 2019-20. WREU members of Surat and Valsad railway stations staged protest at the carriage depot at the railway station. The stir was part of the call given by All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF). Secretary of WREU’s Surat branch, Ashwin Rana said, “We are protesting the anti-employees policy of the government” According to Rana, other demands include abolition of new pension scheme, implementation of cadre review committee (CRC) for trackmen, filling up vacant posts, payment of DA and stopping privatization of Indian railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/railway-union-threatens-to-halt-trains/articleshow/78775575.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Udaipur||Leopard mauls four-year-old girl to death in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: A leopard mauled a four-year-old girl to death in Peepad village under Losing gram panchayat in Gogunda block of Udaipur district on Monday. The child, daughter of Ekaram, was left on the roadside by her mother, Gopi Bai, with their son while she was returning home after work under the NREGA scheme. She had gone to the field leaving both the children near the boundary fencing. “A leopard came from the forest and took the girl away. Someone who was passing by saw the leopard carry something in its mouth. When the woman returned to pick the kids, she found the girl missing. Hearing her cries, people gathered and found that the leopard had taken the girl away,” DFO Balaji Kari told TOI. Forest officials and police teams reached the spot and launched a search along with over 200 villagers. They found the leopard sitting on the girl's body deep inside the woods. They scared the beast away and rescued the body which was shifted to a mortuary. “The autopsy was done on Tuesday. We visited the area and met the child's family. An ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh, as per government norms, was given to her father,” Balaji said. The forest department has set up two cages and two camera traps on strategic locations to catch the leopard. Ten forest guards have been deployed in the area. “We have cautioned the villagers not to roam around for some days as there are chances that the animal may come back as it has tasted human flesh. Children and women are soft targets for wild animals,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/leopard-mauls-4-yr-oldgirl-to-death-in-udaipur/articleshow/78777926.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Widow kills brother-in-law for demanding physical relations||RAJKOT: A widow in Surendranagar was arrested on Tuesday for murdering her brother-in-law on Friday. The woman, Kasturi Santalpara, slit the throat of Sagar Santalpara (47) as he demanded physical relations from her. According to police, the case was cracked as Kasturi admitted to her crime during questioning. A night before the murder, when Kasturi and Sagar were alone at home, he demanded physical relations with her to which she refused. After her husband died four years ago, Kasturi and Sagar developed feelings for each other as they lived in the same house. Sagar, too, was a widower as his wife had passed away 17 years ago. But Kasturi put an end to it sometime back as her kids and Sagar’s son had grown up. On Thursday, the family had gone to nearby Khamiyana village. In the evening, Kasturi and Sagar’s children stayed back, and they returned home. Taking advantage of the situation, Sagar forced Kasturi but due to her refusal they had a fight. After the altercation, Sagar went out of the house and slept on a cot on the street. “In the middle of the night, Kasturi came out and slit Sagar’s throat with a knife and also put cuts on his face. He was found dead the next morning,” said inspector M K Chauhan of the Surendranagar City A Division police station. Later his son Mahesh lodged a complaint against unidentified persons. Police said that Sagar had no enmity with anyone and they became suspicious while questioning Kasturi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/widow-kills-brother-in-law-for-demanding-physical-relations/articleshow/78775356.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC quashes rape case, allows couple to live together||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has quashed a rape case after taking on record the ‘settlement’ reached between the rape accused and the survivor saying, “they have married and are living happily. Therefore, no useful purpose will be served in prolonging the proceeding”. Allowing an application filed by Khujan Singh and another of Hathras district, Justice Manju Rani Chauhan observed, “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and also the submissions made by the counsel for the parties, the court is of the considered opinion that no useful purpose shall be served by prolonging the proceedings of this criminal case, as the parties have already settled their dispute.” During the court proceedings, the couple was present in the court and submitted that they were married and had been living happily as husband and wife. It was further submitted by them that the first information report (FIR) was lodged by the father of the girl with false and frivolous allegations. Earlier, chief judicial magistrate, Hathras had on February 14, 2019, rejected their plea to close the case on the ground that he does not have jurisdiction to pass order in such compromise in non-compoundable offences. Hence, they approached the high court, challenging the order of CJM dated February 14, 2019. While allowing their application filed under section 482 (inherent powers of high court) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), the court relied on a judgment given by the Supreme Court in Gian Singh vs state of Punjab (2012) in which it was held that compromise can be made between the parties even in respect of certain cognizable and non-compoundable offences. The order was passed on October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-quashes-rape-case-allows-couple-to-live-together/articleshow/78778456.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 21, 2020||Meerut||UP: Three of family attempt suicide, one dies||MEERUT: A 55-year-old man, Balbeer, his wife and 11-year old son consumed poison in a bid to kill themselves at their house ar Kahira village in UP's Bulandshahr district late on Monday night, police said. Later, the trio was rushed to hospital, where the woman, Ramvati (52), died during treatment while her husband is critical. Their son regained consciousness and gave a statement to police. "The boy told us that his father gave a pill each to him and his mother and took one himself. No suicide note was recovered," said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr superintendent of police. Their relatives claimed Balbeer, who runs a tea shop in the area, was facing financial problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-of-family-attempt-suicide-one-dies/articleshow/78776536.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSEB releases updated mobile app||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala state electricity board Ltd has launched a new and updated mobile application on Android platform. The new version has several fresh features, using which consumers can pay their bills and find out the status of a number of applications submitted to the board. The app is available for free download on Google play store. Those who use the mobile app can register for advance intimation from KSEB about power disruptions and also opt for bill alert. From the profile link, consumers can also check the status of applications for change of meter and tariff change. Users can also get to know about their security deposit status, security deposit refund, fixed charges refund and former billing details. OTP security has been added to the new quick pay interface. Application would function on Andriod 5 (Lollypop) and higher versions. Those who currently use the old app may update the same or download the new app from play store, KSEB authorities said. KSEB has been promoting digital mode of payment of bills and has introduced cash back offers for consumers using the online payment facilities for the first time. Following the restrictions during the lockdown, number of people visiting section officers exclusively for bill payments has come down. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kseb-releases-updated-mobile-app/articleshow/78776576.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Cong MLAs case: Provide petition copy to all, says HC||Jaipur: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday instructed an applicant to provide copy of his application filed in connection to the notice issued by the speaker of the Rajasthan legislative assembly to the former deputy CM Sachin Pilot and other Congress MLAs. The court will hear the matter on December 2. The bench comprising Justice Sabina and Justice CK Songara gave the order while hearing the application filed by Mohanlal Nama in the petition of PR Meena and others. During hearing, the bench made an oral comment that when both the parties are now united, nothing is left in the petition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mlas-case-provide-petition-copy-to-all-says-hc/articleshow/78777917.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Nilesh Cabral backs MLA Prasad Gaonkar on IIT-Goa in Sanguem||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday came out in support of Sanguem independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar, who recently demanded the IIT-Goa project in his constituency. “My full support to Gaonkar for setting up the IIT campus in Sanguem if the chief minister decides to shift it from Sattari,” said Cabral, who represents the neighboring Curchorem constituency. Cabral said it is a prestigous project and would be a boon for the region. “Remember, it is not an industry. We need such projects,” he said, adding that people need to realise that such projects are to be supported. Cabral said that land for the project was first identified at Canacona. After receiving opposition there, he said he had identified land at Sanguem and placed a proposal before former chief minister Manohar Parrikar. The nine lakh sq m plot, he said, had few encroachers and few parts of it were fields. However, when the settlement process was underway, Parrikar took ill, after which the project came to standstill. Gaonkar knew about this. “When IIT-Goa said that if the government does not give them land they would move out of the state, CM Pramod Sawant decided to hand over 10 lakh sq m of land at Sattari,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-backs-gaonkar-on-iit-goa-in-sanguem/articleshow/78777914.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: With no job or money, sons beg at BIMS for mother’s funeral||BELAGAVI: Out of work and penniless, two children of a 57-year-old deceased woman spent three nights at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) seeking help to cremate her body in Belagavi. The mother, Bharati Bastevadekar, was admitted to the government hospital due to age related ailments. Bharati, from Ganeshpur village in the district, did not respond to treatment breathed her last on October 17. However, her sons did not have any money to perform her last rites. The hapless duo decided to keep the body in the mortuary at BIMS and stay back at the government facility to seek financial assistance from visitors. The duo was earlier working as waiters at a hotel. Fate dealt a harsh blow during the pandemic-induced lockdown. Their employer asked them to leave citing losses. Ramesh Bastevadikar, one of the brothers, told TOI, “Our mother's health started to deteriorate after we lost our jobs. Each day she appeared upset as we struggled to earn a living. This seems to have had a deep impact on her health and she fell sick.” Ramesh said since they did not have any money for her treatment, they got her admitted to BIMS. Unfortunately she succumbed. The situation worsened when they realized they did not have money for the last rites. “We spent three days and nights at BIMS asking for financial assistance from anybody and everybody,” said Ramesh. Later, Help for Needy, an NGO, learnt about the incident and extended financial helpto the brothers. Surendra Angolkar, who runs the NGO said, “We provided them the money required for the cremation and they have performed the last rites on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-no-job-or-money-sons-beg-at-bims-for-mothers-funeral/articleshow/78775408.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot zoo opens after seven months||RAJKOT: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) run Pradhyuman Park zoo opened for public after nearly seven months. However, entry to the zoo spread in 137 acres has been limited and will be under strict Covid-19 norms. RMC has framed rules for the visitors like sanitization of hands at the entry point, maintaining social distancing at ticket window, prohibiting touching of railing or cages and wearing of mask. Seating arrangements inside the zoo have been removed and people are advise not to sit in groups. The entry of senior citizens aged above 65 years and children below 10 years is banned. The Pradhyuman Park zoo is one of the favourite destination for those visiting Rajkot as it is near Lalpari and Randarda lake which are the nesting sites for number of migratory birds. According to RMC, there are 400 wild and herbivorous animals in this zoo. Before pandemic struck, nearly 10,000 people visited the zoo every Sunday. Nearly 7.5 lakh people visited the zoo during 2018-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-zoo-opens-after-seven-months/articleshow/78775376.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||'Power demand rising, Mollem project rising'||PANAJI: The high-tension line passing through Mollem is for the people of the state, and some NGOs are misleading people, power minister Nilesh Cabral said on Tuesday. Reacting to NGOs’ claim that the new line is to provide power to industries, Cabral said that compared to industry’s 2% increase, year on year there is a nearly 5% rise in domestic connections. If we don’t get this line now, the people of the state will suffer in future, he said. “If we don’t start work on the Goa Tamnar Transmission Project today..., we will reach the peak in three years,” he said. He added that the plan to bring the line into the state was in keeping with the growth projection of the state. The power minister also released a white paper on the status of purchase and consumption of electricity in the state. The year-wise increase in power consumption by domestic consumers, which stands at 4 to 5 percent, should change the perception that only industry wants power in the state, he said. “The claim that we are getting power for industries is wrong,” he said. Further, he clarified that the state government has no intention of setting up a coal-based power plant in the state. Appealing to people not to be misled by NGOs, but trust the government, Cabral said that only 15 people are opposing the project. “They should justify why they want it stopped and then the government will take a decision.” Accusing the opposition of coming together only to oppose this project, he said that if the people don’t trust the government, it will reflect in the 2022 assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-demand-rising-mollem-project-rising-cabral/articleshow/78777953.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Advocate, friend hacked to death near Kumbakonam||THANJAVUR: An advocate and his friend were hacked to death by an unidentified gang near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as P Kamaraj, 45, and his friend C Sakthivel, 40, of Claret Nagar in Kumbakonam. Kamaraj, who was an advocate, was returning home on a two-wheeler from a private hospital along with his father who was was unwell. While they were nearing Claret Nagar, an unidentified gang intercepted Kamaraj and started assaulting him. He died on the spot. Kamaraj's father escaped unhurt. Following this attack, the gang went to Kamaraj house and attacked his friend Sakthivel, who was there in the house. Sakthivel died on the spot. A police officer said Kamaraj was the Thanjavur district president of Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (advocate wing) and Rajavelu was a functionary of the BSP. Police suspect that the reason behind the murder might be a property dispute. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/advocate-friend-hacked-to-death-near-kumbakonam/articleshow/78777939.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||HC issues notice to Rajasthan govt over priest’s murder||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the state government and sought a reply by October 23 in connection with the probe into the case of allegedly setting a priest in Bukna village in Karauli district on fire, causing his death. The petitioner has sought a CBI investigation into the matter and security for the priest's family. The bench, comprising justices Sabina and C K Sonagara, gave the order after hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Pawan Prakash Pathak. He is a practising lawyer at the Supreme Court. “In the letter petition to Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty of Rajasthan High Court, I have said that the priest, Babulal Vaishnav, was burnt by pouring petrol on October 9 due to a dispute over temple land. He died during treatment at SMS Hospital. During the treatment, the priest accused some people of killing him. I suspect that proper action and investigation won’t be done in this case. Thus, in the petition, I have demanded a probe into this matter by the central investigating agency and sought security for the priest’s family,” Pathak told TOI. On the prayers made in the petition, he said, “A free and fair investigation by the central agency and protection for the victim's family. Restrain the accused and others from causing damage or giving threats to the family of the victim." On October 7, the priest was allegedly attacked by five accused and set on fire after an argument over disputed land. He succumbed to burn injuries on October 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-hc-issues-notice-to-stategovt-over-priests-murder/articleshow/78777963.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Two senior officers arrested for taking bribe||KOLHAPUR: Two senior officers attached with the water conservation department were arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for taking a bribe of Rs 18,000 for granting permission to a man to conduct fishing activity in a percolation tank. As per the official communication released by the ACB, officers Hanmant Nesarkar (47) and Yashvant Laxman Thorat (55) have been arrested. ACB had undertaken search operations at the residences of both the officers. Apart from Kolhapur, search operations are also in progress in Solapur and Pune. According to ACB, the complainant runs a fisheries business and had applied for fishing in a percolation tank in Ajara tehsil in July this year. Nesarkar had sought Rs 15,000 each for the two percolation tanks where the complainant wanted to carry out fishing activity. The complainant had paid Rs 10,000 as first instalment but Nesarkar was insisting on getting the remaining amount for granting permission. The complainant said that Nesarkar had even called him in his office three days ago insisting on the payment of the remaining amount. The complainant then approached ACB and lodged a complaint. On Monday, he went to Thorat’s office and asked whether he should give the money to Nesarkar. After Thorat agreed, a trap was laid in the canteen of the water conservation office in Tarabai Park where Nesarkar was caught red-handed while accepting Rs 18,000 cash from the complainant. Later, Thorat was also arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-sr-officers-arrested-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/78776583.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Agra||Ram Sene coined ‘love jihad’, but first ‘case’ goes back a century||When does an interfaith marriage become “love jihad”? The story depends on the teller. Pramila Sajjan from Agra insists that her daughter Sanjana was “taken away” by a Muslim man in 2018. “I came home one day and saw he had taken my daughter,” Sajjan said. Sanjana has called home once since then to tell her mother she was married to the man and living elsewhere. “She said she won’t come back.” How was she abducted then? “She must have been brainwashed.” The narrative is strikingly similar to those doing the rounds a century ago. In the spring of 1927, the staid pace of Muzaffarnagar was disrupted by an “alarming” piece of information — a Hindu girl had been forcibly converted and was being married off to a Muslim man. Crowds gathered, mutated into a mob and marched to the house to secure justice. The girl, it turned out, had always been Muslim. The episode, among many in the 1920s and ‘30s, was documented in archival research by Delhi University historian Charu Gupta in 2002, much before the term “love jihad” occupied public imagination. “I found uncanny resemblances in the ‘love jihad’ campaign with abduction campaigns pursued in the early 20th century by Hindu reformers,” Gupta told TOI. Many women who did elope and convert were those on the margins. “In 1927, a Hindu widow of Pratapgarh eloped with a Muslim, whom she married … In Banaras, a woman left her husband in March 1924 in favour of a Muslim … Quite a storm was raised in Jhansi in April 1927 over the keeping by a Muslim of a prostitute, originally a Hindu, who later embraced Islam,” her study says. But then, as now, the stories rested on rumours. “The term was being used in Gujarat in the late 1990s and early 2000s. At the time, the definition of ‘love jihad’ was that Muslim men trap Hindu girls — especially during community functions like Dandiya — and then convert them,” Aastha Tyagi, a Germanybased PhD scholar, told TOI. The rhetoric crystallised by the mid-2000s. “Pramod Muttalik, the leader of Ram Sene, was instrumental in coining the term ‘love jihad’ and claims it first featured in discussions in Hindutva groups from around 2005,” said Gupta. “The term is also interesting as both ‘love’ and ‘jihad’ are perceived as ‘foreign’ terms, alien to the Indian soil.” So, there is a contemporary update — an international conspiracy angle. “Masculinist anxieties are at the root of these problems — be it religion, nation or community identity,” said Tyagi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ram-sene-coined-love-jihad-but-first-case-goes-back-a-century/articleshow/78778985.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Factory worker, 50, found murdered in Salem Tabri||tnnLudhiana: A factory worker was found murdered at a vacant plot near Gurnam Nagar in Salem Tabri on Tuesday morning.The body of Uday Bhan Rao, 50, bore injuries on head and face. Police suspect he was attacked with a sharp-edged weapon.Uday, who worked at a hosiery factory here and hailed from Deoria, Uttar Pradesh, lived in a rented accommodation in Gurnam Nagar with a relative, Rajesh Kumar. Rajesh said in his police complaint, “Uday was to leave for UP on Tuesday. He had booked a ticket for an afternoon train from Ambala to UP. From Ludhiana, he was to take an Ambala-bound bus in the morning.” On Monday evening, Uday had gone out for shopping. “When he did not return till late night, I called him up many a time. But, all my calls went unanswered. I looked for him in the area, but to no avail,” he added.On Tuesday morning, Rajesh again started searching for Uday. “When I reached a vacant plot, which the area residents use as a shortcut to the main road, I found Uday lying dead there,” he said.He then informed the police. Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said, “It seems Uday was attacked at least thrice on head with a sharp-edged weapon and once on chin. A rivalry might have led to the murder, as a cellphone and Rs 1,800 kept in his pocket were not stolen. A polythene containing a packet of detergent powder, dry fruits and several packets of tobacco was found near the body.” The police questioned the employees of the hosiery unit where Uday worked, but found nothing suspicious. “On Monday, Uday was seen with a woman. We are trying to trace her. We are scanning the CCTV cameras installed in the area,” the inspector added. Police have registered a murder case against unidentified accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-worker-50-found-murdered-in-salem-tabri/articleshow/78775436.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||Farmers worry as IMD predicts bouts of heavy rain in south Maharashtra over next 4-5 days||KOLHAPUR: The ghat sections of Kolhapur district received very heavy rainfall on Tuesday, sparking concern among farmers who have already lost their crops due to the recent onslaught of heavy rainfall. The catchment areas of Tulashi dam, located at the base of Radhanagari forest area, received around 100 mm rainfall in one hour on Tuesday. Rainfall situation in the most of the hilly villages was like “mini-cloud burst”, meaning heavy rainfall within a short span. After last week’s heavy rainfall, the last couple of days did not witness any showers offering some reprieve to the locals. Sangli reported around 20 mm rainfall in 30 minutes. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a forecast warning of heavy rainfall with thunderstorm. “The thunders were loud enough to scare everyone. The sky were dark since Monday afternoon and the humidity levels also had gone up,” a local resident said. Prasad Sankpal, Kolhapur district disaster management official, said, “At some places, very heavy rainfall have occurred. We are told by the IMD that such bouts of rainfall are expected to occur over the next four to five days. Tulashi dam’s catchment area received very heavy rainfall — around 100 mm in an hour. The residents of hilly villages have been asked not to move out and stay inside.” The ghat section of Satara district too reported heavy rainfall. The IMD has issued “yellow-alert” for Wednesday for ghat areas. Kolhapur city reported 12 mm rainfall and due to the sudden rainfall disrupted the routine of the citizens and roads were deserted after the rainfall started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/farmers-worry-as-imd-predicts-bouts-of-heavy-rain-in-south-maha-over-next-4-5-days/articleshow/78776609.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||A day after HC order, clubs dismantle parts of pandals||KOLKATA A day after Calcutta High Court directed that no reveller would be allowed inside pandals—in fact, 5metres of small pujas and 10metres of big ones—committees across the city on Tuesday started making modifications, going by the court order, rather than waiting for a change in the HC order, if at all, that will be available only later on Wednesday. While Naktala Udayan Sangha in south Kolkata took down a portion of their pandal to impose the 10-metre distance rule, Sreebhumi Sporting, one of the biggest crowd-pullers in north, started demolishing a stage near its entrance to prevent people from entering the pandal. At Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha, organisers have put up guardrails outside the pandal to prevent visitors’ entry and Chor Bagan in north Kolkata has extended its barricades and put up no-entry-zone signs at multiple places. Though it was an integral part of their theme of migrant workers returning home by train, organisers of Naktala Udayan Sangha have dismantled a portion of their pandal to ensure revellers didn’t have to enter the pandal but could see the idols and decorations from 10 metres away. “Immediately after receiving the court order, we sat in an emergency meeting and decided to dismantle a portion of the pandal so that we could stick to the court directives. Now the theme looks a bit incomplete but it is fulfilling that we will be able to abide by the criteria laid down by the court . Even if there is a modification of the order on Wednesday, we will not make any change and stick to this current form,” said Bappaditya Dasgupta, general secretary of Naktala Udayan Sangha. At Sreebhumi Sporting in Lake Town, organisers started demolishing a large dais, meant for receiving guests and patrons and also to make urgent announcements, at the pandal entrance to ensure visitors did not enter the pandal and exit from other end. Once the stage is removed, people can walk past the mandap while seeing the idol from outside. “We will have to abide by the Calcutta HC’s order. So, we have demolished the stage. Now revellers can easily walk past our mandap while maintaining a 10-feet distance. They can still see the deity from outside,” said Dibyendu Kishore Goswami, senior member of the club. But even as the dismantling work was in progress, thousands entered pandal premises in gross violation of the court order. Organisers kept on announcing, “No photographs inside the mandap”, to avoid further criticism on social media. At Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha, barricades have been put up at 10 metres of the pandal, according to the court stipulation. Throughout the day, no visitor was allowed inside the pandal and all they could do was catch a glimpse of the idols and decorations from outside. “No matter how much it hurts us to keep pandal-hoppers at a distance, we will have to abide by the order,” said Bipul Saha, a core committee member. Ahiritola Sarbojonin Durgotsav and Chorbagan Sarbojonin Durgotsav have also taken similar stance to limit visitors’ entry inside the pandal even as several pandal-hoppers were found pleading with the organisers to let them take a sneak peek. Some puja committees in Salt Lake, like AK Block and FD Block, that had already put distancing mechanism ahead of the court order, took a step forward and sent out messages to their Block residents, requesting them not to crowd at the pandal. They are also drafting lists of club members who will be present on the puja premises on the festive days, as advised by the court. “We will strictly abide by the court order and follow all stipulated guidelines,” said Raja Banik of AK Block Durga Puja Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-day-after-hc-order-clubs-dismantle-parts-of-pandals/articleshow/78776629.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 21, 2020||Kanpur||Woman kills another in public suspecting affair with hubby||KANPUR: In a horrific incident, a married woman stabbed another woman in full public view on the road in Rath town of Hamirpur district on Tuesday as she suspected her of having an extra-marital affair with her husband. The incident occurred near Ram Lila Maidan on Tuesday afternoon when the deceased Puja was on way to a beauty parlour with her friend Shraddha Anuragi on foot. Puja and her friend had just reached Ram Lila Maidan area when they bumped into Seema Rajput of Sikandarpur-Charkhari road in Nai Basti. “Seema flew into a rage on seeing Puja, whipped out a knife and keeping it on her neck started screaming at her not to call or meet her husband anymore, and then repeatedly stabbed her in the neck and fled from the spot,” said inspector Rath Kotwali police station K K Pandey. During the melee, Puja’s friend Shraddha tried to stop Seema, but she pushed her away with force. Besides, no one from the crowd of commuters and onlookers dared to stop Seema from attacking her, said police. Police arrived at the spot and rushed Puja to a nearby private hospital where she was declared dead, said Pandey. “Seema has been arrested and booked for murder under Section 302 of the IPC. We also seized the knife used in the crime and shifted the body to the mortuary at district hospital,” he added. Police will produce Seema before the court on Wednesday. Preliminary investigations, revealed that Seema suspected Puja of having an extramarital affair with her husband K K Rajput, and hence attacked her. Further details will be known only when we complete interrogating her. We are, however, investigating all possible angles,” said inspector Pandey. Sources said Puja was married to one Rohit Soni, a jeweller from Ramnagar locality in Jalaun, but was currently living with her parents at Sikandarpur in Rath town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-kills-another-in-public-suspecting-affair-with-hubby/articleshow/78778481.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 21, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Railway board urged to announce productivity-linked bonus||TRICHY: Railway unions have urged the railway board to announce productivity-linked bonus for 2019-20. Usually, every year the bonus would be disbursed before the Dussehra festival. However, citing the pandemic, the government has not yet announced the bonus, the unions said. Railway employees are getting the productivity linked bonus since 1979-80. During the year, employees were given 77 days’ salary as bonus. The number of days was again increased to 78 during 2011-12, deputy general secretary of DREU D Manoharan said. “Usually, the bonus will be announced ahead of the Dussehra festival. However, this year no announcement has come from the railway board yet. We understood that the government is not in a mood to announce bonus citing the pandemic. However, the bonus we are asking is not for the year 2020-21, but for the year 2019-20. The loss, which the railway ministry incurred, was due to the lockdown imposed for the financial year 2020-21. So, it is unfair to stop the previous year’s bonus citing the loss incurred during the year,” he further stated. Moreover, the minimum bonus amount was fixed in 2006, assuming the basic salary as Rs 7,000. However, the basic salary has been enhanced to Rs 18,000 as per the 7th pay commission in 2016. However, till now the railway board is calculating the bonus assuming that the basic salary is Rs 7,000, which should be reconsidered, he said. Meanwhile, on the backdrop of a call made by the National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR) for a protest demanding productivity linked bonus for railway staff, the railway board issued a circular to all the divisions. In the circular it was stated that in case of any railway employee resorts to work stoppage demanding bonus, they may face the consequences including service break.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rly-board-urged-to-announce-productivity-linked-bonus/articleshow/78777975.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Pig iron stuck at Ambala, massive increase in rate||Ludhiana: The rate of pig iron, the most used raw material in sewing machine industry, has shot up by Rs 8,000 per tonne within two days. Industrialists said the rate was Rs 33,000 per tonne till Sunday and shot up to Rs 41,000 on Tuesday. They said four goods trains with 9,600 tonne of pig iron were stranded at Ambala due to the rail roko of Punjab farmers and this raw material to be supplied for Rs 33,000 per tonne was now being quoted at Rs 41,000 per tonne by commission agents. The agents are attributing the hike to transportation cost as the material will have to be offloaded at Ambala and then loaded in trucks and delivered to Ludhiana. So, by that estimate, the cost of 9,600 tonne of raw material in these trains has been hiked by more than Rs 7.68 crore. Sources in the sewing machine industry claimed that now even the pig iron manufacturing plants have decided to hike the rates of fresh stock. Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association, said, “Due to the rail roko protest by Punjab farmers, the freight trains are not able to enter Punjab and are being terminated at Ambala. Four freight trains carrying 9,600 tonne of pig iron are stranded at Ambala, causing a huge shortage of the raw material in the sewing machine and parts’ manufacturing factories in Ludhiana. If this was not all, the suppliers are now demanding Rs 41,000 per tonne for the raw material whose market rate was Rs 33,000 per tonne till Sunday because of delivery via road from Ambala to Ludhiana. The hike of Rs 8,000 per tonne is not justified even when factoring the transportation cost. We request the state government and the Centre to take note of the matter and put an end to the farmers’ agitation.”According to Jatinder Nagpal, a sewing machine and parts’ manufacturer, “This hike has sent shockwaves in the industry. Now the manufacturing plants, too, are indicating that the next lot of the raw material will be available at increased rates. In reality, there is no reason for the hike and the only hurdle being faced right now is in the movement of the goods beyond Ambala. If this problem is not solved, then there will be a crisis in our industry.”Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, ascribed the hike in rate to cartelisation. “The micro and small-scale manufacturers are being looted by a select group of people. How in the world is it possible that the rate of raw material already lying in trains at Ambala increased overnight by almost Rs 8 crore? This is a sorry state of affairs and sadly the government is not serious about resolving the problems of poor farmers who have been forced to resort to agitations and us businessmen who are also suffering.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pig-iron-stuck-at-ambala-massive-increase-in-rate/articleshow/78775415.cms||Mohit Behl
October 21, 2020||Goa||Cop stabbed with broken bottle at Curti, receives 52 stitches||PONDA: Jitendra Gaude, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) attached to the Ponda police station, was brutally attacked by a Nepali youth on Monday evening at Haveli-Curti in Ponda taluka while in the process of apprehending a suspect wanted in a theft case. The ASI, who has received 52 stitches to his head and neck, is now out of danger and undergoing treatment. The accused as well as the suspect, who fled after the incident, were nabbed later on Tuesday. Ponda DySP Nelson Albuquerque has revealed that the accused, 30-year-old Krishna Khadka, and the suspect, Shubham Naik, 28, who fled after the incident, were caught at their hideouts at Patradevi and Belagavi, Karnataka, on Tuesday evening and were being brought to Ponda. Following the incident, South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh visited the Ponda police station on Monday night and was at the station in till 4.30am on Tuesday, supervising the staff on line of investigation including technical analysis and intelligence inputs. Based on the technical analysis and intelligence inputs received from sources, the officers at the police station managed to trace both the accused who were continuously on the move after the attack. “Several teams were formed and sent across the state, and a team was also sent to Belagavi,” Albuquerque said. Police were tipped off that Naik, a resident of Panditwada-Ponda, was seen at a bar in Haveli, on outskirts of Ponda, and the ASI Gaude and police constable Jaywant Bhartu were sent to nab him. While ASI Gaude caught hold of Naik as he came out of the bar and was proceeding towards a general store to buy a cigarette, Khadka attacked the police officer from behind. “Khadka picked up a soft drink bottle from the store and hit it on Gaude’s head. He then continued attacking Gaude on his head and neck with the broken glass bottle, and then fled pushing aside the policemen,” Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cop-stabbed-with-broken-bottle-at-curti-receives-52-stitches/articleshow/78777988.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Jumbo owners in Kerala feeling the crunch||THRISSUR: With restrictions on festivals and parades, captive elephants are proving to be among the worst hit by the pandemic. Some owners are struggling to meet even the bare minimum food needs of their pachyderms. Recently, a group of animal lovers helped collect food for Pullut Unnikrishnan, an elephant in Thrissur. Owners say managing the elephants during this period is proving to be a huge financial burden. According to Unnikrishnan’s owner Abdul Gafoor, “Most of the small elephant owners are struggling to manage their animals. Groups of elephant lovers are providing assistance to many of the animals by providing food. The festival season is the only major income source for elephant owners. But we didn’t make a single rupee during the lockdown. We don’t know how to manage the situation. We need Rs 4,000 per day for food and mahout’s wages,” he says. “We will submit a letter to the forest minister and government demanding the resumption of elephant parades. Most of the elephant owners are struggling to arrange food for their animals and mahout wages. The first day of the Malayalam month of Thulam marks the start of the festival season in various parts of the state. The association is ready to conduct parades in compliance with Covid-19 guidelines,” said G Krishnaprasad, president of the elephant owners’ association. AITUC aana thozilali secretary Manoj Ayyappan said, “The pandemic and cancellation of festivals has affected mahouts. During the parade season a mahout get an extra allowance of nearly Rs 4,500 per day from temple committees. Nothing has been forthcoming this season and they are struggling to make ends meet.” “Before issuing possession to an elephant owner, the forest department verifies that he/she is capable of managing the animal. If owners are struggling to provide food to elephants the forest department should investigate the matter and take remedial steps,” said M N Jayachandran, member of the Kerala state animal welfare board. In April, the state government had allotted Rs 5 crore from the state disaster response fund for buying food for animals, including captive elephants, at the outset of the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jumbo-owners-feeling-the-crunch/articleshow/78776620.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Vehicle document check to go automatic in Kerala soon||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Law enforcement agencies checking vehicle documents manually often leads to road accidents, especially with respect to two-wheelers. In a bid to end this practice, the motor vehicles department (MVD) will soon install 700 automatic number-plate recognizing (ANPR) cameras across the state and set up control rooms in all the 14 districts under the Safe Kerala project. “The system, to be in place by January-end, will not only verify the authenticity of the documents, but also detect fake registration numbers and thereby help detect or avert crimes,” said joint transport commissioner Rajeevan Puthlath. Once a camera reads a number plate, information on the vehicle’s registration details, tax paid, insurance coverage, pollution certificate, validity of permit in case of commercial vehicles, fitness certificate and previous history of offences, if any, will immediately be generated at the control room. Artificial intelligence will be used to identify the vehicle type by comparing the image captured with the pre-installed shapes for various types of vehicles. This can help detect fake registration numbers. “A high degree of accuracy can be ensured in identification of the type of vehicle. Further, with each detection, the accuracy of the system will be improved,” the officer said. Details of violations detected and shortcomings found in the vehicle records will be sent to its registered owner by mail and also an SMS. The all-India integration of the MVD database of various states is expected to play a major role in automation of vehicle inspection. While the details of registration, tax, insurance etc are already available in the central Vahan Sarathi software, the Kerala MVD is in the final stages of integrating the pollution certificate to the database. By November 1, the practise of private agencies issuing pollution certificates will be discontinued. As per the new system, the MVD will calculate the emission levels using its own central software and issue the certificates. However, the process of examining the vehicles using smoke samples will be tasked with the agencies themselves. The certificates will be made available online and this will ensure that test results are not manipulated by the agencies. The new ANPR cameras being installed is in addition to the 230 speed-detection cameras already installed by the MVD on highways across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/vehicle-document-check-to-go-automatic-in-state-soon/articleshow/78785176.cms||KP Saikiran
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Handicraft sellers get onlineboost, offline still a concern||Jaipur: With lockdown forcing people to spend more time at home, the need to improve the indoor look and feel is spurring people to buy handicrafts, decorative items, trendy crockery and tableware. Traders in the city said the demand for inexpensive handicrafts has risen in the ongoing festival period. They said they were expecting good sales, going ahead, even though the high-value furniture market would remain under pressure. Dileep Baid, a leading manufacturer of handicrafts in the city, said that it was unlikely that store sales would benefit from the festive demand as more people prefer to buy online. “Online sales are doing much better, but the same cannot be said about offline demand. People are still cagey about venturing out and buying from physical stores. Secondly, there are lucrative discounts that can be availed through online purchases which stores cannot match,” Baid said. In terms of preferred price range, he said people were interested in value for money items in the medium segment. “Consumers are still reluctant to buy expensive products. This reflects the reduced purchasing power due to erosion in incomes. The Covid impact is visible in the purchasing patterns of people,” he said. Rajasthan is a hub for producing wooden furniture and this segment is unlikely to do well. Atul Poddar, another manufacturer of handicrafts, said that they don’t expect the furniture market to revive soon unless the economy recovers fast. “Not many are willing to buy furniture online. It’s a touch and feel product. People generally prefer to visit a store to purchase a bed or a chair or any other piece of furniture. Secondly, the products are expensive. That’s why this segment will remain under stress for some more months,” Poddar said. He also said that the demand from rural areas has been mute because people are not tech savvy to make digital purchases unlike urban centres. However, Baid said that the sentiment has improved. “We cannot hit last year’s sales levels during the festival season, but we will be somewhere closer to those numbers. It would be no mean achievement after a pandemic of this proportion. Since people are spending more time at homes now, they want to improve the home atmosphere by buying decorative items or trendy crockery, tableware, cutlery, etc.,” he said. Some traders said that many Chinese products, particularly in the lighting segment, used to be in big demand during the festival season. But this year, the imports are very less. “It should help the domestic industry, but people will have to shell out more,” said a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/handicraft-sellers-get-onlineboost-offline-still-a-concern/articleshow/78777989.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 21, 2020||Rajkot||Gardener found dead in Bhuj||Rajkot: A gardener of a party plot in Bhuj was found murdered on Tuesday morning.A native of Uttar Pradesh, the victim Shiv Sahay Trivedi (41) was working as a gardener at Shivam Party Plot at Raghuvanshinagar. On Tuesday morning his body was found behind the party plot. Police said that Trivedi was killed by hitting the handle of a shovel on his head. The shovel was found near his body.Trivedi’s body has been taken into custody and sent for post-mortem and a murder case was registered against an unidentified person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gardener-found-dead-in-bhuj/articleshow/78775435.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Wedding jewellery demandmay rescue festival sales||Jaipur: The decked up bazaars of Pink City scarcely fail to lift the festive spirits during balmy October evenings. But this year is different as the pandemic has put a check on the size of crowds. “People are venturing out, but not like we have witnessed in the past. After closing their shops in the evenings, the non-jewellery business community would visit shops to buy raw gold, jewellery, silverware, etc. Given the movement in the past few days, we are optimistic that as Diwali come closer, the crowd will improve,” said Sanjay Kala, the president of Jewellers Association of Jaipur. Several association members TOI spoke to said that the wedding season demand was currently driving the market. There are close to 10 wedding days in November and December and the season extends deep into the new year. “Much of the buying happening today is coming from the wedding segment. In value terms, wedding purchases are much higher. Some support from the festival demand will go a long way in reviving the sector,” said Rajiv Jain, a jeweller in the city and former chairman of the Gem and Jewellery Exports Promotion Council. Since Covid SOPs restrict the number of people at weddings to not more than 100, people will save a lot of money and are likely to spend some of it on jewellery, he said. There are no official estimates of festive season transactions. But Jain said that if gem and jewellery exports from Rajasthan came to about Rs 2,500 crore then the state’s domestic market could be similar or a little less. “In fact, there has been no estimates done on the size of the local gem and jewellery market. But if it is around Rs 2,000 crore, 20% of that could come from festive season business,” he said. According to jewellers, the festive demand had shrunk by 30% last year owing to economic slowdown. Given the headwinds during the current pandemic, they said that it would be a relief even if they reach close to last year’s levels. “We think the transactions will reach closer to what we saw last year. People have started visiting shops even though there is some fear of contracting corona,” said Kailash Mittal, the president of Jaipur Sarafa Traders Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wedding-jewellery-demandmay-rescue-festival-sales/articleshow/78777995.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||One last opportunity to write exam is better than ‘Covid pass’, says Madras HC||MADURAI: Observing that grant of one more opportunity to write examinations is better than ‘Covid pass’, where all the students are declared passed, the Madras high court has granted relief to a diploma student by allowing him to appear for arrears exams. Justice S Vaidyanathan, who was hearing a petition filed by K R Devadurai, a resident of Ramanathapuram district, said that though the petitioner had failed to pay the fees on time, one more opportunity should be given to him and other similarly placed persons, and if they fail to avail the said opportunity, it will be a ‘lost opportunity’. The petitioner is studying diploma in civil engineering in a polytechnic college in Pudukottai district. Since he did not pay the fees for arrear exams within the last date on March 10, he sought for a direction to the department of technical education seeking to accept his fees and permit him to write the exam. The judge observed that the petitioner did not pay the exam fee on time as he waited for his revaluation result. Since he did not come out successful in the revaluation, he immediately approached the authorities for payment of necessary fee for writing arrear examinations. Stating that non-payment of examination fee in time is neither wanton nor wilful on part of the petitioner, the judge said that the government may provide one more ‘last opportunity’ not only to the petitioner, but also to similarly placed persons to appear for the examination, by taking into consideration the Covid-19 situation. During the course of hearing, special government pleader K P Krishnadoss submitted that it would be very difficult for the authorities to prepare question papers for one person and conduct examinations. He further submitted that if the request of the petitioner is entertained, there is every possibility of receiving more such requests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-last-opportunity-to-write-exam-is-better-than-covid-pass-says-hc/articleshow/78777991.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 21, 2020||Meerut||Anti-adulteration drive: FSDA team takes samples to check adulteration during Navratri||MEERUT: The Food Safety and Drugs Authority (FSDA) team took 10 samples from various sweet shops as a part of the anti-adulteration drive during the ongoing festival of Navratri and sent them for testing to the Lucknow laboratory on Tuesday. The team is currently focussing on kuttu aata, chaulai and other ingredients which are used in making food had during fasts. “As many as 10 samples were collected from various shops in Meerut district on Tuesday as a part of the anti-adulteration drive. The samples were collected and sent to Lucknow laboratory to ensure that there is no tampering,” Meerut designated officer of FSDA, Archana Dheeran said. Suspecting adulteration, samples of other items will also be collected from various city shops by the team. “Once we get the report, we will take action against those who are found selling adulterated food,” Dheeran said. The samples were collected from various shops situated in Meerut’s Sardhana, Daurala, Shastri Nagar, Mawana and Kila Parikshitgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/anti-adulteration-drive-fsda-team-takes-samples-to-check-adulteration-during-navratri/articleshow/78776626.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Vehicle document check to go automatic in Kerala soon||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Law enforcement agencies checking vehicle documents manually often leads to road accidents, especially with respect to two-wheelers. In a bid to end this practice, the motor vehicles department (MVD) will soon install 700 automatic number-plate recognizing (ANPR) cameras across the state and set up control rooms in all the 14 districts under the Safe Kerala project. “The system, to be in place by January-end, will not only verify the authenticity of the documents, but also detect fake registration numbers and thereby help detect or avert crimes,” said joint transport commissioner Rajeevan Puthlath. Once a camera reads a number plate, information on the vehicle’s registration details, tax paid, insurance coverage, pollution certificate, validity of permit in case of commercial vehicles, fitness certificate and previous history of offences, if any, will immediately be generated at the control room. Artificial intelligence will be used to identify the vehicle type by comparing the image captured with the pre-installed shapes for various types of vehicles. This can help detect fake registration numbers. “A high degree of accuracy can be ensured in identification of the type of vehicle. Further, with each detection, the accuracy of the system will be improved,” the officer said. Details of violations detected and shortcomings found in the vehicle records will be sent to its registered owner by mail and also an SMS. The all-India integration of the MVD database of various states is expected to play a major role in automation of vehicle inspection. While the details of registration, tax, insurance etc are already available in the central Vahan Sarathi software, the Kerala MVD is in the final stages of integrating the pollution certificate to the database. By November 1, the practise of private agencies issuing pollution certificates will be discontinued. As per the new system, the MVD will calculate the emission levels using its own central software and issue the certificates. However, the process of examining the vehicles using smoke samples will be tasked with the agencies themselves. The certificates will be made available online and this will ensure that test results are not manipulated by the agencies. The new ANPR cameras being installed is in addition to the 230 speed-detection cameras already installed by the MVD on highways across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vehicle-document-check-to-go-automatic-in-state-soon/articleshow/78785177.cms||KP Saikiran
October 21, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vehicle document check to go automatic in Kerala soon||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Law enforcement agencies checking vehicle documents manually often leads to road accidents, especially with respect to two-wheelers. In a bid to end this practice, the motor vehicles department (MVD) will soon install 700 automatic number-plate recognizing (ANPR) cameras across the state and set up control rooms in all the 14 districts under the Safe Kerala project. “The system, to be in place by January-end, will not only verify the authenticity of the documents, but also detect fake registration numbers and thereby help detect or avert crimes,” said joint transport commissioner Rajeevan Puthlath. Once a camera reads a number plate, information on the vehicle’s registration details, tax paid, insurance coverage, pollution certificate, validity of permit in case of commercial vehicles, fitness certificate and previous history of offences, if any, will immediately be generated at the control room. Artificial intelligence will be used to identify the vehicle type by comparing the image captured with the pre-installed shapes for various types of vehicles. This can help detect fake registration numbers. “A high degree of accuracy can be ensured in identification of the type of vehicle. Further, with each detection, the accuracy of the system will be improved,” the officer said. Details of violations detected and shortcomings found in the vehicle records will be sent to its registered owner by mail and also an SMS. The all-India integration of the MVD database of various states is expected to play a major role in automation of vehicle inspection. While the details of registration, tax, insurance etc are already available in the central Vahan Sarathi software, the Kerala MVD is in the final stages of integrating the pollution certificate to the database. By November 1, the practise of private agencies issuing pollution certificates will be discontinued. As per the new system, the MVD will calculate the emission levels using its own central software and issue the certificates. However, the process of examining the vehicles using smoke samples will be tasked with the agencies themselves. The certificates will be made available online and this will ensure that test results are not manipulated by the agencies. The new ANPR cameras being installed is in addition to the 230 speed-detection cameras already installed by the MVD on highways across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vehicle-document-check-to-go-automatic-in-state-soon/articleshow/78776635.cms||KP Saikiran
October 21, 2020||Kanpur||Missing eye-witness of Bikru ambush found at parents’ place||KANPUR: District police were thrown into a tizzy on Monday after finding Manu, wife of Shashikant, the associate of gangster Vikas Dubey, who was one of the eye-witnesses of the gun battle that ensued on the intervening night of July 2 and 3, missing from her home in Bikru village. Police, however, heaved a sigh of relief after Manu, with her two minor children, was found at her parents’ house in Bahlolpur village in Mandhana late on the same night. To recall, Manu is a daughter-in-law of Sushma Pandey, whose husband Prem Kumar Pandey was gunned down by the police hours after the policemen were killed in an ambush. Subsequently, her husband Shashikant was also arrested and sent to jail. Police had stated that Prem Kumar Pandey was one of the assailants and Dubey’s accomplice. Pandey’s house is located a few metres from Dubey’s house, now demolished. Sources meanwhile said that Manu, who was one of the key eyewitnesses of Bikru bloodbath and whose name is likely to be included by the police in the supplementary chargesheet, has fled her in-laws house fearing police action. As per the 1,700-page police chargesheet, the information about the raid on gangster Vikas Dubey’s house was leaked by local police and women helped in the ambush, allowing the assailants to kill police personnel and escape. Eight policemen, including a deputy SP and three sub-inspectors, were killed in the ambush. Police had charged 36 persons in the case. Six of the assailants, including gangster Vikas Dubey, were killed in encounters. Of the two absconding aides of the gangster, one Umakant had surrendered recently, while another is yet to be arrested. The accused also included four women--- Kshama Agnihotri, Rekha Agnihotri, Shanti Dubey, and a minor wife of Vikas's aide Amar Dubey. Their husbands are also accused in the case. Police, however, did not charge Manu Pandey, whose purported audio clips talked about the role of the women in the ambush. SP rural Brijesh Shrivastava however said," Police have located her. She along with her children had gone to meet her parents who stay in Bahlolopur village of Mandhana. We have deployed security personnel outside her parents’ house," he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/missing-eye-witness-of-bikru-ambush-found-at-parents-place/articleshow/78778485.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Two killed, one injured as mini-truck hits Puja revellers’ bike on Chittaranjan Avenue||KOLKATA:Two bikers died and one was critically injured after their bike was hit by a mini truck at Zakaria Street-Chittaranjan Avenue Crossing under the Jorasanko police station late on Monday. The trio reportedly had been zig-zagging through the traffic in a high speed and was allegedly under the influence. All three are residents of Tangra and Sealdah. The deceased have been identified as Gopal Das (28) and his friend Raju Bhuiya (31). The injured, Shankar Bhuniya (26), is a nephew of one of the deceased. Gopal was a resident of Sealdah and Raju was from Tangra. Shankar, however, is a resident of Hooghly’s Rishra. The three men had told their relatives that they were going to Medical College (now a Covid hospital) to know about the health of an acquaintance. But the three of them actually went on a joyride across central Kolkata, claimed police, stating they wanted to enjoy the Pujas. According to locals, these men were speeding and driving dangerously from Esplanade. “They were betting on overtaking the trucks at night. Accordingly, the biker overtook a mini-truck from the blind side of the driver and then swerved right in front of him trying to cut through to further right. The truck driver tried to pull away but it was too late. While Shankar fell to the left side after the truck touched the bike, the two others fell near the tyres and were run over,” said an officer from the fatal squad, which is investigating the case. Gopal was the rider. “All of them were taken to Medical College for necessary treatment but Gopal and Raju were declared dead on arrival. Sankar, however, was treated and discharged from Hospital. A case in this regard has been registered at Jorasanko police station. During investigation, the offending mini-truck driver, Mujibar Mallick (49), a resident of Panskura, East Midnapore, was arrested and the vehicle was seized. Lalbazar said such instances led them to continue the block chain raids in the city before pujas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-killed-one-injured-as-mini-truck-hits-puja-revellers-bike-on-cr-ave/articleshow/78778500.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt DCHs to seek NMC help on refund demands, threats by kin||Nagpur: Private hospitals treating Covid patients in the city have expressed concern over latest trend of relatives creating a ruckus to get out of paying their dues, or even get refund of payment, despite successful treatment and discharge. Leading private hospitals have pointed out relatives are mobbing their premises and staff is feeling threatened. Requesting anonymity, leading private hospital directors told TOI the hospital administrations have even been forced to give up their justified bills due to lack of support from the civic body and police. Recently, a Covid hospital in South-West Nagpur faced a tough time after the death of a critically ill Covid patient. The hospital said a threatening crowd comprising relatives of the deceased refused to pay the outstanding bill worth a couple of lakhs, and the police allegedly backed the crowd. The bill had been audited by NMC observers. Similarly, political parties are intervening in several cases where bills are running into lakhs. This has emboldened people, who are finding it an easy escape, doctors said. Sources told TOI the aggrieved private hospitals plan to seek Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s immediate intervention. They said as hospitals are forced to repay the ‘overcharged’ amounts to the patient’s families, then as natural justice it is the duty of the administration to help hospitals recover the legally due bills. They also said hospital names are published in newspapers for overcharging of consumables and other safety kits. “We buy in bulk at a negotiated cost. Later, the price cappings are revised by government. How can we suffer loss in case there is a difference,” they said. The aggrieved hospitals are likely to raise these issues with the civic body and also make their anguish public through the media. They feel it is also the responsibility of NMC to appreciate individual hospitals and publish their names with gratitude. Of late, NMC has been credited with efficient handling of Covid. However, private hospitals feel they played a major role in bailing out the civic body in such trying circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-dchs-to-seek-nmc-help-on-refund-demands-threats-by-kin/articleshow/78776641.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 21, 2020||Goa||Three-month-old with heart problem Goa’s youngest Covid death||PANAJI: A three-month-old baby boy who was detected with myocardial dysfunction and cardiogenic shock when hospitalised five days ago, became the state’s youngest Covid-19 victim on Tuesday. His was among the six Covid-related deaths reported by the directorate of health services, taking the state’s toll to 556. The other deaths were that of two men and three women. Three of these were reported from the Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, two from the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, while an 82-year-old woman from Sao Jose de Areal was brought dead to Hospicio, Margao. Two men — a 79-year-old from Aquem and a 70-year-old from Vagator — had comorbid conditions and died after a few days of hospitalisation. A 76-year-old woman from Quepem and a 72-year-old from Mapusa died under similar circumstances. After recording a decline in Covid cases for two days, Goa saw a spurt on Tuesday. The positivity rate was pegged at 19%, which was less than Monday’s 21%. The state reported 285 new cases and 361 recoveries, pushing its tally of active cases to 3,200 during the day. The state’s recovery rate was pegged at 91% with a total of 37,275 people cured of the virus since March. The state capital, Panaji, reported 17 more positive cases of Covid-19 and its tally of active cases stood at 166. The centres that continue to report a moderately high number of cases are Sakhali, Panaji, Mapusa, Corlim, Chimbel and Porvorim. The count of cases at both, Chimbel and Porvorim, has been above 200. In South Goa, Margao, Vasco and Ponda have been reporting more infections as compared to other centres. Also, two travellers were among those tested positive on Tuesday. On Monday, chief minister Pramod Sawant warned people not to lower their guard and strictly follow all measures in place, even if new cases drop. The measures against the virus will have to be followed for a long time to come, he told reporters. “This being a new virus, people should take precautions — wear masks, use sanitiser and maintain social distancing — because it is unpredictable when there will be spike in cases next,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-month-old-with-heart-problem-states-youngest-covid-death/articleshow/78777996.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Two accused surrender in CMM court, sent to jail||KANPUR: Two alleged accused in ex-BSP leader Pintu Sengar’s murder case surrendered before the court of chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Kanpur Nagar here on Tuesday. The court, after taking them in judicial custody, sent them to jail. Ex-BSP leader Pintu Sengar was shot dead by some persons on June 20 last in Chakeri police circle. Police had nabbed some people in the case. But during the investigation, names of two more accused—Mahfooz Akhtar and Saud Ahmad --came on the record. The counsel of the accused had preferred a surrender application in the court of CMM in the morning. During hearing of the surrender and bail applications two accused around 12 noon, reached along with a crowd and surrendered themselves before the court. The court took them under judicial custody and later sent them to jail. Earlier, their counsel had pleaded that their clients were innocent and were fabricated in the case with ulterior motive. After 14 days, the jail authorities would again produce the accused in the court in compliance of its orders. Meanwhile, SSP Preetinder Singh confirmed that Mahfooz and Saud had surrendered in the court. Police would seek their remand from the court for further investigation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-accused-surrender-in-cmm-court-sent-to-jail/articleshow/78778504.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Buses disappear from roads as losses mount||KOLKATA: Travel-nightmares have returned to haunt commuters in the run up to Puja with over 70% buses have gone off the road because of mounting losses, long trip time because of traffic snarls and fear of getting buses requisitioned by cops. Even the state transport undertakings (STU) buses have reduced trips to minimize the losses. Private bus operators made an appeal to the government not to requisition buses for Puja duty as bus workers are refusing to work in the Covid-19 situation. “Cops have already requisitioned a large number of buses. Since they have to work with requisitioned buses against a meager daily allowance, they have decided not to run buses,” said Tapan Banerjee, general secretary, joint council of bus syndicates. Moreover, running buses in pre-Puja days has not only become cumbersome, but it takes a humongous time to complete a round trip because of traffic gridlock. Most of the buses cannot complete one round trip. Unless a bus can make at least three trips, the loss becomes unmanageable. Thus, it becomes pointless to run buses,” said Tanmaoy Sikdar, a bus operator. Even the STUs have reduced trips. WBTC for instance earned Rs 4.5 crore from fare, yet spent more than Rs 9 crore on fuel bills. This has led WBTC to reduce trips to bring down the fuel cost. WBTC has already reduced the number of buses in non-profitable routes and non-peak hours when there are hardly any passengers. STUs have sought fund from the government to bridge the yawning gap between fare and fuel bill. This situation has left commuters in a lurch. “In absence of suburban train and limited access to Metro rail, we are overwhelmingly dependent on buses. But in the last few days, the number of buses dropped drastically. Our waiting time for a bus has grown by four times. If it took just five to seven minutes earlier, now it takes 25 to 35 minutes. Later, when the bus arrives, its badly overcrowded,” said Samik Ghosh, a private firm employee from Behala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buses-disappear-from-roads-as-losses-mount/articleshow/78778492.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 21, 2020||Meerut||6 months after gang-rape, teen found pregnant||MEERUT: A 14-year-old girl who was gang-raped allegedly by two youths of her village in Hapur discovered that her ordeal was far from over six months later. Threatened by the youths, she remained silent. Then, she began to experience abdominal pain and was found pregnant later when taken to hospital.It was then that she told her parents what happened when she went to fetch water from the house of a neighbour. He and a friend took turns to rape her, she alleged. In his complaint, her father added, “They also filmed the act and because of the rape, my daughter is now pregnant.” Based on the complaint, a case under IPC’s sections 376DA (punishment for gangrape on woman under 16 years of age), 506 (criminal intimidation) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act has been registered against the accused at Hapur city kotwali police station. The gangrape survivor has now been sent for a medical examination. "The main accused, Abhishek, has been arrested while efforts are on to trace the other,” said Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur additional superintendent of police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/6-months-after-gangrape-teen-found-pregnant/articleshow/78776634.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||HC cancels ‘forcible’ adoption of boy, gives custody to mother||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that a child who is being taken to a far off country by way of adoption needs to be protected and added that background checks by the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) and its equivalent authority in the foreign country are imperative in the case of an inter-country adoption. Deciding the ongoing battle over adoption of a minor boy to a couple based in the United States under “pressure” of his grandparents after his father’s death, the Punjab and Haryana high court directed the adoptive parents to hand over the custody of the child to his natural mother. The high court held that the adoption deed shown to be executed on December 3, 2019 is a highly suspicious document as regards its authenticity and secondly, the intention to give the child for adoption was at a time when the petitioner could not be said to be in a stable mental state due to the recent death of her husband. As the child remained with the adoptive couple, the high court observed that the couple must have been attached with the child, thus it would be appropriate in the interest of the child if the adoptive mother hands over the child by first familiarising him with his natural mother. The process has been ordered to be completed over a period of two weeks The matter had reached the high court in January this year after a Chandigarh-based woman (name withheld to protect identity) filed a habeas corpus petition alleging that her minor son had been forcibly taken away from her custody through “forceful” adoption by her in-laws after her husband’s death. She said her father in law and mother in law had called her to Patiala in September 2019 and forced her to sign some documents after which her son was given in adoption to the USA-based couple. She approached the HC after the Chandigarh police failed to take any action on her complaint. She also claimed that her son’s adoption was illegal because the adoption ceremony had taken place in the absence of adoptive parents and the child was taken away from her by the relatives of the adoptive parents, not the adoptive parents themselves. During the hearing of the case, advocate Anil Malhotra, who was assisting the high court as amicus curiae, had submitted a report alleging that adoption of child is illegal and void and in complete contravention of the provisions mentioned in the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA). Malhotra had also submitted that no giving and taking ceremony took place between the natural mother and adoptive parents, which is also against the statutory provisions. He also submitted that since the adoption is void, the custody of the child should be restored to the mother. Hearing all the parties, the HC has ordered that the child be restored to the mother. The high court also observed that the inter country adoptions are one category of adoptions that must adhere to the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and the adoption regulations framed thereunder, with CARA being the authority that is required to go into the question of the appropriateness of any couple/person living abroad, to adopt a child from India. The high court was of the view that the need for protection of children being taken to a foreign country becomes all the more necessary due to too many unfortunate cases of child abuse — sexual, or for the purpose of labouring in houses, in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-cancels-forcible-adoption-of-boy-gives-custody-to-mother/articleshow/78777998.cms||Ajay Sura
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to start 1st-ever snow leopard count with AI & gene analysis toolkit||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand is set to start its maiden exercise to count the population of the endangered snow leopard in the higher reaches of Himalayas with some help from genetic analysis techniques and photo-scanning artificial intelligence software. The numbers of the elusive cat will also be monitored in Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh and union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh to arrive at an all-India count. The Uttarakhand forest department and the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) have identified 371 forest beats, mostly located at altitudes above 3,000 meters, where the survey would be conducted. A ‘snow leopard occupancy map’ will be created soon followed by installation of camera traps. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand, said the occupancy map will classify areas as having low, medium or high population of snow leopards in ten forest divisions. These include Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, Nanda Devi, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Govind, Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi and Tehri. CCTV cameras will be installed and photographs will be analysed using Artificial Intelligence (AI). For genetic analysis, scat will be collected and each sample will be given a unique identity number. S Sathyakumar, a senior scientist at WII who is spearheading the project in Uttarakhand, said AI and genetic analysis were being used in the country to count snow leopards for the first time to lower the risk of inaccuracy in the number count. Three years ago, India had done a “habitat quality” survey to estimate the snow leopard population, said Sathyakumar. The survey looked at the suitability of the habitat based on things like abundance of prey to arrive at estimated numbers. “According to the habitat quality-based estimation, there are about 620 snow leopards in India and Uttarakhand is home to 86 of them," he said. It is estimated that 7,000-odd snow leopards exist in 12 countries, including India, where the animal is found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/armed-with-ai-genetic-analysis-toolkit-ukhand-to-start-first-ever-snow-leopard-count/articleshow/78774204.cms||Shivani Azad
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC: Dismissed cop seeks to reinstate him in service||MADURAI: The Madras high court has directed the state government to consider on merits, the representation submitted by a former police inspector to reinstate him back in service after he was dismissed from service following his conviction in a case for abetting the suicide of a woman. Justice Krishnan Ramasamy passed the order while hearing the petition filed by C Sethumani Madhavan, a resident of Madurai district. The petitioner stated that the Thanjavur fast track mahila court in 2017, convicted and sentenced him to undergo 10 years imprisonment. Challenging the order of the trial court, he filed an appeal before HC Madurai bench in 2017. The HC had set aside the order and acquitted him of all charges in 2019. Madhavan stated that he was dismissed from service vide order dated April 7, 2017 without even conducting an inquiry after he was convicted in the case. The clauses under Police Standing Order (PSO) 67 states that when a police officer has been tried and acquitted by a criminal court or acquitted by a court on appeal he should be reinstated back in service. He stated that the clauses under PSO 67 are squarely applicable to his case as he was acquitted from the case by HC in 2019. Since there was no appeal against his acquittal, he submitted a representation to the authorities seeking to reinstate him back in service, however, there was no response in this regard. Hence, the petitioner sought for a direction to quash the order of dismissal and consequently reinstate him back in service with all monetary benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dismissed-cop-seeks-to-reinstate-him-in-service/articleshow/78778005.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Eastern railway ready to resume suburban services, awaits SOP||KOLKATA: There is finally some good news for suburban commuters. Eastern Railway (ER) is ready to resume local train services, at least in a regulated manner, as soon as a standard operating procedure (SOP) with the state government evolves. While this may not be possible during the Pujas, the state may take a decision soon thereafter after monitoring the Covid-19 situation after the festival. “We have received a number of requests from people to resume suburban services. There are no operational issues on our part. We just have to discuss issues pertaining to crowd management at stations with the West Bengal government. This is crucial for the safety of commuters during the pandemic. We have already urged the state to convene a meeting,” a senior ER official said. The primary aim is to regulate footfall at suburban stations and control the number of people in each coach. Quicker dispersal at larger stations like Howrah and Sealdah will also have to be worked out to ensure physical distancing. ER maintains that it will require a lot of assistance from the state in managing crowds at suburban stations. While the concept of e-passes may be adopted, entry points to stations will have to be carefully monitored. “It is possible. What we an ticipate is trouble at wayside stations if movement is restricted. The state police and Government Railway Police (GRP) will have to add muscle to the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and checking staff. Tracks will also have to be cleared if there are obstructions. If there are disruption in services, there is bound to be crowding,” another ER official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/er-ready-to-resume-suburban-services-awaits-sop/articleshow/78778515.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 21, 2020||Surat||Protection walls for temples on Narmada||Surat: The Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) has began construction work of the protection wall on the right bank of the Narmada river to protect the surrounding villages and the historic temples from the devastating floods. The state government sanctioned Rs 20 crore for the construction of about 32-metres protection wall to protect the temples of Garudeshwar Dutt Sansthan, surrounding villages and the historic Indraeshwar Mahadev temple on the left bank of Narmada. It has been a long pending demand from the villagers and the pilgrims visiting the temples on both the banks of Narmada river. It must be noted that the Indravarni village located on the left bank of Narmada canal remains the worst-during heavy release of water from the Sardar Sarovar Dam every monsoon. Authorities of the SSNNL said that 76-metre long wall will be constructed at the cost of Rs 20 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/protection-walls-for-temples-on-narmada/articleshow/78775615.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Vadodara||Liquor-addict man killed by nephew||Vadodara: A security guard living in Samta area was killed allegedly by his nephew on Monday late at night. The accused was detained after he admitted to killing his uncle because of his drinking habits. Police said that the victim Amrendra Pandey and his nephew Deependra lived together for the past 18 months as they worked as security guards with an agency. Deependra was fed up of Amrendra’s daily drunken fracas. On October 18 when the duo had a fight after Amrendra got drunk, Deependra called police and got him arrested. After he was released on bail, Amrendra again got drunk and created a ruckus at home on Monday. In a fit of rage, Deependra picked up a knife and slit Amrendra’s throat. After killing Amrendra, he went to a relative’s house so that no one suspects him. He returned around 11 pm and started crying on the staircase outside his home. When Heena Bhatt, his neighbour, asked him about the reason for crying, Deependra said that somebody entered his house and killed Amrendra. Bhatt called police and lodged a complaint against unidentified person at Laxmipura police station. When Deependra was questioned, his behaviour and his replies were quite suspicious. “The way he was answering and also the replies that he gave were not satisfactory so we took him to the police station for detailed interrogation,” said assistant commissioner of police B A Chaudhary. During interrogation, Deependra broke down and told cops why he killed his uncle. Deependra has been kept in quarantine and will be arrested on Wednesday if his Covid-19 test report turns out to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/liquor-addict-man-killed-by-nephew/articleshow/78774520.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Rs16L Covid patient bill slashed by Rs7L after uproar||Nagpur: East End Hospital and Critical Care Unit, which is being run by New Era Hospital and Research Institute as a Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) slashed a Chandrapur patient’s bill by around Rs7.23lakh after relatives accused it of keeping a Covid patient woman on ventilator unnecessarily for 15 days. The hospital declared the 52-year-old dead on Tuesday, a day after the relatives sought help of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) youth wing that wrote to the DCH incharge as well as Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) alleging “loot”. The patient, who as working as public health supervisor at Chandrapur PHC, was admitted against private quota bed on September 22, when the city was going through severe bed shortage in government medical colleges and private hospitals. The hospital on As October 17 had billed the patient Rs9.83 lakh for treatment and Rs6lakh for the medicines supplied from in-house pharmacy. Following conversion to government bed quota, the NMC auditor validated the dues settlement to Rs5.92lakh for hospitalization on Tuesday. Though out of NMC’s purview, the pharmacy bill was also reduced to Rs3.11 lakh. The hospital administration refused to give reason for such substantially slashing of bill. NMC auditor Amol Rathod, a GST inspector, gave clean chit to the hospital of any malpractice. Rathod said NMC had no powers to convert a patient’s admission status from private to government. “It was done by hospital on humanitarian grounds,” he said. Though the hospital had transferred the patient to government quota bed, the bill still stood at Rs6.36lakh. The audit brought forth a difference of Rs43,000. “Technical errors led to inclusion of charges for certain investigations and facilities. Hence it was adjusted,” said Rathod. New Era director Dr Ajay Sancheti said relatives had agreed to admit her in private bed as all other beds were full at that time. “The relatives told us they couldn’t afford to pay, so the management decided to transfer patient in government quota bed and also apply a discount in the revised bill,” he said. He also said the relatives had absolutely no issue with the billing and they politely took the body after paying the balance amount. Relatives told TOI the hospital had been insisting on full payment of around Rs16 lakh until AAP youth wing’s city president Girish Titarmare and its Vidarbha president Piyush Akre stepped in. The deceased’s son-in-law said they last spoke to her on October 5. “She got breathless but there was no bed available in Chandrapur. As we came to know this Nagpur hospital had a bed, we brought her here on September 22 at 4am. The hospital demanded Rs2 lakh deposit. She was admitted at 6am after relatives and friends transferred money online to hospital. Every two days, the hospital asked for more money. We assured to pay as we had put her house and land for sale. But the deal didn’t come through,” the son-in-law said. The hospital intensivist Dr Amit Khade said the son-in-law was explained the patient’s condition on a daily basis. “Since October 16, she was in comfort care where investigations and medicines are stopped as the patient becomes fully dependent on life support. This was done with relatives’ consent,” Dr Khade said. The son-in-law agreed Dr Khade did explain the condition but also cautioned them that she may die if life support was removed. “On October 2 itself, we wanted to shift her to government hospital but they told us it would be very risky and she may die before reaching another hospital. This confused us as on October 17 they started insisting on shifting her. This change in advice raised doubt if she had already passed away long before,” he said. AAP youth wing’s Akre too alleged the woman had no hope of recovery two weeks ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs16l-covid-patient-bill-slashed-by-rs7l-after-uproar/articleshow/78776677.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 21, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Don’t appreciate Kamal Nath’s language, says Rahul Gandhi||BHOPAL: Former AICC president Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said PCC chief Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ comment was “unfortunate”. “Kamal Nathji is from my party, but personally, I don’t like the type of language that he used. I don’t appreciate it, regardless of who he is. It is unfortunate,” Rahul said at a press meet in Wayanad, Kerala. Asked about this in Bhopal, Nath said: “That’s Rahul ji’s opinion.” The former CM refused to apologize on the issue, saying he had already expressed ‘regret’ on Monday night. He reiterated that he made the statement in a different context. “He (Rahul) must have been told in what connection the comment was made. I had clarified in what context I made that statement. Hence, it is not necessary to speak on it anymore. Why should I apologise? I have said that it was not my intention to hurt anyone. If anyone feels disrespected, then I regret it. This I said yesterday,” he told reporters. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan sharpened his attack on Nath, saying: “Rahul Gandhi has said he didn’t like the language he (Nath) used. It’s clear that Kamal Nath will not tender an apology. But Rahul ji, simply saying that your Congress (state) president did wrong will not serve any purpose. If he has done wrong, what action are you taking against him?” Addressing a poll rally in Joura constituency, Chouhan said: “Kamal Nath did something wrong and took pride in it. Their (Congress) leaders are saying that he committed a mistake. But this man says he will not apologise. What kind of a leader is he? I wonder why Congress has kept him state party president.” On Monday, the CM had written to Sonia, urging her to remove Nath from all party posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dont-appreciate-naths-language-says-rahul/articleshow/78776664.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa schools to hold special PTA meets on safe festive celebrations||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools to conduct special PTA meetings in either online or offline mode to generate awareness among parents on observing the upcoming festival season with all precautions against Covid-19. The effort is a part of the central government’s Jan Andolan campaign. “Public health response to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is of paramount importance among all stakeholders in light of the upcoming festivals and winter season. You are informed to organise special PTA meetings for communication on Covid-19 precautions through online/offline mode extensively,” director of education Santosh Amonkar told all government, aided and unaided schools. He said that education material in this regard should be circulated among teachers, students, parents and other stakeholders in the area of the school. “To the send the message of Covid-19 fight, you may involve NSS volunteers, scout and guide volunteers, Red Cross unit, local bodies, like the panchayat and municipality or NGOs as Covid-19 is not over,” the circular states. Schools have also been told to circulate among teachers, parents, students and others in the neighbourhood the pledge to be taken under the Jan Andolan campaign. The campaign material to be circulated by schools stresses on proper wearing of masks, frequent washing of hands and maintaining six-metre social distance. “The highlight of the campaign is the partnership and concerted efforts of all the stakeholders i.e. government, central and state departments and students, parents and communities at large,” DoE had stated earlier this month in a circular to schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-to-hold-special-pta-meets-on-safe-festive-celebrations/articleshow/78778022.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Rs 1.6 crore in cash seized from Elliot Road house||KOLKATA: A joint raid by the Kolkata Police’s special task force and Park Street police at an Elliot Road address on Monday led to the recovery of more than Rs 1.6 crore in cash. The raid was carried out at the residence of Mohammad Emraan. Gold ornaments, two laptops and two smartphones were also recovered from the residence by the investigators. “Raids were conducted based on information from credible sources. However, the main accused Emraan, was not present at his house. Family members, who were there, could not justify the presence of money and material recovered. The items have been seized maintaining all legal formalities,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. A suo moto case has been initiated at the Park Street police station against Emraan, who is absconding. Steps are being taken to secure arrest of the accused person, said cops. The recovery of such a huge amount of black money — that too from the central business and market hub of the city — has led Lalbazar to seek a detailed report from local police about the whereabouts and background of the family. Sources said they believe the money could have hawala connections. “Since the person was not at home, it appears that he is absconding. Though it appears to be hawala money, we will need more evidence in this regard. He could be involved in some illegitimate business also. The family members have been asked to cooperate in the probe, which will be continued by local police,” said an officer, leading the probe. Locals said Emraan frequently travelled out of the city. “We have been informed about a gold bar case — worth Rs 5 crore — involving Bengal Police officers in north Bengal. We are ascertaining if there are any connections. “We also believe this could be part of a lottery business, where retail shops were also used as fronts. It is entirely possible that some of the money has already left the country,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-1-6-crore-in-cash-seized-from-elliot-road-house/articleshow/78778520.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 21, 2020||Meerut||Mosque PA system warns of leopard in Bijnor jungle||Bijnor: Residents of Chandpur area in Bijnor district were alerted about a leopard's presence in a nearby jungle over the local mosque's loudspeaker on Tuesday morning. The big cat was sighted at Rasulpur Nangla, near a gas godown under Chandpur police station area. Conforming, M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer, said a forest team had been sent to to the spot to take stock of the situation. A cage would be set up in the area to trap it. The villagers were were warned to go in groups to their fields wearing helmets and make a noise while working to keep the leopard away. With the onset of the cane crushing season, leopard sightings go up. So do instances of man-leopard conflicts. Recently, a 10-year-old girl in Rehar area was killed by a leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mosque-pa-system-warns-of-leopard-in-bijnor-jungle/articleshow/78776674.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Diwali vacation from October 29 to November 18||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) on Tueday announced that the Diwali vacation will be from October 29 to November 18 for all state board schools. At a time when schools are closed due to Covid-19 pandemic, all educational activities, including online classes will remain shut in this twenty-day vacation period, according to a GSHSEB statement. Schools and colleges have been closed in the state for the last six months and many educational institutions are conducting online classes and exams. The state government is yet to take a call on re-opening of schools after the Diwali vacation. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said recently that a decision in this regard will be taken soon, after consultation with various stakeholders including parents, students, school trustees, teachers and prominent educationists. The minister said the most crucial opinion in reopening schools will be of the health department. The minister said he will then discuss the issue with chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and the entire cabinet before taking a final decision on reopening schools. The Centre had in the recent ‘Unlock 5’ guidelines suggested re-opening schools from October 15 in a limited manner. The states have been given the authority to decide if they wanted to reopen schools or not. THe Gujarat government decided not to reopen schools from October 15. In the last couple of months the state government has held few rounds of meetings with various stakeholders, some of who have suggested staggered attendance and calling students on alternate days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diwali-vacation-from-oct-29-to-nov-18/articleshow/78776673.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kanpur||Illegal telephone exchange busted, two arrested||KANPUR: Police on Tuesday arrested two persons and busted an illegal telephone exchange where the accused offered telecommunication link to callers at cost lower than charged by the government approved centres. Police said the exchange racket caused huge monetary losses to the government. SSP Preetinder Singh said, “Acting on a tip off provided by the intelligence wing, the special team of the city police busted an illegal VoIP (voice over internet protocol) exchange where international VoIP calls were routed through local mobile numbers. The gang used to convert a VoIP call from abroad into a voice call illegally and transferring it to receivers in India through illegal international gateway.” Two persons, identified as Shahnawaz and Javed of Shujatganj area of Rail Bazar, have been arrested. The SSP said, “We also recovered five VoIP exchange machines, 51 SIMs, several routers with adopters and a CP device from the spot. The cost of one VoIP exchange machine is Rs 1 lakh. The VoIP machine converts a Rs 10-15 call into 60-70 paise. Latest gadgets did not reveal the caller’s ID and eased the entire operations.” The accused was running this illegal telephone exchange for more than two years. An FIR was later registered in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/illegal-telephone-exchange-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/78778518.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Times Sharod Sreshtho to award baroari pujas for ‘hygienic environment’ amid pandemic||KOLKATA: At a time when the authorities as well as some clubs are trying to impose restrictions and anti-Covid sanitizing protocol at pandals so that the Durga Puja festivity does not turn into a reason for worry, Times Sharod Sreshtho 2020 has also decided to keep the ‘Most Hygienic Environment’ as a category to grade baroari or community pujas in the city. Times Sharod Sreshtho awards from the stable of The Times of India are conferred on select sarbajanin pujas—most of them are theme-based nowadays—for their efforts in making the festival special. The community pujas of Kolkata and Salt Lake, which register with The Times of India, are judged on a number of parameters, the categories this time being Best Pujo, Best Idol, Best Pandal and the Most Hygienic Environment. The aim is to create an enriching experience by the sarbojanin pujas while abiding by certain safety norms. The shadow and lurking fear that the pandemic has cast over the past seven months cannot be denied but life has to go on beyond it. This time, Durga Puja—a time Bengal looks forward to throughout the year— will be observed amid a pandemic and so, changes are being made every day to make things differently this year to ensure safety for revellers. The celebrations will be on a muted scale as gathering of any form, albeit armed with masks and sanitisers, could spike up Covid cases in our city, which is already struggling to control the spread of the novel coronavirus. But to keep the spirit and the tradition alive, to spread cheer and bonhomie in the dark times, baroari pujas are all set to welcome Durga, complete with her entourage. The community pujas, which usually spend lakhs on decorative lights and pandals, are doing away with brilliant illumination this year, both on account of monetary constraints as well as concerns over drawing crowds in the pandemic situation. Many have also decided not to decorate their pandals, based on innovative themes. After all, with so much suffering and uncertainty around, it wouldn’t be in sync with the current situation. In its 14th edition, Times Sharod Sreshtho 2020 is being presented by Apollo Hospitals Kolkata and powered by The Bhawanipur. The music partner is SMULE- India Jams Here while the associate sponsor is Rashmi Group. The results will be out during the Pujas. Keep an eye on this space for more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/times-sharod-sreshtho-to-award-baroari-pujas-for-hygienic-environment-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78776729.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||School tomes, stationery not in Nagpur’s good books post Covid-19||NAGPUR: Apart from parents and schools, the Covid-19 pandemic has spelt financial trouble for educational book business as well. Retailers say sales have fallen by 50% compounded by further collapse of their allied businesses like stationery, book binding, etc. Vijay Jain, president of Shaikshanik Sahitya Vikreta Sanghatna, said things look bleak for the near future as well. “Very few people are buying school text books. They are either getting it from other school children who have moved on to higher classes or buying from used book dealers. I do not see any traction coming back to our business till the next academic session,” said Jain, who owns Vijay Book Depot. Owner of Novelty Book Depot, Anand Chopda, said children are now managing with less. “Let us take the example of notebooks. Earlier, there would be one for each subject. But since the child is at home, a single notebook is being used for all subjects. Writing work, too, has decreased,” said Chopda. Stationery business has also taken a hit. “Apart from the big brand schools, hardly anyone is teaching subjects like drawing, craft or taking up activities like writing practice, etc. This has further impacted our topline. A small percentage of children would misplace their pencil or eraser every month, which meant parents would have to buy another set. But with home schooling, even that is not happening,” said Chopda. Vinod Nangia, owner of Western Book Depot, said their stock holding power is almost over. “Most of us have started returning books to publishers, and it’s happening all across the country. People are just not buying new textbooks. Truck loads of books will land up at their godowns and it might never get used if content for the next academic session gets overhauled because of the National Education Policy,” said Nangia. Not sounding hopeful, Nangia said, “Stationery business has literally collapsed with virtually no sale of items like cursive handwriting books. Nowadays, children don’t need many pencils, erasers and crayons. It’s a horrible situation for our sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-tomes-stationery-not-in-citys-good-books-post-covid-19/articleshow/78778543.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur first in Maharashtra to have post-Covid OPDs in rural areas||NAGPUR: On Tuesday, Nagpur became the first district in Maharashtra to start post-Covid outpatient departments (OPDs) in health sub-centres, tehsil health centres and primary health centres. Now, these health centres will provide health care to patients recovered from Covid-19 from 12 noon to 1pm daily. With government-run hospitals in Nagpur – GMCH, IGGMCH, AIIMS and many private hospitals in city having such OPDs functioning, now almost every government health centre will check Covid-recovered patients. Total 82,439 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district till October 20. “Covid-19 can have a long-lasting impact. In view of the situation, all these health centres in the district have initiated the post-Covid OPDs. Doctors will call the recovered patients and review their condition,” said district collector Ravindra Thakare. “This is next phase of Covid-19 care. The aim is to re-establish Covid survivors into their daily lives by providing clinical, psychological and rehabilitative care,” he added. Recovered patients will be counselled about plasma donation for convalescent plasma therapy. Post Covid-19 OPD is already functioning for over two months at IGGMCH and GMCH, while the same is successfully running at AIIMS since October 9. According to nodal officer of AIIMS Covid Hospital Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, idea of the treatment in post-Covid OPD is based on three key pillars — clinical assessment, psychological intervention and rehabilitative care. “Detailed clinical assessment helps in analysing the impact of infection. Physical rehabilitation helps doctors to understand the impact of Covid-19 on mobility, exercise tolerance and muscle weakness. Psychological evaluation plays big role in dealing Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) among these patients,” he said. Interestingly, at AIIMS, recovered patients interact with admitted patients and share their experiences which bring confidence about recovery in the admitted patients. Defeating the virus could be the start of the battle for Covid-19 patients, said senior pulmonologist Dr Vikrant Deshmukh of Nagpur Chest Centre. “We have treated patients who have returned with problems of lung fibrosis post-Covid-19 recovery. Therefore, early intervention and follow-ups are very important to start with medications in order to prevent further progression. The OPDs will play an important role in this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-1st-in-maha-to-have-post-covid-opds-in-rural-areas/articleshow/78776691.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lawyer seeks Rahul Gandhi’s exemption from appearance||AHMEDABAD: The arguments on behalf of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi were completed for his permanent exemption from remaining present in court in connection with a defamation case in the metropolitan court. The case pertains to a criminal defamation plaint filed last year by a BJP councillor, Krishnavadan Brahmbhatt, taking exception to the Wayanad MP’s comment in an speech at Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh ahead of the 2019 general elections. Gandhi had reportedly called Union home minister Amit Shah a “murder accused” referring to the 2015 Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. Brahmbhatt had made a complaint claiming Shah had been discharged in the case much before that and he could not have been called a murder accused. Gandhi’s advocate Pankaj Champaneri had filed an application in September 2019 requesting the court to grant Gandhi permanent exemption from remaining present in court during the trial. He cited provisions of Sections 205, 273 and 317 of the CrPC to press his demand that if the court thinks fit, it can exempt an accused from remaining present in a summons case and once the court is convinced that the accused will remain present upon court order and that he will not raise any dispute regarding identity and the court proceedings will not be delayed. Advocate Champaneri also argued that the case is based on frivolous charges and the benefit can be given to the accused for the same by granting him an exemption. Moreover, the case was scheduled for hearing in December, but the Gujarat high court’s order for expediting such cases against MPs and MLAs has resulted in quick hearings. For the complainant, senior advocated S V Raju has sought the Centre’s permission to appear in this case, since he has been appointed additional solicitor general while this case was pending. Further hearing is posted on October 26, the day a hearing of another defamation case against Gandhi involving ADC Bank is also scheduled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyer-seeks-rgs-exemption-from-appearance/articleshow/78776679.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kanpur||Bhoomi pujan of Technopark bldg performed at IIT-Kanpur||KANPUR: IIT-Kanpur authorities, on Tuesday, laid the foundation stone of its Research and Technology Park that functions under the brand name of Technopark@iitk. “We performed Bhoomi Pujan of new building for research park - Technopark@IITK on the institute campus on Tuesday”, said IIT-K director Prof Abhay Karandikar. The event was presided by director, IIT-K, Professor Abhay Karandikar, deputy director Prof S Ganesh, and professor in-charge, Technopark@IITK Professor Avinash Agarwal. “IIT Kanpur started its research and technology park in March 2019. The main idea behind this ambitious project is to push the technology up in the value chain and take the TRL levels up from 3 to 9”, said Director Prof Karandikar. Prof Agarwal informed that the upcoming Phase I infrastructure is a six-storied green building measuring 2.5 lakh square feet, designed to accommodate big, medium and small companies. The first two floors will be designed for heavy engineering industries, third and fourth floors will accommodate IT industry and fifth and six floors will house chemical and bioengineering industries. He further said that the building will have all state-of-the-art facilities— Ready-built or built-to-suit offices/labs, units of 500-10,000 square feet each, conferencing facilities, meeting rooms, large common areas, cafeteria/ATMs/creche and recreational facilities. Technopark@iitk is a Section 8 not-for-profit company primarily intended towards accelerating and facilitating collaborations between IIT Kanpur, industry and government, he said adding that currently, it is home to seven companies that have set up their R&D offices within Technopark@iitk and it is in discussions with several other industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bhoomi-pujan-of-technopark-bldg-performed-at-iit-k/articleshow/78778523.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Fresh cases in West Bengal cross 4k-mark; 2k more beds for Covid treatment||KOLKATA: The number of fresh Covid cases in the state crossed the 4,000-mark on Tuesday for the first time during the pandemic. With 4,029 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, the number of active cases is 35,170 currently across the state. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas continue to be a major concern for the health officials. Both the districts reported over 800 cases in the past three days, accounting for 14,550 active cases. On Tuesday, Kolkata reported 809 new cases and North 24 Parganas 871 new cases. There is a spike in daily cases in neighbouring South 24 Parganas and Howrah as well. “While Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Howrah were always a concern, South 24 Parganas, which was doing relatively better among the neighbouring districts, is seeing a significant rise,” said a health department official South 24 Parganas that used to report daily cases in 100s till mid-September is now constantly recording fresh cases in 200s in the past few weeks. Health experts said that many people from the district could have trooped into the city for Puja shopping due to easy access, thereby resulting in the significant escalation. The district currently has 2,262 active cases. With 63 deaths in the past 24 hours, Covid has claimed 6,180 lives in the state during the pandemic, of which 2,019 are from Kolkata and 1,397 from North 24 Parganas. Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Nadia, East and West Midnapore, West Burdwan and Hooghly are the six other districts that are reporting cases in three digits.  Due to the continuous spike in infection rate hospital bed occupancy that had slid down to as low as 33% in September beginning has now shot up close to 38% across the state. But occupancy in state-run facilities in Kolkata remains as high as between 70% and 98%. While private hospitals have already augmented Covid bed numbers, the government too has scaled up its bed count to 2,274. Medical College Hospital Kolkata that currently has 660 beds will add 100 more beds with oxygen therapy facility.  Of the 2,274 beds, 635 will be of ICU/ HDG category, taking the total number of ICU beds in Bengal to 1,882. Presently, the state has 1,247 ICU/HDG beds. Of these 635 ICU beds, 248 will be in Kolkata and its adjacent areas. MR Bangur Hospital that has 670 beds will get additional 70 beds while 23 beds will be added to NRS Medical College and Hospital, taking its total bed strength to 133. Baranagar State Government Hospital will get 80 beds while 50 beds will be added to CNCI, Rajarhat and 25 to College of Medicine & Sagore Dutta Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fresh-cases-in-state-cross-4k-mark-2k-more-beds-for-cov-treatment/articleshow/78776694.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Women thrash cop, vandalize chowky||AHMEDABAD: A constable with Sola police on Monday filed a complaint against three women and a man who tried to force the release of a man accused of abduction and offences under the Money Lending Act and assaulted a cop in the Chandlodia police chowky. Head constable Sikandar Jashubha states in his FIR with Sola police that police had on Monday evening detained Chirag Patel, a resident of Bapunagar, in a case of abduction, to question him. When the cops were taking him from Bapunagar to Chandlodia police chowky, Patel made the cops talk to a woman on the phone and she abused Jashubha and the other two cops for detaining Patel and threatened them. Police personnel took Patel to Chandlodia police chowky where they started questioning them. On Monday night, three women—Snehal Joshi, Chhaya Rathod and Krishna Panchal — along with a man named Vraj Patel barged into the police chowky and Joshi began abusing the cops. Joshi told Chirag to come out of police chowky and threatened the cops not to dare to stop him. As Jashubha tried to stop Patel, Joshi slapped and gouged him and Patel also tried to run away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/women-thrash-cop-vandalize-chowky/articleshow/78776684.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Kayakalp award: Nashik civil hosp bags 1st prize in Maha||Nashik: The civil hospital in Nashik has bagged the first prize of the Kayakalp award at the state level for the third time in five years. The award has a cash component of Rs 50 lakh. The second prize, with a cash reward of Rs 20 lakh, has been won by the Malegaon general hospital and the consolation prize (Rs 3 lakh) in the category of civil hospitals has gone to the Nandurbar civil hospital. The top three prizes in the state have been bagged by two hospitals in the district and one in the Nashik region, said civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande. The Kayakalp award was introduced by the central government under the Swachha Bharat Abhiyan to encourage cleanliness and hygiene in government hospitals. The Nashik civil hospital, the Malegaon general hospital and the Nandurbar civil hospital has bagged the first, second and consolation prizes respectively at the state level. The Kayakalp initiative in public health facilities was carried out at district and sub-district hospitals, general hospitals, women’s hospitals and rural hospitals in 2019-20. Internal and peer-assessment as well as state-level assessment processes were carried out at these facilities. A team of examiners had also visited the civil hospital in March this year for assessment. The competition is based on parameters of cleanliness, infection control and contractual service evaluation. So far, Kayakalp awards have been held five times by the Centre. The Nashik civil hospital has won the first prize in the state thrice. A total of 32 civil hospitals from across the state participated in the competition. Nashik has the klargest civil hospital in the state with 540-bed capacity and gets footfall of 2,500 at its OPD from across the district. Raokhande said the medical and non-medical employees of the hospital have always sincerely worked to provide good treatment to patients. As a result, a large number of people from rural areas prefer to come to the civil hospital. The flow of patients from Nashik city is also significant despite the presence of hospitals run by the Nashik Municipal Corporation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kayakalp-award-nashik-civil-hosp-bags-1st-prize-in-maha/articleshow/78778023.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||BEST driver rams bus into pole after heart attack||Mumbai: A BEST driver rammed his bus with nine passengers on board into a traffic signal pole after he suffered a major heart attack at Chembur on Tuesday morning. No one was injured. Haridas Patil (53) was rushed to Rajawadi hospital. Chembur police said around 10.30am, the bus (route 381) was was going from Ghatkopar (E) to Tata Power House. It reached Basant Park signal, when Patil suffered a heart attack. Police said he lost control of the steering and hit the pole. A vegetable vendor had a narrow escape but his stall was damaged, police said. A constable on board helped take Patil to hospital in an auto-rickshaw. Police said Patil took the right decision to hit a pole or there would have been casualties. “We have reported a traffic accident case and it appears the driver lost control due to a heart attack. He is recovering at Rajawadi hospital,’’ said senior inspector Shalini Sharma. A BEST spokesperson said the bus wind-shield was shattered and the left front portion of the bus was damaged. “The driver has regained consciousness and is recuperating. No passenger was injured,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-driver-rams-bus-into-pole-after-heart-attack/articleshow/78777081.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 21, 2020||Kanpur||Baljeet Singh Yadav elected president, Rakesh Kumar general secretary of KBA||KANPUR: Baljeet Singh Yadav and Rakesh Kumar Tiwari were elected president and general secretary of Kanpur Bar Association respectively on Tuesday. Out of 4067 votes polled, Baljeet Singh bagged 1787 votes. He defeated his nearest rival Naresh Chandra Tripathi by a margin of 258 votes. Naresh got 1529 votes. Ganesh Kumar Dixit, former general secretary of KBA, got third place with 472 votes while Vinod Kumar Mishra stood at the fourth place with 157 votes and Shyam Singh Chandel and Kali Shankar Mishra got 54 and 53 votes respectively. Out of 4067 votes polled, 15 votes were declared invalid. Rakesh Kumar Trivedi, who contested for the third time, was elected general secretary by a huge margin of 1415 votes against his nearest rival Aditya Kumar Singh who got 672 votes. Rakesh bagged the highest 2087 votes. In the six-cornered contest, Anurag Srivastava got the third place with 646 votes, Pawan Tiwari fourth place with 450 votes, Jagjivan Ram and Vimal Singh Chandel fifth and sixth places respectively with 104 and 59 votes. According to the elders committee, out of 4067 votes cast for the post of president, 49 votes were declared as invalid. Rakesh had earlier tried his luck twice for the same post and on both occasions he stood a runner up. His supporters distributed sweets after he was declared winner. Naresh gave a tough challenge to Baljeet while Rakesh got a big support from advocates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/baljeet-elected-president-rakesh-general-secy-of-kba/articleshow/78778535.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Onion sells at Rs 7,100 per quintal in Maharashtra's Lasalgaon||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion price at the Lasalgaon APMC again increased by Rs 900 per quintal to touch Rs 7,100 per quintal on Tuesday. The Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB) believes the prices could rise further until the new onion crops start arriving in the markets for auctioning by mid-November. Tuesday’s average wholesale onion price is the highest in the past 10 months. Earlier, the average wholesale onion price had peaked in December 2019 when it had reached Rs 8,600 per quintal. The minimum and maximum wholesale price were Rs 1,901 and Rs 7,812 per quintal, respectively, at Lasalgaon on Tuesday. Around 7,000 quintals of onions were auctioned at the market. The recent spell of heavy rainfall has damaged the new kharif onions to a large extent. The new kharif crop is expected to arrive in the market only by mid-November. As per the feedback of the APMCs in Nashik district, farmers still have a small stock of summer onions left. These may last till the time the new crop arrives. Therefore, the supply will be comparatively low, said an official from the MSAMB. According to the APMC officials, the showers have affected the kharif onion in Karnataka and Maharashtra. The arrival of new crops from Rajasthan has started, but the volumes can’t meet the requirements of the domestic market. The arrival of new crops from Madhya Pradesh is expected to begin only in December. “The onions currently arriving in the market are the ones harvested in March and April. The arrival of new kharif onions has been delayed. This is the reason the supply of onions has dropped when compared to the rising demand, leading to price rise,” said Manoj Jain, an onion trader. He said the demand will increase further after Navaratra. 1,500 tonne imported onions reach JNPT Mumbai Meanwhile, the Horticulture Produce Exporters’ Association (HPEA), an import/export body, said 50 containers with around 1,500 tonne of onions, imported from Iran and Turkey, have reached JNPT Mumbai and will soon be available in the market. The landing cost of the imported onions at JNPT is in the range of Rs 45 and Rs 50 per kg. Traders have imported these 50 containers via Dubai. “There is a need to increase onion imports to bring wholesale prices under control. We have written to the Centre, seeking relaxation in the norms,” said an HPEA office-bearer. “The traders can import onions from Dubai in four days, but it takes around a month to import onions from other countries. The centre needs to relax the norms related to the phytosanitary certificate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesale-onion-price-reaches-rs-7100/quintal-may-rise-further/articleshow/78778029.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 21, 2020||Nashik||‘Make beds available for non-Covid patients’||Nashik: Some private hospitals in the city have sought permission from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to allow non-Covid patients to use beds reserved for coronavirus patients. Civic officials said that they have received requests from four private hospitals seeking that the civic body allow them to free 50% of the total 100 beds reserved for Covid patients. These hospitals have stated that they wish to use the reserved beds for treating non-Covid patients whose footfall has increased. While the civic body is yet to issue permission to hospitals for the same, NMC officials would continue to track the situation till early November before making a decision on the demand. At present, 68% of the total 4,500 beds across 91 civic-run and private hospitals in the city are lying vacant due to drop in fresh Covid-19 cases. Of these 4,500 beds, around 3,000 are Covid ones across 75 private hospitals. “The number of new Covid-19 cases has dropped at large in October. But, the government has projected that a second wave of Covid-19 may begin in the city during November and December,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/make-beds-available-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78778031.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||A ‘first in U’khand’, transcatheter aortic valve implantation performed on ex-Army man, 67||Dehradun: In what doctors at a city-based private hospital claimed to be a first of its kind surgery in Uttarakhand, they successfully performed transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) — a minimally invasive procedure where a new valve is placed inside the old damaged valve — on a 67-year-old patient. It took a team of six doctors an hour to perform the surgery, which costs the patient Rs 15 lakh. Explaining the aortic stenosis, Dr Irfan Yakoob Bhat, consultant cardiology at Max Super Speciality Hospital, who performed the surgery, said, “The aortic stenosis or tightening of the aortic valve (one of the four valves of the heart) is a disease of old age, wherein the valve becomes tightened due to deposition of calcium leading to restriction in mobility of its leaflets. This condition puts extra strain on the heart and can result in breathlessness, swollen ankles, chest pain, dizziness and sometimes even blackouts. If left untreated, a patient of aortic stenosis can deteriorate rapidly with most patients dying within two years of the onset of symptoms.” “The 67-year-old ex-Army man came to us with acute breathlessness. On evaluation, the patient was found to have very severe aortic stenosis and his heart functions were reduced considerably. In addition, there was an accumulation of fluids inside the lungs due to progressive heart failure. The patient had a rare form of valve anatomy and a bulge in the wall of a heart chamber,” he added. As the case involved high risk, the kin were not ready for immediate surgery, but doctors introduced them with TAVI— a minimally invasive procedure done by introducing a small tube through the femoral artery in the groin through which the aortic valve is implanted — technique, which was performed successfully on the patient after five days of admission on September 30. The procedure performed under local anaesthesia and allowed the patient to watch everything happening around him without feeling any pain. Elaborating on how the procedure works, Dr Bhat said, “The valve made from the heart of natural animal tissue is re-engineered and attached to a flexible expanding mesh frame. The implantation of the valve is done by squeezing the valve around or inside a catheter, which is then inserted and guided to the aortic valve opening in the heart. It is implanted over the existing valve. Once the new valve is implanted, the catheter is removed and the new valve starts working immediately.” “The usage of transcatheter devices is challenging surgical repair as the preferred or only option for treating severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. TAVI patients, across the world, have not only reported a reduction in mortality rate but also a significantly improved quality-of-life,” added Dr Bhat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-first-in-ukhand-transcatheter-aortic-valve-implantation-performed-on-ex-army-man-67/articleshow/78774268.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra back on steroid treatment||Kolkata: Doctors treating Soumitra Chatterjee said on Tuesday that there had been a slight deterioration in the actor’s neurological condition. Even as the 85-year-old tested negative for coronavirus a few days ago, the Covid-induced encephalopathy continues to be a concern. With an improvement after a regime of immunoglobulin and steroids, doctors had withdrawn that medication. Now they have again started immunoglobulin and steroids to treat the neurological condition. On Tuesday, doctors conducted an MRI and found no structural abnormality. The actor is also maintaining cardiac parameters and all organs are functioning well. He has no fever and there is no sign of any new infection. “The only issue is Covid encephalopathy that is making his brain and consciousness level suboptimal. We are not sure how long it will take for him to recover from this. We hope he would bounce back to improvement again,” said one of the doctors at Belle Vue Clinic. Doctors will assess his condition on Wednesday and decide the future course of treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-back-on-steroid-treatment/articleshow/78776699.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||No new taxes in Rs 2,731 crore NMC budget for 2020-21||NAGPUR: Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Tuesday presented Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Rs2,731 crore budget for 2020-21 with no hike in any tax, and instead proposed waiving penalty in both property tax and water bills for the current fiscal. He has mooted mobile hospitals in 10 zones and mobile mortuaries by reducing allocation of sports and other heads. Even as the civic administration stares at empty coffers, the standing committee inflated the civic chief’s draft budget by Rs184 crore. This drew sharp criticism from the opposition comprising members from the Shiv Sena and Congress, while the ruling party leaders termed it realistic. The budget focused on completing pending works, but to pay tributes to martyrs, Zalke has also proposed Vandematram Memorial Garden in West Nagpur and Mathematical Garden in south Nagpur. Zalke also proposed to construct independent police station for NMC to help execute various works like removing encroachments, recovering outstanding tax etc. Currently, NMC face hurdles in these works due to lack of police support. Zalke also gave a nod to take over projects worth over Rs384 crore which were either sanctioned or in tender process, and stopped by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe citing financial crisis. He announced there would be no requirement of administrative approvals for works from the standing committee. “After receiving letters from the committee, executive engineers from every zone can directly start the work. This would ensure speedy execution and completion of works,” he said. Mundhe had projected NMC’s income for the current financial year at Rs2,547 crore, while Zalke’s surplus budget includes Rs231 crore of opening balance, while expenditure for the year has been projected at Rs2,730.75 crore. Though Zalke claimed his budget is for the entire financial year, his remaining tenure is 3.5 months only and municipal commissioner’s revised budget for year 2020-21 will be presented before February 15. Zalke did not follow the footprints of past chairmen and in the last 14 years this was the first time that any standing committee chairman has given lesser civic body budget target. Following demand from corporators of opposition parties, mayor Sandip Joshi announced that discussion on the budget will be held on Thursday (October 22) when it will be passed, implemented and supersede the budget presented by municipal commissioner. Failing to find new revenue sources for the cash-strapped NMC, Zalke expects 65% of total revenue, which is Rs1,620.41 crore, from the government. This year, NMC projected property tax collections at Rs223 crore. However, with revenue generation hitting rock bottom owing to the nationwide lockdown, NMC is staring at a huge financial crisis. The tax rebate will further add to its woes. Zalke has proposed a complete waiver of penalty in property tax and water bills for Nagpur. Zalke’s proposal in civic budget comes in view of the current coronavirus situation and the financial implications. Zalke plans to utilize pending loan amount of Rs159 crore to complete development projects. But at the end of fiscal. Earning accolades from corporators, Zalke announced special funds of Rs20 lakh for each of the 10 zone chairpersons for solving problems raised by citizens. He also resumed the ward fund of Rs20 lakh per corporator, which had been scrapped by Mundhe. Zalke said he has diverted Rs40 crore sanctioned for development of sports grounds, Rs1 lakh each from ward funds, and Rs5 lakh from fixed priorities to raise funds to procure 10 mobile hospitals and dead body freezer boxes. Zalke said, “Of the 12 months, almost nine months were affected due to coronavirus scare. Therefore, I avoided announcement of big development projects and plan to complete all the ongoing and proposed projects. I planned some new concepts which can be implemented and will be beneficial for the city,” he said. Citing non-recovery of property tax and 5% annual water bills dues, Zalke proposed one time settlement (OTS) to encourage defaulters to pay, which will help increase NMC’s revenue. “Defaulters will be given exemption from paying interest and penalty subject to implementation by civic administration,” he clarified. Joshi returned the administration’s proposal to seek permissions to spend Rs131 crore received from the state government. The administration has proposed to spend the amount in Amrut Scheme, providing funds for OCW, Bhandewadi road construction, ADTP rehabilitation and NMC’s share in both phase-II and III of cement road works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-new-taxes-in-rs2731-cr-nmc-budget-for-2020-21/articleshow/78776707.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 infections drop to single digit in Malegaon||NASHIK: The densely-populated textile town of Malegaon has successfully curbed the spread of nCoV virus for the second time in the past seven months. Data from the Malegaon Municipal Corporation shows that the town has reported single digit figures of Covid-19 for the past nine consecutive days. Prior to it, the average daily Covid-19 positive patients was around 20. In addition, no Covid-19 patient residing within the town has succumbed to the infection between October 6 and 19. The four Covid-19 patients, who have died during this period, were residents of rural parts of Malegaon taluka and were undergoing treatment at the Malegaon Covid hospital. The recovery rate of Malegaon town is 91.51% at present. At present, there are 179 Covid patients undergoing treatment at various treatment facilities but only 30 are from the town. The remaining ones are from rural Malegaon and other adjoining talukas. None of the 30 Covid patients from Malegaon town are on ventilator support. Municipal commissioner Deepak Kasar told TOI that the civic body will continue to carry out aggressive testing despite the encouraging trend. “I would give credit to people for adhering to the Covid-19 safety protocols in curbing the spread of the virus. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, who hails from Malegaon, has been constantly guiding us,” said Kasar. He added that people should not lower their guard as there could be a sudden spike in cases. The textile town had become the Covid hotspot in the state in April-May. However, the Nashik district administration and the MMC worked overtime to control the spread of the virus by June. And when things looked under control, there was a sudden spike in cases from August again, this time mostly from western part of the town. MMC health department officials said they are continuing to conduct around 90-100 tests a day. The MMC health department team led by Sapna Thackeray has been keeping a close watch. “The feedback that we are receiving from private clinics, government and MMC OPDs is that people with fever and Covid like symptoms have reduced in the town,” added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-infections-drop-to-single-digit-in-malegaon/articleshow/78778035.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||32,000 diploma seats vacant after second round||AHMEDABAD: After the second round of allocation of colleges to diploma engineering candidates, the admission committee is left with 31,935 vacant seats. Of these, 7,088 seats are at government colleges and 24,847 are at self-financed colleges. The first round of admissions for diploma engineering colleges for Class X candidates was held recently, following which candidates were to fill in choices for the second round. The admission committee has to fill a total of 55,950 seats. They include 19,091 at 32 government colleges, 1,552 at five grant-in aid colleges and 34,824 seats at self-financed colleges. In all about 16,000 students were part of the second round of admissions. As many as 8,000 seats are to be filled under the management quota. The first round of diploma engineering admissions saw 33,933 students allotted colleges across the state. A total of 40,301 students registered in the first round. The Admission Committee for Professional Diploma Courses (ACPDC) extended the registration deadline multiple times. Earlier it had set August 8 as the deadline for registration. However only 35,795 registered in this time. So the committee extended the deadline to August 31. About 4,350 students registered after the extension of the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/32k-diploma-seats-vacant-after-2nd-round/articleshow/78776705.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Burglars decamp with valuables worth Rs 10 lakh||NAGPUR: Burglars sneaked away with valuables worth Rs 10 lakh inluding Rs 5 lakh cash from the residence of Jauhar family in East Wardhamannagar. Surprisingly, burglars did notseem to have searched for the booty and directly zeroed in upon the almirah where it was kept between October 17 and 19. There are no tell-tale signs of the thieves having searched the place trying to look for valuables. The cops suspect involvement of some insider and are questioning people working with the family and getting details of visitors. Usually burglars rummage through every nook and corner of the rooms and also empty the belongings from cupboards, almirahs and divans. The burglars seems to have scaled up the boundary wall and then forced open the front door to gain entry into the house. It is learnt the Jauhar family had gone to Pench to celebrate a birthday programme on October 17 and returned on Monday. They were stunned to see the almirah open and valuables and cash missing. Lakadganj police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/burglars-decamp-with-valuables-worth-rs-10l/articleshow/78778555.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Drop in critical patients in last four days||Nashik: The drop in fresh Covid-19 cases and the rise in recoveries in the city has resulted in the reduction of critical patients during the last four days. The number of critical patients has dropped from 913 on October 15 to 716 on October 20. The drop in new cases excessively below 290 cases for the last four days and the recovery rate crossing 93% mark has overall led to a drop in critical patients. Of the 716 critical patients, 444 are provided with oxygen beds, 191 are given ICU beds while 81 are on ventilators. In fact, there had been no letup in critical patients in the city by October 15 and the number of critical patients was above 900. But, in the last four days, the number has dropped. Moreover, the rate of critical patients as compared to active patients has also dropped from 25% to 23% during the same period. Officials of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that earlier they provided oxygen beds only to those patients whose oxygen level was below the normal level. “However, we now provide oxygen beds even to those patients whose oxygen level is on border level for speedy recovery,” said NMC officials. “Last month, around 876 cases were registered on an average per day. But, there have been a drop in the number of new cases in October so far. The cases have dropped below 290 per day during the last four days. With the drop in new cases, the number of critical cases have also declined,” added NMC officials. There are a total of 2,061 beds for critical patients in city hospitals, including 1,299 oxygen beds, 503 ICU ones and 259 ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drop-in-critical-patients-in-last-four-days/articleshow/78778038.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath to be renovated in Rs 425 cr, Tunganath temple to also get facelift||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) is all set to start the renovation work of Badrinath temple which is proposed at Rs 425 crore and just the final nod from the PMO is awaited. Tourism-religion and culture secretary, Dilip Jawalkar, who visited Badrinath on Tuesday, also directed UTBD officials to speed up the proposal of the face-lift of Tunganath temple, the Shiv temple situated on the highest point in the state, which would be done by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). According to the officials of UTBD, the development work at Badrinath — Badrinath Maha Nirmaan Yojana — will include multi-level parking, semi covered pathways for commuters, beautification of three lakes around the temple, construction of another bridge to the temple along with beautification of nearby shops and other structures. The entire construction and beautification will be done in three phases. In a meeting with local businessmen and priests, Dilip Jawalkar explained the masterplan to them and also addressed their doubts regarding the scheme. “Badrinath renovation scheme is a visionary scheme being implemented under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The revamp of this site of religious importance will benefit the locals as well as will help the devotees,” said Jawalkar. Tourism secretary, who also visited ongoing infrastructure development work at Tungnath temple stressed the need for the Devasthanam Board to play an active role in advertising the Tungnath Yatra. He said that necessary arrangements will be made for solid waste management on the tracking route and along with it an Environment Development Committee will be formed. He said that Chopta will be developed as a camping destination and proposals will be taken from the DM and DFO for this. “The developmental work at Tunganath temple is being done with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank. Tungnath is the highest temple of Lord Shiva. For the facelift of the temple, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has been requested,” added Jawalkar. The official added that the villages near the important and popular track routes, including Chopta and Tungnath, are being developed as a tracking cluster by the tourism department. “Under this scheme, people will get a subsidy of ₹ 60,000 per room for the construction of new rooms in old houses with attached toilets etc so that these homes can be used as homestays for trekkers and tourists,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-to-be-renovated-in-rs-425-cr-tunganath-temple-to-also-get-facelift/articleshow/78774278.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||BJP starts cheap veggies bazaar in city||Mumbai: BJP Minority Morcha is buying vegetables directly from farmers and selling them to customers at subsidized rates. BJP city president Mangal Prabhat Lodha on Tuesday kicked off the service, Aatmanirbhar Kisan Bazar, inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign. “We are buying vegetables directly from farmers by paying more than what they got from traders, and selling them at subsidised rates. We have three vehicles with vegetables in the mobile bazaar, but soon will add more,” said morcha president Wasim Khan. Khan added that the vehicles visit areas twice a day. The bazaar assumes significance in the backdrop of Opposition and some farmers’ protests against Farm Bill (2020), which allows farmers freedom to sell produce to anyone and not necessarily at APMCs. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are opposing the bill. “This is beneficial to farmers and customers. Since there is no middleman, farmers get a better price, while customers get fresh vegetables cheaper,” added Khan. As demand increase, added Khan, more vehicles will be added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-starts-cheap-veggies-bazaar-in-city/articleshow/78777083.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Fraudsters order 500kg salt from Bengaluru trader, siphon off Rs 5 lakh||BENGALURU: A 44-year-old wholesale provisions dealer lost nearly Rs 5 lakh to cybercriminals, who claimed to be employees of an army canteen near Jalahalli in north Bengaluru and placed an order for 500kg salt through WhatsApp. Anand Mallappa Dupatane, who has a wholesale shop near Nayandahalli, on Monday approached West CEN Crime police with a complaint against two miscreants. Dupatane said he received an order for supplying 500kg of iodised salt worth Rs 19,000 through WhatsApp on October 8. The main accused introduced himself as Sahil Kumar and provided a canteen address in Jalahalli. “I readily agreed to supply the salt. He asked me to send a bill and provide my bank and PhonePe details. I sent the information through WhatsApp. He suggested I pay Rs 10, which will be refunded. I did so but the man told me he didn’t receive the money. Later, he asked me to pay Rs 25,000. I paid the amount several times as he kept informing me he hadn’t received any money. I trusted him as his digital payment account read Army Account,” Dupatane narrated. “Later, his friend Havaldar Manjith started communicating with me and assured me that all payments I made were unsuccessful and would be refunded by my bank soon. Finally, I approached a retired serviceman, asking him how army canteens procure goods. He told me I had been cheated by the miscreants,” he added. West CEN Crime police registered a case of cheating and cybercrime against Sahil Kumar and Havaldar Manjith on Monday. “The victim lost nearly Rs 5 lakh. We are trying to trace and nab the suspects,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conmen-order-500kg-salt-from-trader-siphon-off-rs-5l/articleshow/78775660.cms||Santosh kumar.B
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata man tested Covid negative in July, hospitalized with ‘re-infection’||KOLKATA: A 52-year-old resident of Alipore, who had tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted with fever and related ailments at Belle Vue Clinic. This is the second time that the patient is being treated for Covid infection after he had tested negative in July, according to doctors. They said they have come across first such instance, where a patient, declared Covid negative earlier, has come back with another bout of attack. Researchers, however, said some a portion of patients can test positive again but not all are the cases of re-infection. In the majority of cases it is due to the virus shedding from the old episode of infection. “The evidence of re-infection is very rare throughout the globe. This can be established only after a gene test,” said immunologist, Dipyaman Ganguly, a scientist at Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. The patient with no other co-morbidities had tested positive on July 3. Since he had only mild symptoms, he was treated at home. Once the fever subsided, his swab sample was tested again on July 14 and this time he was tested negative. “He would complain about fatigue after recovering from Covid. Apart from that, there were no other complaints. I continued to give him supplements as required,” said Mukesh Kochar, the same doctor who has now admitted the patient in Belle Vue Clinic. On October 12, after the patient started complaining of fever again, another Covid test was conducted and he again tested positive.“We also did a CT scan of the thorax on October 15 and the report showed features consistent with active Covid 19 infection. This time his wife also tested positive and we are treating them,” said Rahul Jain, another doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-tested-cov-negative-in-july-hospitalized-with-re-infection/articleshow/78776717.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 21, 2020||Surat||Pregnant woman rescued||Surat: The 181 - Abhayam women helpline came to the rescue of a five-month pregnant woman in Valsad after she was forced to vacate the house by the landlord over her husband’s quarrelling nature. “We received a call from a person informing us about the miserable conditions of a five-month pregnant woman living with her family. The woman was in trouble and was without shelter. So, we immediately rushed to the spot to help her,” said an official from the Abhayam team. “The woman has a five-year-old son and is living in a rented house. Her husband was an addict and often quarrelled with his wife. Whenever the couple had a quarrel, her husband’s friend living in the neighbourhood also jumped into it and was harassing the woman. So, she also complained to police as well. Tired over this quarrelling between the woman and her neighbour, the house owner forced them to vacate the house. This made the situation worse for this pregnant woman. We talked to everyone involved and requested the house owner to show humanitarian approach towards the woman. Finally they were allowed to stay at the rented house,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pregnant-woman-rescued/articleshow/78775637.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Round fifth: 10,000 commerce seats empty at Gujarat University||AHMEDABAD: The fifth round of admission for commerce courses in Gujarat University affiliated colleges has seen 30,000 candidates being enlisted. This leaves close to 10,000 seats vacant, said sources in GU. In the fourth round, 2,899 candidates had been enlisted of which 2,797 were allocated colleges by the admission committee. Out of the total 40,744 seats, 28,111 seats have been filled so far. Faced with the challenge of filling up the large number of vacant seats in commerce colleges after three rounds of online admissions, Gujarat University had decided to conduct a fourth round only for the 11,000-odd candidates who could not secure admission in the earlier rounds as they could not get the college of their choice. The thin participation from candidates for whom the fourth round was held suggests that they have secured admissions in other colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rd-5-10k-commerce-seats-empty-at-gu/articleshow/78776750.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha daily Covid toll falls to 24, but fatality rate remains a worry||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported a much-needed reduction in number of Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday. From 11 districts in the region, 24 deaths were reported on October 20, the lowest in last two months. Before this, less than 24 deaths were reported on August 15, when 21 patients had died in a day. But, fewer deaths could not reduce the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of Vidarbha, which is one of the most important indicators of Covid-19 infection spread and its impact. With 4,879 deaths till date against 1,79,777 total cases, Vidarbha’s CFR remained 2.71%, which is higher than state average of 2.64% and national average of 1.52%. Tuesday also witnessed 1,507 recoveries and 1,280 new cases. With this, 1,59,015 patients have now recovered in the region. Recovery rate is 88.45%, which is almost equal to the national average and higher than the state average. Out of 24 deaths on Tuesday, only 3 came from Amravati division and remaining 21 came from Nagpur division. Chandrapur: While 195 new Covid cases were detected, a total of 247 persons were discharged and three deaths were reported on Tuesday. The district’s Covid count has now reached 13,1807. Total recoveries now stand at 10,701, leaving 2,898 patients under treatment. The toll has reached 208. The three deceased include two from Indira Nagar and one from Swavlambi Nagar in Chandrapur city. Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 Covid deaths on Tuesday. The deceased are a 67-year-old man from Pusad and a 65-year-old man from Wani. In the last 24 hours, 48 new Covid patients were detected. Now, there are 499 patients under treatment. As on date, 9,521 persons were found Covid positive of which 8,599 have recovered. Also, 55 persons recovered in the day. The district’s cumulative toll is 310. Wardha: A 35-year old man from Selu died due to coronavirus during treatment on Tuesday. Also, 62 new cases were reported in the district, taking the total to 5,884. After 109 patients were discharged on Tuesday, the recoveries have reached 5,013. As many as 62 (40 men and 22 women) tested positive for Covid on Tuesday and the cases came from Wardha 23, Hinganghat 13, Deoli 9, Ashti 5, Selu and Karanja 4 each, Arvi 3 and Samudrapur 1. Now, there are 681 patients under treatment. The district’s toll reached 190. Amravati: Covid caseload of the district reached 15,599 on Tuesday after 78 new patients were detected. One Covid-19 death took the cumulative toll of the district to 352 while 89 recoveries of the day took the total recoveries to 14,159 for a recovery rate of 90.77%. A report by civil surgeon put the number of Covid patients under treatment at 1,088. Bhandara: With 102 patients recovering and exact 102 new patients reported on Tuesday, Bhandara’s caseload reached 7,602 and recoveries 6,404. With one death reported, the death toll reached 193. Total 1,001 patients are still under treatment in Bhandara. Gondia: Gondia district reported 74 new cases while 40 patients defeated the virus on Tuesday. A 24-year-old youth from Arjuni-Morgaon died during treatment. Number of active patients crossed 1,000 mark after 13 days on Tuesday. Now, the district has 8,819 total cases, 7,701 recoveries, 112 deaths and 1,006 patients under treatment. Total 568 tests were performed in last 24-hours. Gadchiroli: Two deaths were reported in Gadchiroli district on Tuesday. Two men, a 34-year-old and a 35-year-old died during treatment taking Gadchiroli’s death toll to 39. Gadchiroli continued to record 100-plus cases for one more day. Total 134 new cases were found in a day on Tuesday, while 115 patients recovered. Now, out of total 4,760 cases, 3,917 have recovered, which means 82.29% patients have recovered. Washim: The district reported 32 new cases while 66 patients recovered. No death was reported from Washim on October 20. Now, out of total 5,434 cases, 4,674 have recovered and 117 have died. Total 643 patients are under treatment in Washim. Akola: With 47 new cases, 43 recoveries and no death reported in a day, Akola now has 459 patients under treatment, which is the lowest in Vidarbha districts so far. More than 400 test results were received on Tuesday. Total cases in Akola reached 8,122 and recoveries were eat 7,397. Buldhana: While all other districts in Amravati division are reporting remarkable decrease in number of cases, Buldhana reported 81 new cases on October 20. This took total caseload of Buldhana to 8,620. With 58 patients recovering in a day, 8,007 cases have recovered now. Recovery rate is over 90%. The district reported no death on Tuesday. Total 643 patients are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-daily-covid-toll-falls-to-24-but-fatality-rate-remains-a-worry/articleshow/78776778.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 21, 2020||Pune||Chordia group signs deals with 5 cos for industrial park||Pune: Pickle maker Chordia Food Products (CFP) on Tuesday said it has signed a pact with five companies to set up factories at its 220-acre industrial park in Shirwal near Pune. In the first phase of the agreement, 20 acres of prime land in the industrial zone will be taken up.The company said among the early investors were Ajay Pipes (10 acres), a pharmaceutical company (5 acres), two packaging units and one refrigeration company. Further, the company said it was also in the process of finalizing MoUs with two other companies to invest in the industrial park. “The company will invest Rs30-40 crore in parallel infrastructure like guesthouses, gardens and other facilities in the industrial zone and will be financed by the proceeds of the first few deals and debt,” said MD Pradip Chordia said. The 220 acres adjoins the company’s 50-acre functional food park.Chordia said the present value of the 220 acres was about Rs300-400 crore and the revenue model was mixed (rent, buyout and revenue share). He said the land was acquired by the firm in different stages.The company said that the CFP park has got enquiries from automobile companies and other big industries from USA, Germany and Thailand.Chordia said that the park was a D-Zone park with benefits like part GST waiver, stamp duty waiver and discounts on electricity.For the pickle maker, which clocks about Rs70 crore in yearly revenue, the foray into the industrial park is a relatively new line of business. Out of the overall land, 60% is allocated to industries, 30% to residential area and the rest to a commercial hub, CFP said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chordia-group-signs-deals-with-5-cos-for-industrial-park/articleshow/78776786.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 21, 2020||Nashik||General body restructures 4 committees||Nashik: The general body of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Tuesday restructured four different committees — woman and child welfare, city improvement, health and law. Each committee consists of nine members. As per the strength of parties in the house, BJP has five members in each committee while Shiv Sena has three. The remaining one seat is shared by NCP and Congress. Mayor Satish Kulkarni on Tuesday declared the names of new members of all the four committees. The elections for the posts of chairpersons of these four committees will soon be held, he said. Meanwhile, Kulkarni approved the proposal of the civic administration about the cleaning and maintenance works of the Dadasaheb Phalke Memorial and Buddha Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/general-body-restructures-4-committees/articleshow/78778074.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Use technology for compensating farmers: Collector to govt||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has written to the state government to make the use of technology for giving out appropriate compensation to the farmers who have incurred loses due to the recent bouts of heavy rainfall. According to Mandhare, relying on technical inputs could be sometimes be misleading. “Rainfall is tricky these days. While it may not rain at all at the places where Automatic Weather Stations (AWS)are located, it will rain heavyly in the surrounding areas. This does happen sometimes and at such places and moments, farmers who have been affected by the heavy rain or hail, stand to lose out on government help because of technical reasons. Hence, I propose for a change,” Mandhare said. The collector further stated that since these are exceptional cases and farmers are outdone only because of technical reasons, it is the duty of the administration and the government to reach out to the farmers who have actually lost the crop but were unable to explain it to the government in an appropriate manner. “I have proposed to the state government to consider two things — one is the photographs clicked by the farmers with the geo-tagging and the satellite images to rely on the information. Using both the details we will be able to reach out to more than 90% farmers who may be missed on technical grounds, otherwise,” he said. About the photographs and geo-tagging, the official said that the photos presented by the farmers my be considered by the talathis and agriculture department employees who could take time to complete the same given the time consumed for the activities. “These photos, clicked fresh by the farmers, along with the photos clicked by the officials using the geo-tagging along with panchanamas of the same spot and satellite image, can be a powerful tool to do justice for the farmers that will ensure there are no errors whatsoever,” Mandhare said. The collector will be visiting such parts in the various talukas of Nashik district from Wednesday and collecting the data to arrive at a conclusion. “My contention is that we can use such system in the rarest of rare cases. Hence, I am collecting the data through my visits. I will prepare the document to support my proposal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/use-technology-for-compensating-farmers-collector-to-govt/articleshow/78778052.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Soft loans: World Bank, ADB teams finish scrutiny||GANDHINAGAR: Following an in-depth inspection by representatives of the World Bank and Asian Development Bank of Ahmedabad municipal and Auda areas, officials are hopeful of getting soft loans approved for a number critical projects of the two urban bodies. A senior state urban development department official said that two weeks ago teams of the World Bank and ADB came to the city and informal nods for projects were given. “In the next couple of days there will be a formal announcement of the loan approvals,” the official said. Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (Auda) has sought Rs 1,900 crore assistance from the Asian Development Bank, while the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had sought soft loans from World Bank worth Rs 3,000 crore. Ever since Covid-19 erupted, AMC has been struggling with its finances. This being a civic election year, a worried state government was desperate to make sure none of the projects suffer. Among the projects that listed for loans is the capacity augmentation and technology upgradation of five sewage treatment plants (STPs). The AMC has proposed three tertiary treatment plants (TTPs) of 120 MLD capacity for industrial water reuse. These plants will recycle industrial waste water and pump back treated water to industries for reuse. Another major proposal the AMC has pegged is the completion of 14km rehabilitation of sewage lines and work on 19km of sewage lines, the work for which was in progress. The AMC is aksi executing two micro-tunnelling projects for civic lines and has appointed consultants for storm water drainage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/soft-loans-wb-adb-teams-finish-scrutiny/articleshow/78776776.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Fresh Covid-19 cases now in 300 range in southern, central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: The southern districts of the state recorded 311 fresh cases on Tuesday, a new low for the last three days. Meanwhile, the central region reported 313 fresh cases taking the tally to 62,600. The region also recorded four deaths on Tuesday to push the toll to 824. The seven deaths recorded in the south on the day include two each in Kanyakumari and Ramanathapuram and one each in Madurai, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli. There was a drop in the number of cases in Madurai and Kanyakumari districts. These two districts had 61 cases each on Tuesday thereby recording the highest in the region. The eight other districts recorded less than 50 cases each. Tenkasi (8) recorded the least number of fresh cases and was followed by Ramanathapuram (12), Dindigul (20), Sivagangai (22), Tirunelveli (22) and Theni (29). Theni is the second district in the south to cross 16,000 total positive cases till date, after Madurai (18,140). The 16,016 cases in Theni include 15,567 people who have recovered (97.2%), 260 active cases (1.6%) and 189 deaths (1.18%). In the central region, the number of active cases also dropped to 3,122 after the recovery of 58,654 patients. Thanjavur witnessed a sharp decline in the number of cases for the past one week. Today, the district recorded 88 cases taking the tally to 14,649. Tiruvarur and Trichy districts recorded 64 cases and 63 cases respectively, keeping the tally at 9,144 and 11,980 positive cases. Perambalur (8) recorded the lowest number pushing the tally to 2,075. Nagappattinam recorded two deaths, while Tiruvarur and Trichy registered one death each. A 55-year-old man from Trichy died on October 19. He had no comorbidities. He complained of cough for two days, tested positive on October 18 and was admitted to a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-covid-19-cases-now-in-300-range-in-southern-central-region/articleshow/78778063.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: When father enrols in daughter’s alma mater||AHMEDABAD: Kalyan Natrajan, 71, is perhaps the oldest student MICA has admitted so far. What made his enrolment unique is, there are many instances of children going to their parents’ alma mater, but here a man who is going to his daughter’s alma mater, making her his senior. While Girija, his daughter, completed graduated from MICA’s flagship PGP course, Natrajan has enrolled in an online PG course on sales and marketing. Due to the nature of the courses, such instances are rare at premier institutes, but experts said online courses offered by premier educational institutes have opened doors for working or even retired executives to pursue their dreams of getting a degree. Dr Anita Basalingappa, chairperson of online programmes at MICA, said Natrajan is among 31 participants of the MICA-Eruditus PGCSMC-B1 that started in July 2020. “His interest in class sessions and sincerity in participation and interacting with other learners, where the age range is 23 to 45 years, is commendable,” she said, adding that he could well be MICA’s oldest student to date. “His case exemplifies that there is no age to learn new skills.” What motivated him to join the course? Natrajan, founder of ELCA Laboratories, which has four branches across the country, said he identified marketing as one of his ‘weaknesses’ in his overall business plan. “Then Covid-19 happened. While I was working from home, I still had time and I came across a course that attracted my attention. I thus enrolled in it to make the best out of the situation,” he said, adding that in our ever-changing world, a person needs to add new skills. “My daughter’s education from the same institute a decade ago was an added advantage.” City-based experts said a few of such instances in the short-term or summer courses have taken place at other premier institutes like National Institute of Design (NID), but overall such a role reversal is a rarity due to stringent admission requirements at such institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/when-father-enrols-in-daughters-alma-mater/articleshow/78776779.cms||Parth Shastri
October 21, 2020||Nashik||89 fined Rs 52,000 for not following Covid norms||NASHIK: City police on Monday caught as many as 89 people for not following the Covid guidelines being enforced by the district administration in the wake of ongoing pandemic. The violators were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Bombay Police Act (BP) Act. They were taken to the court where they were collectively slapped with fine of Rs 52,000. A senior police officer said that it is necessary that those who are not following the orders of the police and the district collector face strict action. “Such people are not only violating the orders issued by the administration, but are also helping spread the infection of coronavirus that is claiming a large number of lives,” he said. Earlier this month, the city police had issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC to prevent mass gathering, overcrowding in the city markets, spitting in public places, among others. “Under the guidance of commissioner of police Deepak Pandey people who are found not following the Covid-related norms are brought to the police station, a case is filed against them under sections of the Bombay Police Act and section 188 of the IPC for not adhering the orders promulgated by a government servant. Later, these people are taken to the courts for penal action against them,” the officer said. “We want people to follow the new protocols related to coronavirus. Since a large number of people are simply neglecting the norms, once they are caught and slapped with a fine in all the likelihood, they would not commit such negligent acts again due to the fear of getting caught again. Athe same time other people would also take a lesson from this and start taking the necessary measures when in public places,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/89-fined-rs-52000-for-not-following-covid-norms/articleshow/78778083.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM cheers govt school achievers at NEET||NEW DELHI: Tamanna Goel, who studies in Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Sector 11, Rohini, garnered 655 of the maximum 720 marks in the National Eligibility Entrance Test, qualifying thus to pursue medical studies. Her achievement as a government school student in clearing the medical entrance exam is all the more significant for her being the daughter of a single mother, an employee at a private medical clinic. “My dream is to become a gynaecologist,” said Goel, who came to RPVV in Class XI from a government school in Prahladpur. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was justifiably proud of her on Tuesday, when he congratulated Delhi students, particularly those from the economically disadvantaged backgrounds. A total of 569 government school students cleared NEET this year, of which 67% were girls. “Talent isn’t determined by money,” underlined Kejriwal. The CM added, “If given an equal opportunity and quality education, children belonging to lower-middle-class families can achieve great heights. This is a testament that Delhi government schools are undergoing a revolutionary change and students from poor families studying in these schools can find success. I believe that providing equal and quality education to everyone is the only way by which we can eradicate poverty.” While 68 students from Goel’s RPVV got past NEET, Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in south Delhi’s Molarband saw around 32 of its students clearing the exam and 24 from Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in C1 Yamuna Vihar. Sujata Tamta, principal of the Molarband institution, said the teachers had worked hard for the success of the students. “Each teacher adopted two-three students and monitored them closely,” she said. “Our students are excellent, but they need the motivation. Amit Kumar, a student of Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, A Block, Vikaspur, gaveup family closeness to take the first step to becoming a doctor. He has lived away from his parents in Morena, MP, since he was in Class II. “I stay with my uncle and aunty in Delhi,” the youngster said. “I took a year’s gap to qualify for this exam. I can now hope to get admission to a government medical college.” Alongside those who cleared NEET, there are 53 government school students, four girls among them, who also qualified JEE (Advanced) for entry into the coveted Indian Institutes of Technology. Five students from RPVV, Paschim Vihar, secured admission in an IIT. Nikhil, a student of RPVV, Dwarka Sector 19, will now study aerospace engineering at IIT Bombay. “My role model is APJ Abdul Kalam,” the teenager said, flush with his success. “I am trying to figure out scholarships to continue my studies,” said the son of a cycle repairer. Kejriwal assured those whose parents couldn’t afford medical and engineering college fees that Delhi government would provide scholarships and loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-cheers-govt-school-achievers-at-neet/articleshow/78776784.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Traffic hit on Mumbai-Agra highway after container overturns||NASHIK: Vehicular movement on the busy Mumbai-Agra highway was affected on Tuesdya morning after a tanker coming towards Nashik overturned at a turn in the Kasara Ghat. One lane of the highway was closed for traffic after the accident and the vehicles coming from Mumbai were moving at a snail’s pace. Highway police officials said that they were arranging for a crane to move the container away and clear the road. Officials of the highway police at the Ghoti traffic aid post said that the container, which was carrying some chemical, overturned at the Hiwala turning point at 10.30 am when the driver lost control of the vehicle. Constable Rahul Gangurde said that the driver of the container, Yuvraj Misal, and the cleaner on the vehicle sustained minor injuries in the accident. Officials said that soon after the accident, a team of the highway police under API Amol Valzade, rushed to the spot and took Misal, a resident of Beed, to the Igatpuri rural hospital. Both are out of danger. Due to the accident, the chemical in the containment started oozing out of the vehicle, following which two two-wheelers, skidded on the road. In view of this, one lane of the highway was closed about a kilometer length.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/traffic-hit-on-mumbai-agra-highway-after-container-overturns/articleshow/78778078.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Edappadi Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam will part ways after poll, says M K Stalin||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam are acting like they are together, but their intentions are suspect and they will part ways once the assembly election is over, said DMK president M K Stalin. Speaking at the virtual Mupperum Vizha organised by the party in Theni on Tuesday, he said both have been disloyal to late chief minister J Jayalalithaa who was instrumental in their rise to power. They have failed to clear the doubts and suspense behind her death. Panneerselvam had gone back to AIADMK claiming that they had agreed to his demand to appoint a commission of inquiry into Jayalalithaa’s death. Though the commission was supposed to submit its report in three months, it had not done it even after three years. OPS had alleged that only health minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar knew the truth behind Jayalalithaa’s death, but the latter claimed quite the opposite. “Both of them have not appeared before the commission till date,” he said. Stalin said that the AIADMK government had failed miserably in tackling Covid-19 with 6 lakh people being infected and 10,000 killed due to the disease. The role of DMK cadres in alleviating the problems of the people during Covid crisis was commendable. ``I am grateful that I am the leader of such selfless people,’’ he said. Late chief minister M Karunanidhi had governed the state based on the principles of social reforms, development and equality. But the AIADMK rule was one of chaos. Among the achievements he listed of the DMK governments were getting classical language status for Tamil, free electricity for farmers, Rs 7 crore cooperative loan waiver, Tidel park in Taramani, industrial estates, free medical insurance, farmers’ markets and the like.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-ops-will-part-ways-after-poll-stalin/articleshow/78778080.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Miyawaki forests will compensate for trees cut for development, claims Madurai corporation||MADURAI: Over 3,000 trees planted a year ago in 25 Miyawaki forests by the Madurai Corporation in some of its wards are thriving. Corporation Commissioner S Visakan said that they had started compensating for trees which were being removed for unavoidable reasons by planting trees in clusters in mini Miyawaki forests and some of the trees like those in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Thiruparankundram had grown to a height of over 15ft. Recently, many very old trees that had grown to a height of over 20-30ft in the main streets around the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple were uprooted to make way for the Smart City works. Engineers of the corporation have been entrusted with the duty of initiating and maintaining these Miyawaki forests in the 25 places, which include Indira Nagar, Vilangudi and Thathaneri burial ground in zone one, Karpaga Nagar pumping station and Palathottam in zone two, Moolakkal burial ground and Avaniapuram byepass road in zone three and Thiruparankundram MCC site and Harveypatti MCC site in zone four. The Thiruparankundram MCC site in ward 96 has many rare varieties like Mexican Calabash (Thiruvodu Maram), Elaeocarpus ganitrus (rudraksha tree), Indian elm, among others which are not seen in Madurai now. Assistant engineer Murugan, in-charge of Thiruparankundram, said that the site at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Thiruparankundram had been a garbage dump yard, and they had removed the topsoil comprising of garbage to a depth of 4ft and filled it with red soil. “The trees selected were rare ones which are not found in Madurai anymore, but they survived and made their commitment to maintaining the trees more,” he said. These parks were planted at the end of last year where just over 100 trees were planted at a distance of about two feet a part. “Many of these trees have now grown beyond five feet and show promising signs of becoming large trees,” said the commissioner. “Miyawaki forests are a boon as they improve the green space, but in a city like Madurai they should come up in available places in the core city so that people get fresh air as felling trees is something that the corporation continues to do,” said J Sugumar a resident of K K Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/miyawaki-forests-will-compensate-for-trees-cut-for-development-claims-madurai-corpn/articleshow/78778087.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Municipality to inspect buildings on college campus||KOCHI: Kalamassery municipality has asked its engineer under town planning division to check whether there is any violation of rules in some buildings constructed on the campus of Albertian Maritime Institute. In an order passed on October 12, the local body has asked its engineer for a detailed report after checking whether there has been any violation of Section 406 9(2) of Kerala Municipality Act and also inspect whether there has been any illegal construction in the area, including in Thrikkakara survey number 452/7. Social activist Bosco Louis had filed a complaint with the municipality that structures were built illegally on the campus — which is under Educational Trust, Archdiocese of Verapoly without permission from the town planning department. The municipality conducted an enquiry and found that additional construction was done atop a building without obtaining permit. The local body then issued a notice to the respondent in February this year. After the provisional order was issued by the local body seeking details from the respondents, the local body conducted a hearing with both the parties on September 8. Local body officials said they found that an illegal structure had been added to a building with permit. “So we have given a confirmation order stating that a particular construction was illegal. We have asked our engineer to go and confirm whether there are any other structures that are without permit or on public land,” said P R Jaykumar, secretary, Kalamassery municipality. Earlier, Louis had alleged that no permission or plot approval had been obtained from the town planning department. “The argument that the buildings are used for educational purposes and hence municipal licence is not required is an absurd argument. It is contrary to the facts and law. They are running a commercial workplace accepting fees from students. They are also running a sports complex commercially, accepting lakhs of rupees from individuals as membership fee,” he alleged in his rejoinder against the reply given by the respondent in their reply to the local body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kalamassery-municipality-begins-checking-illegal-construction-in-albertian-college-campus/articleshow/78775632.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city witnesses zero Covid death after two months||NASHIK: Nashik city on Tuesday witnessed zero Covid-19 death for the first time in over two months. Earlier, ‘zero death’ was recorded around two months back on August 8 and August 15. Prior to that, the city had observed zero coronavirus-related death on June 5. The city recorded its first Covid-19 positive patient on April 6 while the first Covid death was recorded on May 5. The number of Covid-19 deaths have dropped at large in October with the death rate further falling to 1.40% — the lowest death rate since May. Nashik city has recorded the lowest number of deaths in the last week which was the lowest since July. A total of 23 Covid-related deaths have been reported in the last seven days between October 14 and 20. Meanwhile, Nashik district on Tuesday crossed the 90,000-mark of Covid 19 patients. As many as 434 Covid-19 positive cases, including 308 from the city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 90,070. Three people succumbed to Covid-19 in the district, but the city stayed aloof from any casualties on Tuesday. At present, the death toll stands at 842 in the city and 1,613 in the district. As many as 559 patients were discharged from various facilities across the district on Tuesday, of which, 226 were from the city. Presently, the district has 6,520 active cases, of which, 3,185 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-witnesses-zero-covid-death-after-two-months/articleshow/78778086.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Make sure that central schemes reach the needy: Raosaheb Danve to Aurangabad admin||AURANGABAD: Union minister for state for civil supplies Raosaheb Danve asked the Aurangabad district administration to effectively and on priority implement various central government schemes like Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Ujwala and the national highway development schemes. He was speaking at a meeting convened at the district collectorate to review the development work being carried out in the district. He stressed the need to complete all the pending schemes soon. He asked the administration to ensure that the beneficiaries of the PMAY immediately get benefits and construct their homes. He advised the administration and other officials concerned to step up the national highway works in the district and ensure quality in these works. The meeting was attended, among others, by MPs Imtiaz Jaleel and Bhagwat Karad, zilla parishad chairperson Meena Shelke and district collector Sunil Chavan as well as other MLAs from the district. Chavan appraised the minister of the various works being carried out in the district, while also assuring that all the works that were delayed for one or the other reason would be taken up immediately and completed. Municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey informed the minister about the progress in various projects including solid waste management, safari park, smart city bus and cycling track. The ZP chief executive officer said that all the central government schemes which come under the zilla parishad were being implemented properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/make-sure-that-central-schemes-reach-the-needy-danve-to-aurangabad-admin/articleshow/78778090.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Patients in home care exceed those in hospital in Pune district||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 patients in hospitals dropped below those in home isolation in Pune district on Monday, a first since July, bringing a huge relief to medical infrastructure that was stretched to its limits in August and September. A total of 9,328 patients were undergoing treatment at hospitals in Pune district on Monday as against 9,412 people who opted for home isolation. This decline, experts said, was due to the drop in the number of patients and testing, and an increase in the number of recoveries. Interestingly, only Pune municipal limits have the highest home isolation cases against those in hospitals, while the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, cantonments and rural areas have a higher number of hospitalised cases. Sanjay Gawade, deputy commissioner, PMC, said people were wary of home isolation initially, but warmed up to the idea thereafter. In the beginning, those opting for home isolation did not pick up daily monitoring calls, but now the attitude has changed, he said. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner of PCMC, told TOI that the situation was similar in the twin cities as well during the initial period of the home isolation option. “Since we have ample beds available across Covid care centres, we have decided to limit the number of home isolation cases to 40%,” he said. Civic officials said only 3-4% of the patients who opted for home isolation in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits were later shifted to hospitals due to health issues. Abhijit More, health activist, said during in the initial phase of the pandemic, the number of positive cases were mostly from the slum pockets. However, as the contagion started to spread across the city, especially Peth areas and housing societies, home isolation option proved quite useful. “Drastic dip in testing also resulted in less cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patients-in-home-care-exceed-those-in-hospital-in-district/articleshow/78776785.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||Constable shoots self with service revolver inside police station in Sambhal||Bareilly: A UP Police constable allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver while on duty in Sambhal on Tuesday afternoon.The body was found lying in a pool of blood at his room at the Hayatnagar police station. The deceased was identified as Ankit Yadav (26). According to Sambhal police, the 2015 batch constable had been transferred from Hardoi to Sambhal around two months ago and was deputed as the cheetah police for the Hayatnagar police station limits. “The incident happened when the constable was resting in his room at the police station after returning from the duty. Soon, a sound of gunshot was heard after which the police personnel rushed towards him to find that he was found lying in pool of blood with his service revolver in one hand,” said SHO Hayatnagar police station, Sambhal, Vidyut Goyal. Superintendent of police, Sambhal, Yamuna Prasad told TOI that forensics have been called in to gather evidence to ascertain whether this was a case of suicide or not.“We have not recovered any suicide note from his room. The family has been informed and the body is being sent for a post-mortem examination. Statements of the family members will be recorded while information related to his mental condition is also being gathered from his colleagues and know persons to know if he was undergoing any kind of stress or mental pressure.” Yadav was originally from Khedki area under Chandpur police station limits in Bijnor. The deceased is survived by his parents and a younger sister who live in Bijnor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-shoots-self-with-service-revolver-inside-police-station-in-sambhal/articleshow/78895764.cms||Maria Khan
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Metro may get green signal for feeder vehicles soon||Nagpur: Transport department has promised to allow MahaMetro ply various types of feeder vehicles very soon. MahaMetro had sought permission for plying these vehicles in February and the proposal has not seen much progress since then. However, assistant transport commissioner Sachin Giri has now promised to give the green signal within three to four days. Metro had written a letter to regional transport officer (Nagpur city) in February seeking permission to ply feeder vehicles — e-rickshaw, e-scooter, LPG autorickshaw and CNG autorickshaw — on 38 routes. These vehicles are to be plied by operators with whom memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed long ago. The RTO sought clarification from MahaMetro and the Metro officials sent a reply in May clarifying that diesel-operated vehicles were proposed only on three routes. The first is Lokmanya Nagar area which has many colleges nearby. Many autorickshaw drivers were ready to ply their vehicles between the colleges and Lokmanya Nagar Metro station. The second is between Khapri Metro station and various companies located in Mihan in special economic zone (SEZ) and non-SEZ area. The third was a shuttle service between Airport Metro station and Nagpur airport. The RTO apparently wasn’t clear whether he had the powers to issue the necessary permits. He sought advice from deputy transport commissioner in this regard in July. Metro then sent a letter in August to the RTO seeking permission from him to operate 14-seater open electric vehicle in Mihan and airport. Metro joint general manager Mahesh Gupta pointed out in the letter that as per Union ministry of road transport and highways order issued in October 2018, vehicles running on batteries, ethanol and methanol do not require any permit. However, the RTO forwarded the proposal again to transport commissioner’s office. Assistant transport commissioner Giri said he had submitted the proposal to State Transport Authority (STA), which is yet to take any decision. However, according to sources in transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne’s office, the commissioner was yet to receive the proposal. Due to lack of feeder vehicles, Metro’s ridership is very poor and is causing huge loss to it. Metro officials are desperately waiting for the green signal for these vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-may-get-green-signal-for-feeder-vehicles-soon/articleshow/78776790.cms||Ashish Roy
October 21, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region’s active caseload drops by more than half in a month||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region’s active Covid-19 tally declined by 56% to 18,740 on Monday, a month after hitting a high of 42,514. According to the district health office data, out of the 18,740 active cases, the Pune municipal limits’ caseload was the highest at 49%, translating into 9,198 patients. The rural and cantonment areas had 7,134 active cases, around 38% of the total caseload, while the Pimpri Chinchwad areas had 2,408 active cases (13%), the lowest in the region. The data stated that the region’s active case count was below 20,000 on July 19 (see box). The active count continued rise for two months till September 20 and touched 42,946 count. It dropped below 40,000 on September 28 and further reduced to 30,000 and 20,000 by October 12 and 18, respectively. Health officials said the active cases have declined because the region has been reporting more recoveries as against the new cases. For instance, in the last one month, the PMR reported 88,584 recoveries and added 66,510 new patients — a gap of almost 22,000 in recoveries and new cases. The officials said the decline in active cases had also improved the availability of beds in the hospitals. “Early detection and timely treatment have led to more recoveries in the city. Steps will be taken to keep the number of active cases on the lower side,” an official said. PMC’s active cases dropped below the 10,000-mark after almost three months. The city has so far reported 1.44 lakh recoveries and 1.57 lakh positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-active-caseload-drops-by-more-than-half-in-a-month/articleshow/78776781.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 21, 2020||Pune||Day’s tally stays below 1,000, fatality count at 36||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries climbed past the 2.9 lakh-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday. A total of 1,895 patients recovered in PMR in the last 24 hours as against 745 new cases, which pushed the case tally in the region to 3.15 lakh. For a week now, the region has reported 3-digit addition in positive caseload. On Tuesday, the Pune Municipal Corporation limits recorded 328 new cases. The PCMC areas added 193 new cases, while the rural areas recorded 224 new cases. As for recoveries, the highest count was recorded in the PMC limits (904), followed by the rural and cantonment areas (657) and the PCMC areas (334). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that about 1.45 lakh patients had recovered in the PMC limits so far. The report further stated that about 63,300 recoveries have been recorded in the rural parts and 82,118 in the PCMC limits. On Tuesday, as many as 36 patients succumbed to Covid-related complications in PMR, pushing the death toll to 7,574. Among the fresh casualties, 21 succumbed in the PMC limits, eight on the rural areas and seven in the PCMC limits. The PMC has so far reported 4,170 deaths, while the PCMC and the rural areas have recorded 1,492 and 1,862 deaths, respectively, so far. The constant decline in cases have brought down the active Covid-19 count in the region to 17,557. These included 8,494 patients admitted in various hospitals and 9,063 patients in home isolation. As many as 6,077 samples were tested in the region on Tuesday, taking the testing tally above 13,49 lakh. A report released by PMC stated that as many as 2,069 patients were on oxygen support at various hospitals in the municipal limits. As many as 779 patients were at critical stage, of whom 425 were on ventilator support. Health officials have appealed people to stay cautious and not let their guard down during the festive season. “People should maintain social distancing and also wears masks when venturing out. Besides, people should also avoid overcrowding in the markets or shops to arrest the growth of the contagion,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-tally-stays-below-1000-fatality-count-at-36/articleshow/78776788.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 21, 2020||Nashik||Nashik rural sees cases drop to double-digit||Nashik: For the first time since August 14, fresh Covid-19 cases have dropped to double digits with just 83 patients being reported across all 15 talukas of the district, barring corporation areas of Nashik and Malegaon, on Monday.The situation in rural areas of the district is improving sharply as the number of positive cases per day that hovered around 600 have now dropped to double digits after nearly two months. According to officials from the district health office (DHO), rural areas of Nashik have been witnessing a study fall in the number of cases in the last eleven days. In addition, the number of active patients has dropped from around 4,700 to 3,232 at present. The recovery rate has also touched 85% from 76% that was recorded on October 3. There is a sharp rise in recovery rate as well as drop in active patients. Most of the credit goes to ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign launched by the state government.The hotbeds of rural areas, including Nashik, Niphad and Sinnar talukas, have, too, registered a sharp fall in the number of fresh cases reported from these areas over a period of time.Nashik taluka is adjacent to the city and includes Bhagur Municipal Council which is again an urban area and, hence, the presence of infection in this region is very high. Sinnar taluka is an industrial area and has a peri-urban area which makes the town vulnerable to the infection.Niphad taluka, on the other hand, does not have industries, but is a vital agriculture marketplace and is home to major agricultural activities across the district. As a result, even Niphad taluka was rolling out big numbers in terms of Covid cases.The current active cases in Sinnar taluka has fallen from 935 to 766. In Nashik it has dropped from 634 to 368 while that of Niphad has lowered from 710 to 483 in just about 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rural-sees-cases-drop-to-double-digit/articleshow/78754775.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||The slide: Gold rush ends for mutual funds investors||AHMEDABAD: Thanks to the fall in prices of gold after touching a peak of Rs 58,000 per 10 gram in August, gold ETFs which recorded an inflow surge since June are no longer preferred investment avenues. According to data released by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), after reaching a peak of Rs 310.6 crore in July this year, assets under management (AUM) for gold declined to Rs 274.34 crore in September. According to financial analysts, several investors moved to gold, riding on the rise in prices around June and July, anticipating higher and quicker returns against equity markets. “Several investors did move towards gold because the returns were as high as 20% in a month or so,” said Mumukshu Desai, director, Artham Finometry, an Ahmedabad-based financial advisory firm. “While inflows did come into gold ETFs, when it comes to yellow metal investments, the conventional trend is purchase of physical gold which also saw significant traction.”  Desai went on to say: “During the same time, equity markets remained volatile due to uncertainty and concerns over the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy.” As a result, Desai said, returns were not promising. “Moreover, a liquidity crunch faced by businesses and individuals soon after the lockdown also led many to halt investments temporarily,” Desai said. “That caused a decline in net inflows into the market.” From August, gold prices became volatile and eventually declined after having touched a peak of Rs 58,000 per 10 gram in the local markets. “During this time, investors began selling physical gold and gold ETFs for profit booking while fresh investments halted,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). “At the same time, the net asset value of existing investments declined as well, reflecting a fall in the AUM.” Jayesh Vithalani, a city-based financial consultant, said: “Soon after the central as well as the state government made announcements of a stimulus and industrial operations and commercial activity began gaining momentum, equity markets rose and showed better returns.” He went on to say: “In fact, we’re witnessing a decline in the number of investors withdrawing their funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/the-slide-gold-rush-ends-for-mutual-funds-investors/articleshow/78776792.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Overflowing sewage plagues Madurai city||MADURAI: As the existing underground drainage system has been unable to keep up with the expanding residential areas, waste water generated in many pockets in the city where water usage is usually high, especially during peak hours like morning, overflows on to the roads. Residents from many parts of the city complaint that overflowing sewage through manholes is a long pending issue. Although officials from Madurai corporation attend to the issue as and when complaints are raised, it surfaces again affecting both residents and commuters using the roads. Mohammed Ali, a resident of Ismailpuram, said that the issue of overflowing manholes has been persisting for many months now. “The stench from the water is often unbearable. Not just residents, hundreds of commuters passing through Vaigai South Bank Road are affected by the issue. People in Madhichiyam located on the other side of the Vaigai River are also affected because of sewage water overflowing.” Former Sellur councillor K Thilagar said that sewage water flowing on the street is a regular affair in a market there. He said that the issue has been reported to officials concerned, but there has not been any concrete action. “Officials clear wastes chocking the drainage whenever a complaint is raised, but sewage water starts overflowing in a day or two,” he said. Residents of Karumbalai said that overflowing sewage flooding the residential area has been persisting for the past five years, but corporation officials only take temporary measures. Syed Ahamed Basha, a resident of Yagappa Nagar, said that sewage water overflowing in streets is a regular affair in wards 29, 30 and 31. “Thiruvalluvar Street, Sowbagya Vinayakar Kovil Street, Anna Street, Abbas Street and Kamarajar 1st, 2nd and 3rd streets witness the problem frequently,” he said. City engineer S Arasu said that sewage water overflowing takes place when the infrastructure exceeds its capacity owing to expansion of residential areas. He said that complaints are attended and the issues are solved immediately. He refuted claims that the issue has been persisting for prolonged time in some of the areas. “We have constructed collection tanks wherever required to solve the sewage issues recently. We are planning to revamp the pump houses to effectively handle the sewerage,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/overflowing-sewage-plagues-madurai-city/articleshow/78778093.cms||V Devanathan
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Corp has 27% of active cases in dist||Kochi: With its high population density and unrestrained movement of people, Kochi corporation has lion’s share of active Covid cases in Ernakulam district. Of a total of 10,875 active cases in the district, 2,508 (27%) are in corporation limits alone and of these, majority are from West Kochi, according to data from district surveillance unit till Sunday. These active cases exclude patients from other districts undergoing treatment in Ernakulam. Cheranelloor, Thrikkakara and Kalamassery, the local bodies bordering Kochi corporation, also have a large number of active cases. Vengola, which is in the second place with 314 active cases, has the presence of a large number of guest workers employed in quarries and associated firms dotting every nook and corner of the panchayat. Only local bodies lying in the remote areas of the district witness less number of positive cases, thanks to less movement of people. What worries the health wing, which tests only symptomatic people in Ernakulam now, is the weak system at the ground level in corporation limits to manage the pandemic. Health authorities also complain that the top brass of the corporation is not as proactive as their counterparts in other local bodies in the district in implementing Covid-preventive measures. Local bodies elsewhere in the district take initiatives in carrying out Covid-related works and the health department only needs to support them with medical-related activities, the authorities said. While in the corporation, healthcare workers in urban PHCs have been attending all Covid-related activities, including arranging vehicles to transport patients, as there is no one to lead from the front, said senior health authorities. This puts more strain on the healthcare workers in the urban PHCs. Another issue plaguing urban PHCs is the lack of service of junior health inspectors (JHIs). The JHIs, which are under the corporation, are not posted in urban PHCs. “Urban PHCs have only junior public health nurses and this is affecting the coordination of Covid-mitigation measures. Even though the corporation had opened three or four CFLTCs, if any issue arises, health staff singlehandedly need to attend to it and no one from the corporation side is there to address it. This puts a heavy burden on the health staff in the corporation limits, where population is high and urban PHCs have staff shortage. Support of people’s representatives is important at the ground level to manage issues,” said a senior health official. The corporation authorities have denied the allegations. “We run four CFLTCs manned by our health staff. Councillors also take initiative to send people for testing and to shift to CFLTCs,” said deputy mayor Premkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-has-27-of-active-cases-in-dist/articleshow/78775647.cms||T C Sreemol
October 21, 2020||Pune||1,800 sans face cover fined in Lonavla and Khandala||PUNE: If you plan to visit popular hill stations Lonavla and Khandala on the weekend, be prepared to follow all social distancing norms or face police action. The Pune rural police’s Lonavla division fined at least 1,800 persons on October 17 and 18 for moving around without wearing masks. Sub-divisional police officer (Lonavla) Navneet Kanwat told TOI, “We will continue with the action, especially on weekends.” Kanwat said that during the lockdown there was a ban on tourism. Now that the lockdown is being relaxed, the district collector has lifted the ban. “Since Lonavla is a popular tourist destination, people from Mumbai and Pune have started visiting Lonavla and Khandala in large numbers. Everyone is welcome in Lonavla-Khandala, but they should follow social distancing norms,” Kanwat said. Many revellers avoided wearing the masks and gathered together in large numbers. To stop the spread of coronavirus, the Pune Rural police took action against such people. Most of the staff from the Lonavla City, Lonavla Rural, Vadgaon Maval and Kamshet police stations was on the road between Saturday and Sunday. “We have fined people for not wearing masks, not following social distancing norms and flouting traffic rules,” Kanwat said. Every weekend, additional police force will be deployed to check whether people follow social distancing or not, Kanwat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1800-sans-face-cover-fined-in-lonavla-and-khandala/articleshow/78776794.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bar licence of Gymkhana Club suspended over norm violation||NEW DELHI: The excise department of Delhi government has suspended the bar licence of Gymkhana Club after it was found during an inspection that liquor was allegedly sold during the lockdown period. This amounted to violation of the terms and conditions of the licence and provisions of Delhi Excise Act, 2009. The action was taken on an order issued by deputy commissioner (excise) Ranjeet Singh. While the licence was suspended with immediate effect, the officials concerned of the club were directed to appear before the excise department on October 27 for further proceedings in the matter. On September 17, an excise department team inspecting the club premises noticed multiple discrepancies. A liquor sub-store was found in the club and some stock was short because a former official of the club had taken liquor out during the lockdown without bringing it to the knowledge of the manager of the sub-store or the members of the managing committee. The excise team was informed that the management of the club had already terminated the errant official (secretary) from his post for his acts. The matter had already been examined by a panel constituted by the management committee. Based on the panel’s findings, an FIR had been lodged against the former secretary. Some variations in the logical and physical inventory were also noticed. The order stated that it had become clear that “the licensee was involved in selling of liquor during the period of the lockdown in violation of an order dated April 21, wherein all licensees — wholesale, retail, hotels, clubs and restaurants — were warned to refrain from indulging in such an unlawful activity”. The failure to follow the order would result in cancellation of licence and blacklisting under Delhi Excise Act, besides action under relevant penal provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Indian Penal Code. “In view of the facts and circumstances of the matter and written submissions made by the representative of the licensee, the licensing authority deems it fit to suspend the licence issued to Delhi Gymkhana Club with immediate effect,” the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bar-licence-of-gymkhana-club-suspended-over-norm-violation/articleshow/78776795.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: Screening test for junior scale officers on Nov 21, 22||PANAJI: Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) will hold a screening test in November for the recruitment of junior scale officers (JSO). The commission had received around 3,600 applications for 22 JSO posts that were advertised in January this year. GPSC chairman Jose Manual Noronha said the computer-based recruitment test (CBRT) which was to be conducted in March for selection of JSOs was postponed due to the pandemic. “To expedite the recruitment process, the commission has now decided to conduct a screening examination on November 21 and 22 to determine candidates qualified to answer the main CBRT,” he said. The screening examination will be an hour-long CBRT which will consist of 60 questions — 50 questions on reasoning and 10 on English comprehension. The minimum percentages to qualify for the main CBRT are 65%, 60% and 55% for general, OBC/physically handicapped and SC/ST respectively. The entire group of 3,600 applicants will be randomly assigned into 10 batches of approximately 360 candidates in each batch to answer the screening test. While the question set for each batch will be different the difficulty level will be similar, those who score up to 5% (3 marks) less than the minimum required to qualify in their category ( GEN/OBC/PH/ST/SC), will be eligible to answer a repeat examination of a similar pattern on November 28. All the qualified candidates, including those who qualify at the repeat examination, will be eligible to answer the main CBRT which will be a 75-mark paper. The details of this exam, including the syllabus, are uploaded on the commission’s website. The candidates who clear the main CBRT will then have to answer a written examination which comprises four papers and an interview thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/screening-test-for-junior-scale-officers-on-nov-21-22/articleshow/78778116.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Surat||SCET to hold programme on healthcare||Surat: The electronics and communication department of Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) will organise a five-day faculty development program on “AI for Health Care” from November 23 to 27. “The motive of this programme is to increase the knowledge of students, faculties and researchers in the domain of healthcare science. This program is affiliated by AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) academy, India. Topics like infant cry analysis and classification, EEG signal analysis, smart healthcare for glucose measurement and its control for diabetes among others will get covered,” said a SCET official. Renowned speakers like Prof. Gaurav Sharma of University of Rochester, USA; Prof Ramvilas Pacchori of IIT-Indore and others will share their knowledge and expertise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/scet-to-hold-programme-on-healthcare/articleshow/78775656.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||New businesses open doors across Pune, old establishments go for overhaul||PUNE: Amid the economic gloom there are stirrings of a new dawn as people shake off months of uncertainty and start afresh, picking up pieces of their lives in the process. Across the city, many new businesses have opened doors, while old establishments, ravaged by the twin blows of lockdown and pandemic, have emerged in a new avatar. What’s striking about these new establishments is that many of their owners are first-time entrepreneurs who held jobs for a living until a few months back. Nisar Patel, who opened Kebabi, an eatery selling kebabs on Salunke Vihar Road in Kondhwa a fortnight ago, worked in the insurance sector till last year until he thought of doing something new. “I took the shop on rent and started work on the interiors in February, hoping to open it in April. However, things went topsy-turvy as the pandemic struck and lockdown was clamped for months. I had to pay the rent as well as the EMIs for the loan I had taken to renovate the shop,” he said. Brothers Chetan and Tushar Ghatge came up with the idea of opening a breakfast and snacks outlet in Undri after the travel company they worked for stopped paying their salaries. “We opened Aapla Katta around a fortnight ago. Our speciality is tarri poha for which we use homemade masalas. We also serve Irani chai,” said Chetan. “I suffered a 25% salary cut from April to June and received half the salary in July. The company I worked for made it clear that I won’t get any salary from August to December. Tushar’s salary also stopped. That is when we decided to do something in the food business,” said Chetan. Amjad Shaikh, who opened Alisha Foods in Undri a few months back, worked as a sales head in a fitness company, which folded up during the lockdown after suffering huge loses. “The job scenario turned bad. So, I decided to open a food outlet selling dairy, bakery, snacks and frozen food items,” he said. “Fortunately, my store started doing well as people started coming out on the streets following the unlock process,” Amjad added. Bavdhan resident Devendra Parsadkar, owner of an optical shop, opened a franchise of Chitale Express recently. “I feel it is important to take risks now as many of us don’t have anything to lose. I see the post-lockdown scenario as an opportunity to expand my business and diversify.” Bhiyaram Chowdhary, owner of a grocery store at Chandannagar, remodelled his shop with a new storefront. “Earlier, people could walk in and pick up whatever they wanted, although the space was not big. During the initial months of strict lockdown, I took orders through WhatsApp and customers came to pick things up. Following the unlock, I decided to renovate my shop with a new storefront to serve customers across the counter,” he said. At Kedarinagar, Arif Sayyad opened a store selling stationery and gift items a month back. “I got a job offer in a private company in February but as the pandemic spread, the company stopped hiring. So, I decided to open a shop to support my family,” he said. (With inputs from Mihir Tanksale and Shiladitya Pandit)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-businesses-open-doors-across-city-old-establishments-go-for-overhaul/articleshow/78776798.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bail to childless man who paid money for infant||NEW DELHI: An infant, multiple traffickers and a childless couple– these have reflected in an order relating to the bail of a Delhi man who, along with his wife, paid money to become a parent. The infant was sold by her parents who reportedly had two disabled children and couldn’t afford to take care of her. She was trafficked by several middlepersons and eventually reached a childless couple who paid Rs 1 lakh for her. The arrested prospective father sought bail stating that he meant well. Though granted bail, the court said that it was due to these “well-meaning” individuals that the child trafficking racket existed. “Sale and purchase of human beings as chattels is to be condemned no matter how pious the intention,” noted additional sessions judge Neelofer Abida Perveen. A case stemming from the statement of a Delhi Women’s Commission councillor showed that the biological parents had sold their two-and-a-half-month-old daughter, who was born in May, 2020, with the help of a nurse. The couple wanted to “save her future” by giving her away to a “rich family”. The child was sold to two women for Rs 40,000, and then sold again to someone else via a woman. Another trafficker sold her to the accused man and his wife. The infant was found at the accused’s home on August 13 when police found out that the couple had paid money to bring the child home. In order to declare their guardianship over the child, the couple organised a family function. The counsel, who appeared for the man booked under Section 370 for “exploitation,” argued that all he wanted was to give the infant a good life as a daughter. The man and his wife had no ill-will or maleficence as they intended to legally adopt the child, it was argued. The money, the counsel added, was given on “humanitarian grounds” to the biological parents and not as a consideration for adoption. The prosecutor pointed out the man didn’t have any previous criminal record and was no longer wanted for investigation as a chargesheet had been filed and all accused had been apprehended. Judge Perveen said, “Taking into consideration that the accused is in custody from August 13, 2020 and has clean antecedents... he is no longer required for investigation, present application is allowed and the accused is granted regular bail on furnishing a personal bond in the sum of Rs 50,000 with one surety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bail-to-childless-man-who-paid-money-for-infant/articleshow/78776844.cms||Aamir Khan
October 21, 2020||Pune||Merc to make AMG models in India||Pune: Mercedes-Benz said it has commenced the localization of a Mercedes-AMG model in India. AMG is the luxury carmaker’s sub-brand with a wide portfolio of limousines, SUVs, SUV coupés and sports cars. The AMGs were introduced in 2010 in India and are currently imported as completely built units (CBU). The carmaker said it has 10 completely knocked down (CKD) products in its portfolio. “AMG’s CKD production will drive in price benefit for end customers compared to CBU model. The imported CBU variant of AMG GLC 43 would have cost around Rs1 crore. The estimated price of the CKD variant would be around Rs80 lakh,” the company said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/merc-to-make-amg-models-in-india/articleshow/78776806.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||4.7L sq ft encroached area freed by Ahmedabad municipal corporation||AHMEDABAD: A team of the estate department swooped down on several areas in the posh North-West and West municipal administrative zones of the city to remove encroachments. A total of 4.67 lakh sq ft of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) reserved plot area was freed of encroachment while 5.4km of town planning (TP) roads were freed of encroachments across the city. A major portion of the drive took place in the posh North-West, South-West and West Zones of the city.  In the North West Zone, AMC officials cleared illegal construction on a 592 sq metres plot just behind Gokul hotel. At least four properties were demolished. The total cost of this plot was estimated to be Rs 27.5 crore. In Bodakdev area, a 125 sq feet dwelling was demolished. In the West Zone’s Krishna complex in Elisbridge area 700 sq ft of commercial space was demolished in Navrangpura ward. In South-West Zone just in front of Krishnadham public housing in Sarkhej area some 1,076 sq fee of reserved plot was freed of encroachments. Three illegally constructed commercial and eight residential units were demolished here. In the East Zone AMC targeted illegally constructed commercial units at Shiv Estate. “More drives will be continued in North, West and South West Zones in the coming week. We are getting police assistance in these areas,” says a senior AMC estate department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-7-lakh-sq-ft-encroached-area-freed/articleshow/78776800.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Jumbo Covid Hospital plan dropped; more beds in GMCH, AIIMS soon||NAGPUR: The plan to develop Jumbo Covid Hospital at the Divisional Sports Complex, Mankapur, has been dropped. Now, the administration will focus on increasing beds in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and AIIMS. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI, “Jumbo Covid Hospital project has been abandoned. It is always better to equip facilities in existing hospitals instead of a makeshift arrangement. Infrastructure development in existing hospitals will benefit patients forever. Therefore, we are concentrating on increasing beds in GMCHs and AIIMS.” Kumar added even health minister Rajesh Tope directed increasing beds in existing facilities wherever possible instead of going for Jumbo Covid Hospital. “An indoor health facility is always better and cheaper than makeshift facility outdoor,” he said. Kumar said, “Some 400 more beds will be added in GMCH as soon as possible. Process to increase beds in AIIMS too is going on. We cannot increase the capacity in IGGMCH.” TOI had reported on September 29 about GMCH’s plan to increase 400 beds. There is also a plan to increase capacity at AIIMS to 500 beds. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had started three more Covid Hospitals and one is already in operation. Total capacity in these four hospitals is around 300 beds. Thus, over 1,000 more beds will be available in coming days compared to last month. Jumbo Covid Hospital was proposed with 1,000 beds. At present, GMCH has 570 beds for Covid patients, 700 are at IGGMCH and 80 at AIIMS. With rise in positive cases and complaints of shortage of beds, guardian minister Nitin Raut had proposed Jumbo Covid Hospital on the lines of Mumbai in August. TOI was the first to highlight the project on August 9. At that time, works on three Jumbo Covid Hospitals in Pune district were in final stages. After Raut’s efforts, the administration had submitted a proposal to the government in August. At that time, Raut had made it clear Jumbo Covid Hospital will not benefit current peak and will be helpful in second wave, which is predicted in winter season. Following HC strictures on September 15, the government had given in-principle approval to the project on September 18. However, experts and officials have predicted that cases will not be as high as those registered in August and September even if a second wave comes. The highest number of active cases in city was 15,937 on September 24 in this pandemic till date. As per guidelines, only 15% (2,390) require hospitalization. Sources told TOI, “Total beds in government, NMC and private Covid Hospitals will increase to over 5,000 from existing 4,000 in the district and may be sufficient.” After 5-6 weeks of peak, the number of positive cases has declined to a great extent in the district from the beginning of October. On Tuesday, there were 6,141 active cases, of which 4,138 were in home isolation, 427 in process of admission, 205 in Covid Care Centres, and 1,371 in Covid hospitals. Thus, 2,629 beds were vacant in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jumbo-covid-hospital-plan-dropped-more-beds-in-gmch-aiims-soon/articleshow/78776829.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 21, 2020||Pune||Vegetable prices skyrocket as showers damage crops in Maharashtra||PUNE: The prices of almost all vegetables have shot up after torrential rains ravaged farms in multiple districts of the state last week. Vegetable vendors and wholesalers in the city expect the prices are to rise further in the days to come. Wholesalers said supply of vegetables coming to Pune from within the district and other districts like Nashik and Solapur has gone down. “The rain has destroyed hectares of cultivated farmland,” Sachin Paigude, a wholesaler said, adding that prices of vegetables have nearly doubled since last week. “Okra and brinjal sold for Rs40 a kilo in the wholesale market last week. It has increased to Rs70 per kilo this week. The wholesale prices of coriander, spinach and fenugreek have gone up to Rs25 to Rs30 a bundle,” Paigude said. Deepak Khatal, a commission agent at Market Yard, predicted a significant rise in prices of leafy vegetables, particularly coriander and fenugreek, in the next few days. City-based working professional Shivani Joshi observed that the prices of French bean, potatoes and leafy greens to have shot up in the past one week. “The prices of not just potatoes, but also onions have increased by Rs10 per kilo in the wholesale market,” Raju Korpe, an onion and potato wholesaler at Market Yard, said. Residents said the high prices often don’t match the quality of the vegetables. “The leafy greens are soggy and rot much faster. Likewise, the onions, tomatoes and other vegetables are also not of great quality. I hope better vegetables arrive soon, but even vendors are not optimistic,” Radhika Jain, a homemaker said. Vilas Bhujbal, a wholesaler, said apart from the rains, accumulated water too was playing havoc with the crops. “About 50% of the supply coming into the market is of extremely poor quality. This pushes up prices of the better quality produce. The prices are likely to rise further,” Bhujbal said. Datta Kalamkar, head of vegetables division at Gultekdi Market Yard, said the rainfall has completely upended the demand-supply equation. “Acres of vegetables in the harvesting stage have been damaged badly,” Kalamkar said. (With inputs from Sandip Dighe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vegetable-prices-skyrocket-as-showers-damage-crops/articleshow/78776853.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Task force wants walk-in testing centres to better detection rate||PUNE: The state task force has recommended walk-in testing centres and considerable reduction in test costs to improve the Covid-19 case detection rate. The per million tests in Maharashtra have reduced to 61,000. Key cities such as Pune and Mumbai have in the past two weeks registered a drop in the tests. State task force head Dr Sanjay Oak said testing should increase across the state. “We have told the government that there should be mobile testing facilities, as the ‘Unlock’ phase has started. We cannot let our guard down ahead of the festive period and winter onset,” Oak told TOI. He has told the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to scale up tests to at least 20,000 a day. “Pune and other key districts such as Thane and Nagpur should ramp up the test. Its cost should be reduced, as announced by the health minister. The tests should be easily accessible to all,” he said. State health minister Rajesh Tope had last week proposed reducing of the RT-PCR test cost to Rs800. State technical expert Subhash Salunkhe said the testing had gone down in Pune district. He said testing should be restarted in flu clinics and the administration should ensure mobile vans for tests on the move in the city and rural areas. An overworked health machinery and a dip in cases have also affected the mandatory contact tracing strategy. With just seven-eight high-risk contacts and about 9-10 low-risk contacts are being traced for every Covid positive person in key cities such as Pune as against the mandatory average of 20, health officials have been told to renew focus on the exercise in the run-up to the festive period and winter. “Maharashtra has to improve contact tracing in all the key districts,” said a task force member. Public health expert R Jotkar said, “Augmenting testing volume and contact tracing in each district of the state should be the priority.” A state health official said, “We are working for long without any leave. Many posts are vacant. All this have impacted our health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-wants-walk-in-testing-centres-to-better-detection-rate/articleshow/78776838.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 21, 2020||Chennai||A mighty fall for Chennai Super Kings: Roaring kings to purring kittens||CHENNAI: All great sports teams — be it Michael Jordan’s Chicago Bulls of the 1990s or Leo Messi’s Barcelona in the 2010s — have a sell-by date. After long periods of dominance there comes a time when things begin to fall apart and MS Dhoni’s Chennai Super Kings is no exception. Over the past month, the spectacular unravelling of the most consistent side and three-time champion has left many searching for answers. Read the entire story on TOI+How IPL's most consistent team unravelled||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-mighty-fall-roaring-kings-to-purring-kittens/articleshow/78776839.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Hoteliers asked to register with Nidhi, Saathi govt portals||Madurai: Hoteliers in Madurai district have been asked to register themselves with the National Integrated Database of Hospitality Industry (Nidhi), an initiative of the Union tourism department to collate information on accommodation available in each tourist destination. At present, there is no clear information available with the department on available accommodation in each tourist centre, which had put the department on the backfoot during policy making, and taking measures to promote tourism. Officials said that both the state and central governments are taking various efforts to bring the tourism industry back on track as it was hit badly by the lockdown induced by Covid-19. The idea of creating reliable data on accommodation facilities ideas came up during meetings held with stakeholders. It will give the outside world an idea on the infrastructure available in each place and help take informed decisions. “It is important that all the hoteliers register themselves in the portal www.nidhi.nic.in . It is equally important to share correct information. Some of the hoteliers have already started providing the information, while many are yet to do it,” an official said. The ministry has also come up with another portal - System for Assessment, Awareness and Training for Hospitality Industry (Saathi). The main aim of the initiative is to promote safety and hygiene in the hotel industry. Awareness and training programmes would be conducted periodically to handle tourists during this time. Hoteliers said that although they have not been fully explained about the benefits of two initiatives, they have started registering themselves enthusiastically. K P Navaneetha Krishnan of Park Plaza hoped that measures taken by the governments would benefit the hotel industry and the tourism sector. He said that occupancy in hotels has not increased more than 20%. President of Madurai Travel Club, G Raveendran said that increase in occupancy can be witnessed only when the state borders are opened without any e-pass. “All possible efforts should be taken immediately to revive domestic tourism activities for now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hoteliers-asked-to-register-with-nidhi-saathi-govt-portals/articleshow/78778118.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa cops start probe in Chandrakant Kavlekar’s ‘phone hacking’||PANAJI: Cyber Crime Cell (CCC) of Goa police on Tuesday filed a first information report (FIR) against an unidentified person for “hacking” into deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar’s cell phone and sending obscene material on social media. Stating that the investigation has begun, a senior police officer expressed confidence that the hacker will soon be traced. Kavlekar on Monday had filed a complaint before the CCC stating that his cell phone was hacked into, and the obscene video posted on social media from it. Kavlekar’s complaint stated that some miscreants had sent a video containing obscene material to one Whatsapp group named ‘Villages of Goa’. “The said video was sent to this aforementioned WhatsApp group where I am a member and it was intentionally masked in my name with criminal intention. It may be noted that the message was sent only to this group, out of the many WhatsApp groups where I am a member. Also, the time when this message was sent, I was nowhere near the phone, I was fast asleep,” he had stated. Meanwhile, Congress has filed a complaint at the Panaji police station against Kavlekar for posting an obscene video on a WhatsApp group. The party demanded that an FIR be registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC and IT Act. “The said video posted by Kavlekar is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest and has effect as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who have seen the said video,” the complaint stated. The party annexed the social media posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-start-probe-in-kavlekars-phone-hacking/articleshow/78778124.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre must hire tech team on projects: Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday wrote a letter to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, urging him to appoint a technical team to oversee and monitor the ongoing irrigation projects in Telangana.  “Despite an expert committee clearly warning against its construction, the government went ahead with KLIS pumphouse in Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Project,” he pointed out. He alleged that because of an explosion in the pumphouse at Yellu village in Nagarkurnool district, the project was flooded as water gushed out. Sanjay sought to know as to why the government was not submitting the detailed project reports to the Krishna River Management Board. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-centre-must-hire-tech-team-on-projects/articleshow/78776851.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bypoll fray includes doctor; five with criminal cases||AHMEDABAD: Among the candidates of the BJP and the Congress who are contesting the assembly byelection for eight seats, one is a medical doctor while another has studied till Class IV. None of the candidates is uneducated; one has even completed a course in journalism.  Five of the 16 candidates of the two major political parties have criminal cases pending against them. These include voluntarily causing hurt and threatening to kill. One of the candidates has a case pending under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, while another has cases against him for organizing protests while Covid-19 restrictions were in place. The youngest candidate among the 16 fielded by the two major parties is 43; the oldest is 68. Seven of the 16 candidates of the BJP and the Congress are contesting an assembly election for the first time. Two of the 16 have been ministers in earlier BJP governments in the state. Five of the candidates of the BJP and the Congress have said in their affidavits that they are full-time farmers. Six have mentioned farming as an additional occupation with social work and other business activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bypoll-fray-includes-doc-five-with-criminal-cases/articleshow/78776841.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Centuries-old church gets new life||KOCHI: When architect Leo Francis began to work on restoration of St. Peter and Paul Church, Venduruthy, there was little or no reference points. With a legacy of more than 500 years, the church, considered to be built by the Portuguese in 1599 and rebuilt in 1788, was in a dilapidated condition with leaky roofs, damp walls and peeled off plaster. On Sunday, the renovated church, blessed by Archbishop Joseph Kalathiparambil, was opened to the public. “Only the facade and the main part of the sanctuary was intact. We did not even have a photo as reference,” says Leo, who pieced together clues thrown by memories of old parishioners and Portuguese churches from similar churches elsewhere. What began as a renovation project, with a philosophy of restoring its humble architecture, transformed into a trans-disciplinary model of heritage conservation when PAMA, a research collective, stepped in on invitation from Fr Alphonse Panakkal, the vicar of the church. Structures that show the architectural evolution of the present church have been conserved in situ by covering it with glass, which bestows on the site the status of a living museum. People’s memories were often unreliable and following them often brought them into architectural dead-ends. “The project would not have been possible if not for the effort put in by Fr Panakkal,” says Leo, who has undertaken church restoration projects before. Fr Panakkal says efforts to renovate the church were started by Fr George Mathirappilly, former vicar of the church. It was a small parish with little funds but the support from the diocese was wholesome. “Some of the work is still unfinished. We need to complete the restoration of some remnants, now conserved within glass casing and also work on documentation,” said Fr Panakkal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pieced-like-a-puzzle-centuries-old-church-gets-new-life/articleshow/78775671.cms||Binu Karunakaran
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||2 Pb govt plants restart ops as pvt ones run out of coal||Patiala: The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has restarted the operations at the government-run power plants in Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat after the private power plants depleted all of their their coal stocks. One unit each at Ropar power plant and Lehra Mohabbat power plant was made operational on Monday. The operations at both these plants were suspended since September last week, following a dip in the power demand. These plants have few days’ of coal reserves if run on full capacity, however, with the dip in power demand will allow them to go on a little longer. The PSPCL officials claimed that at present they had six days’ coal reserves in 840 MW Ropar power plant that could produce 200 lakh unit per day if run on full capacity, whereas 920 MW Lehra Mohabbat power plant had four days of coal stock that can produce 220 LU of power per day on full capacity. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parsad said, “The private plants got depleted almost entire stock of coal and are about to face shutdown of operations. GVK suspended its operations few days back. At present, they are being run at minimal load. We have made re-operational our state-run plants. This is the last coal-stock we have in Punjab to run thermal plants within the state.” Dip in demand a relief In the last 10 days, the power demand in Punjab has witnessed a decline following which the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited has purchased less power from the northern-grid than its 6,500 MW of withdrawal quota. On October 11, PSPCL drew 5,400 power from the northern grid, whereas it recorded 5,125 MW on October 12, 4,909 MW on October 13, and 4,213 MW on October 19. Decision on rail roko today Even as the Punjab chief minister on Tuesday again appealed to the agitating farmers protesting on railway tracks to end their rail-roko agitation and allow movement of goods trains following coal crisis, farmers said that they would take a decision on this matter collectively on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-pb-govt-plants-restart-ops-as-pvt-ones-run-out-of-coal/articleshow/78778117.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Parminder Singh Dhull quits, to campaign against BJP in Baroda||JIND: In a setback to Haryana BJP, former Julana MLA and a strong leader from Jind district Parminder Singh Dhull (63) resigned from the membership of the party in protest against the three new farm laws. Announcing his resignation from the BJP on Tuesday at Jind, Dhull, however, did not disclose his next move. Dhull is one of the tallest leaders from Jind along with former Union minister Birender Singh and had served as an MLA from 2005 to 2014 from INLD. He had joined BJP just before the October 2019 assembly polls and had lost the last election to a JJP candidate. His son Ravinder Singh Dhull, who was working as an additional advocate general in Haryana, also announced to resign from the post. Dhull said he had joined BJP, assuming that it would strengthen the farmer community following the promise of their top brass to double the income by 2022, but farmers are under huge distress. BJP is trying to hand over farmers in few private hands and these three agriculture laws will prevail in that direction, he added. “I felt suffocated in the party since these laws were enacted. I am educated and experienced in Haryana politics and invite any BJP leader, including present agriculture minister J P Dalal or BJP’s state president O P Dhankar, who claims laws will benefit, at an open platform to argue as this move will lead farmers toward destruction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhull-quits-to-campaign-against-bjp-in-baroda/articleshow/78778126.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stable prices boost jewellers’ hopes||Ahmedabad: With gold prices remaining stable around Rs 52,000-mark per 10 gram for a few days, jewellers are hopeful of some revival in demand for the ongoing festive season. Gold price stood at Rs 52,500 per 10 gram on Tuesday. Jewellers suggest this will boost demand, given the wedding season setting in. “The demand has started picking up since Navratri and will be even better in the days to come. We hope for good sales during Dussehra and Diwali as well and if prices remain stable, people will make purchases for jewellery as well as bullion,” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stable-prices-boost-jewellers-hopes/articleshow/78776857.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Crushed between 2 trucks on eway, cleaner dies||PUNE: A truck cleaner died on the spot after getting crushed between two trucks — one stationary and the other moving — and dragged by the mobile heavy vehicle for almost 50 metres near Somatne Phata on Pune-Mumbai expressway early on Tuesday morning. Police identified the deceased as Madhgonda Parshuram Bhosale (21) of Jat in Sangli. The Talegaon Dabhade police said both the trucks were going to Mumbai. The Talegaon Dabhade police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving against the unidentified driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crushed-between-2-trucks-on-eway-cleaner-dies/articleshow/78776858.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Laxmi Rd shop papers forgery slur on trio||Pune: Three persons were arrested on Monday on the charge of forging documents of a shop on Laxmi Road, valued at Rs1.8 crore, and fraudulently taking its possession on September 26. Ganesh Yadav of Parvati, Shrikant Terbhai of Kothrud and Paresh Bhandari of Kondhwa Budruk were arrested after a businessman (32) from Maharshinagar lodged an FIR, accusing them of forcing his elderly father to sign a power of attorney in their favour and later taking possession of the shop. The Swargate police said Yadav and Terbhai knew the complainant’s father. Bhandari was given the shop’s possession, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/laxmi-rd-shop-papers-forgery-slur-on-trio/articleshow/78776860.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||More misery likely to rain on marooned Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: City may have to brace up for more misery as authorities at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and independent forecasting agency Skymet have put Hyderabad on alert, saying the worst was yet to come as heavy showers were expected on October 21-22. People have been urged to move out of low-lying areas. While fresh flooding after Tuesday’s rain inundated streets near Naya Pul and Koti, there were heart-rending scenes across various areas as people struggled to survive in inundated houses with virtually no resources. “Heavy rains will lash many parts of Hyderabad in the next two days, especially during evening/night hours due to a low-pressure over the central Bay of Bengal which is likely to turn into a deep depression by Wednesday,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad, which has sounded an orange alert for many parts of Telangana. The IMD attributed continued rainfall activity in Hyderabad to an east-west trough running across Telangana associated with a fresh low-pressure area formed due to a cyclonic circulation over Bay of Bengal. There was a sharp drop in mercury level to 22 degree Celsius in an hour due to intense rainfall and strong winds in parts of the city. Skymet warned officials not to lower their guards now as the lakes were full to the brim. “A few moderate spells accompanied with isolated heavy rain may further deteriorate the situation for Hyderabad,” warned Skymet. The government too intensified its rescue and relief operations in many areas. While Telangana officials handed over relief cheques to flood-affected people, crores were contributed by politicians and celebrities to the Telangana chief minister’s relief fund. Responding to the Telangana government’s call, Indian army flood relief teams too began rescue work. “Nine flood relief teams with boats are on standby to be launched immediately if required. Additional teams and boats will be sent as per the situation,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) cleared 8,293 tons of garbage from all zones of which 4,782 tons was removed from Charminar zone alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-misery-likely-to-rain-on-marooned-city/articleshow/78778604.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Idol worshipped in Kunnur is menhir, claims historian||MADURAI: A historian has claimed that a 20-foot-high stone idol worshipped by locals in Kunnur near Srivillputtur in Virudhunagar district, is actually a menhir which is thousands of years old, erected in memory of a person. Assistant professor of History at Rajapalayam Rajus College, B Kandasamy, said that the tall menhir, was wide at the bottom, and had a narrow top. He said that there was mention about such menhirs in Sangam literature. According to the literature the menhirs were installed in the memory of a person of high stature or a soldier who lost his life in a battle. This was a practice which was prevalent in the megalithic age, where menhirs were usually installed amidst a circle of round stones. There was evidence that the stone circle around this particular menhir had been disturbed recently, he said. Usually, menhirs are formed in places where there were large stones, but there is no evidence to show that this was an area which had contained large rocks. So in all probability the menhir was specially sculptured and installed at the site, he said. “People from the neighbouring villages had started worshipping the stone about half a decade ago and when I found it the stone was wrapped in two dhoties and vibhoodi was smeared on it. They had named it Kunthukkal Muniyandi, Adukkal Muniyandi and Muneeswaran,’’ he said. People also believe it to be a powerful deity, and special poojas are performed for it on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays. He said that this site also has pieces of burial urns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/idol-worshipped-in-kunnur-is-menhir-claims-historian/articleshow/78778128.cms||K Antony Xavier
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||4 of ‘I-T raid team’ at bizman’s house held||Patiala: Inspired by a Bollywood movie, members of a gang struck at the house of an owner of a fuel filling station while impersonating as I-T officials and cops. The gang got away with cash, gold ornaments and a pistol. But four days after the incident, the gang ran out of luck as the police in Sangrur nabbed four of its members — Sewa Ram, Jaspal and Baldev, who were part of the raiding team, and Manoj. The police on Tuesday claimed that Rs 3.80 lakh cash, 22g gold ornaments, 6kg silver and a .32 bore revolver along with 22 live cartridges were recovered from four accused, who were riding a vehicle used in the crime. The police on October 16 had registered a case under sections of theft and snatching, but added Sections 395 (dacoity), 342 (wrongful confinement), 483 (counterfeiting property mark used by another person) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and sections of Arms Act after the arrest of the accused. The police said five more accused involved in plotting the crime have been identified and will be nabbed soon. The police said Sewa Ram of a village in Barnala who was presently living in Sangrur district was the mastermind in the case. The police said Sewa Ram planned the dacoity after getting complete information about Krishan Kohli from the accused Manoj Kumar, who was close to the family of Krishan Kohli and knew about gold and cash kept in the house. Sewa Ram along with his accomplices Baldev Singh Soni of Barnala, Mandeep Singh of Patiala and Jaspal Singh of Patiala carried out a raid at Kohli’s house by impersonating as I-T officials and cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-of-i-t-raid-team-at-bizmans-house-held/articleshow/78778119.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Trial run: 50 buses using fuel greener than CNG rolled out in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi became the first city in the country to roll out hydrogen-enriched compressed natural gas (HCNG) buses for public transport on Tuesday, with the launch of a six-month trial run of 50 BS-IV compliant cluster scheme buses. Read AlsoExplained: What is HCNG and what are its benefits?Buses running on hydrogen-enriched compressed natural gas(HCNG), a cleaner fuel compared with CNG, are going to hit the capital’s roads, from Tuesday. We will explain what HCNG is, its benefits and other things.Union minister of petroleum & natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan and Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot inaugurated a four-tonne-a-day compact reformer plant at Rajghat Bus Depot-I of Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC). The cluster scheme buses have been slightly modified to enable a switch to HCNG. The HCNG production plant has been set up by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) in collaboration with Delhi government’s transport department, which has provided Rs 15 crore for setting up of the plant and conducting the study. The ministry of road transport and highways has also notified HCNG as a fuel starting September, 2020. “Delhi, as the country’s capital is taking a lead in promoting environment conscious transport policies, like adopting cleaner fuels such as HCNG, electric vehicles, etc. The most important benefit of HCNG is that it emits 70% less carbon monoxide, which will reduce total hydrocarbons emissions by around 15%, along with 3-4% increased fuel efficiency,” Gahlot said. He said that during the trial, tailpipe emissions of the buses will be continuously monitored and analysed. “I am assured that once the trial is successfully completed, use of HCNG can be scaled up to other buses and private vehicles in Delhi,” Gahlot said. “I am happy to note that the scientists of Indian Oil R&D unit have risen to the occasion and developed an innovative compact reforming technology for production of hydrogen-mixed CNG. Hydrogen is the ultimate fuel, which, while giving energy, produces clean water in the emissions,” Pradhan said. He said that this pilot project will be unique and complimented Indraprastha Gas Limited for setting up a dispensing station to refuel HCNG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trial-run-50-buses-using-fuel-greener-than-cng-rolled-out/articleshow/78776862.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||23-year-old driver killed in Karimnagar district||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old driver was bludgeoned to death by offenders near his house in Veenavanka of Karimnagar district on Tuesday. The victim was in love with a woman from his own community and the family members alleged that his lover’s brother was behind the murder. The deceased was identified as N Pranay, 23, a tractor driver from Potireddypally village in Veenavanka mandal of Karimnagar district. Around 10pm on Monday, Pranay left his house and did not return. On Tuesday morning, family members found his body in the bushes near their house at a plot. “Unknown offenders attacked Pranay on his head with a blunt object. He died on the spot,” Veenavanka SI Kiran Reddy said. Police shifted the body for post-mortem examination and registered a murder case under Section 302 of the IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/23-yr-old-driver-killed-in-karimnagar-dist/articleshow/78776855.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||19,000 hectares across 13 tehsils badly hit: Report||PUNE: The district agriculture office has submitted a preliminary assessment of rain damage to crops on 19,000 hectares spread across 13 tehsils in the district last week. According to the report submitted to the collector, Indapur and Baramati were the worst hit. The two tehsils had recorded triple-digit rainfall on October 14 District agriculture officer Dnyaneshwar Bhote told TOI that they were still assessing the damage and expect the quantum to increase in the days to come. “Our officials could not inspect some areas, particularly in Baramati and Indapur, due to excessive water in farms. We will complete it in next few days,” he added. On October 14, Baramati, Indapur, Daund and Purandar recorded 128.8mm, 116.8mm, 101.5mm and 87.6mm of rainfall respectively. Indapur tehsildar Sonali Metkari said, “Kharif crops have been damaged badly.” Many paddy farmers in Maval, Mulshi, Bhor and Velha lose their harvest completely. “We had plucked rice and kept it in farms for processing, but now it is in knee-deep water,” said Kantaram Thakur from Pavananagar village in Maval tehsil. Grape farmers in Baramati said if there was no help from the government, they would be forced to take loans or cut their losses. “This is a crucial period for grapes as many plantations are in the pre-harvesting stage. Rain has washed away the plan completely,” Jitendra Badwai, a grape farmer in Junnar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/19k-hectares-across-13-tehsils-badly-hit-report/articleshow/78776856.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||PU senators meet Parida, say no need to postpone elections||Chandigarh: A seven-member delegate of Panjab University senator met UT adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday to take up the matter of postponement of senate elections by the Chandigarh administration for the second time. The delegates submitted a four-page memorandum to the UT adviser in which they alleged that the picture, which was portrayed by the university authorities to conduct the senate elections, was not true. They demanded that UT administrator V P Badnore should intervene immediately to ensure that the decision of the Chandigarh administration communicated on October 16 is reviewed and elections are permitted to be held immediately. UT adviser Manoj Parida, home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta and MC commissioner Kamal Kishore Yadav were present in the meeting. The adviser heard the PU delegation patiently and assured them of looking into their demands. While referring to the senior superintendent of police, UT Chandigarh, and CID, Chandigarh, in which they had reported that “As the Covid-19 situation in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Maharashtra is at its peaks and the member of faculties, who belong to these states, will arrive in Chandigarh to cast their votes, then the possibility of spread of the deadly virus cannot be ruled out. Thus, it is therefore recommended that permission may not be granted to the PU authority to conduct the senate elections 2020.” The delegation gave a plea that the said recommendation of the SSP and CID, Chandigarh, is based on false and misleading facts that a large number of voters from the states of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, who are the members of the faculties will arrive in Chandigarh to cast their votes in PU. While it is to be noted that there is no one from Maharashtra, Rajasthan or Haryana, who has to caste his/her vote in the faculty elections. The fact is that, besides only three members from Delhi, and a few from Punjab, all others are from the Tricity. They further stated that according to the MHA guidelines issued for strict adherence to the SoPs and the national directions for Covid-19 management in pursuance of various activities by public institutions and universities, have nowhere mandated that permission has to be sought by an institution for a particular activity. In view of this, the very act of the UT administration disrupting the PU senate elections is an attack on the democratic structure of the university and disrobing its people’s centric governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-senators-meet-parida-say-no-need-to-postpone-elections/articleshow/78778130.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cop tries to save colleague, suffers bullet injury||PUNE: A policeman suffered bullet injury to his right hand when he caught a rifle with its barrel to prevent a constable from pulling the trigger on himself following an altercation with a woman constable at the Shivajinagar police headquarters between 4.30am and 4.45am on Tuesday. The policeman, constable Dattatreya Bhendale (48), suffered a torn web between the thumb and the index finger of his right hand. He was taken to the Sassoon General Hospital for treatment. Based on the woman constable (30) and Bhendale’s statements, the Shivajinagar police arrested the other constable, Mayur Dnyaneshwar Saste (33), and filed separate cases under sections 354 (outraging modesty of a woman) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, read with the relevant sections of the Arms Act. The police produced Saste before a magisterial court, which sent him to Yerawada jail. On September 21, two women constables fought over duty issues at the headquarters. Earlier, two male constables engaged in a similar fight at the cyber police station, also located at the headquarters. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Swapna Gore, and senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar and inspector Manisha Zende from the Shivajinagar police rushed to the spot after the incident. “We have handed over the errant constable to the police. The rifle has been seized for investigation,” Gore said. Bhendale, Saste, and the woman constable were posted on night guard duty at the Quarter Gate point in the headquarters. The woman constable’s screams drew Bhendale’s attention around 4.30am. The woman constable told Bhendale that Saste touched her inappropriately, the police said. Bhendale then took Saste aside and tried to convince him against such behaviour. Saste then snatched Bhendale’s rifle and came out on the road going towards the DCP (headquarters) office. He put the rifle under his chin and threatened to pull the trigger. Bhendale caught the rifle with its barrel to regain its possession. Saste ended up pulling the trigger in the resultant scuffle and Bhendale was hurt, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-tries-to-save-colleague-suffers-bullet-injury/articleshow/78776864.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 21, 2020||Pune||Man cuffed for sending lewd texts||Pune: A 32-year-old man from Nagpur was arrested on the charge of sending lewd messages to a woman residing in Chinchwad. She has also alleged that the suspect touched her inappropriately on October 16 in Chinchwad. The police have booked the man under sections of the IPC and IT Act. An officer from Chinchwad police station said the man and woman knew each other. In the past few months, the suspect sent lewd messages to the woman. He called on her landline to tell her about her husband’s alleged illicit relationship. On October 16, he reached Chinchwad to meet the woman. “The woman alleged in her complaint that he touched her inappropriately,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-cuffed-for-sending-lewd-texts/articleshow/78776866.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolhapur||HC quashes FIR against 8 booked for harassing woman||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed and set aside an FIR registered against eight relatives of a man from Hadgaon in Nanded district for allegedly instigating him to subject his wife to cruelty. The woman complainant had approached Mukhed police accusing her husband and in-laws of harassing her for failing to get Rs 10 lakh from her parents. The police had then registered offences against the husband Rajesh Rajwade — a resident of Rajewadi — along with his parents, three sisters, their husbands and other relatives under sections 498-A, 323, 504 506 read with section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The FIR against the main suspect, Rajwade, and his parents has not been quashed. However, eight of Rajwade’s kin — the sisters along with their husbands and two other family members — had moved high court through lawyer U B Bilolikar seeking to quash the FIR against them. While allowing the appeal, the bench noted that these relatives were not staying with the couple. The bench, comprising justices TV Nalawade and MG Sewlikar, observed that it was vaguely stated that the applicants used to instigate her husband. “The chargesheet itself shows that the applicants did not live at the matrimonial place of respondent No. 2 (the woman),” the court observed. The 36-year-old woman, currently staying at another place in Hadgaon taluka, married Rajwade in 2003. According to the complaint, the accused had been asking her to bring Rs 10 lakh from her parents for meeting the daily needs and starting a Krushi Seva Kendra. Failing to heed to their demand, the accused allegedly ill-treated her. The bench observed: “On perusal of FIR and papers annexed with it, it is seen that vague allegations are made against the applicants. No date of ill-treatment is mentioned. Specific allegations are not made against any of the applicants.It cannot be said on the basis of these vague allegations, that any fruitful purpose would be served by continuation of prosecution. It would be an abuse of process of law. Hence, we do not find it appropriate to continue the prosecution against the applicants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hc-quashes-fir-against-8-booked-for-harassing-woman/articleshow/78774424.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Pressure over secretary election behind panchayat president ‘abduction’ claim||MADURAI: Villagers from a panchayat in Madurai district submitted a petition to the district collector on Tuesday alleging that their panchayat president had been abducted by the vice-president. However, it later transpired that he had gone to his daughter’s house unable to withstand pressure from vested interests over the election of the panchayat secretary. P Ganeshan, 63, a dalit, was elected panchayat president of Nattamangalam in Chellampatti union on December 30 last year. The village committee members, including ward members S Rajaguru, P Muthumari, A Pandi, Ammavasi, among others submitted a petition to collector Dr T G Vinay, alleging that they suspected their president had been abducted by panchayat vice-president T R C Pradeep. Election to the post of panchayat secretary, which has been lying vacant, was to be held on October 22. The villagers alleged that the vice-president had been insisting that the president approve the name of his 18-year-old sister T Sivaparani for the post. As the panchayat president was missing, they suspected that Pradeep had abducted him. However, on Tuesday evening, P Ganeshan came to the district collectorate and submitted a petition to the collector saying he was not abducted. In his petition, he stated that K Sivaprakash from Ayyampatti in his village had been harassing him demanding that his wife P Jayalakshmi be given the secretary post. Unable to stand the harassment, he had come to his daughter’s house in Anupanadi in Madurai. Later, the officers asked him to come to the Chellampatti union office where Ganeshan said he had been given the assurance that an eligible candidate would be selected for the post. When contacted, district collector Dr T G Vinay said he had asked the assistant director panchayats to inquire into the allegations and that action would be taken based on the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pressure-over-secy-election-behind-panchayat-prez-abduction-claim/articleshow/78778137.cms||K Antony Xavier
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||A second ‘spring’ season to make up for the lost one||Chandigarh: With the Covid-19 lockdown, most city residents missed out on the spring panorama of city trees in bloom. Locked-up in our homes, one could only imagine the lilac bloom of Jacrandas lighting up the Leisure Valley or the blossom-lined Jan Marg draped in the yellow Silver Trumpet trees. But here is a second ‘spring’ to make up for the lost one. Come autumn and Chandigarh’s calendar of nature keeps up its annual tryst with two of its most beautiful flowering trees - Golden Rain and Mexican Silk cotton trees. With the unlock liberties, I have resumed my constitutional morning walks albeit with precautions. But after months of having to do with pacing up and down the driveway - the small step of crossing over to the street or the neighbourhood park, seems like a giant leap into the nature’s lap. Right in front of my house is a unique tree along the V6 street, whose canopy is sprinkled with dainty yellow flowers. And just a few days back, it hardly inspired any attention with its rather ordinary looking foliage - hardly a showstopper! In fact, one of my very-esteemed VIP neighbours asked me if it was a neem tree. Shocked by such ignorance of trees, I just gave a wry smile and moved on.... With the onset of October, the magic of the Koelreuterias (Koelreuteria paniculata) is a sight to behold. In fact, so bountifully is the tree-laden with blossoms that it merrily showers down quite many on the lawn beneath making it look like a carpet of yellow dots woven into the grass. There might be only a few of them left now on our street, but in the neighbourhood park, there are still two large groves presenting a sight to behold. And soon these yellow flowers turn into copper-red pods. The medium-sized tree with dense foliage of leaves is irregular in shape with spread and height ranging between 25 and 30 feet. In fact, along our sector’s streets, many affluent residents have got their old brick and plaster Le Corbusier era houses razed down and given them makeovers of sleek glass facades. Alas, in the process they have also got rid of the rather ‘plain-Jane’ koelreuteria trees, originally planted and turned the green verges into fantasies of miniature ‘Japanese Gardens’ replicas or other clichéd landscapes popularised by commercial landscapists. But a few of us green loyalists have still retained the original trees and are now quite the neighbour’s envy with their profuse flowering. Another big floral surprise of autumn are the very beautiful Mexican Silk Cotton trees (Chorisia Speciosa ) - the Simbal trees. But this is not to be confused with another prominent silk cotton tree called Semul (Bombax malabaricum) - a tall stately tree that blooms in February, adorned with big scarlet coloured flowers. On the other hand, the Mexican Silk Cotton gets light pinkish-mauve, dainty blossoms that wrap up the entire tree in an ethereal drape. This magnificently beautiful tree with its light green stem and thin foliage sprouts profuse flowers all over its canopy. It is also of medium height and spread attaining about 25-30 feet. One can also notice them in beautiful surroundings of the College of Art and the museum campus in Sector 10. Surely they inspire many a budding artist to pick up paint and brush. The tree is also conspicuously in bloom at the roundabout along the Madhya Marg at Sectors 19 and 27 intersections. The marvelous beauty of these two trees reminds us that one can be in bloom even in the autumn of one’s life – or even when there is a pandemic. Rajnish Wattas is a former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture and is architectural heritage and landscape expert and founder member of the Chandigarh Tree Lovers ( CTL)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-second-spring-season-to-make-up-for-the-lost-one/articleshow/78778133.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi air pollution: Farm fires’ share in PM2.5 down to 8% on Tuesday, but may rise today||NEW DELHI: The contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 reduced to 8% on Tuesday from Monday’s 10%, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar), a central forecasting body. However, Safar has predicted that its impact on air quality is likely to rise by early Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi’s neighbouring states witnessed 1,017 stubble burning fires on Monday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a change in the wind direction on Wednesday, which may affect air quality index (AQI). At 223, Delhi’s AQI remained in the “poor” category on Tuesday. Air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” to the lower end of the “very poor” category for the next two days, stated Safar. Scientists at IMD have predicted that air quality is likely to deteriorate on Wednesday. “The wind speed is likely to decrease from Wednesday onwards and may impact dispersion of pollutants. Besides, as the wind direction is expected to change to easterly, the pollutants may not be able to disperse,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. Dipankar Saha, former head at Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory, said depression in the lower Indo-Gangetic plains would result in stagnation of air pollutants in the upper Indo-Gangetic plains for the next two-three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fires-share-in-pm2-5-down-to-8-but-may-rise-today/articleshow/78776869.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Amid Covid-19, Kumbh Mela sectors reduced from 40 to 23, Akhara Parishad unhappy||Haridwar: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, the administration of Kumbh Mela 2021 has decided to decrease the number of sectors from 40 to 23. The Kumbh sectors falling in Dehradun and Rishikesh regions have been kept reserve and will be used according to the Covid-19 situation. In 2010, 32 sectors were created for the mela. The “unhappy” Akhara Parishad — the apex body of all 13 akharas — has, meanwhile, asked the officials to review their decision. The first bathing festival of the Kumbh Mela 2021 will be held on January 14, while the four royal baths will be held in March and April. The Akhara Parishad has, meanwhile, stated that all seven sanyasi akharas will take part in the mela and their saints and followers will take a holy dip on January 14; besides, akharas related to Udaseen and Vaishnava sects will also participate accordingly. Additional mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI, “In 2010, we had 32 Kumbh sectors. This time, too, we had planned 40 sectors, but considering the pandemic situation, the number of sectors reduced to 23. The rest of the sectors have been kept reserve and will be used according to the situation. A few sectors will be merged, while few others, especially in Dehradun and Rishikesh region, have been removed from the current list.” Meanwhile, Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI, “We have already told the mela officials not to decrease the areas of Kumbh mela amid the Covid-19 situation. The number of corona patients has declined, and thus, saints and their followers will take part in the mela. Even our akhara and their saints will reach there on time and take the first bath in January.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-covid-19-kumbh-mela-sectors-reduced-from-40-to-23-akhara-parishad-unhappy/articleshow/78774432.cms||MS Nawaz
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Schools to decide who should be given a second chance||Chandigarh: Students who missed compartment exam will have to contact their schools if they want a chance to appear for in the exams. The education department has left the decision on government schools on deciding who they wish to give second chance. Only genuine cases will be considered for the same. Many students of classes IX and XI of government schools missed their compartment exams, which were held between October 5 and October 9. The result was declared on October 10. The exact figure has not been shared by the department. Students with valid reasons will be considered for the same. A decision was to be taken after declaration of results and the department has now decided to let the schools take a call on who should be given a chance to appear for the compartment exam. “Schools have been given the freedom to decide on whether to give a chance to any student, who missed the compartment exams, this week. A student will have to give a valid reason for the same,” said an official. On April 14, the UT education department had decided to award 30 grace marks to each candidate from classes IX and XI so as to not fail any student this year. However, still 4,550 students from the government schools in Chandigarh were placed in compartment. The compartment tests were postponed several times since May 15. Every year, the CBSE registers students of classes IX and XI for board classes. It is only after the compartment test results that the students can be registered. Teachers were in a fix about enrolling 4,550 candidates because the compartment examination dates for classes IX and XI were announced and the board’s registration process for the next classes began on September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-to-decide-who-should-be-given-a-second-chance/articleshow/78778140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Aurangabad||Dhangar outfit plans 55km human chain||Aurangabad: Jai Malhar Sena, an organisation of the Dhangar (shepherd) community, has decided to form a 55-km-long human chain between Aurangabad and Jalna on Thursday to draw the attention of both the central and state governments towards their longstanding demand of bringing them under the schedule tribes (ST) category. Lahu Shevale, president of Jai Malhar Sena, on Tuesday said that the community has been mentioned in the Constitution at No. 36 in the list Schedule Castes as Dhangad community. “Despite this, even after 65 years, the community has been deprived of its right. When written in English, the caste is referred as Dhangad, and when written in Hindi or Marathi it is written as Dhangar,” he said. He also claimed that in 2012 following persuasion by the community the then central government had sought the opinion of the state government. But since, then all the governments chose to sit on this communication. “We simply want the Uddhav Thackeray government to pass a resolution to the effect that the Dhangad and the Dhangar are the same and send it to the Union government. He pointed out that it’s like- the name of Balram Jakhad is written in Hindi or Marathi as Balram Jakhar,” Shevale said. He alleged that the community was misled during the era of the previous BJP-Shiv Sena government, when former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had promised to take a decision to this effect in his first cabinet meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dhangar-outfit-plans-55km-human-chain/articleshow/78774435.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 21, 2020||Pune||Police trap theft suspect with friend request, recover booty||PUNE: A 25-year-old man, on the run for nearly a month after stealing gold ornaments worth Rs6.2 lakh from a bungalow in New Sangvi, was arrested on Monday after he accepted a friend request sent by the police in the name of a woman on a social media site and then went to meet “her” at Kalpataru chowk, where the police were waiting to nab him. Police have recovered the stolen ornaments from him. “The suspect, Sandip Hande, a resident of Walhekarwadi in Chinchwad, was not traceable as his cellphone number was inactive. We then came across his profile on a social media site and sent a friend request in the name of a woman. Hande responded to it and was trapped as we were able to locate him,” senior inspector Rangnath Unde of the Sangvi police said. On October 17, Sangita Kankaria (52) of New Sangvi lodged an FIR with the police stating that unidentified person stole gold ornaments worth Rs6.2 lakh and cash Rs40,000 from her bungalow. “The complainant told police that the family had appointed a caretaker on September 21. He, however, left the job on September 25,” Unde said. Sub-inspector Yashwant Salunke of the Sangvi police told TOI, “After Hande accepted the request, we made him activate his cellphone number and fixed a spot for meeting,” Salunke said. He said that the Hande was nabbed as soon as he arrived at the spot. “We have recovered the ornaments from his possession. He had sold some ornaments, which have been recovered,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-trap-theft-suspect-with-friend-request-recover-booty/articleshow/78776871.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Rajkot||2 women drown in car accident||Rajkot: A 60-year-old woman and a 10-year-old girl drowned when their car plunged into a water-filled pit while trying to save a stray dog close to Bhimrana village, some 12 km from port town Okha, on Monday night.Six of a family were returning to their native Porbandar town after offering prayers at a Mogal Mata temple in Bhimrana. Suddenly, a dog crossed the road and Jitesh Godhani who was driving, lost control over the steering while trying to avoid running over it. As a result, the car plunged down the roadside and overturned inside the water-filled pit.In the accident, Godhani's mother-in-law Jamna and his sister’s daughter Vishwa died due to drowning. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-women-drown-in-car-accident/articleshow/78754973.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Students of Goa have 11 seats reserved for veterinary degree course||PANAJI: The directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services has invited online applications for admission to the first year of NEET-based degree course in veterinary services and animal husbandry for current academic year. The state government has reserved 11 seats for the professional degree course for Goan students who will be enrolled in institutes in Nagpur and Puducherry. Six seats have been reserved at the Maharashtra animal and fishery sciences university (MAFSU), Nagpur – two general, one ST, two OBC and one EWS. A total of five seats have been reserved at the Rajiv Gandhi institute of veterinary education and research, Kurumbapet, Puducherry – three general, one SC and one OBC. The applications have been invited from all eligible candidates and can be submitted online between October 17 to 24, details of which are available at www.goa-degree-admissions.in In case of MAFSU, students have to as per merit list issued by the directorate of technical education, Porvorim, based on NEET, have to fill forms online in addition to the filling of forms on www.goa-degree-admissions.in as and when their online admission notification is issued and may refer to the MAFSU website and submit the print out of the application form along with all required duly self-attested certificates and copy of the challan to the office of the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Patto, Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-have-11-seats-reserved-for-veterinary-degree-course/articleshow/78778169.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Delhi||SDMC to monetise exteriors of tower parking for revenue||NEW DELHI: The tower parking sites will soon become the biggest advertisement sites in the capital. South Delhi Municipal Corporation is renting out the facade space of its 17-storey tower parking in Green Park and a similar plan has been drawn up for the Lajpat Nagar facility. A civic official said a display area of 3,000 square feet, which can be extended up to 14,000 sq ft, will be available, with space restrictions for LED sites. These slots will help in formulating a financial model to keep the new parking facilities economically viable as they require large input costs, the official said. The residents welfare associations and citizen groups have, in the past few years, expressed concerns regarding increasing visual clutter in the city due to rampant advertisements for maximising revenue. But officials maintained that SDMC had been following the outdoor advertisement policy. “Any violation of the 2017 policy will invite penalty and repeat violation can lead to forfeiture. We will initially allot these sites for five years,” an official said. Tenders for the advertisement on the 39.5m-high four towers have been issued with a minimum reserve price of Rs 7.5 lakh. The contractors will be allowed to use building wraps, wall wraps or LED screens. “For LED screens, a maximum of 50-sq-meter area will be allowed and double the rate of the normal monthly licence fee will be levied,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-monetise-exteriors-of-tower-parking-for-revenue/articleshow/78776877.cms||Paras Singh
October 21, 2020||Chennai||How a dancer took Bharatanatyam closer to London society||By Gowri Ramnarayan Chennai: Where were you born?" Realising that her classmates in the Hyderabad school would be bemused if she answered "Chelmsford, Essex", the new girl settled on "London". At once, the class began to chant, "Pussy cat, pussy cat, where have you been? You have been to London to look at the queen!" Read the entire story on TOI+How a dancer took Bharatanatyam closer to London society||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-a-dancer-took-bharatanatyam-closer-to-london-society/articleshow/78776867.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||When help reached home on horseback in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Away from their usual race track, a pack of men on horseback are seen riding through the city’s flooded by-lanes these days. Stacked on their saddle are packets of biryani, milk, water and medicines. There’s also a bundle of rope tucked in for any emergency. Over the last week, these members of the Hyderabad Horse Riding School (HHRS) have been travelling through various colonies — particularly across Tolichowki and Old City — offering relief and rescuing people stranded in areas impossible to reach even with boats. “The recent flood was something even I have not seen before. There was no question of sitting at home and doing nothing. So, we put together a team, pooled in money and hit the roads,” said Md Abdul Wahab, founder of the school. Since then he along with another 8 to 10 equestrians have been touring the city with their horses, irrespective of the depth of water. “At some places it was as much as six feet (or more). Even boats weren’t helpful. We went there too...there were old people who needed milk or patients who needed their daily dose of blood pressure/blood sugar medicines. We took their prescriptions and got the drugs. We also consulted local doctors and gave basic flu medicines to some,” Wahab said. “That horses can swim, is an advantage in such situations,” he added. Beneficiaries, though startled at first, were only glad that help reached them through these horse riders. “An old aunt living close by did not have any food. She was planning to walk through waist-level water to get some from a neighbour, when she saw these men ride through the colony. They gave her vegetable biryani and a packet of water. What they are doing is very commendable,” said Hajra Begum, a resident of Nadeem Colony. Her family has taken refuge at a local masjid now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/when-help-reached-home-on-horseback/articleshow/78778611.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College proposes to make 6th semester internship optional||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) is going to revise guidelines for the first year of the 2020-21 academic session. The issue will be tabled at the senate meeting for a final nod on October 21. It has been proposed that the 6th semester internship should be made optional and students be given an option to register for 12 credits of course work at PEC. A student opting for course work will have to register for three courses - open elective, department elective course and major project - which will have four credits each. Students opting for course work and major projects will get 10 credits and those going for industry internship will get six credits. Also, students will be awarded honours or major specialisation degrees only if their final CGPA is more than or equal to eight. Minor specialisation will be given to a student who earns 16 credits from open elective courses offered by any one department outside the parent department. To get an honours or major specialisation in a department, a student will have to complete additional 16 credits. Another proposal states that as the curriculum is common for the first two semesters, students may be allowed to change their branch on the basis of academic performance at the end of second semester. The industrial tour must be continued as it provides industrial exposure to students in their respective field of engineering. Industrial tour will be a minimum of three days and visiting two or three industrial units situated at a minimum distance of 200 km from Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-proposes-to-make-6th-semester-internship-optional/articleshow/78778139.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||NDRF teams conduct mock drills at mini-secretariat||Panchkula: Teams of the Panchkula National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the Delhi NDRF conducted a mock drill on earthquake at the mini-secretariat in Sector 1 on Tuesday. Officials from the district administration were also present during the mock drill. The teams started mock rescue operation of 15 people stuck inside the building after an emergency siren. A temporary relief camp was also built at the Sector 5 parade ground. During the mock drill, ambulance, fire brigade and JCB machines were used. Besides, the NDRF experts also showed store, medicines, satellites and communication devices used for the rescue operation. Members of the NDRF teams also showed how quickly they could take their equipment from one place to another and help a person in need. For this mock drill, the NDRF officials rescued employees working at the mini-secretariat from various floors through a rope system. The team also showed and made the administrative officials aware about the dos and don’ts during any natural calamity. Parade ground at Sector 5 was identified as the staging place for the mock drill. Deputy commissioner M K Ahuja and deputy commandant NDRF Ghaziabad Kulesh Anand were present during the drive. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams showed how they could save a human life and provide food and other items to people struck in high-rise buildings during earthquake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ndrf-teams-conduct-mock-drills-at-mini-secretariat/articleshow/78778145.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Seven tribals held with tiger nails, canines||NAGPUR: Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) officials have arrested seven persons from Adhav in the core area of the park for trafficking tiger and other wild animals' body parts. Acting on a tip-off by Melghat wildlife crime cell, Sipna, and Gugamal wildlife division officials laid a trap near Semadoh-Harisal road and arrested three accused on October 17, and seized tiger nails and canines from them. During investigations, the officials found involvement of four more persons and conducted raids in Adhav village in Chikhaldara tehsil and seized tiger nails, and teeth apart from monitor lizard’s skin and scales of pangolins, and horns of sambhar. APCCF & Melghat field director MS Reddy said, “All the accused have been booked under various sections of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and a team has been set up to conduct detailed investigations. More arrests are likely in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-tribals-held-with-tiger-nails-canines/articleshow/78776880.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Yavatmal reports 2 Covid deaths, 55 recoveries||Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 Covid deaths on Tuesday. The deceased are a 67-year-old man from Pusad and a 65-year-old man from Wani. In the last 24 hours, 48 new Covid patients were detected. Now, there are 499 patients under treatment. As on date, 9,521 persons were found Covid positive of which 8,599 have recovered. Also, 55 persons recovered in the day. The district’s cumulative toll is 310.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/yavatmal-reports-2-covid-deaths-55-recoveries/articleshow/78776636.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati recovery rate 91%||Amravati: Covid caseload of the district reached 15,599 on Tuesday after 78 new patients were detected. One Covid-19 death took the cumulative toll of the district to 352 while 89 recoveries of the day took the total recoveries to 14,159 for a recovery rate of 90.77%. A report by civil surgeon put the number of Covid patients under treatment at 1,088.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-recovery-rate-91/articleshow/78776628.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||City reports 1 Covid death, 57 new infections, 107 recoveries||Chandigarh: The city recorded 57 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, with 107 recoveries. The number of active cases in the city has also seen a decline in the past four days. The recovery rate has increased to 92.58%. Manimajra and Mauli Jagran saw a major respite with only one positive case each. Six cases were reported from Sector 30, followed by Sector 47 (5), Sector 15 (4), Raipur Khurd (4) and one to three cases from different parts of the city. Till Tuesday, a total of 13,743 positive cases have been registered in Chandigarh so far, of which, 810 are active cases and 12,724 have been cured and discharged. The death tally in the city stands at 209. Mohali reported three deaths and 27 positive cases on Tuesday. “A total of 105 patients recovered and with the three new deaths, the tally now stands at 227 in the district,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. “The Mohali urban saw 23 cases, followed by Derabassi (3),” said civil surgeon G B Singh. In compliance with the directions of the state government, the district administration has commenced closure of the Covid-19 Care Centres as the number of positive patients has begun to decline in the district. The patients at these centres are being shifted to Level II hospitals. Divulging further, the DC said the total positive cases reported in the district is 11,801, of which, 10,955 have recovered and 619 are active. The total toll stands at 227. Ambala sees 21 cases Ambala: Ambala reported 21 fresh cases on Tuesday, take the case tally to 8,732, with 235 active cases. “As many as six cases were from Ambala Cantt, followed by Ambala City (5), Chourmastpur (3), Barara (2), Mullana (2) and Naraingarh (2) and Shahzadpur (1),” said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. As many as 25 patients were cured and discharged from hospital on Tuesday, taking the recovery count to 8,390. The district recorded 107 deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-reports-1-covid-death-57-new-infections-107-recoveries/articleshow/78778168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Day 4 sees Rs 12L donations at Mansa Devi temple||Panchkula: Shri Mata Mansa Devi and Kali Mata temples received Rs 12.36 lakh as donation from 12,361 devotees on the fourth day of the Ashwin Navaratras on Tuesday. According the officials of the shrine board, the Mata Mansa Devi temple received Rs 9.46 lakh from 10,051 devotees and Kali Mata temple received Rs 2.89 lakh as donation from 2,310 devotees. Online prashad, which was introduced for the first time, was sold for Rs 55,100 at Mata Mansa Devi temple and Rs 2,800 at Kali Mata temple. To contain the spread of Covid-19, the temple shrine board has decided to give tokens for offering prayers at the temple through their website www.mansadevi.org.in. The shribe board issues 11,000 tokens daily and these cane be taken from the webite on first come first serve basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-4-sees-rs-12l-donations-at-mansa-devi-temple/articleshow/78778167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||247 recover in Chanda, 195 new Covid cases||Chandrapur: While 195 new Covid cases were detected, a total of 247 persons were discharged and three deaths were reported on Tuesday. The district’s Covid count has now reached 13,1807. Total recoveries now stand at 10,701, leaving 2,898 patients under treatment. The toll has reached 208. The three deceased include two from Indira Nagar and one from Swavlambi Nagar in Chandrapur city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/247-recover-in-chanda-195-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78776600.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||101 cops have died of Covid: DGP||VIJAYAWADA: Director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang on Tuesday informed that 101 police personnel across the state had succumbed to Covid-19 in the line of duty. The DGP also informed that as many as 13,262 officers had been infected by the novel coronavirus over the past six months. Addressing the media ahead of the National Police Commemoration Day, the DGP said the police department had decided to double the insurance amount for natural deaths from the existing Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh for all personnel. Insurance for accidental death has been increased to Rs 40 lakh. Sawang said the department had signed an MoU with State Bank of India (SBI) for Jeevan Jyoti Bima and Suraksha Bima schemes which will be extended to every staff member. “This year, Covid-19 posed an unprecedented challenge to the police as we had to fight a valiant battle as the first responders among the frontline warriors to keep communities safe, braving the threat of exposure to infection at every juncture both on duty and off duty,” the DGP said. Sawang noted that August was the worst month in terms of infections for the department with over 5,000 police staffers testing positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/101-cops-have-died-of-covid-dgp/articleshow/78774940.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Three held for Vijayawada bar shootout||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Tuesday arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in the shootout that resulted in the death of a staff working at the CP’s office. The accused were identified as Biram Sakesh Reddy (34) from SVV Colony, Jana Gangadhar (20) from Eluru and Mudireddy Radhakrishna Reddy (50). City police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the deceased G Mahesh (33), an attender, was with his friends at Subbareddy Bar under Nunna police station limits on October 10 when an argument ensued between Mahesh and Sakesh in which Mahesh revealed he was employed at the CP’s office. Upon hearing this, Sakesh took out a 7.5mm pistol and fired nine rounds on Mahesh. Srinivasulu said after the accused fled from the spot in a car, police managed to identify one of the accused, Radhakrishna Reddy, via CCTV footage. Later, police arrested Radhakrishna Reddy and discovered that the other two accused were to meet at Nunna’s mango market. Police carried out a decoy and nabbed Sakesh and Gangadhar. The pistol and an ammunition magazine used to kill Mahesh were recovered from Sakesh. Another accused, Sandeep, is still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-held-for-vij-bar-shootout/articleshow/78774957.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: You may need Covid test on road to get driving licence||NEW DELHI: Going for a driving test at a Regional Transport Office (RTO)? You may have to get a Covid-19 test done first. With the aim of widening the net for Covid-19 testing in the city, district authorities are setting up camps at public places that witness a good footfall in order to scale up testing in the city. Testing camps have come up at the busy South Zone and Central Zone RTOs located at Sarai Kale Khan too. This initiative has been started by the South East Delhi district administration and other districts are likely to follow suit soon. RTO officials, however, said that the camps have led to “bunching” of applicants inside its premises and they have no option but to extend public dealing hours as it takes some time for people to undergo a rapid antigen test and then wait for the result. South East Delhi district magistrate Harleen Kaur said that the focus on RTOs is part of government guidelines that encourage tapping public and private offices with high footfall, such as government offices at the CGO Complex. Kaur said that setting up testing camps at crowded places serves a dual purpose. “We are able to do early detection just in case someone visiting is positive through antigen tests. Also, if this is how people get to know that among them there is someone who is positive, we are able to reinforce the message that social dispensing is indispensable,” she added. A transport department official said that the testing camps start functioning from 8.30am and till about 11am, the counters inside see scant footfall but suddenly then, the rush goes up. “We were able to regulate entry to the RTO very well till the camps opened. Now, a large number of people gather at the premises after undergoing tests,” he added. “The testing site is not permanent and it is going to shift to another place that needs attention as we keep doing this on a rotational basis. However, it takes time to set up camps and when we do, we keep testing continuously for enough days,” Kaur said, adding that when the positivity rate dips, camps are shifted to another public place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-you-may-need-covid-test-on-road-to-get-driving-licence/articleshow/78776912.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati varsity’s 1st online exam ends in fiasco on Day 1||Amravati: The maiden attempt of Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University to conduct final year examinations online ended in a fiasco on Tuesday as the server of the agency hired for the purpose failed to deliver on time.Thousands of students from Amravati, Akola, Washim, Buldana and Yavatmal districts were disappointed by snags in the system.The varsity had earlier decided to conduct this exam on October 12, but was forced to put it off following complaints and confusion over one-time password (OTP), login id and hall ticket.The university has entrusted the job to conduct this online exam to Nagpur’s Promarc Software Pvt Ltd. The company is also looking after Nagpur University’s online examinations.After the October 12 postponement, the authorities claimed to have rectified all the shortcomings in its exam app and fixed October 20 as the date for holding the exams online. Accordingly, students were given hall tickets and login ids. A 90-minute time was set for solving the paper with half an hour grace time before and after the scheduled paper time.The university had conducted mock test for 50,000 students on Saturday last which, it claimed, was successful. Total 386 exam centres were also prepared in five districts for those who preferred offline mode. Total 1.35 lakh students from various streams were to take these exams today from 9am onwards.However, server of the company conducting the exam went down, making students jittery. Many students could not log in while several could not download papers. A majority could not even submit their answerbooks due to snag in the system. While some students got their 9am paper at 12.30pm, some got blank question paper and some got papers of different subjects. All this created chaos and the varsity authorities were flooded with complaints and enquiries from students.Amravati University pro vice-chancellor Dr Rajesh Jaipurkar, talking to TOI, admitted that the online exercise ended in a fiasco on Day 1 following the server failure at the 11th hour. He also admitted that due to snag in the company’s system, several students were put to great inconvenience and suffer mental trouble. Re-exam to be held, Wednesday’s exam postponedThe university has postponed Wednesday’s exams to November 8 and also decided to hold re-examination of Tuesday’s papers on a date to be announced shortly, allowing all those students who successfully submitted their papers to reappear if they wish to, informed SGBAU Exam and Evaluation Board Director Dr Hemant Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-varsitys-1st-online-exam-ends-in-fiasco-on-day-1/articleshow/78776382.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Red corridor almost cut off by forces||Nagpur: The crucial corridor connecting the Maoists’ guerrilla bases of Malajkhand region under Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh (MMC) committee and their headquarters at Abhujmadh now has been almost cut-off by the security forces after six members of the Tippagarh dalam, Korchi dalam and Platoon 15 in the north Gadchiroli’s Kosmi-Kisneli forest were neutralized. Abhujmadh, straddling Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, is under Maoists’ Dandakaranya special zonal committee (DKSZC). In Sunday’s encounter, two members of Platoon 15, another two from Tippagarh dalam and another from Korchi dalam were killed during the gun-battle with the elite C-60 commandos under Addl SP (Operations) Manish Kalwaniya, SP Ankit Goyal and DIG Sandeep Patil. The outfits like Tippagarh dalam, Korchi dalam and platoon 15 were almost like the custodian of the corridor joining Malajkhand region from the Kanha reserve forest-Bhoramdeo to Abhujmadh in Central India. The three formations of Korchi, Tippagarh and Platoon 15 were merged by the Maoist think tanks for north Gadchiroli as their individual unit’s member strength had got substantially depleted in the last few years due to arrests, surrenders and encounter deaths. This region is also known as the operating area of central committee member Milind Teltumbde. Earlier this year, the surrender of high-ranking Divisional committee member (DVC) Vilas Kolha of Chatgaon dalam was a setback to the movement of the guerrillas in north Gadchiroli. Earlier, the entire Chatgaon dalam had surrendered in an unprecedented manner. Chatgaon dalam was later merged with Platoon 3 to keep the movement going in the north but the formations had lost more strength and has now become almost a defunct entity. With Chatgaon-Platoon 3 reducing to almost a non-entity and Tippagarh-Korchi-Platoon 15 receiving the latest jolt, the corridor connecting Kanha-Bhoramdeo-Bagh nadi in Balaghat, Darekasa in east Vidarbha’s Gondia, north Gadchiroli’s Korchi, Tippagarh, Chatgaon, Pendhri, Kasnasoor to Abhujmadh has now almost become a no-man’s land with the security forces beginning to operate here without any hurdles thus cutting off the two major Maoist bases. Sources claimed that senior-most leader Teltumbde had been trying to revive the movement in north Gadchiroli and also Malajkhand region and trying to build a stronger guerrilla base which can accommodate some of the activities of the Abhujmadh and also provide an alternative hideout for the think tanks currently hiding there. It’s also learnt that Abujmadh is also the prime base for the Maoists’ central military commission and it’s training centre. SP Goyal said the latest encounter had dealt a decisive blow to the Maoists movement in the north and their activities are expected to be curtailed now. “We are appealing for surrendering but if they (Maoists) are willing to challenge us then the consequences would follow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/red-corridor-almost-cut-off-by-forces/articleshow/78776394.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||98% students appear for NU exams on Tuesday||Nagpur: After the fiasco in the initial days, the administration of Nagpur University and its examinees seemed to have learnt the art of online examinations. The number of complaints against MCQ tests have dropped substantially since the last few days, indicating that the exams are going well. On Tuesday, nearly 98% of students appeared for exams. Some students complained of connectivity issues, but their percentage was minuscule, said NU officials. NU board of examination and evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI that 11,719 students appeared for the exams on Tuesday in four shifts out of 11,982 which is 98%. In the morning session, from 9.30am, MPhil (commerce) paper was conducted followed by BA, BPEd, MPEd, BPE and BSW. In the afternoon session, from 1.30pm, BSc and home science papers were held followed by BPharm and BVocational. “After conducting the exams of over 35,000 students in a day, which was the biggest one so far, we had a relaxed day on Tuesday with just over 11,000 students appearing for the exams,” the officials said. EXAMINEE COUNT ON TUESDAY Shift -------------- Faculty------------ Enrolled ------------------ Appeared ----------% 1st -------------- Commerce --------- 42 ---------------------- 33 ----------- 78.57% 2nd ------------- Humanities -------- 2,935 ----------------------2,833 ---------------- 96.52% 3rd ------------- Science ------------- 7,684 --------------------- 7,544 ---------------- 98.17% 4th ------------- Pharmacy ------- 1,321-------------------- 1,309 --------------- 99.09% Total ------------------------------------ 11,982------------------- 11,719 --------------- 97.80%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/98-students-appear-for-nu-exams-on-tuesday/articleshow/78776325.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Record bid: Fancy number ‘0001’ fetches Rs 10 lakh in Karnataka||BENGALURU: A fancy registration number (KA-01 MV-0001) has fetched Rs 10 lakh — the highest ever in the history of Karnataka transport department — in an auction. Gulam Mastapa, a city resident, received the fancy number for his Mercedes Benz at the auction conducted by the transport department on Monday. The amount excludes the Rs 75,000 deposit, which is not refunded to those winning the bid. “We conducted the auction for KA-01-MV series which falls under Koramangala RTO. The Rs 10 lakh bid is the highest for a number in Karnataka so far. This is also a sign of economic revival during this time of distress,” said an official. The other highest bidders at the auction were: Bharath Kumar Reddy who received 9999 at Rs 3.4 lakh, J Krishna Reddy who got 0009 for Rs 3 lakh and Chandan Redy who got 0999 for Rs 1.3 lakh. These amounts exclude the deposit. The transport department has collected over Rs 29.5 lakh from 15 successful bidders. There is an increasing demand for fancy numbers, especially from politicians, film stars and real estate players who are particular about certain numbers for their luxury vehicles. The department had planned to launch e-auction facility for registration numbers but the proposal remains on paper. Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab have already implemented the e-auction facility, so vehicle owners needn’t visit RTOs. They also send allotment letters to the applicant’s email ID and allow motorists to pay the amount online. The Karnataka transport department has been conducting auctions for fancy registration numbers of Light Motor Vehicles (non-transport categories like motor cars, jeeps etc) in the running series and advance series since 2015. Under this system, registration numbers from 0001 to 9999 are open to auction. The non-refundable deposit for running series is Rs 20,000 and advance is Rs 75,000. If there are more applicants for the same number, it is auctioned to the highest bidder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/record-bid-fancy-no-0001-fetches-rs-10-lakh/articleshow/78775678.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: CM lauds officials’ efforts for decline in Covid cases||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday directed officials to intensify awareness drives on Covid-19 safety measures. He instructed them to run campaigns in villages, towns, around hospitals, and in other habitations to educate people on precautionary measures to prevent the viral spread. The CM addressed district collectors and superintendents of police during his regular video conference on Tuesday from his Tadepalli camp office. He congratulated officials on the declining positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in the state. “The positivity rate this week was at 4.76%, down from 5.5% in the previous week,” the CM said. Jagan added that Andhra Pradesh was topping the national chart for tests conducted every day with the state conducting over 1.3 lakh tests per 10 lakh population. The recovery rate too has gone up to 94.5%, the CM said. Jagan told officials to popularise the 104 toll-free number among locals to enable them to make a call in case they need a Covid-19 test. “Anyone who makes the call to this number should get a response in 30 minutes and a hospital bed should be provided too,” the CM said. Jagan also told collectors to ensure that all Aarogyasri hospitals across the state provide treatement to Covid-19 patients after the illness was brought under the scheme’s cover. In view of the incessant rains across the state, Jagan told collectors to keep an eye on the spread of seasonal diseases. The CM told district collectors to identify vacant sites and build more health centres in both rural and urban areas. Jagan told collectors to clear all land acquisition hurdles for the new medical colleges slated to come up in Adoni, Piduguralla, Kakinada, Ongole and Ananthapur. He wanted officials to ensure establishment of at least one medical college with teaching hospital and a nursing college in each Lok Sabha constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-lauds-officials-efforts-for-decline-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78774748.cms||Gopi Dara
October 21, 2020||Pune||Man held on charge of murdering uncle in Pune||PUNE: The Talegaon Dabhade police on Tuesday arrested a 25-year-old man on the charge of bludgeoning his invalid uncle to death and setting him on fire at 4.30am at the victim’s home in Dal Aali. Senior inspector Amarnath Waghmode and his team nabbed Narayansingh Zaveri from a bus stop in the city. The deceased has been identified as Vijaysingh Zaveri (55). Zaveri’s wife Mina (47) has lodged an FIR. The officer said the complainant and her husband lived in Talegaon Dabhade. Their son works as a goldsmith in Madhya Pradesh. “Narayansingh is Mina’s brother’s son. Vijaysingh has been bedridden for the past few months,” he said. A fortnight ago, Narayansingh and his parents shifted to Talegaon Dabhade. Around 4am, Narayansingh knocked on their door in an inebriated condition. “He intimidated her into letting him in, as his parents were not allowing him inside. She opened the door out of fear,” Waghmode said. Once inside, the suspect hurled abuses at his aunt and told her to move her husband from the bed as he wanted to sleep in it. The complainant’s landlord tried to reason with the suspect in vain, following which she went to the police. “The police arrived at her home and saw Vijaysingh had been set on fire,” Waghmode said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-on-charge-of-murdering-uncle/articleshow/78776876.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: E-bus trial run from tomorrow; union opposes lease plan||BENGALURU: Six years after conducting an electric-bus trial run, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is planning a second one from Thursday. Evey Trans Private Ltd, a Hyderabad-based firm, will deploy an e-bus for the trial run. Evey is a special purpose vehicle set up by Olectra Greentech Limited, which has a JV with China’s BYD Auto Industry Company. The 12-metre-long AC bus will have a seating capacity of 37 passengers and run up to 200km on single charge. The trial run will last for a month; the firm has set up charging infrastructure at Majestic. BMTC has identified 10 routes to deploy the bus, including to the airport, ITPL, Kengeri, Electronics City and Nelamangala. While a new 12-metre AC bus will cost Rs 1.8 crore and a non-AC bus around Rs 1.4 crore, BMTC is planning to lease buses since it doesn’t have expertise in the technology. However, CPM-backed Centre of Indian Trade Unions is opposing the move, saying it’s part of the privatisation plan. It says BMTC should buy the buses instead. CITU members have been protesting at various depots since Saturday. In 2014, BMTC along with BYD had conducted trial run of an electric bus between Kadugodi and Majestic. The corporation’s board even approved the proposal to lease150 e-buses in 2016. However, no such vehicles have been inducted so far. BMTC had missed subsidy under the Centre’s FAME-I (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid & Electric Vehicles in India) scheme. It is now planning to induct 300 ebuses under FAME-II. Another 90 non-AC electric midi Metro feeder buses will be deployed under Smart City funds. Sources say Evey, JBM, Ashok Leyland, Mytrah Mobility and PMI Electro Mobility Solutions Pvt Ltd with its Chinese partner Beiqi Foton Motor Co (Foton) are keen on BMTC’s electric-bus project. BMTC officials said they have floated two tenders to induct 300 AC electric buses on a lease basis under FAME-II. In the first tender, Evey quoted Rs 89.6 per km and reduced it to Rs 69.6 per km after negotiation. It will cost Rs 92 per km, including conductor salary and electricity cost. But BMTC cancelled it since it was not viable. Only one firm participated in the second tender so it’s likely to float the third one. For 90 e-buses under Smart City funds, BMTC has sought the government’s permission to finalise the bids. Sources said the Centre is providing a subsidy of Rs 55 lakh per bus under FAME and the state government is likely to provide Rs 33 lakh per bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/e-bus-trial-run-from-tomorrow-union-opposes-bmtcs-lease-plan/articleshow/78775696.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Seniors skip health routines, miss follow-ups as Covid fatigue sets in||NEW DELHI: An 81-year-old man with a known history of diabetes and heart disease was wheeled into the emergency room of a private hospital recently with dangerously high levels of blood sugar. He had also developed heart failure. During treatment, the family told the doctors that the octogenarian man had stopped taking medicines for diabetes and heart condition for the past few months. “The 81-year-old was so frustrated for being homebound and living under constant fear of contracting Covid-19 that he lost the will to live,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant of internal medicine at Apollo hospital, adding that his condition is critical. Dr Chatterjee said nearly 15% to 20% of his patients, especially the elderly persons suffering from chronic illnesses, had reported exacerbation of symptoms in the last few months due to irregular medication or because they stopped taking medicine completely. Covid-19 affects people of all age groups. But mortality is highest among the elderly people because they have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, said Dr Prasun Chatterjee, associate professor in the geriatric medicine department at AIIMS. “The fatality rate among the elderly people who suffer from severe symptoms of Covid-19 requiring ICU care can be as high as 50%,” he added. At AIIMS, doctors say, 25% of the Covid-19 patients requiring ICU admissions are above 60 years old. Rising levels of pollution, they add, is going to make life more difficult for the elderly people. “Due to pollution and risk of Covid-19, they cannot go out. On the other hand, staying at home may lead to more stress, anxiety and depression. Family support is going to be key to coping with this double crisis,” many of them said. Multiple studies have shown that mental health issues have surpassed other non-communicable diseases among the elderly in the last six to nine months. Dr J C Suri, who heads the pulmonology division at Fortis Vasant Kunj, urged people to spend more time with their elderly parents and grandparents to make them feel positive and ensure that they take their medicines regularly. “The rise in pollution levels over the next few months will make it more difficult for the elderly persons, especially those with respiratory problems such as asthma, bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,” said Dr Suri. “They cannot go for morning walks. It is not advisable. But they can do in-house activities such as yoga and aerobic exercises to stay physically active.” He added that not taking medicines regularly was suicidal. “It will exacerbate the health condition and increase mortality risk. My advice is that all elderly and high-risk individuals should take medicines without fail, follow up with their doctors on time and take preventive vaccines for flu and pneumonia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/seniors-skip-health-routines-miss-follow-ups-as-covid-fatigue-sets-in/articleshow/78776884.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Five new traffic light points in Mohali made operational||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI: The five traffic light points, which were recently installed by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) at different points from sectors 76 to 80 were made operational on Sunday. The officials have claimed that the lights will work 24X7 as they come with pre-installed sensors, which will set the timers automatically as per the traffic intensity. Sub-divisional officer of Gmada Vijaypal Singh said, “To make sure that the traffic flow remains smooth, these lights will be operational 24X7 and they started on Sunday. A total of five tenders were approved for the same and this project costs around Rs 40 lakh.” According to the officials, a survey was conducted in this area six months ago, following which these five points were considered as accident-prone areas and traffic signals were the need of the hour here. The officials said a total of four poles have been set up at each traffic signal point. Starting from sectors 76 and 77, dividing junction to the DC complex and the Sohana side, one traffic signal point has been set up here. Two traffic signal points have been set up on the sectors 78 and 79 road and two on the sectors 79 and 80 dividing road. Junior engineer Azad Singh said, “There are sensors installed inside the traffic lights which will detect the traffic intensity and as per the traffic, the timers will be set automatically which will help in smooth flow of traffic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-new-traffic-light-points-in-mohali-made-operational/articleshow/78778170.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: ‘Disruption of classes, online shift hit govt’s NEET coaching’||MADURAI: As less than 30% of students enrolled in the free government NEET coaching programmes in Madurai secured minimum qualifying marks, teachers and students blamed disruption of classes and sudden shift to online learning, owing to Covid-19, for the poor results. In Madurai district, most of the students enrolled in the government NEET coaching programme scored between 200-300 out of 720 marks, and with the top score of 320 by a government school student. “This year students lacked the usual preparation they get in school where they get to spend long hours with teachers in person to discuss and study. Though the postponement of NEET afforded extra time, students were unable to make the most of it as many were stressed and many from poor households were affected by lockdown. Further, concentration of students is better in school environment than at home,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Add to it the fact that many students enrolled in the government NEET coaching programme were not regularly attending classes before the lockdown, he added. “More than preparing throughout the year, at least for first timers, it is the crash course just before the exam that matters the most. That preparation was solely missed since they didn’t have the residential coaching programme. Though the online special crash course was organised, students were not entirely comfortable. There was also lack of monitoring due to studying from home,” said S Rani, a Class XII teacher who trains students for NEET. Teachers said that with the online course, it was difficult to even judge how far the student had understood concepts as many students were not willing to ask many doubts unlike in a classroom. Meanwhile, it is expected that the government NEET coaching will begin in November in online mode even if schools remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/disruption-of-classes-online-shift-hit-govts-neet-coaching/articleshow/78778171.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Police to step up enforcement to contain Covid-19 spread in Uttarakhand during festive season||Dehradun: Director General of Police (DGP) Anil Raturi on Tuesday held a meeting with district police heads through video conferencing and gave necessary directions to district police heads regarding Covid-19 guidelines in the wake of upcoming festive season. DGP Raturi told all police officers, especially the Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs), to step up enforcement of mandatory government guidelines to stop the spread of coronavirus in the Himalayan state. All the SSPs and SPs have been told to ensure that social distancing norms are maintained in all public places and everyone wears a mask and anyone flouting mandatory norms is penalized. Besides, police are also running a number of programs to create awareness about Covid-19 as urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the same meeting, Director General (DG) law and order Ashok Kumar told district police chiefs to ensure that incidents of crime committed against women are registered without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-to-step-up-enforcement-to-contain-covid-19-spread-in-uttarakhand-during-festive-season/articleshow/78774444.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Jagan reviews relief operations with DCs||During the review meeting with district collectors over the flood situation in the state and relief operations, CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy told officials to improve facilities at rehabilitation centres. Officials told the chief minister that 19 flood-related deaths had been reported in the state till date. The government has paid a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to 14 families and will pay the balance in the next two days. “Medical teams should screen all flood victims at rehabilitation camps besides visiting families in these habitations,” he said. The CM told collectors to start the process of damage estimation and prepare reports by October 31. He wanted collectors to press into service all village secretariats and Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) for damage assessment. Collectors were also told to start work under MGNREGS. On free power to farmers and reforms introduced in the power sector, the CM told collectors to generate awareness on power meters. — Gopi Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-reviews-relief-operations-with-dcs/articleshow/78774773.cms||Gopi Dara
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||109 recover in Wardha, 62 new Covid cases||Wardha: A 35-year old man from Selu died due to coronavirus during treatment on Tuesday. Also, 62 new cases were reported in the district, taking the total to 5,884. After 109 patients were discharged on Tuesday, the recoveries have reached 5,013. As many as 62 (40 men and 22 women) tested positive for Covid on Tuesday and the cases came from Wardha 23, Hinganghat 13, Deoli 9, Ashti 5, Selu and Karanja 4 each, Arvi 3 and Samudrapur 1. Now, there are 681 patients under treatment. The district’s toll reached 190.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/109-recover-in-wardha-62-new-covid-cases/articleshow/78776617.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 21, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Skeletal remains found in canal, sent to FSL||VADODARA: The state CID (crime) along with the fire brigade launched an elaborate search operation in the Narmada Canal near Chhani after getting information that the Sheikh Babu Nishar, who was allegedly killed in Fatehgunj police custody last year, was dumped there. A team of around 70 members of fire brigade and cops divided in four teams searched for the body along the stretch of six km from Chhani to Gorwa around 7am on Tuesday. Some bones and skeletan remains were found, but thy were sent for forensic examination at Gandhinagar Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) to get more clues. The operation was called off in the evening and the CID crime team led by its superintendent of police (SP) Girish Pandya is likely to come back for the next round of search soon. A CID officer, who was a member of the search team, said that they found some remains of a skeleton from the canal. “We have recovered some bones from the canal but it is yet to be ascertained if they are human or some animal,” the official told TOI. “We faced some difficulties as there is a lot of garbage in the canal,” said Om Jadeja, fire officer. Sheikh was picked up as a suspect in a theft case by the Fatehgunj police. He went missing later following which his son filed a missing persons complaint at Sayajigunj police station. Suspecting some foul play, an ACP-level inquiry was ordered by the city police commissioner. Sheikh’s son, meanwhile, approached the Gujarat high court that asked the cops to file a detailed inquiry report. Police filed a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the six cops identified as Dharmendrasinh Gohil, PSI Dashrath Rabari, LRD personnel Yogendrasinh Jilansinh, Rajesh Savjibhai, Pankaj Mavji and Hitesh Shambhu in July. All six disappeared soon after before landing in police custody on August 31. The high court also directed the city police to register a complaint of murder against all of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/skeletal-remains-found-in-canal-sent-to-fsl/articleshow/78774815.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Toddler’s notes strike chord on social media||SURAT: At the age of three, Shree Jadhav must have become one of the youngest celebrities in the country after Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan shared his singing video on his twitter account on Monday. The four-minute video titled ‘Child is the Father of man’ soon went viral and turned Shree into an internet sensation overnight. T 3694 - Child is the Father of Man ! https://t.co/iO8G9URmUz— Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) 1603085840000The spunky kid is seen learning classical music from his father Tanjhaji Jadhav who is playing harmonium. Apart from his singing talent, Shree won the hearts of millions as he innocently mimicked his father’s hand movements while trying to match his high-pitch singing tone. In fact, he even instructed his father a couple of times. “The video became a big hit after Bachchan sir shared it online. We made the video for fun while practicing singing at our home in Jehangipura area and uploaded it a couple of days ago,” Jadhav, 41, told TOI. He said that the video was also shared by classical singer Adarsh Shinde from Maharashtra, Malayali singer V Venugopal and many others. “It’s an honour for us as so many music maestros are sharing the video. Bollywood music composer duo Ajay-Atul too saw the video and called me to congratulate as well as appreciate the talent of Shree,” Jadhav, who himself is a classical singer, said. Hailing from Dhavalpuri village in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, Jadhav settled in the city with his family four years ago. A Sangeet Visharad, he works as a music teacher in Tapti Valley school and performs on All India Radio (AIR) as well. His elder daughter Shreya is also a music lover and plays violin. “Shree learnt singing even before he started speaking. Since we have been a family of musicians for generations, he inherited the talent since his birth. Shree began singing after seeing his sister Shreya practicing music with me regularly. He is very young but considering his talent, we will start training him,” Jadhav said. He added that in the past too he had shared few videos of his daughter practicing music with him but none of them received such overwhelming response. Phones haven’t stopped ringing at Jadhav’s home since Monday to an extent that the family’s routine has been disturbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/toddlers-notes-strike-chord-on-social-media/articleshow/78775690.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC issued notice to Maharashtra governor on contempt plea||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday sought Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari's response on a plea for starting contempt proceeding against him for his failure to follow a court order to pay market rent for a government bungalow allocated to him as a former chief minister. Justice Sharad Kumar issued notice to Koshyari through his counsel after hearing arguments of the petitioner's counsel on maintainability of the contempt plea. The plea filed by a Dehradun-based NGO, Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), accuses the former chief minister of committing “willful non-compliance” of the court’s May 3, 2019 order which had asked him to pay market rent of the bungalow occupied by him as ex-CM within six months of the direction. Koshyari has till date not paid the market rent to the government as calculated against him, the petition said. In May 2019, the court had directed the four former chief ministers – Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, BC Khanduri, Vijay Bahuguna and Bhagat Singh Koshyari – to pay the market rate for the services they availed after demitting the office of the CM. While the SC stayed the contempt proceedings against Bahuguna and Khanduri, the proceedings against Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank are still on. The court will now hear Koshyari's case along with the contempt case against Nishank. Speaking to TOI, Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for RLEK, said that though there were questions about the maintainability of the petition, he has complied with the requirement under Article 361. “We told the court that the petition is maintainable since we have complied with the requirement under Article 361. The court has, therefore, issued notice to Koshyari which was accepted by his counsel, BD Upadhyay, who was present in the hearing. The court has now given him four weeks’ time to file his response,” Gupta said. Article 361 grants immunity to the sitting governors as well as President of India from any court proceedings against them. However constitutional experts say that that immunity is only for criminal cases while, in this case, the notice has been issued under a civil contempt proceeding. “The immunity granted by Article 361 is applicable only for the criminal proceedings. However, in the present case, the notice has been issued for civil contempt. Therefore, it is permitted by the constitution,” said Faizan Mustafa, vice-chancellor, NALSAR University of Law. Mustafa, however, said that the development is a rarity and it is difficult to recall an instance when this happened earlier. “In the familiar case of Kalyan Singh, a criminal case was started against him only after he demitted office of the governor. There are numerous cases when the decisions of the governors have been quashed by the high courts and Supreme Court, but I am not able to recall an instance when a notice was issued to a sitting governor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-issued-notice-to-maha-governor-on-contempt-plea/articleshow/78773587.cms||Prashant Jha
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Notification issued for Rajya Sabha seat of U’khand, polling on Nov 9||Dehradun: The notification for the Rajya Sabha seat of Uttarakhand was issued on Tuesday. It announced that the votes for the seat are to be cast on November 9 from 9 am to 4 pm and the counting of votes would commence on the same day. Mukesh Singhal, secretary in-charge of Uttarakhand assembly and returning officer, told TOI, “The last date for filing nomination would be October 27. The scrutiny of documents would be conducted on October 28 and November 2 has been kept as the last day for withdrawal of nomination papers.” While a number of party members from Uttarakhand are eying the ticket to the Upper House, the possibilities of an “outsider” getting the ticket cannot be ruled out yet. It is worth mentioning that chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat, on different occasions, have maintained that “the name for the Rajya Sabha candidate is finalised by the party’s parliamentary board as only the board has the authority in this regard”. For the party ticket, the names of BJP’s former national vice president Shyam Jaju, who currently holds the charge of party’s Uttarakhand in-charge; former CM Vijay Bahuguna, who along with nine legislators had joined the BJP; senior leader Mahendra Pandey; party's state vice-president Anil Goyal; and Shaurya Doval are doing rounds in the political corridors. Uttarakhand has a total of three Rajya Sabha seats. Raj Babbar was elected for the Rajya Sabha seat on March 14, 2015. Anil Baluni of the BJP and Pradeep Tamta of the Congress are the two other Rajya Sabha members from Uttarakhand. As 57 out of 70 MLAs in the Uttarakhand assembly are from the BJP, the victory of the nominee which will be fielded by the saffron party is being regarded as almost certain. Congress has 11 legislators and the other two are Independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/notification-issued-for-rajya-sabha-seat-of-ukhand-polling-on-nov-9/articleshow/78774464.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No direct correlation with population in Covid spread||NEW DELHI: The capital’s district Covid-19 map shows that North West district has the highest number of active cases — 3,458, while North East the lowest at 411, despite having almost similar population patterns. Following the 2011 census, the difference in active cases is not explained by the population logic, said a source. While East district has 17 lakh population and 2,105 active cases; North East, with 22 lakh people, has far fewer active cases. According to the district-wise distribution of the current 2,782 containment zones, South has the highest number of active pockets and North East, the lowest. Though South district has the highest number of containment zones, North West has the maximum number of active cases in red zones, followed by West. Each district daily conducts 4,000-5,000 Covid tests, including RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). Due to lack of research on the nature of the pandemic spread in Delhi, the authorities are unable to explain the reason behind such variations. Central, North East and East districts have dense population zones such as Walled City. It is more challenging to follow social distancing in these districts in comparison to South, North West and South West. North West district magistrate Sandeep Mishra said it had been conducting the highest number of tests and the ratio between RT-PCR and RAT was also encouraging. “The tests are conducted in a way that they represent the entire population of the district. All symptomatic individuals testing negative on RAT are re-tested using ‘gold standard’ RT-PCR,” Mishra said, adding that the administration was focused on immediate isolation and treatment. The North East administration stressed that it conducted more than 4,000 Covid tests every day. “We have been conducting tests at community levels so that the real picture is available and suitable action is being taken to contain the spread. The positivity rate among the special surveillance groups has been low in the district,” said district magistrate Pankaj Kumar. New Delhi, with the lowest population, has 1,397 active cases; Central, with the second lowest population, 1,631 active cases, and North, with the third lowest population, 1,751 such cases. South, which has the highest population after North West, has 2,973 active cases. West, which follows South in population, has 2,348 cases, and South West, with the fourth highest population, has 2,393 active cases. As on October 18, Delhi has 22,317 active cases. Only over one-third of the total active cases — 7,401 — are located inside the containment zones. Unlike the beginning of the pandemic, when a containment zone even had 40,000 people, now micro zones are set up for better management. “The number of people living within a red zone may come down further in a couple of weeks,” said an official. Officials regularly monitor all management efforts in the districts. All districts, especially those with a large number of active cases, have been asked to keep the number of tests high and focus on awareness drives during the festival season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-direct-correlation-with-population-in-covid-spread/articleshow/78776925.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 21, 2020||Goa||NGT asks turtle nesting sites in Goa to be fenced between Nov & Apr||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT), while dismissing an appeal filed by the owner of a hotel in Ashvem, Mandrem, has asked him to pay Rs 50,000 to the Central Pollution Control Board. In view of the case, the tribunal also directed Goa Coastal Management Zone Authority (GCZMA) to fence Olive Ridley turtle nesting sites during breeding season to prevent disturbance such as laying of beach beds. The GCZMA had issued the hotel owner a demolition order as a structure erected by him was found to be in Coastal Regulation Zone’s (CRZ) no-development zone on Ashvem’s coast. The coastal authority has also imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on him. Sixteen beach beds were also found to be laid by him without permission. The hotel owner appealed against the demolition order before the high court, but was not given any relief. He later approached the NGT, which, the GCZMA told the tribunal, was a tactic on his part to delay the demolition. The NGT noted in its order that Goa was fortunate to have some beaches which are preferred by sea turtles, particularly Olive Ridley turtles, for laying their eggs. It also said the authorities should keep the nesting areas fenced and undisturbed during turtle nesting season, which lasts from November to April. “There should not be any litter on the beaches, which would attract unwanted predators. There should not be any interference during the hatching process and a distance should be maintained. If disturbed, the turtles withdraw from nesting. We, therefore, direct that the sheds, sunbeds, etc, which are there on these beaches be removed before the turtle nesting season begins,” the NGT said. The tribunal said it should be ensured that no artificial lights are put up in such stretches either, as it disturbs the turtles. The turtles are guided by natural light and moon lights, making them extremely sensitive to lights, it said. “Therefore, every effort is required to be made by the authorities concerned to keep such beaches undisturbed and in pristine condition ,” the NGT said. The tribunal also said it had found no substance in the appeal filed by the hotel owner. “Accordingly, the appeal deserves to be dismissed and dismissed with costs of Rs 50,000, which would be paid to CPCB within 15 days. The GCZMA is directed to proceed and ensure compliance to the order and guidelines mentioned above with regard to the turtle nesting,” the tribunal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-asks-turtle-nesting-sites-in-goa-to-be-fenced-between-nov-apr/articleshow/78776913.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chhatbir zoo to get 2 sloth bears, 4 gorals from Himachal Pradesh||MOHALI: While the coronavirus pandemic has delayed the arrival of exotic animals and birds like ostrich, giraffe, zebra, cassowaries and African monkeys, Chhatbir zoo is all set to get sloth bears and gorals from Himachal Pradesh by next month. Sources said the animals will be brought under an exchange programme. The zoo already has four sloth bears and three gorals. An officer in the Punjab forest and wildlife department said, “We are in process of reopening the zoo probably by next month. We are getting a pair of sloth bears and four gorals from Himachal Pradesh. The list of animals to be exchanged with Himachal will be soon finalised.” Last year, Punjab chief minister had given in-principle approval to the project of bring rare animals and birds to Chhatbir from Africa and Australia. Modalities had been worked out and the animals could have been here by October 2020 had the Covid-19 outbreak not taken place. They were now expected by 2021 or 2022. The ministry of environment and forests had given clearance to get animals under the exchange programme. Under it, the zoo had got a female white tiger and a pair of Asiatic lions last year. Two male white tigers were born and bred at the zoo and were between age group of six and seven years. The white tigress was around seven years old. A pair of Asiatic lions was added to the strength of four lions, one female and three male. Three out of the four Asiatic lions were born and bred at Chhatbir and aged between eight and nine years. A pair of Asiatic Lions was also exchanged aged between eight and nine years. Last year ahead of the National Wildlife Week, seven new members belonging to three species were brought under the exchange programme. They were Indian wolf, Royal snake, Chukar partridge, grey pelicans, star tortoise, ostrich, otters and mouse deer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chhatbir-to-get-2-sloth-bears-4-gorals/articleshow/78778172.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cop sent killers, says man injured in Sector 25 firing||CHANDIGARH: The Sector 25 resident injured in a firing incident on Tuesday night has accused a cop of ordering his killing for not heeding to his demand of turning hostile in a kidnapping case of a woman. Two men had allegedly fired shots at Sandeep Kumar, 40, at his cloth shop in Sector 25. In his statement, Kumar, who has also invested in the liquor business, alleged Sector 24 police post in-charge Shiv Charan had sent the two assailants. Kumar claimed Shiv Charan was pressuring him to strike a compromise in the kidnapping case. “When I ignored him, he sent men to eliminate me,” he alleged. Police registered an attempt to murder case against Vijay and Monu, both residents of Sector 25. Vijay was out on parole from Burail jail and accused in attempt to murder, robbery, theft and Arms Act cases. His name had also surfaced in the firing case at Jagatpura in Mohali last month. CCTV footage showed Vijay and one more person entering the shop of Kumar, who was sitting with a boy, around, 10 pm. Both fired around four rounds at Kumar. He threw something at them and ran outside to save himself. He received minor bullet injuries on his head and shoulders. A police control room (PCR) vehicle took him to PGI. He was discharged from the hospital in the early hours of Tuesday. Police claimed Kumar had been booked in brawl and assault cases. UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the allegations against Shiv Charan would be investigated. “If his role is established in the shooting, stern action will be taken against him by the police department,” the SSP said. Chahal said both the accused have been identified and police teams were raiding their hideouts, assuring they would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-sent-killers-says-man-injured-in-sec-25-firing/articleshow/78778173.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Minister offers help to woman found begging on Haridwar’s streets||Dehradun: A surprise visit by the state woman and child development minister, Rekha Arya, to meet a homeless woman in Haridwar on Tuesday, threw light on the plight of the latter, and the story of her struggle. Hansi Prahari, originally from Almora, which is also the minister’s MLA constituency—Someshwar in Almora district— is a double MA from Kumaon University in English and Political Science. But these days, she’s seen begging on Haridwar’s streets with her son to make both ends meet. Prahari, who claims she was once the vice-president of student’s union in 1999 and librarian of Kumaon University starting 2002 for four years, had left her village after marital discord long ago, and kept visiting Haridwar since 2008. Reluctant to share her past, she said she made the holy town her home to fulfill her dream that her 6-year-old son would become an administrative offficer. At Haridwar, she managed to get her son admitted to a school, but lack of space has forced her to tutor him in parks, ashrams, on the banks of the Ganges or anywhere else where she could find peace and quiet without having to pay for space. Speaking in crisp English, she claimed she had once fought Lok Sabha elections against the sitting Almora MP Ajay Tamta and Pradeep Tamta in 2002. With a decent awareness of politics, Pahari nowadays fulfills her love of books by visiting the local library, where she is easily recognised by patrons. Reflecting on her life’s struggle, she said, “Man proposes, God disposes. I don’t know how far I can go, but I’m thankful to God I’m able to give my son a good education, just the way my father ensured mine, despite odds.” Prahari on several occasions made request to the CM and several MLAs to get her accomodation support and hold the documents of same, didn't get any support unless media highlighted her plight on Monday. And the minister rushed to meet her. Minister Arya, who visited Prahari after she came to know of the latter’s plight, offered to arrange the latter’s stay at a women’s shelter home, though Prahari is yet to take up the offer. The minister also spoke to the principal of her son’s school, after which the school offered to make her son’s education free. “She has fought her fight well so far, and wants to continue life with dignity. So we’ve given her an option to stay at a women’s shelter home, free schooling for her son, as well as the possibility of earning a livelihood by working in the woman and child development department, for which she is qualified. She has said she will revert on the offers, though it seems she’s only keen about the stay facility and nothing else,” said Rekha Arya, while reflecting on her visit. The minister also praised the principal of the school where Prahari’s son studies. “The school has proven that humanity still exists in society,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/minister-offers-help-to-woman-found-begging-on-haridwars-streets/articleshow/78774471.cms||Shivani Azad
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia finds lapses at labour office during inspection||NEW DELHI: During an inspection of the district labour office at Pushp Vihar on Tuesday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia found touts collecting money from construction workers in the name of getting them registered with the construction board. He also detected multiple flaws in the services at the centre and ordered show-cause notices against the deputy secretary who wasn’t present and against other negligent office employees. He asked officials to resolve all pending issues in 24 hours. LIVE: अधिकारीयों के साथ पुष्प विहार डिस्ट्रिक्ट लेबर कार्यालय का सरप्राइज इंस्पेक्शन किया. दिल्ली सरकार हमारे श्रमि… https://t.co/wMIAgASjG6— Manish Sisodia (@msisodia) 1603185361000Sisodia, recently allocated the labour and employment portfolio, said Delhi government won’t tolerate any carelessness or excuses in the welfare of workers. The government last week launched a campaign to register around 10 lakh construction workers in the city to let them take the benefits of all welfare schemes. The workers were standing in queues for more than six-seven hours to file their application for registration and renewal, and get the documents verified. Many of them complained to Sisodia that they had been trying to register for several months and some even for a year. Sisodia spoke to them and got to know that due to lack of knowledge about the registration process, workers often fall prey to brokers and middlemen. Brokers, active in various dwelling settlements for workers, allegedly take money in the name of registration and verification. The minister told officers that the registration process should be explained in an easy language on hoardings. “If a broker is caught taking bribe, an FIR should be lodged immediately,” he ordered. The deputy CM was also surprised to find that not even a single application was processed in the first office hour and ordered to fast-track all procedures. He also directed that CCTVs be installed in and around these offices to identify touts. While asking officers to verify the documents while workers are standing in the line, Sisodia said the renewal process be shifted online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-finds-lapses-at-labour-office-during-inspection/articleshow/78776950.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: ‘One in three breast cancer patients face neglect by spouse’||MADURAI: A survey conducted by a hospital in Madurai has found that many breast cancer patients were being neglected by their spouse after breast removal. Releasing the survey results as part of observing ‘World breast cancer awareness month’, specialists called for more awareness about advanced breast cancer treatments available for a better quality of life. Meenakshi Mission Hospital conducted the study involving breast cancer patients to assess their quality of life after breast removal. Almost one in three patients said they were being neglected by their spouse. About 38% of the patients reported a negative impact on their attitude towards sex while 73% said breast removal negatively affected their body image. “Most breast cancer patients, their spouses and relatives take a decision in favour of complete breast removal even when the disease is in early stages and curable, due to fear and the false notion that the cancer will not grow back if the entire organ is removed. These patients need to be educated to opt for breast conservation treatment to avoid harming their quality of life later, as we found in our study,” said Dr K S Kirushna Kumar, Head - Radiation Oncology. Dr R Vijayabhaskar, senior consultant - surgical oncology, said breast conservation treatment is still not popular in India. “Only about 35% of breast cancer patients in India get diagnosed in stages I or II, 50% in stage III and 15% in stage 4. In early stages, there is no need for removing the breast to save the patient. The problem is that in early stages of the cancer, patients do not feel any pain, hence they don’t seek treatment,” he added. Doctors also said that the number of breast cancer patients seeking treatment has declined by as much as 70% in the last five months due to lockdown and Covid-19 fear. They urged to avoid delays since it can worsen the cancer. “Chemotherapy-taking patients have a 20% chance of getting Covid-19. In such cases, we are trying to administer chemotherapy through tablets instead of injections,” said Dr Krishnakumar Rathnam, Senior Consultant – Medical Oncology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-in-three-breast-cancer-patients-face-neglect-by-spouse/articleshow/78778185.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Patient has the right to know test results in 24 hours, Delhi high court tells govt||NEW DELHI: Delays of up to four days for patients in the city to know their RT-PCR test results “keep them in the dark,” the Delhi high court observed on Tuesday. “Why should anyone have to pull strings to get the Covid-19 test result report?” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad wondered, noting that “often a person is not even informed if the test result is negative.” The court’s observations came while challenging the claim of the AAP government that turnaround time for RT-PCR tests was 24 hours. The bench said that time for declaring the results “is far exceeding 24 hours and in fact extending to 84 hours.” The expert committee has recommended that the test results should be out in less than 24 hours and till the results are declared, the suspected case should be kept in strict isolation, it added. “However, the recommendation is being followed more in violation than in compliance. There have been repeated instances brought to our notice where the turnaround time for declaring the results has been crossing four days, which is most unacceptable when a person tested is required to be isolated in that duration,” the bench observed. “There have been occasions when the samples collected by Delhi government are sent to laboratories that do not entertain any queries for the reports, least over Saturdays and Sundays, leaving the persons concerned in a quandary more so when the government has declared Un-lockdown 5.0, which requires all employees to report for work regularly,” the bench added. It asked the AAP government to file a status report detailing how the system was being streamlined. It said the results must be conveyed to the persons tested within 24 hours. “The direction is also considered necessary as in most cases, where the samples are collected and sent to laboratories for testing, the person tested is not given any information about the result unless he/she tests positive. The person tested remains completely in the dark and is not informed about the outcome of the test undertaken. If the mobile number of every person tested is taken, there is no good reason why the result should not be communicated on the said mobile number within 24 hours of the samples being sent to a lab for testing. There is obviously a lag that must be addressed at the earliest,” the bench ordered. The high court also sought to know the status of commercial availability of a new test called FELUDA, asking Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and CSIR on why approvals have remained pending at their end, if at all. It pointed out that the situation not just in Delhi but across the country was precarious. “Festival season is upon us and all experts are saying that there may be a spike. ICMR can’t be sitting on application to clear FELUDA,” the bench remarked. It was hearing a PIL seeking an increase in Covid-19 testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/patient-has-the-right-to-know-test-results-in-24-hours-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/78776958.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 21, 2020||Goa||Mayor calls for silent Diwali in Goa this year||PANAJI: As part of the SOPs laid down for the eve of Diwali by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), large gatherings in the state capital will not be allowed and Narkasur effigies will not be more than five feet tall. “To ensure that there are no instances of Covid-19 infection due to Diwali, we are not going to permit gatherings, DJs and fire crackers. Those who insist that they must adhere to tradition and build a Narkasur, can build it only up to 5ft in height. They will, however, have to write us an application for the same,” mayor Uday Madkaikar, said. Highlighting the unpredictable nature of Covid-19, he said that although SOPs were laid out ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, the number of infections in Panaji and other areas were on the rise. Madkaikar, who was recently discharged from hospital after recovering from Covid-19, said the people of Panaji must take all precautions and observe a silent Diwali this year. “I have personally experienced the sufferings of the patients due to the pandemic. The doctors and frontline workers are on duty for about eight hours straight and without a break. We must not burden them by falling ill. I appeal to the people to avoid crowding to see narkasurs because cases could increase if they’re not careful. If possible, avoid building a narkasur this year,” he said. “The people of Panaji have been very cooperative and have not organised any dandiya utsav. If we continue exercising caution and take responsibility, we can bring the infection down even further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mayor-calls-for-silent-diwali-in-state-capital-this-year/articleshow/78778183.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Kalka-Shimla train cancelled||Chandigarh: A technical snag forced the Ambala division to cancel the Himalayan Queen from Kalka to Shimla on Tuesday. Officials said the reservation for the train could not be started. G M Singh, railway manager, Ambala division, said the train would ply from Kalka on Wednesday and from Shimla on Thursday. Earlier, the division had demanded Himalayan Queen, which would start its journey at 12.10pm from Kalka and reach Shimla at 5.20pm, be allowed as the railway board had approved the plying of New-Delhi Kalka Shatabdi that reaches Kalka at 11.45am. The Himalayan Queen would leave from Shimla at 10.35am and reach Kalka at 4.10pm. The Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi leaves from Kalka at 5.45pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kalka-shimla-train-cancelled/articleshow/78778184.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: BJP councillors ‘boycott’ civic body house meet||CHANDIGARH: BJP councillors on Tuesday ‘boycotted’ the municipal corporation’s virtual general house meeting over their demand to hold a physical meeting discuss developmental issues, exposing the rift between them and mayor Rajbala Malik. Apart from Malik, only BJP councillor Mahesh Inder Sidhu, Congress councillors and SAD councillor Hardeep Singh were present in the meeting. As the quorum was not complete, the meeting was adjourned. TimesViewThere is no need to let down one's guard even if the number of Covid-19 cases in the city are on the wane. If a virtual meeting can be held to discuss a vital issue, there is no need to expose everyone to the danger of getting infected. It is another matter if an actual meeting is a must to meet a legal requirement. All stakeholders would do well to resolve the issue through discussion rather than waste their time in protesting. Everyone’s focus should be on problem resolution for the citizens’ good.The BJP councillors had approached party president Arun Sood. He had formed a five-member committee of councillors that had taken up the issue with Malik, who had recently recovered from Covid-19. Not in favour of a physical meeting, she had and turned down the demand. “It was not my meeting but the MC’s house meeting. I do not know why they did not attend it,” said Malik Despite repeated attempts, Sood was not available for comments. BJP general secretary Rambir Bharti said Sood and other senior members had attended a meeting of the councilors on October 18 and it was decided the MC house should hold a physical meeting. “The mayor was told about the decision. The party was expecting a physical meeting, so that councillors could properly raise publicrelated issues. A physical meeting should be convened soon,” he said. To hold a house meeting, one-third presence of members is required. The Chandigarh MC has 26 elected members and one MP. To convene the meeting, the presence of nine members is required. On Tuesday, only eight, including the mayor, one BJP councillor, five Congress councillors and one SAD councillor, were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-councillors-boycott-mc-house-meeting/articleshow/78778176.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Extortion racket run from inside Delhi's Rohini jail busted||NEW DELHI: After an operation lasting 23 days, the West district police has busted an extortion racket allegedly run from inside Rohini Jail. Ten people, including a juvenile and two women, have been caught, and weapons and phones have been seized. Jailed gangster Saddam Ghori has been re-arrested for allegedly making audio and video extortion calls using VoIP from inside the prison. Following these calls, police said, his henchmen used to open fire at the home and offices of the victims to force them pay protection money. Ghori is lodged in jail under Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), besides for several murder, robbery and extortion cases. “The syndicate has been busted by a special team led by SHO Anil Sharma. Ghori was operating it from inside Rohini Jail,” said DCP (West) Deepak Purohit. The probe was launched after two west Delhi businessman were targeted last month. On September 2, a businessman was informed by his staffers about unidentified gunmen having fired at his office in Rajouri Garden. It was found that two shooters came on a bike, fired at the office and took away the DVR of the CCTV camera installed there. A complaint was lodged and an FIR registered. On September 21, a similar incident was reported on the premises of another businessman in the same area. The cops were told by their informers that Ghori was behind these attacks. Around a dozen accused were identified, including two women, Neha Kakkar and Sonia. They allegedly met the victims a day after the firing incidents to pressure them to pay the protection money. A bookie, Deepak Bunda, who was wanted under MCOCA, was soon arrested. Another bookie, Surender Sheru, was caught next. Both used to collect protection money on behalf of the gang. Sheru had also fired at the office of the first businessman and stolen the DVR. His wife, Sonia, and Kakkar were also arrested. Ghori was taken on remand and re-arrested. From inside the jail, he allegedly gave detailed instructions to his associates to execute the plans. Kuldeep, Raju and Shiva were subsequently arrested. While Kuldeep provided bikes and shared the hotspot network of his mobile phone with gang members to follow up on the extortion demands, Raju arranged for hideouts and was in constant touch with Ghori. Shiva, the head clerk of an advocate appearing for the gang members, offered various helps, including making arrangements for the shooters to cross the Delhi border via Seemapuri. Satish and a juvenile, who were found to be active members of the gang, were also apprehended. Three pistols, a bike, three phones and a car have been seized and the stolen DVR was also recovered, an officer said. The jail spokesperson said prison officials were briefed to be always on the alert regarding such activities. “Regular searches are also made inside the prison.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/extortion-racket-run-from-inside-jail-busted/articleshow/78777000.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In Covid yug, Ramlila takes epic turn with PPE kits, sanitised dhanush||NEW DELHI: When Bharat, one of the four sons of king Dashrath, realises his eldest brother and rightful successor to Ayodhya’s throne has been exiled, he rushes to the forest to convince Rama to return and take over the kingdom. At the Ramlila organised in Shastri Park in east Delhi by Vishnu Avtar Ramlila Committee, Bharat entreats his brother to come back from behind a mask. But this pivotal character is not the only one caught up in the new normality of the Covid era.  There are other characters seen in prominent scenes from the Ramayana garbed in PPE kits. And to prove this is not just a gimmick, when scenes change public service announcements request audience members to observe social distancing and wash hands frequently. While continuing the annual tradition of the Ramlila, the organisers of Vishnu Avtar Ramlila have evidently incorporated innovations to spread awareness about the novel coronavirus. Without batting an eyelid, committee chairman Harish Chaudhary related how right after the birth of Rama, the newborn was tested symbolically for Covid-19. “When the test came out negative, celebrations were enacted to show joy and relief,” he said. It wasn’t enough that the committee distributed its own specially printed masks to audience members. While enacting the Sita Swayamwar scene, one of the contending kings appears on stage in a PPE kit. Later, the Shiv Dhanush was disinfected before it was raised by the Ayodhya prince, who is seen wearing gloves. Some Ayodhya residents were shown to be wearing masks and body suits during the Ram vanvas scene. Prem Pal, committee president, said these oddities were meant to sensitise people to the dangers of the pandemic. “We distribute masks, have a sanitisation tunnel, have placed chairs at a distance from each other and allow no standing audience. The action on stage reinforces this awareness campaign,” explained Pal, who revealed that the number of characters had been reduced to allow more backstage space for actors. “If a scene requires 20 people, we feature only 10 core characters and if 50 are there normally, we have 35 characters. We want everyone to be healthy.” While most major Ramlila committees are not staging the Rama myth this year, a few who did have veered from the “normal Ramlila” to do without food stalls and the customary merry-go-round and other rides. The air-condition VIP halls, place of pride for pass holders, have been let go this year to allow ample air circulation. Diwakar Pandey, committee secretary, said unlike most other organisers, the Shastri Park committee was able to organise the Ramlila despite the late permission from the government. He said while the others did not have enough time to make preparations for an elaborate nine-day event, his committee had received Lord Ram’s blessings. “But,” he added, “we have adapted the script and costumes and air Covid awareness messages every 30 minutes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-covid-yug-ramlila-takes-epic-turn-with-ppe-kits-sanitised-dhanush/articleshow/78776986.cms||Paras Singh
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: No bail to accused in killing of 85-year-old||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday dismissed the bail plea of a man accused in the murder case of 85-year-old Akbari Begum in the northeast Delhi riots. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said, “I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to the applicant in the matter. The bail application accordingly stands dismissed.” It added, “A careful analysis of the statements of witnesses prima facie indicated that accused Vishal Singh was very well part of the unlawful assembly, which had put the house of complainant on fire after committing robbery therein.” The bail was sought on the ground that Singh was not “seen in any of the CCTV footage or viral videos while entering the house of complainant”. The prosecutor argued that Singh was part of the mob that had set fire to Akbari’s house. The court noted, “There is every chance that if released on bail, the applicant may threaten the witnesses, who are residents of the same locality…” Begum was with her family members when a mob barged inside her house and set it ablaze. The building was a four-storey structure where the ground and the first-floor housed a garment shop and storage facility. The family lived on the top two floors. While the other members managed to reach the terrace, the woman had died of asphyxiation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riots-no-bail-to-accused-in-killing-of-85-year-old/articleshow/78776975.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Triple talaq crusader gets minister rank in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Shayara Bano, the main petitioner in the triple talaq case in the Supreme Court, was on Tuesday accorded the minister of state (MOS) rank by Uttarakhand government, just 10 days after she joined the ruling BJP. Apart from Bano, two more women were given the MOS rank posts. All three were made vice presidents of the state women commission. Soon after the appointments, chief minister (CM) Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “These three posts will help us address the women-related issues more effectively. All the pending matters will be resolved expeditiously.” CM’s spokesperson Darshan Singh Rawat said, “It is a Navratra gift from the chief minister to the women of Uttarakhand. These three posts were lying vacant in the women commission. And it was decided that Navratra was the apt time to fill these vacancies.” A resident of Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, Bano had approached Supreme Court against the practice of instant talaq way back in 2014, four months after she was divorced by her husband through speed post. Her case was clubbed with some other petitions. In 2017, the apex court had declared the practice as unconstitutional. And in July last year, Parliament passed a bill criminalising the practice of instant divorce. Bano was hailed as a hero for spearheading the movement. She had on October 10 joined the BJP at the state headquarters in presence of senior party members including state party chief Bansidhar Bhagat. After joining that party, she had said that she wanted to eliminate all sorts of misconceptions which the “minority community has about the BJP.” Now she has been made the vice president (first) of the state women commission. Jyoti Shah, who is from Ranikhet area, has been named vice president (second) and Pushpa Paswan of Chamoli district has been made the vice president (third) of the panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/triple-talaq-crusader-gets-minister-rank-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/78773617.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||At 241, U’khand records single-day lowest Covid cases in past 2 months||DEHRADUN: With 241 more people testing positive for Covid-19 — lowest single-day count in the past two months — Uttarakhand count reached 58,601 on Tuesday. The deadly virus, meanwhile, claimed 13 lives, taking the death toll in the state to 946. Earlier, the state had reported a single-day lowest cases at 261 on August 19. Among 13 casualties, 12 were from Dehradun district while a Covid-19 patient died in Haldwani. Thus far, around 8.9 lakh people had been tested for the novel coronavirus in the state, while the reports of 12,944 were awaited till Tuesday. “Among 241 positive cases reported on Tuesday, 90 were from Dehradun, 37 - Haridwar, 23 - Nainital, 20 - Almora, 18 - Uttarkashi and 15 - Pithoragarh. Udham Singh Nagar reported eight new cases, followed by seven each in Pauri and Chamoli, six each in Champawat and Tehri and three in Rudraprayag. Bageshwar got one positive case,” said Abhishek Tripathi from the Covid-19 control room. The health department authorities have, meanwhile, issued an advisory for the resident, asking them to wear a mask and use sanitiser and avoid going to crowded places during the festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-241-ukhand-records-single-day-lowest-covid-cases-in-past-2-months/articleshow/78774513.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Marooned Hayathnagar residents seek help from government||HYDERABAD: It’s been seven days since residents of several colonies in Hayathnagar have been reeling under three feet of water and have been marooned. What started on October 13 with heavy rainfall of almost 220mm continues to haunt people who are stranded in their houses with no help from the authorities over the last one week. After Bathula Cheruvu breached, houses in adjoining colonies such as Hanuman Nagar Colony, Auto Sainagar, Banjara Colony, Katta Maisamma Colony, Thattiannaram, Padmavathi Colony have been inundated. “There are 40 families held up in Hanuman Nagar Colony. I have been wearing the same clothes for the last seven days. All our belongings have been damaged,” said Sai Lokesh, resident of Hanuman Nagar Colony, one of the most affected areas in Hayathnagar. Few angry residents of these colonies, who managed to step out from their houses, held a protest at the Thattiannaram seeking government attention. “We have been suffering for the past seven days with absolutely no help from the authorities. I have approached all the local leaders on call but no one has come forward to help us. Living in stagnant water for seven days may expose us to more diseases which the government seems to ignore,” said Venkat Ramana, resident of Auto Sainagar, adding that water snakes also pose a threat to the residents. Many have flooded social media, seeking help from KT Rama Rao, minister for municipal administration and urban development. “I have tweeted videos and photos of our area multiple times to the minister. Despite that, the authorities have ignored our area completely,” said Vara Prasad Reddy, Thattiannaram. Residents fear that rainfall forecast for the next two days may worsen the situation in these localities. When TOI called the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) appointed special officer for Hanuman Nagar Colony Rohini, she seemed oblivious to the condition on ground. “I will assess the situation and get back,” she responded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/marooned-hayathnagar-residents-seek-help-from-govt/articleshow/78776997.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Two entry points on Indo-Nepal border to open for three days to facilitate Nepalese citizens withdraw pension||Pithoragarh: Two entry points on the Indo-Nepal border in Uttarakhand — suspension bridges at Jauljibi and Dharchula — will be opened for three days, starting Wednesday, to facilitate Nepalese citizens who have served the Indian Army and other Indian organisations collect their pension. After retirement, many Nepalese citizens return to their native places and visit India to collect their pension deposited in different banks. The decision to open the border — closed since March 23 due to the Covid-19 lockdown — was taken following a request made by Nepal's Darchula district authorities with several retired people seeking to withdraw their pension ahead of ‘Dashain’ — a major festival in Nepal, similar to Dussehra. Confirming the move, Dharchula SDM AK Shukla said, “Following the request of the Nepalese Darchula district authorities to their Pithoragarh counterparts, two entry points at Jauljibi and Dharchula will be opened from Wednesday to facilitate the retired people withdraw their pension.” “We have, meanwhile, advised the banks to make arrangements of cash at their branches and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol,” said Shukla, adding that Nepalese citizens, too, are advised to follow the Covid-19 protocols strictly. The Darchula (Nepal) district authorities have, meanwhile, suggested the pensioners carry a copy of their life certificate with them when visiting India to submit in the banks for the withdrawal of pension. Last time, three entry points — Jauljibi, Dharchula and Jhulaghat — in Pithoragarh were opened for three days from July 8 to 10 during which nearly one thousand pensioners — including Gurkha soldiers and others — had withdrawn Rs 3.1 crore. Sankar Joshi, a resident of Darchula in Nepal, told TOI, “As Dashain is a major festival, a large number of retired people sought to withdraw their pension before October 25, and had requested the district authorities to open the border for their movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-entry-points-on-indo-nepal-border-to-open-for-three-days-to-facilitate-nepalese-citizens-withdraw-pension/articleshow/78773627.cms||Prem Punetha
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa Miles increases safety measures with car sanitisation unit at airport||VASCO: To provide a safer environment for travelers, Goa Miles, the government-run app-based taxi service, has set up a sanitisation unit at the Dabolim airport. Transport minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho, who inaugurated the unit, said, “The airport has taken many initiatives in providing a safe environment to passengers and boosting the confidence of the tourism industry. Everybody wants to do business, but while doing so they should consider the safety of their clients as well as themselves.” Airport director Gagan Malik said they are doing their best “to break the Covid-19 chain and to also make passengers feel safe in Goa”. The second sanitisation unit will be in North Goa, said Utkarsh Dabhade, managing director of GoaMiles. Parashar Pai Khot, director of operations at Goa Miles, said they have launched Mission Kavach 2020-2021 with the with the slogan ‘No Ride Before Sanitise’. “Every GoaMiles vehicle will be sanitised with a coating of antimicrobial nano particle. Usually, the validity of the coating is for 90 days, but because of the pandemic vehicles will be sanitised once in 30 days. The capacity of each station will be two vehicles per hour. The vehicles will be issued a certificate for confidence of passengers,” Khot said. Khot added that there will be a back-up call centre to follow up with the sanitisation process. “In case the certificate is invalid, no rides will be allocated to the vehicles. An audit swab test for viral load and the permissible limit for safe environment will be randomly conducted by the GoaMiles team. Some vehicles are equipped with a protective plastic panel separating the driver and passenger,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goamiles-increases-safety-measures-with-car-sanitisation-unit-at-airport/articleshow/78778207.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Doon Smart City declares results of photography and essay contest||Dehradun: The Dehradun Smart City limited declared the results of photography and essay writing competition on the topic Covid- 19 pandemic and the future of Dehradun as a smart city. DSCL has released a list of 20 school students for the essay competition and three winners for the photography competition. The winners were announced out of 69 entries received for the photography competition and over 150 entries for the essay writing competition. DM Ashish Kumar Srivastava, CEO, DSCL, said, “To establish a connection with the people, we organize various competitions from time to time. This time during the global pandemic, we had organized an essay competition for school students for general awareness around Covid-19. A photography contest was also organized to capture the different moods of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-smart-city-declares-results-of-photography-and-essay-contest/articleshow/78773637.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard on prowl in Narendra Nagar radio-collared||Dehradun: The leopard that was on prowl in Saldogi village of Narendra Nagar forest division was caged and radio-collared on Monday night at Haridwar-based Chidiyapur rescue centre after its health checkup. The move comes after a nine-year-old was killed in a leopard attack in the village earlier this month. The leopard was collared by a team of scientists from WII, senior veterinarians, and forest officials. Till now, the forest department has radio-collared two leopards and they have been named G1 and G2. G1 was found in Haridwar's human-dominated landscape, while G2 was found in the human landscape of Narendra Nagar. At Narendra Nagar, the shooters had already informed the forest department that several leopards together could be seen on prowl rather following their regular pattern of restricting to respective territories. Speaking about the need to radio-collar it, the chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department, JS Suhag said, “The motive of radio-collaring is to understand the behavior and movement of leopards so that we do not lose any more lives (either human or animal) to human-animal conflict.” Prior to radio collaring of this leopard, a leopard was shot dead in Narendra Nagar by the search team in Kasmuli village on October 14, barely 4-km away from Saldogi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-on-prowl-in-narendra-nagar-radio-collared/articleshow/78774526.cms||Shivani Azad
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana flood relief too less: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress said the financial assistance announced by the TRS government for the flood-affected victims in Greater Hyderabad was meagre . Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the financial assistance of Rs 10,000 per family was too less. “Even Rs 1 lakh each for totally collapsed houses and Rs 50,000 each for partially damaged houses is like an insult to the injury. Will CM K Chandrasekhar Rao or any other TRS leader take the responsibility of repairing a totally damaged house in just Rs 1 lakh or repair damages with just Rs 50,000 in Greater Hyderabad,” he wondered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-flood-relieftoo-less-cong/articleshow/78777001.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 10,000 at doorstep of flood-hit families as immediate relief: KTR||HYDERABAD: A day after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced a relief of Rs 10,000 to each of the rain-affected families, ministers and elected representatives on Tuesday visited the flood-hit areas and distributed the immediate relief to the families. At places like Meerpet, the residents, who have been shifted to the relief camps, brought to the notice of ministers and authorities that they have lost everything like Aadhaar cards and educational certificates in the rain. The ministers assured them of all help from the government. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said about four lakh families in the city would get Rs 10,000 per family as an immediate relief. He said all the families would get the help at their doorstep and urged them not to panic. The minister visited various areas and disbursed the relief amount in MS Makta near Raj Bhavan, Ayyappa Nagar and Lingojiguda near Nagole, Nadeem Colony, MJ Colony at Shaikpet and other areas. He held a meeting with mayor, deputy mayor, city MLAs and corporators at Pragati Bhavan and asked them to see that every affected family gets the cash relief. “All the MLAs and corporators have to supervise the relief and rehabilitation works for the next 10 days in the colonies that were battered in the rains and give them moral courage. They should also visit the shelter camps in their respective jurisdictions and address the issues raised by the residents immediately,” the minister said. KTR said once the rains stop, the elected representatives will have to supervise restoration of roads and infrastructure works. At Ayyappa Nagar, he said the government is ready to spend any amount towards flood relief measures. The minister said the financial relief is only temporary and those who lost their houses either partially or totally would get more financial help from the government. Meanwhile, city MLAs, MLCs and MPs have announced two months’ salaries to the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-10000-at-doorstep-of-flood-hit-families-as-immediate-relief-ktr/articleshow/78777038.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 21, 2020||Delhi||Admissions pick up pace at Delhi University, not many withdrawals||NEW DELHI: With a total of 8,422 students clearing their formalities, admissions under the second cutoff list at Delhi University colleges picked up the pace on Tuesday. On the second day, there were not many withdrawals. Colleges were, however, in a fix following a new guideline of the university for students from the Bihar Board. A circular sent by the university earlier stated, “50 marks Hindi paper from Bihar Board will not be considered for calculation of best of four.” An admission convener of one of the colleges explained, “Bihar School Education Board gives 50 full marks for English and Hindi. Earlier, we used to calculate on pro-rata basis and admit students for Hindi (H). Now with this guideline, the colleges are in a fix as some admissions under the first list may have been approved according to the earlier followed guideline.” A college principal added, “Now, we don’t know what will be done with those students who were admitted earlier and even on Monday. Scanning through the applications again will be a challenging task.” On Tuesday, 6,024 admissions were approved and 4,882 new applications received. At Ramanujan College, 200 admissions were approved as against 50 withdrawals. SP Agarwal, principal of the college, said, “We had reduced the cutoff for BCom by around 1% so now, we have a lot of applications for it. Under the second list, the admissions are slow as there are restrictions that students who had qualified under the first list now cannot participate. Earlier, on the last day, we used to give admissions depending on the availability of seats.” At Aryabhatta College, around 190 admissions were approved as against 40 withdrawals. At Hindu College, a total of 994 admissions have been completed. A college official said, “Maximum admissions have take place for political science (H), BA programme, Hindi and Sanskrit (H).” Wednesday is the last date for admissions under the second list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/admissions-pick-up-pace-at-du-not-many-withdrawals/articleshow/78777040.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||65 dilapidated buildings razed in past one week: GHMC chief||HYDERABAD: Following incidents of people living in dilapidated buildings losing their lives in the incessant rains, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continued its demolition drive on Tuesday.  GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said 65 dilapidated buildings had been razed in the last one week. The drive is being continued to save the lives of people living in these old buildings, the GHMC said in a statement. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao had instructed the officials to take up a special drive to demolish the old buildings. People have been asked to vacate the old buildings in Nacharam, Yakutpura, Sri Nagar Colony near Ramanthapur, Balagunj, Karmanghat, Gowlipura and other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/65-dilapidated-buildings-razed-in-past-one-week-ghmc-chief/articleshow/78776994.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB demolishes structures encroached on open nalas in Secunderabad Cantonment||SECUNDERABAD: An illegal cement slab and few unauthorised structures, which encroached the open nala, were razed down at Dhanalakshmi Colony in Secunderabad Cantonment. About 60% open nalas were reportedly shrunk due to numerous encroachments, a special drive was launched by officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) to address the issue Officials received criticism over inundation of several residential localities, due to overflowing open nalas in the incessant rains. The engineering wing officials have begun the drive from Dhanalakshmi Colony at Bowenpally. Complaints flooded after open nalas overflowed into Dhanalakshmi Colony, Malani Colony, Bhavana Colony, and Lakshmi Nagar Colony in the late night.  Several illegal structures were demolished as part of the drive. “We noticed many encroachments on several nalas in the other areas and razed them as part of the drive,” Secunderabad Cantonment Board chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy said. The Secunderabad Cantonment Board officials have lifted nearly five to 10 tonnes of waste material, which stuck in open nalas, causing hurdles for free flow of the drain water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-demolishes-structures-encroached-on-open-nalas/articleshow/78777045.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Inundated SAIL Colony residents live in constant fear||SECUNDERABAD: Residents of SAIL Colony in Bowenpally area of Secunderabad Cantonment are having a harrowing time as most of the houses are still under water after water from the Hasmathpet lake inundated the colony. A techie’s family, which was staying on the ground floor of a rented house, had a narrow escape. Sensing danger from to overflowing open nala, owner of the house, Sukumaran Nair, a retired SAIL employee, alerted the techie’s family and asked them to move out. Two feet mud was in the ground floor of the house. Nair, who lives on the first floor, showed the flood water mark on walls. In another incident, an elderly person, who had to be shifted to a hospital, was carried on a chair by his family as the ambulance couldn’t come to the colony. Another house owner, who had shifted his family from the colony fearing inundation, put up mattresses at the main gate of his house to prevent flood waters from entering his house. “I have experienced floods twice in the previous years, but the volume of flood water which hit the colony this year was unprecedented. SCB officials have totally failed to resolve the problem,” Nair told TOI. “We are spending sleepless nights due to inundation. All of us are staying indoors,” said A Sudershan, whose house is just 100 metres away from the nala and was one of the first houses to be inundated.  An elderly person, who had to be shifted to a hospital, was carried on a chair by his family as the ambulance couldn’t come to the colony||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inundated-sail-colony-residents-live-in-constant-fear/articleshow/78777053.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||NMC budget realistic, says Nagpur mayor. Partisan, says Cong||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi termed the civic budget a realistic one. “(Vijay) Zalke showed courage by not announcing big projects and concentrated on completing ongoing projects. He covered all segments,” he said adding it was perfect budget in available time and scope of funds.” Shiv Sena corporator and leader of the party Kishore Kumeriya said, “The budgets presented every year do not meet the target and every year old projects are included in proposed budget. The question of unauthorized layout remains. Citizens are dissatisfied with paying taxes. Development work is stalled.” Congress corporator and leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve charged projects in wards of BJP corporators have been given priority. 80% works proposed by BJP corporators will be completed going by this budget. Works proposed by Congress, Shiv Sena, BSP corporators in their respective wards should also be given priority as the citizens everywhere pay taxes. There should be equal distribution of funds. Independent corporator Abha Pande termed Zalke’s budget as realistic in the Covid situation the city was going through. “Another good thing is that Zalke has not inflated the budget figures. It will help complete pending projects. Mobile hospitals is a good concept. They will help provide medical treatment at doorstep,” she said. Technical glitches marred the first-ever standing committee budget presented by its chairman Vijay Zalke via video conferencing. All corporators including opposition and ruling who attended the virtual meeting expressed anguish over poor voice quality, network issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-budget-realistic-says-nagpur-mayor-partisan-says-cong/articleshow/78777059.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand constitutes three-layer task force for vaccine distribution, storage, and safe transportation||Dehradun: With a high possibility of vaccine for Covid-19 being available by year end or early 2021, the Uttarakhand government has started its preparations in this regard. The state government has announced a three-layer task force for distribution of vaccine, its safe storage and maintaining a cold chain while stocking and transportation process. Chief Secretary Om Prakash, who issued the order on Tuesday for the formation of three task forces – one each at state, district and block level, will himself head the state task force. The CS told TOI, “These task forces will identify the people who will be first given the vaccine. The priority will be given to the vulnerable group, Covid-19 warriors, and people who are directly or indirectly involved in helping the state and health authorities in the fight against Covid-19.” He pointed out that it was a long procedure and details norms and guidelines would follow soon. The three teams will also have the responsibility of implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the vaccine. Sources said that while stocking and transporting the vaccine, there is a need to keep it at a particular temperature. The state-level task force would be headed by the chief secretary himself and would have secretaries of various important departments like finance, health, home, women empowerment and child development, AYUSH, panchayati raj, rural development and college education as members. It will also consist of senior officials of the health department, Uttarakhand Red Cross Society, WHO, United Nations Development Programme and Indian Medical Association, as members. The district-level task force headed by district magistrate would comprise of senior superintendent of police, chief medical officer, city development officers, NGO representatives, and others associated with the health sector as members. And the block-level task force would be headed by a sub-divisional magistrate and include superintendent of police, block development officer, health and education officers as members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-constitutes-three-layer-task-force-for-vaccine-distribution-storage-and-safe-transportation/articleshow/78774540.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Seepage in Golconda Fort triggers collapse fears||HYDERABAD: Seepage seen at parts of Golconda Fort and precarious boulders protruding from above have left residents of the area worried. “There are posts doing the round on social media showing water gushing out through the foundation stones. Recently a portion at the top near Jagadamba temple collapsed, now this. What if the foundation weakens as a result?” asked Afzal Md, a local.  “This is part of the heritage architecture that allowed water to drain out naturally without burdening the wall itself. In modern times, this mechanism is comparable to weep holes, or a small opening that allows water to drain,” said historian Sajjad Shahid. Mohammed Habeebuddin, a heritage activist, was more worried about the boulders above. “There are huge rocks that are jutting out at the very place where a part of the wall collapsed recently. The stone edifice has already loosened in the area, if even one of these boulders are displaced, it could be dangerous for people standing below,” he said. Mohammed Safiullah of the Deccan Heritage Trust said, “With heavy rains expected to continue, officials need to be vigilant and carry out thorough inspection. As rain damages binding, there is need to be vigilant.” Hyderabad: The damage sustained recently at parts of the Golconda Fort have left the officials at the Archaeological Survey of India, Hyderabad circle at their wits end. They say in spite of requests, the circle gets much lesser funds that needed. The Golconda Fort generates revenue of about Rs3.5crore annually, however not even close to the amount is spent on the monument. This is because the ASI circle in Hyderabad receives just about the same figure to maintain all the eight centrally protected monuments in the state. “A monument under the state’s protection was recently overhauled at a cost of around Rs12crore. Just imagine how much it would cost to maintain the Golconda,” said one official, on condition of anonymity. INTACH Hyderabad convenor Anuradha Reddy said, “There is a need for manpower and budget from the central ASI. Local personnel are struggling.” She added that the footfall at Golconda and Charminar is enormous. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seepage-in-golconda-fort-triggers-collapse-fears/articleshow/78777025.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Electric poles and transformers a major hurdle in anti-encroachment drive||Dehradun: With October 28 set as the deadline for removing all the encroachment from the city, removing electricity poles and transformers have become a major challenge for the officials in the limited budget and time period. In addition, removing encroachment from religious places and government land will be the priority, said the officials. In a meeting with the SDM, the representatives of various temples, mosques, and Gurudwara were given time till Wednesday to remove the encroachment themselves or else the administration will send JCB machines for removing it. A group of business owners at GMS Road has also met the Dehradun mayor for getting some more time to remove the encroachment, as MDDA officials are also carrying out sealing drive against unauthorized construction in the market. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey said, “ Since electric poles and transformers concern public utility, we have sought guidelines from the High Court and the action will be taken accordingly. However, the other encroachments will be removed as per the plan and the orders from the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/electric-poles-and-transformers-a-major-hurdle-in-anti-encroachment-drive/articleshow/78774560.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Haldwani-Nainital ropeway: Hold meet with environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat, orders HC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the tourism secretary, district magistrate (DM) Nainital, and the tourism development board to hold a meeting with the Nainital-based environmentalist, Ajay Singh Rawat, to reach a solution to the problems he has pointed out with the proposed Haldwani-Nainital ropeway project. The direction came from the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Rawat alleging that the the station of the proposed project will be built on the Manora Peak which is flanked on one side by Balliyanala, and by Nihal watershed on the other. The entire area, Rawat has said, is therefore very sensitive and prone to landslides. “The court heard the case on Tuesday and directed the respondents to have a meeting with Rawat through video-conferencing on Saturday or any other mutually agreed date to discuss the problems that he alleges to exist with the project,” said an advocate present in the hearing. Speaking to TOI, Rawat said that he will meet the government officials and discuss his apprehensions with the project. “The entire area is very vulnerable and cannot handle the weight of the station. Also the land use pattern of the area is of a park and the land use pattern of a park cannot be changed. Therefore, I will meet the officials and explain the problems I think exist with the project,” he said. Meanwhile, the court has said that the counsels can approach the court once again after the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haldwani-nainital-ropeway-hold-meet-with-environmentalist-ajay-singh-rawat-orders-hc/articleshow/78774552.cms||Prashant Jha
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Talasani slams Centre for tardy rain relief||HYDERABAD: Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav criticised the Centre for not supporting the state financially at a time when the rains have wreaked havoc. Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, the minister said the state had suffered a huge loss, especially in Hyderabad, but the Centre was behaving irresponsibly. Training guns on G Kishan Reddy, he said the Union minister representing the state visited a few places and left for Delhi. “He should use his good offices to get financial support to the state during this calamity,” he said. Government whip MS Prabhakar, at a separate press conference, attacked the Centre saying though the state government had sent a report on the damage caused by the floods, there has been no response from Centre. “Without waiting for help from the Centre, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced Rs 550 crore from CMRF to flood victims,” he said. He also some people were trying to tarnish the image of Hyderabad and Telangana government on social media. “Police should book suo motu cases against such persons,” Prabhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/talasani-slams-centre-for-tardy-rain-relief/articleshow/78777066.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||Assam to get country’s first multi-modal logistics park||NEW DELHI: Assam will get the country’s first multi-modal logistics park with facilities such as warehouse, railway siding, cold storage, custom clearance house, yard facility, workshops, petrol pumps, truck parking, administrative building, boarding lodging, eating joints and water treatment plant. The logistics park will have road, rail, waterway and air connectivity. Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for this facility at Jogighopa in Assam, which is being developed with an investment of Rs 694 crore. Gadkari said the project would generate around 20 lakh direct and indirect jobs. The multi-modal logistics parks, would be built in two phases and would be completed by 2023. The road transport and highways ministry has planned to develop 35 MMLPs with the aim to improve the transport of freight and provide integrated storage and warehousing support. All these will bring down the logistics cost.Gadkari said his ministry had allocated Rs 80,000 crore to develop roads and improve infrastructure, connectivity in Assam. He said Rs 5,000 crore has been earmarked for Dhubri-Phulbari bridge and construction will start in 3-4 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/assam-to-get-countrys-first-multi-modal-logistics-park/articleshow/78779108.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Agra||10 MBBS final-year students caught cheating in exam with hi-tech gears||AGRA: Ten MBBS final year students, including one woman, were caught using unfair means in their ophthalmology exam on Khandari campus of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University on Tuesday. These students of a private medical college were caught by the university officials and police with a micro Bluetooth in their ears and amulets with SIM cards inserted into them around their neck. According to the varsity vice-chancellor Ashok Mittal, they were dictated answers from outside the exam centre. “The matter has been referred to the university’s committee for unfair means. Following an internal investigation, the committee will take suitable action. Besides, a formal police complaint mentioning details of students caught cheating in the exam was also filed,” the VC said. A total of 90 MBBS students of the self-financed college located in Etmadpur locality had appeared for the exam. According to the university officials, an invigilator in one of the classrooms heard a few students murmuring half an hour after the commencement of the exam. On observing one of the students for a few minutes, the invigilator found that the examinee was pressing an object on the chest, inside the shirt, repeatedly. On suspicion, the invigilator went close to the student and asked him to show the object. The student rudely refused, claiming that it is an amulet related to his religious belief and cannot be shown to anyone else. The invigilator backed off and informed the senior officials about the matter. Agra varsity chief proctor Manoj Srivastava said, “As the matter was sensitive, following orders of the vice-chancellor, we informed the senior officials of the police. Soon, the superintendent of police (city) along with his team arrived and the students were frisked. Ten students were found wearing a device in the form of amulets around their necks, which had an electric circuit and a SIM card inserted in it. And a micro Bluetooth piece in the ear. Using these devices, the students were writing down answers dictated from outside the exam centre.” On condition of anonymity, a senior university official said, “There is a high possibility that the process of cheating was followed earlier. The involvement of the private college cannot be ruled out too.” Superintendent of police (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said, “On basis of the complaint received from the varsity’s chief proctor, we are going to register a case under the Uttar Pradesh Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, IPC’s section 420 (cheating and dishonesty) and section 66 of the Information Technology Act. We are taking legal advice to pursue the case in court as the accused are students and appearing for exams. The entire matter is being investigated in detail. Students are being questioned separately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-mbbs-final-year-students-caught-cheating-in-exam-with-micro-bluetooth-in-ears-sim-inserted-amulets-around-their-necks/articleshow/78774564.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Army flood relief teams ready for rescue operations in Hyderabad||SECUNDERABAD: Indian Army is fully geared up with flood relief teams and boats to take part in the rescue operations in Hyderabad and Secunderabad, in the wake of heavy rains forecast for next few days. The Indian Army, responding to the calls of Telangana government, has arranged flood relief teams on standby in Hyderabad and Secunderabad for anticipated rescue operations of people, according to an official release issued by Defence PRO wing on Tuesday. A total of nine flood relief teams (FRTs) with boats are on standby, to be launched immediately on requirement. Additional teams and boats will be sent as per the situation, it said. Six flood relief teams with boats and medical facilities have already been at Gulbarga and Yadgir districts of Karnataka from October 17 to 20, and evacuated 427 marooned people to safe locations. The evacuation process is still continuing, with increasing water flow of Bhima and Krishna rivers, added the release. In Hyderabad, the army flood relief teams has evacuated 153 people and also distributed a large number of food packets to stranded residents in inundated Bandlaguda, due to heavy rains which occurred on October 14 and 15, according to the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/army-flood-relief-teams-ready-for-rescue-operations-in-city/articleshow/78777079.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||CAT directs Centre 'not to disturb' NOC granted by U'khand to IFS Sanjeev Chaturvedi for deputation with Lokpal||Nainital: The Nainital bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) last month directed the Centre government “not to disturb” the no-objection certificate (NOC) granted by the Uttarakhand government to whistleblower IFS officer Sanjeev Chaturvedi in December 2019 after he sought a deputation with the Lokpal till the tribunal took up the case for hearing, the application is, however, still pending with the Centre. The tribunal has, meanwhile, listed the case for further hearing on December 2. Chaturvedi had approached the CAT seeking directions to the Centre that it should decide on the deputation while seeking an interim relief by restraining the Centre from influencing the state to alter the NOC. In his Original Application (OA), Chaturvedi stated that “similar attempts to force the state government to withdraw the NOCs have been made in the past as well”. The bench of Justice Vijay Lakshmi and Devendra Chaudhry granted limited interim relief to the Chaturvedi. “…we hereby grant the interim relief to the limited extent that during the pendency of the current OA, the respondent number 1 (Centre) shall not disturb the NOC forwarded vide letter dated 23.12.2019 above by respondent No. 2 to respondent No. 1,” reads the tribunal’s order. TOI had reported that Chaturvedi, currently posted as the chief conservator of forest (research) in Haldwani, had written a letter to the Lokpal chairperson to allow him to serve on a deputation in the Enquiry/Investigative branch of the newly-established anti-corruption authority. Chaturvedi had claimed that he had fulfilled all requirements for the deputation, and as there were enough vacancies in the Lokpal, he should be allowed to serve the institution. “All the requirements for the said deputation are fulfilled, regarding completion of a cooling-off period of three years, as on 29.08.2019, and there being a vacancy in Central Deputation Reserve in my cadre. At the same time, it is understood/ learnt that Lokpal being a newly created Institution, has appropriate vacancies, in Enquiry/Investigation wing of the administrative branch, for smooth discharge of its statutory duties, which are yet to be filled,” reads the letter sent by Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cat-directs-centre-not-to-disturb-noc-granted-by-ukhand-to-ifs-sanjeev-chaturvedi-for-deputation-with-lokpal/articleshow/78774568.cms||Prashant Jha
October 21, 2020||Agra||Agra’s Covid tally at 6,820, 50-year-old dies||AGRA: At least one death of a Covid-19 positive patient was reported in Agra district on Tuesday. A 50-year-old man died during treatment at the SN Medical College. A resident of Balkeshwar locality, the patient was suffering from some chronic liver disease, pulmonary tuberculosis, jaundice and pneumonia with septic shock. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to severe comorbid conditions. So far, 138 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. At least 42 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 6,820. These included four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, four patients from influenza-like illness, three patients from severe acute respiratory infection, three from coronary artery infection and two of them were kidney patients. Meanwhile, 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 6,778 cases reported in the district, 6,197 (90.87%) have been declared cured and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district increased from 479 on Monday to 485 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-covid-tally-at-6820-50-yr-old-dies/articleshow/78774575.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Agra||Lapses show there was an attempt to suppress Hathras case: Fact-finding report||AGRA: Institutional lapses may have compromised investigation into the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras, a fact-finding report released on Tuesday said. The report, based on an October 9 visit to the village by a team from the National Alliance of People’s Movements, an umbrella body of civil society organisations, was released on Tuesday by Narmada Bachao Andolan activist Medha Patkar, Magsaysay awardee Sandeep Pandey, and RTI activist and writer Mani Mala. “Our fact-finding team found that the investigation was not properly done. The first 24 hours after registering an FIR are very important. Despite that, no one investigated the sexual assault angle. Since the medical examination was conducted after her dying declaration, the late examination could not prove rape,” Patkar told TOI. “In my interaction with the victim’s family, there was no contradiction in their statements.” The report said the team had found procedural lapses. “She was brought to the hospital but the doctors were not briefed by police nor did any policeman or official did any investigation as per all the family members ... This was absolutely necessary for any further investigation and action under Section 375 of IPC as is known to the administration but not carried out,” it said. When she was moved to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College in Aligarh, the report added, “The relatives heard the doctors exclaiming that they didn’t know from where the case had been brought to them and for what.” Her dying statement, the report said, established the context: “By then, it had come out that she was being harassed by the accused men from the family, Sandeep and others since past 6 months. She was once pulled by him near the field but had escaped. The family, however, was very categorical in refusing to accept the false story of some communication as also relation between Sandeep and the girl.” In Delhi, again, the family was not kept in the loop, the report said: “At the Safdarjung hospital, when she succumbed to her injuries, all the family members sitting outside were simply informed by the police ... Their consent was sought for the post mortem process and nothing else was shared … The shocking news a few hours later was that the police had taken away the body for cremation, without seeking their consent or opinion.” After referring to the girl's “forced” cremation and alleged summons by the district magistrate asking her father to “convey to all about their being satisfied with the inquiry and treatment,” the report concludes that there was an effort to “suppress the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lapses-show-there-was-an-attempt-to-suppress-hathras-case-fact-finding-report/articleshow/78774602.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||Satlej Club throws up surprise: 5 elected to panel unopposed||Mohit.behl@timesgroup.com Ludhiana: After the slump lasting months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the city’s elite Sutlej Club came alive on Tuesday with a large number of club members and city’s dignitaries. They came to offer support to candidates filing nominations for the club elections on the last day. In an unusual twist, five office-bearers of the managing committee were elected unopposed after only one nomination each was received for these posts. Sanjeev Dhanda was elected unopposed to the key post of general secretary, the most important post in the club after that of the president, which is held by the deputy commissioner of Ludhiana. Jatinder Marwaha was elected to the post of joint secretary, Sachin Kapoor was elected as bar secretary while Anil Goel was elected as sports secretary. Ginny Bawa was elected unopposed to the reserved post of executive member (female). Election of the four unopposed candidates was followed by celebrations in the club, replete with dhol and bhangra. There are 11 posts in the managing committee of Sutlej Club and elections for the remaining posts will be held on October 24. Speaking to TOI over his victory, Sanjeev Dhanda, the newly-elected general secretary said, “I am greatful to all my supporters, well-wishers and club members for showing their trust in me and electing me unopposed on this important post. I assure everyone that I will take the club to new horizons and upgrade its infrastructure by adding state of the art facilities. It will be my topmost priority to make all facilities of the club and environment totally safe for all members, employees and visitors amid the ongoing coronavirus crisis.” Sachin Kapoor, who was elected to the post of bar secretary, said, “This is a big achievement for me as after serving on the post of executive member I have been bestowed this important responsibility which I assure that I shall fulfill with utmost honesty.” Jatinder Marwaha, the newly-elected vice president, said, “I am thankful to all my supporters, who ever since I announced my candidature, left no stone unturned to ensure that members vote for me. I think this campaign run by my supporters helped me get elected unopposed as opponents knew that there is no chance standing against me in the elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/satlej-club-throws-up-surprise-5-elected-to-panel-unopposed/articleshow/78774600.cms||---
October 21, 2020||---||UP CM Yogi Adityanath invokes Pak, Art 370 & temple in Bihar rallies||PATNA: In his first rally in Bihar this poll season, Uttar Pradesh CM and BJP’s star campaigner Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday created a heady mix with his speech at Arwal invoking the Pakistan terror bogey, abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, tackling of cross-border terrorism, along with the start of the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. “All this has been achieved under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. He had said his first term will be to launch poverty alleviation measures, the second term to end terrorism and ‘Naxalvad’ and also pave the way for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya,” Adityanath said. He was canvassing for the party’s candidate Deepak Sharma for the Arwal seat. “The Kashmir problem has been solved and the PM also laid the foundation for the Ram temple on August 5. He has achieved what he had said he would do,” Adityanath said, adding, “We have done developmental activities, and we have also honoured the faith of people. In contrast, one Congress leader has been praising Pakistan.” He told the audience their vote would send a loud and clear message to the people of Arwal and Jehanabad districts "will not allow the return of poverty, violence and massacres that used to mark the twin districts and the Magadh region in the past.” Incidentally, CPI(ML), which is a part of the grand alliance comprising RJD, Congress, besides CPI and CPM, has fielded its candidate Mahendra Prasad Singh from Arwal. Deepak, who worked as a functionary of the BJP’s Bharatiya Kisan Morcha, has replaced the party's sitting MLA Chitranjan Sharma, which is said to have created a lot of heartburns. Earlier, Adityanath addressed a public meeting at Bhabhua (Kaimur) where BJP’s candidate is the sitting MLA Rinki Rani Pandey, who, in turn, is being challenged by Bharat Bind of RJD. The UP CM asked his audience to use the social media platform to send out messages to people in the constituency and the entire state so that they vote for the victory of NDA candidates to ensure the formation of an NDA government headed by CM Nitish Kumar. Recounting schemes launched by the Narendra Modi government, Adityanath said if the previous Congress governments at the Centre and the RJD-led government in Bihar had initiated schemes for the poor, it would not have required PM Modi to launch the schemes. He ended his speeches with the cries of "Jai Shri Ram".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/yogi-invokes-pak-art-370-temple-in-bihar-rallies/articleshow/78777143.cms||Abhay Singh
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Shift power meters to first floor from cellars: Discom||HYDERABAD: With rainwater flowing into cellars leading to power failures and even electrocution in residential apartments and commercial complexes, the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) has asked the apartment associations to shift their meter panel boards from the cellars to the first floor to avoid power breakdowns. In the recent past, at least four persons have died while trying to switch on power or start motors to flush out water from the cellars. TSSPDCL chairman and managing director G Raghuma Reddy said if the associations come forward for shifting of the meters, the discom would shift them without collecting any charges. “The TSSPDCL is making an appeal to new apartment builders to allot some space (minimum 10x10) in the first floor for fixing the electricity panel boards and power-related equipment to avoid breakdowns and electrical accidents during rain. TSSPDCL is also suggesting to GHMC to take note of this proposal,” Raghuma Reddy told TOI. He said the discom suffered about Rs 2 crore loss in the floods. Of the 1.17 lakh distribution transformers in the GHMC area, 1,170 were damaged. “Only 89 transformers were out of 1,170 were not charged,” he said. While 32 transformers belong to apartments, 57 were public transformers. He said 22 transformers have failed or need to be replaced. He also said as many as 1,295 electric poles were damaged and 37 poles are yet to be replaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shift-power-meters-to-first-floor-from-cellars-discom/articleshow/78777146.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Speciality cancer hospital comes to city for complete care under one roof||LUCKNOW: Soon, globally recognized cancer care extended at Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, will be available at city’s Super Speciality Cancer Institute (SSCI). A spectrum of patient care services at SSCI were formally dedicated to the people of the state at a virtual ceremony by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the presence of Union defence minister and Lucknow MP, Rajnath Singh, here on Tuesday. “Patients will no longer have to run to Mumbai for cancer treatment as the institute would extend the facility in their backyard,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also laid the foundation of a residential block for institute's faculty and staff. He also said, the biggest lesson learnt in Covid time was the need for better medical facilities and the cancer hospital was an example of the state's commitment to public health. Lauding the effort, Rajnath Singh said: “A hospital in Lucknow dedicated solely to quality treatment of a life-threatening disease like cancer was a matter of public interest. Not just citizens of UP, neighbouring states too will benefit from the facility.” Medical education minister Suresh Khanna said, a memorandum of understanding between Tata Memorial Hospital Mumbai and SSCI Lucknow was signed in November, 2018, to develop and lay down disease-specific cancer diagnosis and management protocols. Elaborating on speciality treatment of Tata Memorial Hospital, additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube, said: “The best cancer treatment can be extended by following Disease Management Group approach. This involves bringing an expert panel of cancer specialists like surgical, medical and radiation oncologists, pathologists and pain and palliative specialists together to draw an almost tailor-made treatment plan for the patient. Pioneered and developed by Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, the approach is followed by a few units in SGPGI.” Later talking to TOI, SSCI director Prof Shaleen Kumar said two features make the cancer institute stand out. “First, it has a dedicated department to diagnose and manage paediatric cancers, which is a severely underserved area in the state. At least 20% cancer-inflicted population comprises children who have different needs when compared to adults. Second, we would be undertaking health technology assessments which will give us a chance to assess cost effectiveness of available treatment options. It will also help in empowering governments to put public money to better use,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/speciality-cancer-hospital-comes-to-city-for-complete-care-under-one-roof/articleshow/78778215.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 21, 2020||Patna||UP CM Yogi Adityanath invokes Pak, Art 370 & temple in Bihar rallies||PATNA: In his first rally in Bihar this poll season, Uttar Pradesh CM and BJP’s star campaigner Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday created a heady mix with his speech at Arwal invoking the Pakistan terror bogey, abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, tackling of cross-border terrorism, along with the start of the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. “All this has been achieved under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi. He had said his first term will be to launch poverty alleviation measures, the second term to end terrorism and ‘Naxalvad’ and also pave the way for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya,” Adityanath said. He was canvassing for the party’s candidate Deepak Sharma for the Arwal seat. “The Kashmir problem has been solved and the PM also laid the foundation for the Ram temple on August 5. He has achieved what he had said he would do,” Adityanath said, adding, “We have done developmental activities, and we have also honoured the faith of people. In contrast, one Congress leader has been praising Pakistan.” He told the audience their vote would send a loud and clear message to the people of Arwal and Jehanabad districts "will not allow the return of poverty, violence and massacres that used to mark the twin districts and the Magadh region in the past.” Incidentally, CPI(ML), which is a part of the grand alliance comprising RJD, Congress, besides CPI and CPM, has fielded its candidate Mahendra Prasad Singh from Arwal. Deepak, who worked as a functionary of the BJP’s Bharatiya Kisan Morcha, has replaced the party's sitting MLA Chitranjan Sharma, which is said to have created a lot of heartburns. Earlier, Adityanath addressed a public meeting at Bhabhua (Kaimur) where BJP’s candidate is the sitting MLA Rinki Rani Pandey, who, in turn, is being challenged by Bharat Bind of RJD. The UP CM asked his audience to use the social media platform to send out messages to people in the constituency and the entire state so that they vote for the victory of NDA candidates to ensure the formation of an NDA government headed by CM Nitish Kumar. Recounting schemes launched by the Narendra Modi government, Adityanath said if the previous Congress governments at the Centre and the RJD-led government in Bihar had initiated schemes for the poor, it would not have required PM Modi to launch the schemes. He ended his speeches with the cries of "Jai Shri Ram".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/yogi-invokes-pak-art-370-temple-in-bihar-rallies/articleshow/78781512.cms||Abhay Singh
October 21, 2020||Agra||Six sentenced to life, 6 others get 7 years RI in 1997 triple murder case||AGRA:  A local court in Mathura on Tuesday sentenced 12 people in a 23-year-old triple murder case over a land dispute in 1997. While six men were sentenced to life for murder, the six others were sentenced to seven years of imprisonment on attempt to murder charges. Pronouncing the judgment, additional district and sessions judge Sanjay Yadav awarded life sentence to six people—Ratiram (59), Brijkishore (61), Naval Kishore (62), Jawahar Singh (57), Suresh (56) and Bali (77)—and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of them. Of the other nine people booked on attempt to murder charges, the court pronounced seven years’ imprisonment for six of them— Tej Singh, Mahipal, Khushiram, Sumer Singh, Premchand and Vijay Singh. Three accused had died during the trial. Talking to TOI, prosecution lawyer Nandkishore Upmanyu said the Allahabad high court had directed the early disposal of the case. “Three people were killed, and four others were injured in the incident. Cross FIRs were registered in the case.” As many as 11 people were accused of killing three people—Sukhichand, Balakram and Khachera— in a clash that took place in Mathura’s Guhari village on May 5, 1997. Three accused died during the trial, one accused was acquitted from a juvenile court and one, Radha Charan, is still absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/six-sentenced-to-life-6-others-get-7-years-ri-in-1997-triple-murder-case/articleshow/78774618.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 21, 2020||Agra||Tender for same road issued twice by AMC, JE suspended||AGRA: A tender for repairing a 800-meter stretch of road was issued from two different zones in Agra city. The matter was brought to the fore by councilors. Now, a junior engineer has been suspended by the civic body administration. A clarification has been sought from an assistant engineer and an executive engineer. Following the orders of the state government, Agra Municipal Corporation identified 40 damaged city roads that were to be made free of potholes. A Rs 2.50 crore work plan was prepared and tenders were issued. For repairing an 800-meter-long road spread in two municipal wards of Lohamandi locality, two tenders were issued. When councilors complained about it, municipal commissioner Nikhil Tikaram Funde constituted a two-member committee, comprising additional municipal commissioner KB Singh and chief engineer BL Gupta, to investigate the matter. The committee found that the junior engineer had submitted work proposal of the same road with different identifications. The assistant engineer and executive engineer approved it without cross-checking and the tenders were issued. The municipal commissioner said, “On basis of the probe report, junior engineer PS Niranjan has been suspended. Notice has been issued seeking an explanation from the assistant engineer and executive engineer. All the engineers have been warned to ensure no malpractice takes place. In such a case, strict action will be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tender-for-same-road-issued-twice-by-amc-je-suspended/articleshow/78774639.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chandigarh||PAU employees burn letters on 5th day of protest||Times News Network Ludhiana: The protest being held by employees of all categories at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) entered the fifth day on Tuesday. Joint agitation had been initiated by PAU Employees’ Union, PAU Teachers’ Association and PAU Fourth Class Workers’ Union against the vice-chancellor and registrar. A march taken out through different buildings ended in front of Thapar Hall. Employees burnt copies of letters issued by authorities in front of the office of the vice-chancellor. Earlier, the Unions gave an ultimatum of the evening of October 19 to take back the “anti-employee” letters. A large number of employees and teachers sat on dharna there. Baldev Singh Walia, president, PAU Employees' Union said, “If University authorities do not change their indifferent attitude towards genuine demands of the employees, we will intensify the agitation. Responsibility of the same will lie with the vice-chancellor and registrar of PAU.” President, PAU Teachers’ Association Dr H S Kingra said, “Career advancement scheme like promotions of teachers and non-teachers have been made complicated. This is arbitrary as the minimum standards set by UGC and state government should be logical basis. All officials will suffer in the long run. We will continue to protest till our demands are met.” Dr H S Kingra, Dr K S Sangha, Mohan Lal, Surjit Singh and Kamal Singh sat on strike and Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, senior vice-president, Manmohan Singh, general secretary, PAU Employees’ Union and Dr Harmeet Singh Kingra, president, PAU Teachers’ Association addressed the dharna. As per directions of the government, a clerk having an experience of five years was promoted as senior assistant whereas in the PAU, many clerks having experience of over 10 years were not promoted. Demands of employees include reduction of experience period for promotion of technical staff, increase in number of posts of car/jeep drivers and supervisors, implementation of old pension scheme for employees recruited before July 9, 2012 and change of qualification for the same, implementation of 2,400 grade pay for library and meterological attendant, salary as per DC rates during probation for employees recruited after January 15, 2015, filling of all vacant posts of promotion and regularisation of contractual employees. On one hand, promotions of employees were ignored on the other, the authorities had reappointed many retired employees which had also resulted in resentment among the employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pau-employees-burn-letters-on-5th-day-of-protest/articleshow/78774627.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Kaleswaram expanded sans nod: NGT||HYDERABAD: The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal at New Delhi has found fault with Telangana government for expanding the prestigious Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Project without prior environmental clearance. It has directed the Union environment ministry to set up a seven-member expert committee to assess the environmental damage of the project. The committee will look into the damage caused between 2008 and 2017 – the period when the project went ahead without environment clearance. NGT delivered its verdict on Tuesday on an appeal filed in February 2018 by Mohammed Hayatuddin, a land-owner in Vemulaghat. He had alleged that that Centre granted environment clearance post facto after the project was done. NGT in the order said that the Centre granted environment clearance quoting terms of reference without considering changes which may have taken place subsequently. The committee was asked to examine the effective implementation of environment management plan based on which the clearance was granted. The committee shall be constituted in a month and shall complete the exercise within six months. Affected persons have been asked to make representations to the ministry within three weeks with suggestions and grievances. NGT also asked the environment ministry to give no more clearances post facto. “The decision for expansion taken by the Telangana Government on October 16, 2019, is without EC and not tenable given the stand taken by the Central Water Commission,” the order reads. “The stand of the State, that expansion of the project by extraction of 3 TMC per day instead of 2 TMC per day does not involve any infrastructural changes and therefore EC is not required, cannot be accepted.” The order states that extraction of more water requires more storage capacity and also affects hydrology and riverine ecology of Godavari River. “Such issues may have to be examined by the concerned statutory authorities,” it states. The Union Jal Shakti minister in an August 7 letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has requested that the state may not proceed with the project without submitting detailed project report to Godavari River Management Board and also without obtaining sanction of the Apex Council. CWC has also stated that no project proposal for the expansion has been submitted. “We are unable to accept the stand of the project proponent that primarily the project is for water supply and water management and that irrigation is subsidiary or incidental part of the project so as to hold that no EC was required prior to the execution of the project from 2008 to 2017. We are also unable to agree that the State did not proceed with the irrigation component in the project till the clearances were granted and only constructed components relating to the supply of drinking water,” the order states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kaleswaram-expanded-sans-nod-ngt/articleshow/78777150.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||250 fresh coronavirus cases, 7 more deaths in last 24 hours||LUCKNOW: With 250 new Covid-19 patients and seven more deaths in last 24 hours, the city continued to record maximum numbers of casualties and cases in the state on Tuesday. While deaths accounted for nearly one-fourth of the total in the state, cases were 11% of those recorded in all 75 districts. As per state Covid bulletin, city’s caseload has mounted to 60,263 since the outbreak and deaths to 831 (1.3% of caseload). Meanwhile, at least 462 patients recovered on Tuesday, taking total number of recoveries to 56,032 (93%). However, 3,400 (5.6%) people still have infection. Gomtinagar recorded 25 fresh cases followed by Indiranagar (22), Aashiana (19), Rae Bareli Road (17), Hazratganj (15), Chinhat (13), Mahanagar (12), Talkatora and Chinhat (11 each), and Madiaon, Alambagh, Cantonment and Chowk (10 each). No hospital provided details of casualties except for KGMU where four patients died in last 24 hours. All the patients who died during treatment were above 50, had cormorbidties and were brought to the hospial at the last stage of the disease. Two of the patients from the city, aged 54 and 73, died of cardiopulmonary arrest within 24 hours of admission. The remaining two patients, including a woman, were from Hardoi and died due to septicemia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/250-fresh-coronavirus-cases-7-more-deaths-in-last-24-hrs/articleshow/78778234.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||L&T, Shapoorji only firms to file bids for Telangan Sectt||HYDERABAD: Larsen and Toubro (L&T) and Shapoorji Pallonji are the only firms to submit tenders for construction of the proposed Secretariat complex, a prestigious project of the Telangana government. Sources said if all goes as planned, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants to start construction of the new secretariat building on the occasion of Dasara festival. Though several firms, including Tata Projects, Mumbai-based JMC Projects and Uttar Pradesh Project Ltd, a UP state government undertaking, had attended a pre-bid meeting on October 7, these companies did not submit their tender documents till October 20, the last date for the bids. Now, the race is between L&T and Shapoorji Pallonji group. Roads and buildings department officials would complete the technical evaluation criteria in a couple of days. Financial bids would be opened on October 23 and the lowest bidder would be awarded the contract. A senior R&B department official told TOI that the financial bids of only the firms which qualify technical evaluation criteria would be opened. Though the initial estimated cost of the secretariat complex was pegged at Rs 500 crore, the revised cost has gone up to Rs 600 crore. While the state government has stipulated that the construction should be completed in 12 months, the firms in the race were reportedly seeking time up to 18 months. A final decision will be taken by the chief minister after the selection of the lowest bidder. The tender contract stipulates a built-up area of seven lakh square feet on two acres and landscaping, parking and other facilities in the remaining 25-acre secretariat campus. The middle portion of the secretariat building with the Ashoka Emblem tower would have 15 floors, while the remaining portion to its left and right side would have ground plus six floors. The chief minister’s office would be located on the sixth floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lt-shapoorji-only-firms-to-file-bids-for-t-sectt/articleshow/78777193.cms||Roushan Ali
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Man dead years ago ‘tests’ Covid negative||LUCKNOW: In gross negligence, the district health department recently issued Covid-19 negative reports of three persons of a family — two of whom are in the US while one died years ago. The anomaly was detected when these reports were uploaded on the district Covid portal. Ashray Jaiswal (40), a bank executive, tested Covid positive on October 6. Two days later, a contact tracing team came to his rented home in Rajajipuram to collect the samples of his wife and two children for tests. The team gave Ashray a link of the portal where he could login to see the test results. When Ashray opened the portal the next day, he was shocked to see reports of five other persons along with his family members with the same residential address. “The reports of my wife and children sttaed that they were tested through the RT-PCR method. While my son tested positive, wife and daughter came negative. However, of five other names, three were of my landlord’s family — two of the couple who own the house and are currently in the US while third report was of the landlord’s father who passed away a few years ago. The remaining two persons were not known to me,” he told TOI. “I don’t know whether this was an error or the team noted the names of the landlord’s family from the nameplate outside the house without actually collecting samples. But the incident raised doubt over the veracity of my family’s reports. I reported the matter immediately on the Covid helpline. Thereafter, a contact team personnel arrived and apologised while promising to get my family’s tests done again. But, when nothing happened, I called up the helpline on Monday and got assurance that the second tests will be conducted soon. However, the entire episode has left us in a deep mental trauma” Ashray added. CMO Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said an employee was suspended and showcause was served to another on Tuesday after a probe found them guilty of the anomaly. Watch Man dead years ago ‘tests’ Covid negative in Lucknow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-dead-years-ago-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/78778240.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 21, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Rain till tomorrow will be last of monsoon showers||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated on Tuesday that the monsoon’s retreat is likely to start from the northern part of Maharashtra in the next two to three days. The rainy spells till October 22 may be the last monsoon showers of the season, as moisture is set to deplete fast after October 24. Pune and Mumbai are likely to bid farewell to the monsoon on or around October 24. This means that monsoon’s exit from the two cities has been delayed by a fortnight. The normal withdrawal date for Mumbai is October 8 and for Pune, it is October 9. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune, said, the rains from October 20 till October 22 may be the last spell of the monsoon in Maharashtra, for this year. “The moisture level has increased due to two systems, a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and an East West sheer zone. There is intermittent sunshine also in state and Pune, so mostly, the rain spells till October 22 will be accompanied with thundery activity during the afternoon and evening. Thus, there could be a few intense spells in between, but the rain may not be too much, except isolated heavy rains in ghat areas.” Kashyapi said from October 24, Maharashtra will fast approach favourable conditions for the withdrawal of southwest monsoon. The withdrawal of the monsoon from the northeastern parts of Maharashtra may start early, between 48 and 72 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-till-tomorrow-will-be-last-of-monsoon-showers/articleshow/78777204.cms||Neha Madaan
October 21, 2020||Patna||Nitish ridicules Tejashwi’s 10 lakh govt job promise||PATNA: As the electioneering for the assembly election hots up, CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday mocked the Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for his poll promise of providing 10 lakh government jobs in his first cabinet meeting, if voted to power. “Where he (Tejashwi) will bring the funds from? From the skies or jail? Or the employees will be paid their salaries in fake notes?” Nitish asked while taking a jibe at Tejashwi’s father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in Ranchi in fodder scam cases. Addressing an election meeting in Gopalganj district’s Bhore (SC) constituency in favour of former DGP and JD(U) candidate Sunil Kumar, Nitish made a veiled attack on Lalu and Tejashwi. “Jiske chalte andar gaye hain usi paisa se hoga kya (will the new employees be paid salaries from the fodder scam money for which he is in jail?),” he said without taking any name. Nitish said his government served people across the state and that is his religion. But other people do ‘byanbazi’ (issuing statements) only. They have no knowledge about how the government’s functioning and how works are executed. Ridiculing Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh jobs, Nitish further asked, “Yaisa kahin hua hai duniya mein. Aap utne log ko naukari doge, toh baki ko kyon nahi? Sabko naukari de do (is it possible? If you give jobs to so many people, why not to all?). Jo hona nahi hai, aur jo ho hi nahi sakta (He (Tejashwi) is talking about the impossible),” he said in a sarcastic remark on the opposition’s CM face. Nitish said his government provided jobs to more than six lakh people in the last 15 years and the process was on for the recruitment of more than 60,000 people in the state. He urged the electorates not to be misguided by such job promises. The CM addressed two more election meetings in north Bihar on Tuesday. In Siwan’s Jiradei and Raghunathpur constituencies, he sought votes for JD(U) candidates Kamla Kushwaha and Rajeshwar Chouhan, respectively. The three constituencies will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-ridicules-tejashwis-10-lakh-govt-job-promise/articleshow/78777221.cms||Madan Kumar
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Funeral of Telangana soldier conducted in Kashmir||HYDERABAD: The funeral of soldier Shakir Hussain from Kagazhnagar in Kumarambheem Asifabad district of Telangana, who died in an accident in Ladakh, was performed in Kashmir on Tuesday as the deceased had tested positive for Covid-19. The 35-year-old Havaldar of the 11 Engineers Regiment was buried in Kashmir after Army officials told the family that the body could not be sent home. Army officials who were in touch with the family members since Shakir Hussain died on October 17 advised the family to travel to Kashmir to attend the funeral. “While the death itself came as shock to us, the information that the body would not be sent because of Covid caused more grief to all of us here,” Shakir’s relative Mohd Azeem told TOI on Tuesday. With a retired Army personnel coming home and counselling the family, six members of the family left for Kashmir to attend the funeral.  This included his wife, parents, younger brother, brother-in-law and another relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/funeral-of-t-soldier-conducted-in-kashmir/articleshow/78777216.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Clinics to treat ‘Long Covid’||Bengaluru: With Covid-19 patients facing one or another health issue post discharge, Apollo Hospitals has launched post-Covid recovery clinics. Doctors who treated Covid-19 patients will attend to recovered patients who return with health issues arising from the infection. Over 50% Covid-19 patients suffer problems like breathlessness, chest pain, heart issues, joint pains, vision problems and memory loss for months after recovery, doctors say. Dr Ravindra Mehta, senior pumnologist, Apollo Hospitals, said the after-effects, called ‘Long Covid’, are a global phenomenon. “While longer-term problems are more common among patients who have been hospitalised, even patients who have recovered from a mild infection can suffer from prolonged effects of the virus,” Dr Mehta said. “Some long-term effects could be severe and disabling in nature.” Dr Mehta said the duration of the after-effects is now a focus of concern. The specialised clinics will prevent acute components of post-Covid syndrome from progressing further, said Dr Vinay D, infectious disease physician, Apollo Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/clinics-to-treat-long-covid/articleshow/78775163.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: 3 parties served notices for model code violation||HYDERABAD: Three major players — TRS, BJP and Congress — in the fray for the Dubbak seat have been issued notices by returning officer B Chennaiah for violating the model code of conduct. The parties gave responses to the notices. “We are looking into their responses and will pass an order after studying them,” Chennaiah told TOI. He said the representatives of the parties which had applied for permission for campaign meetings were issued the notices as it was found that the number of people who attended them had exceeded the permitted number as per the rules. The parties are believed to have responded saying that it was unintentional to break the model code. Meanwhile, police who have been carrying out vehicle checks in view of the election on November 3 stopped the vehicles of finance minister T Harish Rao and Medak MP Kothakota Prabhakar Reddy. Both the leaders are campaigning for TRS nominee Solipeta Sujatha. Police checked their vehicles at Thoguta Rampur crossroads in Siddipet. The authorities have declared a local holiday on November 3. The district collector and district election officer is empowered to declare a local holiday, if it is necessary, on November 10 when counting is taken up. According to the final figures that are available, the total number of voters in Dubbak constituency is 1.98 lakh with most number of 55,000 voters in Dubbak mandal. Gajwel mandal has the least 446 voters. There are a total of eight mandals in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-bypoll-3-parties-served-notices-for-model-code-violation/articleshow/78777223.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 21, 2020||Pune||Southern Command to host online contest||Pune: The Army Southern Command is set to conduct an open online competition on the theme ‘Indian Army: A symbol of unity in diversity’. It would be open to all age groups. A total of Rs1.22 lakh is up for grabs as prize money along with merit certificates. It would involve slogan writing, video making, photography and painting. The competition details have also been uploaded on the southern Command Facebook page ‘SouthernCommand.IndianArmy’ and Twitter handle ‘@IaSouthern’ . The participants have to upload their entries as a message on the Southern Command Facebook page or forward them to an e-mail id, sconlinecomp@gmail.com, along with the contestant’s mobile number, a copy of their Aadhaar card or any other age proof. The command authorities said, “The aim of the competition is to nurture and tap the vast talent available in the country. The entries are open from October 19 and will close on December 16. The results will be announced on December 16 on the occasion of Vijay Diwas on Command’s Facebook page and Twitter handle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southern-command-to-host-online-contest/articleshow/78777218.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Admn explores feasibility of bio-gas plant||Luddhiana: The deputy commissioner (DC), Varinder Kumar Sharma, and municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Tuesday held a meeting with Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) officials to discuss methods for disposal of cow dung in a scientific manner. The meeting was held at the biogas plant at Haibowal here. Both also visited the site on Tajpur road to look for the feasibility to set up another biogas plant on 2.5 acres. Joint director, PEDA, Davinder Singh and senior manager, PEDA, Kulbir Singh, who came from Chandigarh, said that the plant had been given on lease to a private company which would produce compressed bio-gas (CBG) from cow dung. He said the project was expected to get operational by December-end this year. They further said that once the project would get operational, the entrusted company is expected to produce two to three tonne of CBG per day, which could be used in transportation, industry and cooking. According to information, the bio-gas plant with a capacity of 225 tonnes cow dung per day is currently producing electricity, which is being sold to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). They also interacted with dairy owners to get their views and listen to their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/admn-explores-feasibility-of-bio-gas-plant/articleshow/78776021.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Law examinees complain about wrong questions||PUNE: Final-year students appearing for the law examination being conducted by the Savitribai Phule Pune University, are facing issues in the online examination. Many said they ran into problems while choosing the options in the multiple choice questions, shuffling of options when a particular question is revisited, and wrong and incomplete questions. Many technical issues are also being reported by the students and they said the university’s administration was cold to their complaints. On Monday, many students encountered a server problem. Law student, Vipul Munj said the options for a few questions mention phrases like “Only a”, “Only b”, “Both a and b”, “None of the above”. However no option is identified by any letter/alphabet. There are only radio buttons. “How are students supposed to come to a logical conclusion while attempting those questions? Additionally, these options shuffle each time one comes back to the questions,” he added. Another law student, Abhishek Patil , said there are a lot of wrong and incomplete questions. There is no forum provided by the university to challenge wrong and incomplete questions. “If the student is evaluated on the basis of these wrong or incomplete questions then who is to blame?” he said. Tejomay Nanaware, another student, said, the students who brought this issue to the fore came to know about this lapse, when they were discussing the questions with their peers after the exam. They realized that some had a totally different set of questions which their peers seem to not recollect having attempted in their papers. “This is an utter violation of equality because now a few students are alleging that they have received comparatively tougher exam question papers than others,” he added. The students have been raising issues with the varsity since the first day of the exam. On Monday, the SPPU issued a clarification regarding the various problems that have been coming up since the examination began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/law-examinees-complain-about-wrong-questions/articleshow/78777231.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP spreading lies, says Harish, Aruna hits back||HYDERABAD: Amid hectic campaigning in Dubbak, the war of words between the ruling TRS and BJP has intensified. While the TRS said people would not fall for the saffron party’s false propaganda, the BJP said the electorate are ready to defeat the ruling party in the November 3 election. Finance minister T Harish Rao on Tuesday said the BJP was spreading lies and the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre had ignored Telangana. He said TRS had been winning elections ever since it came to power in 2014 and asserted it would win the Dubbak poll also. While the BJP started targeting the TRS on its failure to implement poll-eve promises and Mallanna Sagar rehabilitation package, TRS leaders are leaving no stone unturned to attack the BJP. Apart from Harish Rao, TRS MLAs are touring the constituency and attacking the BJP. At a press conference, BJP national vice-president DK Aruna hit out at the TRS for obstructing BJP activists from campaigning in he constituency. “One of our activists was not allowed to campaign. But, we are not scared,” she said. She said the TRS sent its leader (Cheruku Srinivas Reddy) to Congress to divide the vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-spreading-lies-says-harish-aruna-hits-back/articleshow/78777225.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 6 years on, fixing FTL of lakes remains on paper||HYDERABAD: Ambitious plans were drawn up six years ago to protect over 3,000 lakes spread across seven districts of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) from encroachments by fixing full tank level (FTL). After six years, FTL of only 225 lakes (less than 10%) was fixed and boundaries notified. Ironically, irrigation and revenue department reports on survey numbers and extent of lakes do not match. As a result, the water bodies have been encroached upon and hundreds of colonies came up in almost all lakes, including Ramannakunta, Bandlaguda Cheruvu near Nagole, Chinna Cheruvu at Ramanthapur, Malka Cheruvu, Malkaram Cheruvu, Shamirpet tank, Nalla Cheruvu, Nallagandla Cheruvu, Gosai Kunta and Errakunta, in the past decade. Municipal administration department and lake protection committee (LPC) reports stated that of 3,534 lakes, a survey was done by a consultant on the condition of the water bodies in 2013-14. The consultant had completed survey of 3,029 lakes and the rest were not taken up. In other words, the government has no information on the condition of these lakes. Authorities identified mismatch on 311 lake reports of irrigation and revenue departments. Government sources said they could not complete the survey of the remaining lakes as they exist only on paper. Generally, after a survey is completed by the consultant, the irrigation department gives drawings and their remarks on the lakes. Based on their inputs, HMDA issues a preliminary notification. Revenue department has to match the cadastral maps with irrigation department maps on survey numbers and extent with their records and its clearance for giving final notification. The LPC, in its previous meeting, expressed unhappiness over the progress of the survey and FTL fixation in Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district as none of the 500 lakes was finalised. “State government had taken up a similar exercise of identifying lakes in year 2000 after the flashfloods. Though 932 lakes were identified in an extent of 20,500 hectares in then HUDA jurisdiction, no measures were taken to protect them,” Forum for Sustainable Environment convenor S Jeevananda Reddy told TOI. “The government is carrying out cosmetic changes which won’t give a permanent solution for the long-pending problem,” Jeevananda Reddy added. Principal secretary of municipal administration and HMDA metropolitan commissioner Arvind Kumar did not respond to TOI for his comments on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-yrs-on-fixing-ftl-of-lakes-remains-on-paper/articleshow/78777263.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notices to Telangana, PCB, stone crushers||HYDERABAD: The high court on Tuesday questioned the state, revenue and mines officials why they allotted quarry leases to five stone crushers in Chintavagu village of Hasanparthy mandal in Warangal district, creating sound pollution and endangering lives of villagers. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave notices to the state, asking it to respond to allegations made in a PIL filed by U Veeraiah and Jalgam Basavaiah of the village. “The quarries and crushers have become a threat to our lives... and livestock,” the petitioners said. The existence of a temple in the vicinity too was threatened. The bench sought to know from the state steps it was taking to protect the people and the temple. It gave notices to the five stone crushers and quarry lease holders. Pollution Control Board too was given a notice to know from it its role in such cases. “If the authorities do not respond with required urgency, we may have to restrain the activities,” the bench warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notices-to-t-pcb-stone-crushers/articleshow/78777228.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bhopal||Two more test Covid +ve in secretariat, tally touches 72||Bhopal: The number of corona positive cases in the secretariat rose to 72 on Monday. So far, employees of over 22 departments in the secretariat have been infected with Covid-19. Senior bureaucrats are also among the 72 who tested positive. In the fresh case, two employees of the horticulture and food processing department have been found corona positive.  One of them is a full-time employee of the secretariat and the other is a contractual employee. This month, 12 employees have tested positive. However, the month-wise trend of employees tetsing positive shows that the rate has dipped in October. July witnessed the maximum corona positive cases in the secretariat with 22 cases in the month. September witnessed the second highest number of corona positives with 20 people testing positive. The first corona case in the secretariat was reported in May when one positive case was found. In June, the number of corona positive cases rose to 8 while it shot up to 22 in July. Eight employees were found corona positive in August and 20 in September.  Of the total corona cases in Vallabh Bhavan buildings, two employees have lost lives due to corona so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-more-test-covid-ve-in-secretariat-tally-touches-72/articleshow/78776015.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Three years later, PMC education panel in the making||PUNE: Three years after the formation of a new education committee was announced, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to constitute a panel with elected members to manage the 200 schools run by the civic body. “The proposal about forming the committee was discussed at an all-party committee meeting on Monday. Most parties are on the same page about the committee,” mayor Murlidhar Mohol said. The proposal to form the committee was tabled before the law department which approved it before the proposal was sent to the all-party committee. It was tabled before the general body on Tuesday, but no decision was taken. “ The meeting was adjourned. The proposal will come up again in the next general body meeting,” a senior civic officer said. The education department runs Marathi, English, Hindi and Urdu medium schools where one lakh students study. The previous education committee was scrapped after the state government’s directives in 2016-17. The committee included members with a background in social and educational work, but political party workers dominated the panel. Education boards in municipal corporations had enjoyed autonomy. The board's chief was authorized to take administrative and financial decisions. Officials had then said merging the boards with the municipal corporations would improve the state's compliance with the RTE Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-years-later-pmc-edu-panel-in-the-making/articleshow/78777227.cms||---
October 21, 2020||---||Mahagathbandhan an unholy alliance: BJP president J P Nadda||BUXAR: Striking an emotional chord with Bihar, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said he has learned many things from this land. He remembered his long association with BJP’s stalwarts like late Kailash Pati Mishra and late Lalmuni Choubey. While Mishra was born in a village of Buxar’s Brahampur assembly seat, Choubey had represented Buxar in the Lok Sabha. Addressing an election meeting at Qila Maidan in Buxar town, Nadda said there is good cooperation between the Centre and the state government. “During Covid pandemic, Nitish government gave monetary benefits to 1.41 crore people,” he said. Highlighting the achievements of the central government, Nadda credited PM Narendra Modi for changing the political culture of the country. He also mentioned the PM’s special package of Rs 1.25 lakh crore for the development of Bihar. Nadda said the Centre has provided 5kg of rice and wheat to each 80 crore poor people of the state. He also highlighted the free LPG connection given to a large number of families under Ujjwala scheme. Addressing another poll meeting in Ara, Nadda described the Mahagathbandhan as an “unholy” and “unnatural” alliance. “When we talk about the CPI (ML), have you forgotten the massacres in your district? From ‘tukde tukde’ gang to Shaheen Bagh, these people stand by the forces which want to disturb peace in society,” he said. Lashing out at the Congress, Nadda said some leaders of the grand old party are talking the language of separatists and anti-nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/mahagathbandhan-an-unholy-alliance-nadda/articleshow/78777243.cms||K Kamlesh
October 21, 2020||Surat||Engineer ends life due to WFH stress in Gujarat||SURAT: A 32-year-old electrical engineer committed suicide by hanging himself at home in Adajan on Tuesday, reportedly because he was unable to cope with the pressure of working from home. The deceased, Jigar Gandhi, was employed with a Noida-based company for the past three years. He had returned home two months ago and was working from home. In the preliminary questioning, Jigar’s family members told police that had been talking about problems due to the pressure of working from home over the last few days. Jigar was found hanging from the railing of the staircase that leads to his room on the first floor in Premjinagar locality. Police said that Jigar was scheduled to get engaged in December. “Jigar had discussed work pressure with family in the past few days,” said a police officer at the Adajan police station. The postmortem revealed that he died of hanging, they said. His father Bansilal owns an electrical shop in the area and he has given it on rent. Jigar was close to his uncle Bhadresh and his son. On Monday, Jigar had even called his uncle to stay with him overnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/engineer-ends-life-due-to-wfh-stress/articleshow/78775721.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bhopal||With 224 fresh cases, city’s corona count reaches 23k||Bhopal: As many as 224 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the state capital on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 23,000 cases. Around 450 people have died in Bhopal since the pandemic began. TT Nagar and Shahpura areas reported a record increase in daily COVID-19 cases here on Tuesday. Thirty-five per cent of the cases were reported from Kolar Road, TT Nagar, Shahpura and Piplani. Places along commercial markets which are witnessing hectic activity have reported a spurt in COVID-19 cases. Half of people who tested positive on Tuesday had taken the rapid antigen test. Twenty-two of the 35 housewives diagnosed with the infection on Tuesday have been hospitalised. The number of infections is rising in this demographic. Only eight of them were reported with underlying symptoms of the contagion. 19 students were also diagnosed with the infection. 10 of the infected have been hospitalised. Besides, 14 people linked to the police were diagnosed with the infection. About half are under home isolation. Two people were diagnosed with the infection in AIIMS Bhopal. Four people linked to Chirayu Medical College were also diagnosed with the infection. SSB camp Gandhi Nagar reported five new cases of the infection. One more cases was diagnosed in New Market and Bittan Market. Top ten locations to report most infections on Tuesday were Kolar Road (24), TT Nagar (22), Shahpura (17), Piplani (16), Kamla Nagar (15), Ayodhya Nagar (13), Bagh Sewania (12), Khajuri Sadak (10), Awadhpuri (9) and Koh-e-Fiza (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-224-fresh-cases-citys-corona-count-reaches-23k/articleshow/78776022.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Battle for custody: 13-year-old girl prefers ‘Pakistani’ stepmom’s care||AHMEDABAD: A 13-year-old girl preferred to live with her stepmother after a battle for her custody began between her stepmom and the family of her biological mother within 10 days of her fat her’s death from Covid-19 last month. The child’s maternal uncle filed a habeas corpus petition seeking her custody from her stepmother by accusing the woman of being a Pakistani who illegally entered India through Nepal and has passports of both Pakistan and India. He expressed apprehensions that the woman, who has two children from her previous marriage, is very likely to flee India. Upon the HC directions, the girl was produced before the court last week. She categorically told the court that she would like to stay with her stepmother. She also clarified that she did not see any need to join her grandparents, maternal or paternal uncles. After the child expressed her wish, the court conversed with her stepmother, who told the court that she has two children and she is pregnant. She follows Christianity and the church is supporting her. She promised the HC to look after the girl till her last breath. The court recorded in its order, “She also emphasized that while in Pakistan, she was looked after by the church and, therefore, she has learnt to serve humanity and corpus being the daughter, she would continue to serve.” The woman told the HC that her husband did not leave anything behind to financially support the family. If she is required to shift base to either Pakistan or Dubai, where she was earlier in her life, she would inform the court in advance. The girl’s maternal uncle and grandparents, who joined the court proceedings from Kerala, were quick to rebut her claims that she was left with nothing. Their advocate told the HC that the girl’s biological mother was a high-ranking government officer and her father was a businessman. They had various properties and the girl has her mother’s pension. They also told the court that they are apprehensive for the girl’s safety and feel that a protective umbrella is required. The high court asked the stepmother to give an undertaking by October 23 about the claims that she made about the girl’s wellbeing and about not leaving India. The court has posted further hearing in this case on October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/battle-for-custody-13-yr-old-girl-prefers-pakistani-stepmoms-care/articleshow/78777292.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Pune-based Tamilians display Golu inspired by Covid-related themes||PUNE: The pandemic dominates the theme of Golu -- a collection and display of idols, dolls and figurines by Tamilian households during Navaratri. Rama Rangarajan, from Rasta Peth, has been following this tradition for 26 years and has a collection of 108 pieces on display. “This year we have put up notices and sent out messages that we can have only limited guests for darshan and others can view them on Facebook or YouTube,” he said. He said that this year they have a section depicting the coronavirus situation in Maharashtra with a scene of a Covid hospital where doctors and nurses are shown attending to patients. Uma Ganesh from Kalyaninagar has depicted the lessons learned during the pandemic as a theme this year. “Over a period of time, man has destroyed nature, but the pandemic has reminded us that there is godliness in nature,” she said. Vaishali Ramachandran, from Baner-Pashan Link Road, said that she has gone plastic-free in her set up this year. “We usually add figurines we pick up from our travels every year, but this year due to the pandemic we did not go anywhere so there are no new additions. The theme this year is self-sufficiency, a lesson we learnt staying indoors,” Ramachandran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-based-tamilians-display-golu-inspired-by-covid-related-themes/articleshow/78777269.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||SSC, HSC written re-exams set to start on November 20||PUNE: The supplementary exam of secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) will start from November 20 and exams will conclude on December 7, a statement issued by the Maharashtra State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said on Tuesday. The state board also released the entire time-table for both exams on its website. The exam will be conducted by the state board in Pune, Mumbai, Kolhapur, Konkan, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Latur and Nagpur. Students eligible for ATKT will also be able to appear for the respective subjects in this supplementary exam, the state board said. The SSC exam will start on November 20 and conclude on December 5 while the HSC exam will end on December 10 for general subjects and for vocational subjects it will end on December 7. The oral, practical and grade examination of SSC board will start from November 18 and end on December 5 while the HSC oral exam will start from November 18 and end on December 10. The statewise time-table has been made available on the state board portal: www.mahahsscboard.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ssc-hsc-written-re-exams-set-to-start-on-november-20/articleshow/78777240.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Patna||Mahagathbandhan an unholy alliance: BJP president J P Nadda||BUXAR: Striking an emotional chord with Bihar, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said he has learned many things from this land. He remembered his long association with BJP’s stalwarts like late Kailash Pati Mishra and late Lalmuni Choubey. While Mishra was born in a village of Buxar’s Brahampur assembly seat, Choubey had represented Buxar in the Lok Sabha. Addressing an election meeting at Qila Maidan in Buxar town, Nadda said there is good cooperation between the Centre and the state government. “During Covid pandemic, Nitish government gave monetary benefits to 1.41 crore people,” he said. Highlighting the achievements of the central government, Nadda credited PM Narendra Modi for changing the political culture of the country. He also mentioned the PM’s special package of Rs 1.25 lakh crore for the development of Bihar. Nadda said the Centre has provided 5kg of rice and wheat to each 80 crore poor people of the state. He also highlighted the free LPG connection given to a large number of families under Ujjwala scheme. Addressing another poll meeting in Ara, Nadda described the Mahagathbandhan as an “unholy” and “unnatural” alliance. “When we talk about the CPI (ML), have you forgotten the massacres in your district? From ‘tukde tukde’ gang to Shaheen Bagh, these people stand by the forces which want to disturb peace in society,” he said. Lashing out at the Congress, Nadda said some leaders of the grand old party are talking the language of separatists and anti-nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahagathbandhan-an-unholy-alliance-nadda/articleshow/78781659.cms||K Kamlesh
October 21, 2020||India||TRP scam: Cops arrest 2 more ex-staffers of Hansa Research||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Tuesday arrested two former employees of Hansa Research for their alleged role in rigging viewership figures for three television channels. This takes the total number of arrests made in the scam to eight. The police are probing three channels — Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema — for inflating the figures by directing the sample households to keep these channels on. Police also issued fresh summons to four employees of Republic TV asking them to appear on Wednesday, saying they have not produced the documents asked for. The notice said, “Reasonable suspicion exists that you have committed a cognisable offence.” A police team led by assistant police inspector Sachin Waze on Tuesday arrested Dinesh Vishwakarma from near the city airport and Ramji Verma from Worli. Both had been on the run since the police registered a case in the matter. Earlier, police arrested Vishal Bhandari, a former relationship manager of Hansa Research, who took money from various representatives of channels and paid households to rig the people meters installed by Hansa on behalf of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Police said it has now transpired that Vishwakarma was the mastermind who conspired with former employees like Bhandari and another arrested accused, Vinay Tripathi. Verma used to give money to arrested accused Umesh Mishra, who then asked households to watch Republic TV, police said. The four Republic TV officials to whom police have issued fresh summons are CFO Shiva Sundaram, COO Priya Mukherjee, executive editor Niranjan Narayan Swamy and distributor Ghanshyam Singh. In the notice issued under Section 91of the Criminal Procedure Code, police said they want to question the officials on some documents purportedly belonging to the Hansa Research group, which were aired on October 10. Police in the notice said, “You are directed to provide the said documents but till date you have deliberately avoided to comply with legal mandate… it is evident that after recording your statement on October 14, you had influenced other witnesses by discussing and analysing the contents and process of ongoing investigations publicly… it is revealed that there are grounds to question you to ascertain facts, and reasonable suspicion exists that you have committed cognizable offence and therefore you are directed to remain present on October 21.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-cops-arrest-2-more-ex-staffers-of-hansa-research/articleshow/78779126.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: One month on, infected Mangaluru woman tests positive again||MANGALURU: A woman who tested positive for Covid-19 in Mangaluru on September 4 has again tested positive more than a month later in Kerala. On testing positive last month, the woman had opted for home isolation and had stayed in her flat for the stipulated duration. When she travelled to Kerala on October 9, she was again subjected to a test. The neighbouring state has made tests mandatory for interstate travellers who stay for more than a day. The test on her samples in Kerala returned positive. TOI has copies of both reports. The woman’s husband lashed out at Karnataka’s rule of declaring infected persons cured purely on the basis of home isolation for a certain period of time without a second test, saying it could lead to the spread of the disease. "RT-PCR tests conducted at AJ Hospital in Mangaluru revealed both my wife and I were infected," he said. "Both of us stayed in home isolation for more than a month. Earlier this month, she travelled to Vellarikundu in Kasaragod district, Kerala, where she underwent a rapid antigen test. It showed she still carried the virus. Health authorities in Kasaragod repeated the test on October 16 and her sample tested negative." He said: "While we were in home isolation, health authorities in Dakshina Kannada district neither visited us in our apartment, nor made follow up inquiries about our health status." When contacted, Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health and family welfare officer said it’s possible for some asymptomatic patients to carry SARS-CoV-2 for longer than normal durations. "Karnataka is only following central government’s guidelines which state there is no need for a repeat test on a person who has tested positive," Dr Bairy said. "Initial isolation is for a period of 10 days and thereafter, the patient should remain in isolation at home for another seven days. So, a patient should stay in isolation for a total 17 days from the day their swabs were collected. However, it is possible for the virus to remain in the bodies of asymptomatic carriers for longer durations."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/one-month-on-infected-mangaluru-woman-tests-positive-again/articleshow/78775237.cms||Vinobha K T
October 21, 2020||Patna||PM package an eyewash, says Surjewala||PATNA: Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said the Rs1.25-lakh crore special package for Bihar announced by PM Narendra Modi ahead of 2015 assembly election was a bunch of lies. Surjewala said only Rs1,559 crore of the amount was spent in the last five years. Surjewala told mediapersons that the maximum amount of the package was for development of national highways (NHs), rail overbridge and bridges over Ganga, Sone and Kosi rivers. “This package had a proposal to construct 44 NHs, but the government in Parliament said the DPR for 17 had not been made and work on 27 other projects were not completed yet. Among the projects, Rs 2000 crore meant for construction of a bridge from Manihari to Sahibganj in Jharkhand had been pulled off. Similarly, DPR for a bridge parallel to Vikramshila on river Ganga has yet not been made,” Surjewala claimed. He also accused PM Modi and CM Nitish Kumar of befooling the youths. Surjewala said as a part of a special package, a mega skill university at the expense of Rs500 crore was announced by the PM with a promise to providing skill training to one lakh youths. “But Nitish refused to provide 500 acres of land for the university citing Rs1500 crore expenditure. Now, PM Modi has announced to shift the proposed university to Varanasi,” he claimed. Surjewala also lashed out at the NDA government for not completing the Ramayan circuit. “Rs100 crore was allocated for development of Ramayan circuit. But when the proposal was sent to the Centre, the Modi government reduced it to Rs37 crore and, at last, did not give a single penny. Not only this, the Centre even rejected the proposal to construct a museum in Sitamarhi showcasing life of Lord Ram and Sita,” said Surjewal, adding, “Jo Siya Ram ke nahi, wo kisi kaam ke nahi.” Among the other projects which he mentioned for not taking off included establishment of a central university at Bhagalpur and construction of a power plant at Buxar, which he said was proposed during the UPA’s regime and its MoU had also been signed. Reacting to Surjewala’s charges, BJP state vice-president Devesh Kumar said most of the projects had either been executed or were in different stages of execution. “I do not want to comment on Surjewala ji. He is a discredited party’s spokesperson who could not retain his own seat in Haryana. As far as PM Modi is concerned, everyone praises his work. For instance Barauni fertilizer unit is being revived. Similarly, work has been done in the fields of health and road,”he said. Meanwhile, the Congress leader praised Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and said he is a young leader with willpower to work and Congress has experience of running the government. “Together we will give the best government.” He also took a jibe at the fire in rural development department’s office in secretariat and said this was the signal of NDA’s defeat. “They are destroying all evidence as they know the next government will question them over corruption.” Senior Congress leaders Pawan Khera, Abhay Dubey and MLC Prem Chand Mishra were present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-package-an-eyewash-says-surjewala/articleshow/78777322.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 21, 2020||Pune||Host of problems with online papers leave disabled students disheartened||PUNE: There have been many ups and downs in the online examinations conducted by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), but the problems faced by the 800-odd students with disabilities studying in the university, have been ignored. Both the software and the app used for the examination are not disabled-friendly making it harder for these students to access them without outside help. While the SPPU is probably the only university to have conducted a two-hour online meeting prior to the examinations to discuss the problems that students with disabilities might face, lack of technological know-how and absence of a dedicated helpline for such students is making it even harder for them to appear for the examination. Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar has, in turn, urged such students to submit all the problems faced by them during the examinations so that they can be resolved in due course. Special provisions have been made for physically challenged students by giving them 20 minutes extra time over and above the one-hour examination, and they are also allowed the use of a writer in both online and offline examination. Dhananjay Bhole, coordinator of the Centre for Disabilities and Inclusive Education, School of Education, Savitribai Phule Pune University, said, “There was very little time between the decision to conduct the examination and the actual schedule of the examination. In this short period, the university had to come up with a vendor and also make sure that the platform used does not crash when lakhs of students appear for the examination. It requires at least six months to come up with such a platform, test it and make it accessible to all students. However, due to lack of time, this could not be done and hence both the website and the App are not accessible, as it should be, for disabled students. But university officials have been responsive to the problems of such students.” Karmalkar said the SPPU is probably the only university that held a two-hour online discussion with about 350 physically challenged students out of the 800 or so, to understand their problems and make amends. “We told them that they can keep a writer either from the family or a friend. We told them to form groups so that they can act as a support system for each other. We also assured them that in case they miss an examination or face any problem, they can write to us, and we would hold special examinations for them,” Karmalkar said. The biggest challenge is that less than 50% of them are tech-savvy, said Bhole. “Many did not have an active email id and lacked a writer, had problems in network, auto-submission of their papers, problems with the server or the platform added to their already restricted access to education. Some complained that the extra 20 minutes could not be utilised,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/host-of-problems-with-online-papers-leave-disabled-students-disheartened/articleshow/78777303.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||MC finds it hard to stop garbage dumping into Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana: It seems that the MC is struggling hard to keep a check on throwing of garbage into the Buddha Nullah by people as despite issuing of challans they are not changing this habit. Civic body officials claimed that they were continuously catching such offenders on the banks of Buddha Nullah and challans were issued to repeated offenders, but nobody was listening to them. Even on Tuesday, a resident of Upkar Nagar had a spat with the officials when they stopped him from throwing garbage into the drain. There is a complete ban on solid waste dumping into the drain but despite a ban people keep on throwing garbage inside the drain. The officials claimed that they also ran an awareness programme and also kept on telling the public that they should get door-to-door garbage lifting from their households and that too in segregated form, but still people did not listen to them. A sanitary inspector, Vimal Bhatti, said, “We are catching hold of such people who throw garbage into the drain regularly and challans are also issued to them. On Tuesday morning, our employees were keeping a check on the banks of the drain when a resident of Upkar Nagar came and threw a garbage bag into the drain.” He said the employees stopped him and asked him not to do so as there was complete ban on the same. He said instead of listening to the employees he started threatening them. He further said the man even offered bribe but they issued a challan to him. He said public was not supporting the cause and this was the reason the problem was still unresolved. As per officials, not only migrant labourers, but also people from posh localities were having this habit of throwing garbage into the drain. The situation was severe near bridges on the drain were heaps of garbage could be seen. Meanwhile, medical officer, health, MC, Dr Vipul Malhotra said it was very disappointing on the part of people for throwing garbage into the drain and they were issuing challans between Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 to the defaulters. He said the National Green Tribunal had taken a strict note of solid waste into the drain and there could be more stringent action against the defaulters in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-finds-it-hard-to-stop-garbage-dumping-into-buddha-nullah/articleshow/78776083.cms||---
October 21, 2020||---||PM package an eyewash, says Surjewala||PATNA: Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said the Rs1.25-lakh crore special package for Bihar announced by PM Narendra Modi ahead of 2015 assembly election was a bunch of lies. Surjewala said only Rs1,559 crore of the amount was spent in the last five years. Surjewala told mediapersons that the maximum amount of the package was for development of national highways (NHs), rail overbridge and bridges over Ganga, Sone and Kosi rivers. “This package had a proposal to construct 44 NHs, but the government in Parliament said the DPR for 17 had not been made and work on 27 other projects were not completed yet. Among the projects, Rs 2000 crore meant for construction of a bridge from Manihari to Sahibganj in Jharkhand had been pulled off. Similarly, DPR for a bridge parallel to Vikramshila on river Ganga has yet not been made,” Surjewala claimed. He also accused PM Modi and CM Nitish Kumar of befooling the youths. Surjewala said as a part of a special package, a mega skill university at the expense of Rs500 crore was announced by the PM with a promise to providing skill training to one lakh youths. “But Nitish refused to provide 500 acres of land for the university citing Rs1500 crore expenditure. Now, PM Modi has announced to shift the proposed university to Varanasi,” he claimed. Surjewala also lashed out at the NDA government for not completing the Ramayan circuit. “Rs100 crore was allocated for development of Ramayan circuit. But when the proposal was sent to the Centre, the Modi government reduced it to Rs37 crore and, at last, did not give a single penny. Not only this, the Centre even rejected the proposal to construct a museum in Sitamarhi showcasing life of Lord Ram and Sita,” said Surjewal, adding, “Jo Siya Ram ke nahi, wo kisi kaam ke nahi.” Among the other projects which he mentioned for not taking off included establishment of a central university at Bhagalpur and construction of a power plant at Buxar, which he said was proposed during the UPA’s regime and its MoU had also been signed. Reacting to Surjewala’s charges, BJP state vice-president Devesh Kumar said most of the projects had either been executed or were in different stages of execution. “I do not want to comment on Surjewala ji. He is a discredited party’s spokesperson who could not retain his own seat in Haryana. As far as PM Modi is concerned, everyone praises his work. For instance Barauni fertilizer unit is being revived. Similarly, work has been done in the fields of health and road,”he said. Meanwhile, the Congress leader praised Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and said he is a young leader with willpower to work and Congress has experience of running the government. “Together we will give the best government.” He also took a jibe at the fire in rural development department’s office in secretariat and said this was the signal of NDA’s defeat. “They are destroying all evidence as they know the next government will question them over corruption.” Senior Congress leaders Pawan Khera, Abhay Dubey and MLC Prem Chand Mishra were present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-package-an-eyewash-says-surjewala/articleshow/78780372.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||NEET students warned on manipulating OMR sheets||MUMBAI: National Testing Agency (NTA) has taken a serious stand against students “manipulating” their optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets. The agency filed a complaint with cyber security cell under IT Act in UP following a “fake” claim made by a student alleging discrepancies. The agency clarified that genuine grievances will be verified but manipulated and fabricated cases will be viewed seriously and they will be forced to take legal action against candidates, including cancellation of candidature, or unscrupulous agents representing candidates. It said candidates must not fall prey to unscrupulous agents promising them favourable changes in OMR sheets, as action can be taken for spreading fake news and maligning the agency’s image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/neet-students-warned-on-manipulating-omr-sheets/articleshow/78777074.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bhopal||Packed ‘bhog’ for Bhopalis this Pujo||Bhopal: Durga Utsav celebrations have turned low-key, with some of the oldest pujo pandals doing away with bhog or community feast. This decision has been taken to stop the spread of pandemic, but the diehard foodies who looked forward to the bhog served at various Durga Puja pandals, were saddened by the news. But, now they have a reason to rejoice as packed bhog will be available at Kolar Kalibari on three days of the festival -on Saptami, Ashtami and Navami. In Covid-19 times, serving food is a responsibility that requires the coronavirus protocol to be followed strictly, as per the district authorities’ guidelines. Founder member of Kolar Kalibari, Niloy Ghosh said, “Every year at our pujo pandal, we used to have over 1000 people on the last few days for community bhog; this year we will be catering to over 500 people every day on Saptami, Ashtami and Navami. There are tokens available at Kalibari, through those revellers can buy packed bhog for just Rs 50, which would include khichuri, chatni, mixed vegetables, payesh, gulab jamun etc. Two packets are enough for three people to have a hearty meal. We will ensure that at any given time we don’t have more than 100 people on premises.” All the Covid norms will be adhered to, said Ghosh. To keep up with the festive spirit, Arera Colony Kalibari will serve packed fruits and sweets to those who visit the pandal. President of the Kalibari, Dr Shubhashish Banerjee said, “We are installing a smaller idol of Durga maa. Due to pandemic, we haven’t opted for community bhog. We will serve whole fruits as ‘phol prasad’ and packed sweets to visitors. We have also arranged for an online anjuli ritual for the senior citizens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/packed-bhog-for-bhopalis-this-pujo/articleshow/78776066.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf board releases Rs 20 lakh for victims of inundation||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) on Tuesday decided to provide essentials to the flood affected families in the Old City. The aid consisting of food grains, a folding bed, blanket and bedsheets would be provided to people who lost their loved ones and valuables during the recent flood. TSWB chairman Mohd Saleem said the Board has taken a decision in a meeting held in view of the prevailing situation in and around the Old City areas to reach out to the needy families. “We have decided to release Rs 20 lakh as per Mansha-e-Waqf for the distribution, including food packets, food grains, folding beds, blankets, bedsheets among residents who were badly affected by the flood,” Saleem said. For this purpose, the waqf board fanned out its personnel to gather details and ensure aid reaches the flood affected areas, including Yakutpura, Bandlaguda, Babanagar, Balapur and other areas. Al Jubail, Gazi-e-Millar colonies, Ali Nagar, Barkas, Omer Colony, Hafiz Baba Nagar and other areas under the Jalpally municipality have been affected due to flood. Many lost their loved ones, while household articles and vehicles got swept away in the storm water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-board-releases-rs-20l-for-victims-of-inundation/articleshow/78777330.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker’s death: HC orders second autopsy||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court has ordered a second autopsy on the body of BJP supporter Madan Gharai, who died at a city hospital while in jail custody on Saturday. The victim’s elder brother had moved court praying for a fresh autopsy on the ground that the first one was not properly done. Justice Rajasekhar Mantha granted the plea on Tuesday, directing the autopsy under the supervision of three medical experts comprising chief medical officer of RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, the head of the department and one from the forensic department. The court ordered detailed videography of the autopsy proceedings and directed authorities to submit the CD to the court in a sealed envelope. The court also directed SSKM Hospital, where Gharai died, and Kanthi sub-divisional hospital to hand over all medical records of the victim to the family’s lawyer. Gharai (52), a resident of Kanakpur village in Purba Midnapore’s Patashpur, was picked up by police on September 26 following a complaint of abduction of a minor girl from neighbouring Basudebpur village. Widow Alpana alleged that Patashpur police “beat him mercilessly” in custody before producing him in court the day after. “Gharai’s nephew Kishore eloped with the girl about four months ago. Our family has no connection with the accused’s family. Police picked up my husband after they couldn’t trace the accused. He couldn’t stand on his legs properly in court. A Kanthi court remanded him in jail custody on September 27,” she said. Sources in Patashpur police claimed that Gharai was arrested on a complaint from the abducted girl’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-workers-death-hc-orders-second-autopsy/articleshow/78778280.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||MBA held for siphoning Rs2.7cr from auto firm||Mumbai: BKC police on Saturday arrested an MBA for allegedly manipulating account books and siphoning Rs 2.7 crore from an automobile company where he was an assistant manager in the finance department since 2013. Arun Thanghe (32) invested the money in the share market and property, and purchased gold ornaments. Thanghe went into hiding after his employer learnt about the fraud but was tracked down from his Badlapur residence last week. Police seized ornaments worth Rs 3.5 lakh, a laptop and a diary in which he noted down investments. Around Rs 67.8 lakh was transferred to accounts of five persons, who are suspected to have helped him. Thanghe was committing the fraud since 2017, when he used to transfer Rs 10-20 lakh the company would get on credit on demo cars supplied to car showrooms. Police said as per dealership norms with the accused’s company, the applicant has to maintain at least one demo vehicle of each model per location. The applicant purchases demo vehicles against a tax invoice. The demo vehicles are capital goods accounted under fixed assets of the company, excluding the GST component. The applicant has not claimed depreciation on the tax component of the demo cars nor claimed it as business expenditure. A BKC police officer said Thanghe used to manipulate the depreciation component of the demo cars and use to transfer it to three accounts, one of which was in his father’s name. “The fraud was observed during lockdown, when Thanghe’s senior allowed employees to work from home. The legal head got an alert its Prabhadevi car dealer that there was misappropriation in accounts by it employees and a case was registered with Worli police, when Thanghe’s name propped up. His employer checked the accounts and suspected his role,” said the officer. Thanghe is in police custody till Wednesday for cheating, forgery and breach of trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mba-held-for-siphoning-rs2-7cr-from-auto-firm/articleshow/78777075.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
October 21, 2020||Goa||Will expose government’s misdeeds says Sanguem MLA, Prasad Gaonkar||MARGOA: Reacting to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s outbursts against him with regards to the IIT project, Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar on Tuesday said that he would expose the government over various issues, including IIT and Sanjivani sugar factory, on Wednesday. “ The time has come to expose (the misdeeds of) this government,” Gaonkar said in a video recording. The independent MLA had earlier lent his support to the BJP government. The CM had on Monday accused Gaonkar of having made “settings” over the lands identified by the government for the proposed IIT project. “No single site with clear title was shown by the MLA,” Sawant had said. He had also said that Gaonkar’s statements against the government were as a result of not having got what he was expecting from the government. Reacting to the CM’s statement, GFP president Vijai Sardesai demanded that Gaonkar come clear over Sawant’s accusations. “The CM has not only insulted the Sanguem MLA, but also insulted all those people of Sanguem who had voted for him,” he said. The Fatorda MLA further termed the state government as a “government of settings” which has “put Goa on sale on a fast-track.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-expose-govts-misdeeds-gaonkar/articleshow/78777340.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Many choose responsibility over adda this year||KOLKATA: Subhasree Basu, who owns a boutique in Jadavpur has tweaked her Puja plans this year. Instead of pandal hopping, adda with friends and eating out, she has decided to stay at home as a responsible Kolkatan to prevent the spread of the virus. Anil Kumar Singh, a Burrabazar businessman, for whom Durga Puja is an opportunity to meet friends for adda, too, has decided to celebrate the festival at home with his family this year as an act of responsible behaviour. Several Kolkatans have decided to be more responsible over revelry owing to the pandemic. “Every Puja, I spend the nights pandal hopping with friends and go on at least one long drive. We also participate in a host of cultural events at the neighbourhood Puja. But this year, I have been pleading with everyone to stay safe and avoid pandal hopping,” said Subhasree Basu, who runs a boutique in Jadavpur. It is common for friends to make plans for night outs during Puja, eating at their favourite haunts and visiting the popular pandals. But many have cancelled their plans this year. Souvick Basu, a software engineer with an MNC, who lives with his elderly mother in Behala has also been ticking himself out of all Puja plans this year. “During Puja, I generally go out with friends on almost all the festive days before going to a late-night party at some friends’ place. But this year, I am concerned about my mother,” said Basu. The pujo adda has also disappeared from the list of activities of several Kolkatans. Businessman Anil Singh, who would take a break from his work and meet his friends during Durga Puja till last year, has decided to stay at home this time. “This would be the time to meet friends for adda and try out streetfood. But this year, that would not be responsible behaviour,” said Singh. The crowd count at several pandals on the second day of the Puja has scared people and forced them to think of the consequences in a few days if Covid cases surge. “Despite pleas from the government some organizers are unable to control the crowds. I have elderly parents at home and do not want to risk their safety by going out,” said Devlina Ghosh, a communication professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/many-choose-responsibility-over-adda-this-yr/articleshow/78777325.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t count us out, says deaf-blind Rudraprayag girl in video shortlisted by UN data forum||Dehradun: “I am invisible,” 16-year-old Asha Patwal says in sign language. The minute-long video of the deaf-blind girl from Rudraprayag, in which she makes a case for inclusion of those with dual disabilities in Census enumeration, is among the top 10 global finalists shortlisted by the UN World Data Forum for its ‘1 Minute Voices of Youth’ video contest. Cut off from the world twice over, Asha’s video makes a point about the need for identifying how many like her need help. “We do not get identified in the Census and no one knows how many of us exist in the world. Include us in the Census and give us an opportunity to inspire others. Nowadays, pandemic is an extra barrier for us,” she says in the soundless video. “Data is an important tool to plan our future. We are a tiny spark that can set our nation on fire. Count on us and connect to us for a better world.” The New York-based UN World Data Forum, which operates under the United Nations Statistics Division, had put out a call for videos from those between the ages of 15 and 24, saying why data matters. Asha’s submission said, “There are 0.5 million deaf-blind in our country but there is no official data.” Her video was created with support from Sense India, an Ahmedabad-based NGO that works with those who have multiple disabilities. “With a Census, we want the world to know we are part of this world. I want to be a teacher when I grow up and help others like me,” she told TOI. Asha was born with visual impairment, like her father and two siblings. “She had congenital cataract. The surgery was done in Delhi. Then, one Christmas vacation, when she went home to Rudraprayag, she contracted meningitis. With no proper attention, she lost her hearing. We got two surgeries done but they didn’t help,” said Sumana Samuel, principal of Sharp Memorial School for the Blind in Dehradun. She was then sent to the Bajaj Institute of Learning for Deaf Children in Dehradun, where she learnt sign language. Her video, also in sign language, was shot by Samuel: “She studies in Class X now and is known for her athleticism (Asha is an active participant in discus throwing and racing events). She aspires to move to the US some day, learn more about dual disability and reach out to others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-count-us-out-says-deaf-blind-rudraprayag-girl-in-video-shortlisted-by-un-data-forum/articleshow/78774834.cms||Shivani Azad
October 21, 2020||Goa||‘Convinced Goa CM to cancel SWR hearing’||Margao: NCP’s Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao has pledged to support the protesters opposing the South Western Railway’s (SWR) double tracking project. “I am always there for the people whenever my support is sought by them so I had gone there. I saw to it that the chief minister was convinced about the people’s objections that led to the cancellation of the hearing by the deputy collector,” Alemao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/convinced-cm-to-cancel-swr-hearing/articleshow/78777326.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Restaurants to halve the number of tables||AHMEDABAD: Expecting a Covid-19 spike around mid-November the municipal corporation is going on an overdrive to ensure that mandatory social distancing norms are not violated at rendezvous points like restaurants, residential communal spaces and religious institutions. “Since Navratri will involve going to restaurants and hanging out and meeting people, we are conducting physical inspections at every zone,” says a senior ward official in North west zone. Restaurants have been asked to halve the number of tables and chairs to reduce congregation. “We are expecting a spike around mid-November if festive season witnesses violations of social distancing norms,” admitted a senior AMC official. In restaurants, AMC officials are also appealing to owners to ensure proper ventilation to cut down on airborne transmission of the disease. “We will step up campaign against informal gathering on streets and other hangouts during the night. We are expecting a second wave of the disease around mid-November if proper prevention measures are not followed,” admitted the AMC official. In a certain restaurant on Anandnagar road, they have requested customers to dispose of their tissues in a designated dustbin. “We know that restaurants don’t want to lose their customer’s trust so adequate measures are mandatory,” adds the senior AMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/restaurants-to-halve-the-number-of-tables/articleshow/78777346.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Pune||Bay of Bengal system won’t affect Maharashtra much, says IMD||PUNE: Citizens and farmers can find some relief now that the low pressure system brewing over the Bay of Bengal is unlikely to move towards Maharashtra. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune told TOI, “A low pressure area has formed over central parts of Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to become more marked and move initially northwestward during the next 24-hours and then north-north eastward during the subsequent three days. Since its direction of movement gradually will be away from Maharashtra, there is no threat to our state. However, the system’s initial movement will activate some moisture incursion into Maharashtra.” Despite chances of intense rain in isolated places in Maharashtra till October 22, the spells are unlikely to be like the recent deluge experienced in Pune and other parts of the state. The intense spells have caused extensive damage to crops in the district while inundating roads in the city. Weather forecasters and flood control authorities had earlier said the system over Bay of Bengal was likely to follow the same track as the most recent low pressure area, which caused a flood situation in parts of the state as well as wrought havoc in Pune as it had moved inland, crossing Maharashtra. As per the latest GFS models, the low pressure area did form over the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday, and in the next 48 hours, it will intensify and move slightly northwest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bay-of-bengal-system-wont-affect-state-much-says-imd/articleshow/78777328.cms||Neha Madaan
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Staff of tech colleges organise ‘chalo JNTUH’||HYDERABAD: Protesting against the government’s decision to sanction affiliation to colleges without inspecting the facilities, members of Telangana Schools Technical Colleges Employees’ Association (TSTCEA) organised a ‘chalo JNTUH’ on Tuesday. They questioned as to why inspections were not carried out when the varsity could conduct examinations and Eamcet counselling during the pandemic. “Why is the varsity not inspecting colleges before granting affiliation,” questioned A Santosh Kumar, president, TSTCEA. He said that as part of the inspections, the varsity should also verify whether colleges are paying salaries to faculty and also ask managements to provide details of faculty who were sacked or left jobs during the pandemic. The members of TSTCEA, who met the registrar of JNTUH and submitted a representation, said that the varsity should direct managements to take back faculty members who were sacked during the pandemic. They also said that varsity should verify whether colleges have required faculty to run new courses in emerging technologies before granting affiliation. The other demands of faculty include providing group accident policy to all staff, giving six months maternity leave for women employees, to provide ex gratia to the kin of faculty, who died with Covid-19, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/staff-of-tech-colleges-organise-chalo-jntuh/articleshow/78777333.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||After corona attack, retailers hit by e-commerce giants||Nagpur: Retailers dealing in electronic goods, who were desperately waiting for the festive season, say after Covid, they have now been hit hard by the e-commerce giants. The discount blitzkrieg by the e-commerce portals has thrown them out of competition, once again. The same products for which they are getting a margin of 3% to 4% from the companies are being offered at discounts in the range of 20% or even more. This has brought down the festive sales at shops to less than half. The biggest hit is the mobile phone and computer business. The All India Mobile Retailers’ Association (AIMRA) is taking up the issue at different forums, including social media. To make matters worse, fresh stock with enough margin to allow discounts is also being denied by manufactures, say retailers. New models, too, are easily not available for the brick and mortar stores. Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), a national level traders’ body, which had earlier moved the court and the competition commission of India (CCI), has again raised the issue. Despite its efforts, CAIT is yet to get a legal remedy. “In the past, we have lost cases in the Karnataka High Court and CCI against the heavy discount practice and alleged predatory practice of the e-tailers,” said CAIT president B C Bhartia. Now, CAIT will take up the issue directly with the ministry of commerce. Karan Grover of M/s Simran Mobiles said, “For example a high-end mobile is supplied to us for Rs37,000. In normal course, we sell it at a margin of Rs1,000 odd. These days I’m simply forgoing the sales margin and depending on the payout the company gives on each activation. Due to the competition, we cannot afford to even sell it at a regular margin. The same phone is available in a leading e-commerce portal for Rs29,000.” Retailers cannot afford to sell at such rates as their purchase price itself is more than the rate at what the portals are selling, he said. A similar issue is being faced by computer vendors, too, said a trader. Retailers have also been sending mails to different manufacturers. In one of the mails shared with TOI, a retailers alleged biased support to online portals. The mail points out that 80% of the supplies are to the online segment with no supply of new models to the stores. It also says that there is no clear communication on GST and credit notes, demanding a level playing field with the online portals. The mail shared with TOI has been addressed to director of Realme Mobiles. Vinod Iyer, vice-president of AIMRA, said there is a long list of items which are available at heavy discounts online. This has brought the footfalls to negligible levels at the shops. “We simply cannot match the discounts due to our high purchase price. How can I sell a mobile that I have purchased for Rs80,000 at a lower rate even if the online portals are doing it?,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-corona-attack-retailers-hit-by-e-commerce-giants/articleshow/78777335.cms||Shishir Arya
October 21, 2020||Patna||RJD MLA, former MLC, ex-Union min among others join JD(U)||PATNA: Several leaders of different political parties on Tuesday joined the ruling JD(U) here in the presence of either CM Nitish Kumar or state president Bashishtha Narain Singh. The prominent among those who joined are RJD MLA Md Nematullah, former Union minister Dasai Chaudhary, former MLC Anuj Kumar Singh and the Congress’ Sitamarhi district president Vimal Shukla. While former MLC Anuj Singh joined the ruling party in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar and JD(U) state working President Ashok Choudhary, Md Nematullah and Dasai took membership of the party from the JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh. “Anuj Singh, who was elected as MLC in the previous term from the Gaya-Jehanabad-Arwal local authority seat, was appointed state vice president of JD(U) soon after joining the new party,” JD(U) state general secretary and spokesperson Pragati Mehta told TOI on Tuesday. Anuj was elected as MLC from JD(U). But later, he joined BJP. Anuj came in the limelight again in March 2019 when an armed group of Maoists attacked his ancestral home at his village Bodhibigha in Gaya district. Md Nematulllah, RJD’s sitting MLA from Barauli in Gopalganj district, decided to leave Lalu Prasad’s party after he was denied the party ticket. The RJD has fielded Riyazul Haque from Barauli seat. Dasai Chaudhary, a known party hopper, was in RJD. He has been part of all parties right from Congress to BJP to RLSP to RJD. Dasai, who was a Union minister in the Chandrashekhar government in the 1990s, said he would work as a humble cadre and discharge duties assigned to him by the JD(U) leadership. He was once Lok Sabha member from Rosera (SC) seat. Then a member of Congress, Dasai had come into the limelight in September 2013, when he went to Gujarat and met Narendra Modi in Ahmedabad with RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s brother-in-law Sadhu Yadav. Both were then expelled by Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-mla-former-mlc-ex-union-min-among-others-join-jdu/articleshow/78777366.cms||Madan Kumar
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: One-day tally up 13% in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A day after the state recorded its 92-day low daily tally of 996, Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday registered a 13% rise at 1,126. With the update, the total tally reached 1.61 lakh for the state. The new cases included 231 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 113 from Vadodara, 104 from Rajkot, and 71 from Jamnagar. The tallies for Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot have now reached 40,651, 34,301, 14,550, and 11,740 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of eight positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,654. The deaths included two each from Ahmedabad and Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Rajkot, Gandhinagar and Mehsana. A total of 1,128 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.43 lakh. The discharges included 244 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 104 from Rajkot, and 99 from Vadodara. The number of active cases in Gujarat has reached 14,267. The shares of active, discharged, and deceased patients in Gujarat were 8.8%, 88.9%, and 2.3% respectively on Tuesday. The state recorded a slight rise in daily testing with 52,915 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 54.79 lakh. According to the state health department officials, the number was 814 tests per day per million population. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 5.4 lakh persons under quarantine. Of the total, 266 were under facility quarantine, whereas the rest were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-day-tally-up-13-in-state/articleshow/78777451.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Waste processing operations at Sonsoddo come to a standstill||MARGOA: Issues concerning payments to the excavator machine contractor at Sonsoddo brought all work of processing incoming garbage to a standstill for the past two days as the contractor withdrew his excavator from the site. Consequently, with no room for dumping the fresh incoming waste, heaps of garbage were seen at various places across the town on Tuesday. Chairperson of Margao Municipal Council (MMC) Agnelo Fernandes, however, told TOI, that all pending payments of the JCB contractor were cleared on Tuesday evening, and that the work will resume on Wednesday. Meanwhile, some of the plastic baling machines that were lying non-functional at the SGPDA market and at Sonsoddo, were made operational on Tuesday. Around 15 tonnes of dry waste land at Sonsoddo everyday which is baled using baling machines. The baled waste is then sent to cement factories in Karnataka. The Shadow Council for Margao had strongly criticised the government for letting the plastic baling machines at Sonsoddo lie open in the rains that had caused damage to their hydraulic system. Meanwhile, a special meeting of the MMC will be held on Thursday to obtain financial approval of the council for procuring bio-methanation plants to be set up at three different locations in the city. While one of the plants will be set up at the SGPDA wholesale fish market, the two others will be installed at the SGPDA’s retail fish market and fruits and vegetable market. Each of the plants will treat 5 tpd (tonnes per day) of waste. The meeting assumes significance in the wake of allegations made by Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Council for Margao that the estimated cost of each biomethanation plant - tagged at Rs 4.81 crore - was on an exorbitantly higher side and thus smacked of a scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waste-processing-operations-at-sonsoddo-come-to-a-standstill/articleshow/78777362.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Panel to see Covid hospitals’ services||HYDERABAD: An expert committee consisting of doctors has been constituted by the Telangana government to oversee the functioning of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state. The six-member committee headed by Dr P Shravan Kumar, state coordinator for Covid-hospitals, will inspect, supervise and guide government and private dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The committee will also issue necessary directions for the improvement of the concerned hospital and report to the state government. The committee has been formed as per the directions of the Supreme Court for all states to have such a committee in place. Members of the committee are Dr L Sunil Kumar, associate professor of general medicine at Osmania Medical College, Dr YVS Ravi Naga Prasad, associate professor of anaesthesia at Niloufer Hospital, Dr S Pavani, associate professor of microbiology at Osmania Medical College, Dr RL Lakshman Rao, associate professor of community medicine at Osmania Medical College and Dr A Vishal, associate professor of psychiatry at Osmania Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-to-see-covid-hosps-services/articleshow/78777398.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Order CBI inquiry: Majlis Bachao Tahreek||HYDERABAD: The Majlis Bachao Tahreek (MBT) on Tuesday demanded chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to order a CBI inquiry into land grabbing of water bodies. “KCR should order a CBI inquiry into land grabbing of water bodies from 2004-2020 and the guilty must be punished,” said Amjadullah Khan, spokesman, MBT. “He should implement Kirloskar Commitee report and punish the land grabbers,” he added. Touching upon the estimation of loss and damages in the localities, Khan said there could be around Rs 50 crore of loss in Babanagar alone. MBT demanded CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to compensate Rs 10 lakh for total damage, Rs 5 lakh for partial damage and Rs 2 lakhs for property damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/order-cbi-inquiry-mbt/articleshow/78777412.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Masks effective only if hygiene, etiquette are followed, say doctors||BENGALURU: Masks may have become an inextricable component of daily life, but hygiene is crucial to their effective use. But experts warn repeated use of cloth masks without washing them properly, adjusting them too often, touching the inside with unclean hands and repeated use of disposable masks are unhealthy practices. One question Dr Bharat Reddy, paediatric pulmonologist and director, Shishuka Children’s Hospital, asks all his patients and their parents is if the masks they wear are washed properly before use. “It is not advisable for children below two years to wear masks,” Dr Reddy said. “For anyone older, it is suggested that they wear a mask and ensure it is clean. Currently we do not have N-95 masks in paediatric size.” Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, pulmonologist and state Covid-19 task force committee member, said mask etiquette is just as important as mask hygiene. “Pushing the mask down below the nose and mouth especially while speaking is dangerous,” he said, adding that the outer surface of the mask traps the virus and if used repeatedly without washing, it will not only be infective, but dangerous too. Pointing out that many officegoers remove masks at their workplaces, Dr Mysore said it is a harmful practice. “However long we work in an office, we don’t remove our clothes,” he said. “In these times, the nose and mouth should be considered private parts and need to be covered adequately. That kind of discipline is most needed.” Dr Vijay Samuel Richard, senior consultant, hospital infection control, Narayana Health, said the mask should cover the nose and mouth completely, failing which it loses its efficacy.  Dr Richard suggested that one should always carry a clean and dry mask before stepping out of the house. “A spare mask should be used if the mask that one is using becomes moist, soiled or dirty on the inside. This happens often after wearing it for about 4-5 hours.” Masks must be removed without touching the front of the mask, a mistake that many do, according to doctors. “It should be removed by only touching the ear loops or the fastening straps. It is important to thoroughly wash hands with soap and water after removing the mask,” Dr Richard said. Dr KS Satish, senior pulmonologist, Vikram Hospital, agreed mask hygiene is a matter of concern and said the best masks the general public can use are washable cloth masks. “Outside the hospital, I use a cloth mask,” Dr Satish said. “Washing the mask with soap water and air drying is necessary. Many people use the same mask for days together, which is most unhygienic. Reuse of masks without washing can lead to the accumulation of bacteria, viruses, and can lead to reinfection. If not coronavirus, there are several viruses which can cause infections,” he said. However, he said, Covid patients in home isolation must ideally use disposable surgical masks and dispose of them scientifically. Unhygienic use of mask can be dangerous to the respiratory system, Dr Satish said. “This awareness is needed everywhere, especially in the rural sector. There is so far no study conducted on the effect of masks that are unhygienic. Such studies are required,” he said. Doctors also differ in their opinion on the use of cotton masks. Dr Sunil Kumar K, consultant, interventional pulmonology, Aster CMI Hospital, said cloth masks may not prevent transmission of the virus. “As the size of the virus is very small, it can be easily transmitted from an infected person to a non-infected person through the small pores in the masks. Hence it is recommended to wear a surgical mask. These masks are double layered,” Dr Sunil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/masks-effective-only-if-hygiene-etiquette-are-followed-say-doctors/articleshow/78775327.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 21, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops to remember ACP Kohli, others who lost lives due to Covid||Ludhiana: On the occasion of Police Commemoration Day on Wednesday, the Ludhiana police will especially remember and pay homage to ACP Anil Kohli and ASI Jaspal Singh, who lost their lives due to Covid-19. The police will also plant a sapling in the name of ACP, ASI and other Covid warriors at the Police Lines. On Tuesday also, the Ludhiana police conducted a run to observe Police Commemoration Day from Guru Nanak Stadium to the Police Lines. Thereafter, the police officials organised a plantation drive at the Police Lines in the memory of police martyrs, followed by a blood donation camp. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “We have 67 martyrs who fought against terrorism. This year, ACP Anil Kohli and ASI Jaspal Singh also got martyred while fighting against Covid-19. We will be planting saplings in their names at the Police Lines.” Further, Agarwal added, “A function is organised every year to honour the families of martyrs. But this year, we are not organising any function due to Covid-19. Rather, the officials will visit the house of martyrs to hand over the recognition and token of gratitude to the families.” The official said that the family of ACP Kohli had been invited to the Police Lines who would plant a sapling in the name of ACP Kohli. Besides, Tuesday was the 53rd birth anniversary of ACP Kohli. On this day, the family visited old age homes and gave donations and other needful stuff to the elderly people. Paras Kohli, son of ACP Kohli, said, “My father used to visit schools, orphanage homes or old age homes on his birthday and used to distribute needful things among the needy on his birthday. On Tuesday, my mother and I visited old age homes and did what my father used to do.” With regard to Police Commemoration Day, Paras said, “The department has lost an officer but I have lost my father. He has left a void behind him, which no one can fill. I remember him everyday and will keep doing it. I and my mother will go to the Police Lines on Wednesday to pay homage to my father and all other martyrs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-to-remember-acp-kohli-others-who-lost-lives-due-to-covid/articleshow/78776131.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 21, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Now, after Class X students can enrol for CA foundation||CHENNAI: In a move that would help aspirants turn chartered accountants six months in advance, industry body Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), as part of a new rule, has allowed students who have passed Class X to enrol with the institute. The ICAI said it will allow students to provisionally register for the entry-level CA foundation course after passing the Class X examinations. Though registration is allowed after Class X, admission will be regularised only if the student clears Class XII. Earlier, students could register for the course only after appearing in their Class XII examinations and write the foundation exam only after a four-month study period. Under the new system, this study period can be completed while pursuing Class XI and XII. Thus, students who appear for the Class XII examinations in February/March will now be eligible to appear in the CA foundation examination in May, and won’t have to wait for the November exams, ICAI said. The new rule will help an aspirant become a CA faster due to the early admission, the institute said. The change follows the institute’s regular review of the examination system to make it more contemporary. “This will help students to prepare for the foundation course while studying in Class XI and XII,” said Atul Kumar Gupta, president of ICAI. Atul Kumar Gupta said, “They would have time to update their knowledge and acquire requisite techniques to appear for and pass the CA foundation.” This will also give them more time for developing, understanding and preparing for the professional course, he added.CA foundation exams are held twice a year — in May/June and in November/December. This year, the exams will be held in December. The foundation course comprises four papers, out of which two are subjective and two objective types. Industry trackers said the move will help catch aspirants young, and garner a firm commitment from the students’ community towards the profession of chartered accountancy, similar to engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-after-class-x-students-can-enrol-for-ca-foundation/articleshow/78777363.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,400 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 1,486 new cases of Covid-19 and seven deaths, raising the total count of Infections to 2,24,545. The death toll went up to 1,282 and so far, 2,02,577 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection, even as 20,686 patients remain under medical supervision in hospitals and at home. The recovery rate in the state has increased to 90 percent on Tuesday continuing an upward climb, while the average recovery rate in the country is currently at 88 per cent. “An improving recovery rate is a good sign indicating that more people are recovering from the virus infection,” said an official. Altogether, 42,299 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of people tested in the state till date to nearly 39 lakh. Samples tested per million population has now touched 1,04,750 in the state, which is among the higher ones in the country, officials added. The GHMC recorded 235 new cases, highest among the districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1400-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/78777364.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘No to religious centre atop Baga hill’||CALANGUTE: The social action cell of St Alex Church, Calangute, adopted a resolution at a recently held meeting to oppose the construction of the ‘Jesus Divine Centre’ on the sea-facing end of the verdant Baga hill. Calangute parish priest Fr Polly Lobo was among those present at the meeting. “We have not been consulted on the need for a ‘Jesus Divine Centre’ and therefore, we do not understand the intention of the government behind such an ecologically damaging idea. We are self-sufficient and keeping in mind that the environment needs to be preserved for our future generations, we unanimously resolve not to support this construction,” the resolution stated. According to members, the state government has approved the construction of the centre on 12,500sqm of land atop the Baga hill. Villagers have been questioning the need for such a centre ever since it was proposed by the North Goa Planning and Development Authority in the draft outline development plan for Calangute in 2016. While contending that the decades-old Xavier Retreat House is located on the same hill, they have alleged that the centre was proposed to facilitate the construction of a 10m-wide road along the length of the hill for the benefit of real estate projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-to-religious-centre-atop-baga-hill/articleshow/78777385.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pandals out of bounds, families decide to bring Maa Durga home||KOLKATA: If you can’t visit the Devi at the pandal, invite her home. Several families in Kolkata, who won’t be able to venture out during Durga Puja this year due to the pandemic, are organizing pujas at home. These families, consisting of senior citizens and children, have decided not to miss out on the rituals and the festive feel. Souvik Biswas and his family had missed Puja celebrations last year due to an unfortunate situation that had arisen in the family. This year, the pandemic has ensured that they won’t be able to step out as the family has many senior citizens. Just before August-end, Souvik and his wife Paramita had decided to organize a Durga Puja at their Lake Town house. “My wife would diligently participate in the rituals every year and the entire family would wait for the festival. But due to the pandemic we decided to organize a Durga Puja at home,” said Souvik. Keeping in mind the safety concerns, the family has made arrangements for the priest, dhaki and others to stay in their house for the duration of the festival. The Mitras of Kazipara in Nagerbazar have been thinking about starting Durga Puja at home as it entails several responsibilities and traditionally families do not want to discontinue it in the subsequent years. “For the past few years we had been toying with the idea of holding our own Durga Puja at home, but were discouraged by the logistics, management and other responsibilities that it entails,” said Saptarshi Mitra who works for an IT firm in Sector V. But the pandemic changed all that. “We are in a joint family with several senior citizens and children and we would participate in the rituals in the Puja in our neighbourhood. Since that won’t be possible this year we thought of organizing a Puja at home,” said Mitra adding that the family would continue with the tradition in the coming years. The Guha household on Convent Road is in a tizzy. The family is organizing Durga Puja for the first time and don’t want to leave any stone unturned. Only the family members will be taking part in the celebrations. “The deity will be arriving on Wednesday morning, so we want to wrap up everything before that,” said Shubhojit Guha, the patriarch of the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandals-out-of-bounds-families-decide-to-bring-maa-durga-home/articleshow/78777372.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple sedate 70-year-old, steal gold & cash||HYDERABAD: An elderly woman was given sedatives and 18 tolas of gold and Rs 10 lakh cash was stolen reportedly by her caregivers at HMT Colony, Nacharam, on Sunday. Nacharam police said Pradeep, who owns an advertisement agency, went to attend a function along with his wife and daughter on Sunday. He left his 70-year-old mother Lalitha in the care of a Nepali couple. “The couple had joined the residence of Pradeep to take care of Lalithamma 14 days ago,’’ Nacharam inspector T Ravi Kumar said.  “Lalithammais safe and has recovered,’’ police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-sedate-70-yr-old-steal-gold-cash/articleshow/78777360.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||UP police bring in CBI to investigate ‘TRP scam’||LUCKNOW/MUMBAI: Even as Mumbai police on Tuesday arrested two more persons, bringing the total to eight, as part of its investigation into allegations that Republic TV and two Marathi channels rigged viewership ratings, the CBI took over a case within three days of an FIR being lodged with UP police in Lucknow accusing “certain channels and broadcasting companies” of entering into a “criminal conspiracy” to manipulate TRPs with the aid of “certain unknown accused”. In his petition before Bombay high court on Monday, Republic TV’s owner and editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami had sought the transfer of the Mumbai police case to CBI. Read AlsoTRP scam: Cops arrest two more ex-employees of Hansa ResearchThe city crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Tuesday arrested two former employees of Hansa Research for their alleged role in rigging viewership figures for three television channels. This takes the total number of arrests made in the scam so far to 8.Police officials in Mumbai said they would not be surprised if the central investigating agency attemped to take over their case on grounds that the alleged TRP scam cut across state boundaries. They said that given the progress they had already made in their probe, they would resist such a move. The coalition government of Sena, NCP and Congress has been at odds with the BJP-led government at the Centre over a number of issues, notably the CBI taking over the probe into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput despite Mumbai police’s opposition. The jurisdiction over the alleged TRP scam could become the latest flashpoint. The BJP is in office in UP, too. Read AlsoTRP scam: Money flow from channels to key suspect was monthly, say Mumbai copsMumbai police, which is probing allegations that Republic TV and two Marathi channels bribed households with bar-to-meters so they could inflate viewership ratings, said they have found a larger money trail than initially suspected in the case, linking channels to a key suspect who is under arrest.A senior UP home department official said the case was referred to the CBI on the recommendation of the director general of police (DGP). “The TRP scam is not limited to UP only and involves groups and people spread across several states, according to the FIR. Hence a central agency would be best suited to investigate such a case,” the official said. “The CBI has registered a case at the request of the UP government and following a notification from the government of India about taking over the investigation of the case earlier registered by Hazratganj police station in Lucknow,” said a senior CBI officer associated with the case. Read AlsoNBA writes to TRAI about violations by Republic TVThere have been numerous formal complaints by the National Broadcasters Association (NBA) of serious regulatory violations by Republic TV aimed at boosting viewership. In last six months, NBA wrote over 20 letters to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) against Republic TV occupyingThe FIR was lodged on October 17 on the basis of the complaint of one Kamal Sharma, who’s described as a regional director in a media and advertising agency; it was kept under wraps till the CBI eventually took over the probe on Tuesday evening. On the basis of the complaint, Hazratganj police registered an FIR under charges that include criminal breach of trust, dishonesty, and tampering of meters and electronic records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-police-bring-in-cbi-to-investigate-trp-scam/articleshow/78779137.cms||Pervez Iqbal Siddiqui
October 21, 2020||Goa||Goa: 10 government officers transferred||PANAJI: The department of personnel on Tuesday affected the transfer of ten officers in the cadre of mamlatdars, joint mamlatdars, and assistant director of civil supplies. The transfers have been done on recommendations of the Goa Services Board. Of this, three officers have been given additional charge. All transferred officers have been instructed to take charge of their new posting immediately and submit compliance report. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/10-govt-officers-transferred/articleshow/78777437.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Goa||IIT-Goa will come up despite opposition: BJP||PANAJI: BJP on Tuesday said that some forces are working to make sure that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Goa project does not come up in the state even as it asserted that IIT-Goa will come up in the state. The party said that Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar had failed to provide land in his constituency at Sanguem and asked Gaonkar to let the people of the state know about any initiatives he had taken to set up IIT-Goa at Sanguem. BJP added that Gaonkar was hiding his failure and was now making statements that he welcomes IIT-Goa at Sanguem. State party general secretary, Damodar Naik said that with the elections nearing, opposition parties are trying to mislead people by raising issues and trying to spread lies. Naik said that IIT-Goa is a signature project for the state, adding, “Due to lack of time, health minister Vishwajit Rane took the initiative to have IIT-Goa at Sattari.” Naik said that Goans are smart to understand that the government is working for the state. He also said that a lot of people who are abroad, working aboard ships or are in London, give suggestions about what the state government has to do without understanding the ground reality. Recently, chief minister Pramod Sawant was targeted by the opposition over various issues, to which Naik said, “Why are they targeting the chief minister? Is it because he has dropped them from the cabinet? When they were in cabinet they were praising the government policies inside the assembly and outside the assembly. They should first see the videos to check what they have said in favour of the government.” Sawant on Monday hit back at Gaonkar saying that the Sanguem MLA was busy in “land deals” and that the IIT project had to move to Sattari as he failed to provide the land for it. Sawant told reporters, “Gaonkar was busy in land deals and because the setting was not done properly he first refused to hand over the land to the government. We would have not shifted IIT from Sanguem to Sattari.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-goa-will-come-up-despite-opposition-bjp/articleshow/78777414.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||34 hospitals join UN’s safe waste disposal operation in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Thirty-four public and private hospitals from Gujarat have become part of an initiative of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to adopt good practices of biomedical waste management to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The announcement was made during a webinar organized on Tuesday by UNIDO and Communeeti, an NGO. “UNIDO has been working to develop and implement environmentally sound practices and techniques for medical waste with 160-plus hospitals across five states of Karnataka, Punjab, Odisha, Maharashtra and Gujarat,” said an official. “Since the onset of Covid-19, it has been reported that project interventions have resulted in achieving near-zero Covid-19 infections among waste management workers in project hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/34-hospitals-join-uns-safe-waste-disposal-op/articleshow/78777474.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata puja committee gives half of state dole for treatment of 7-yr-old fighting rare disease||KOLKATA: The means to make up for deficits in the Puja budget became the lifeline for a seven-year-old boy suffering from aplastic anemia, a condition in which the body fails to produce blood cells in sufficient numbers. The Puja committee at the Netaji Colony Lowland area donated half of the amount they received from the state government for the Puja to the father of the ailing child. Residents of the neighbourhood are pooling in more funds to help the kid who needs a bone marrow transplant. For the past few months, hospitals have become the second home for the child, Dipak Sashmal, a resident of Netaji Colony in Baranagar. Tests confirmed that he was suffering from aplastic anaemia and needed a bone marrow transplant. He has had to stop playing and hanging out with friends and does not know when he will be able to go to school again. His father Uttam has been running from pillar to post to arrange for proper treatment for the kid. “We took him to SSKM Hospital and then to Chennai, but nothing worked. Finally, we took him to Tata Memorial Center where they treat such patients. But they needed a lot of money for that,” said Dilip Narayan Basu, a member of board of administrators at the Baranagar Municipality. “We can feel the desperation the family has been going through. But pooling funds during this pandemic has been tough. We were looking for ways to arrange for some fund for them,” said Basu. Meanwhile, Uttam — a gold artisan — decided to sell the plot of land he had in village. Even then he fell short by a lot for the treatment. When the Netaji Colony Lowland Durgotsav committee got the Rs 50,000 from the state government for Durga Puja expenditure, they decided to set aside 50% for the kid. “We wanted to give them some support to begin with. None of the committee members raised any objection. Instead they were eager to arrange for more. Many of them have seen the kid play around when he was in good health,” Basu said. “We have had to reduce the budget for our Puja by 75% this year as none of the sponsors were ready to fund. If we had funds, we could have contributed more towards his treatment by curtailing the Puja expenses. Our members are now knocking every door to seek some relief for Dipak. We had helped a cancer patient a few years ago and she successfully fought off the disease. We are sure to win this battle too,” said a member of the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/puja-committee-gives-half-of-state-dole-for-treatment-of-7-yr-old-fighting-rare-disease/articleshow/78777423.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Study: Change in bank credit composition||Ahmedabad: A study carried out by an IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) faculty and a doctoral student claimed that the higher economic uncertainty is associated with an increase in the relative share of household credit in the loan portfolio of banks. The research was conducted by Prof Sanket Mohapatra, a faculty in economics, and Siddharth M Purohit, a PhD student in finance & accounting under the aegis of the Misra Centre of Financial Markets and Economy at IIM-A. The study analyzed the impact of economic uncertainty on the composition of bank credit across the household and firm loans using bank-level data from 40 developed and developing countries. ‘The change in the composition of credit likely results from banks’ efforts to reduce the overall riskiness of their loan portfolios, since corporate loans are generally viewed as riskier than household loans. This shift towards household loans is more pronounced for weakly-capitalized banks, which may face greater risks during economic shocks, and for larger banks, which may be riskier due to complex business models and more market-based activities,’ mentioned the research synopsis, adding that the change in bank credit composition is likely to be supply-driven. The researchers said that the findings are particularly important in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic which has triggered extremely high economic uncertainty across the world. ‘An implication for India is that with a projected increase in the volume of stressed assets and risk aversion in the banking system during these times of economic uncertainty, timely recapitalization of banks would help in ensuring adequate credit flows to the corporate sector and facilitate India’s economic recovery,’ mentioned a note by the authors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/study-change-in-bank-credit-composition/articleshow/78777448.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Bike Bot scam: EOW arrests another accused||LUCKNOW: The UP Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) probing the Rs 4,000 crore Bike Bot scam arrested the 18th accused Lalit Kumar, a resident of Meerut carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000, on Tuesday. Kumar was arrested near Shiv Nadar University in Dadri, Gautam Budh Nagar. So far, EOW has arrested 18 persons and recovered 430 bikes. Sanjay Bhati, the owner of Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL), had cheated 2.5 lakh people. ED had registered a case and attached moveable and immoveable assets worth over Rs 103 crore of the company on July 20. Bhatis, the masterminds of the scam, had launched the ponzi scheme named Bike Bot. They lured people to invest by promising to double their money within a year. In a pre-planned conspiracy, Lalit Kumar purchased 32 bikes from Garvit and got Rs 3.12 lakh as returns every month. In connivance with Bhati, Lalit organised a grand ceremony at a hotel in GB Nagar in which he was presented an SUV and misled villagers that they can also get one if they invest. The villagers fell for the bait and invested money, but when they did not get returns, they lodged an FIR against Lalit who fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bike-bot-scam-eow-arrests-another-accused/articleshow/78778282.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||TRP scam: Cops arrest two more ex-employees of Hansa Research||MUMBAI: The city crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Tuesday arrested two former employees of Hansa Research for their alleged role in rigging viewership figures for three television channels. This takes the total number of arrests made in the scam so far to 8. The police are probing three channels—Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema—for inflating the figures by directing sample households to keep these channels on. Police also issued fresh summons to four Republic TV employees to appear on Wednesday, saying they have not produced the documents asked for. The notice said, “Reasonable suspicion exists that you have committed a cognisable offence.”A police team led by assistant police inspector Sachin Waze on Tuesday arrested Dinesh Vishwakarma from near the city airport and Ramji Verma from Worli. Both had been on the run since the police registered a case in the matter. Earlier, police arrested Vishal Bhandari, a former relationship manager of Hansa Research, who took money from various representatives of channels and paid households to rig the people meters installed by Hansa on behalf of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Police said it has now transpired that Vishwakarma was the mastermind who conspired with former employees like Bhandari and another arrested accused, Vinay Tripathi. Verma used to give money to arrested accused Umesh Mishra, who then asked households to watch Republic TV, police said. The four Republic TV officials to whom police have issued fresh summons are CFO Shiva Sundaram, COO Priya Mukherjee, executive editor Niranjan Narayan Swamy and distributor Ghanshyam Singh. In the notice issued under Section 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code, police said they want to question the officials on some documents purportedly belonging to the Hansa Research group, which were aired on October 10. Police in the notice said, “You are directed to provide the said documents but till date you have deliberately avoided to comply with legal mandate… it is evident that after recording your statement on October 14, you had influenced other witnesses by discussing and analysing the contents and process of ongoing investigations publicly… it is revealed that there are grounds to question you to ascertain facts, and reasonable suspicion exists that you have committed cognizable offence and therefore you are directed to remain present on October 21.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-scam-cops-arrest-two-more-ex-employees-of-hansa-research/articleshow/78778284.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||On greens’ prod, NMC changes water pipeline route to save trees||Nagpur: Bowing to protests by environment lovers, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has altered plans of laying a pipeline, which would have resulted in chopping of 50-60 age-old trees. Replying to the objection filed by environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation, NMC garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar said an alternate route for the pipeline is being considered which would involve felling of considerably fewer trees. Last month, TOI had reported NMC’s water works department had sought permission to chop around 50 big trees between Telangkhedi and Ravi Nagar to lay a water pipeline. Following this, green activists carried out a spot inspection and found that the actual number of trees that will be damaged will be much more. They also questioned the alignment submitted by the water works department, which chose a long and complex route via Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research- Telangkhedi-Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran-Prahar School-Ravi Nagar to Ambazari. In the letter to Green Vigil, NMC said the alternate route will be shorter. Speaking to TOI, Chorpagar said, “The water works department had a meeting with environment activist Shrikant Deshpande and they are working on an alternate route. Initially, 19 trees were to be cut for the first phase of the project. However, the number had gone up to around 60.” In their letter, Green Vigil had demanded that instead of a private agency, a team of officials from garden department, public works department, water works department, tree committee, environment experts and other stakeholders should conduct a fresh survey. Green Vigil founder Kaustabh Chatterjee said he is happy that NMC considered the suggestion and agreed to change the proposed route of the pipeline. “After a site survey, we noted that the pipeline route is a lengthy one and a many trees needed to be cut. Hence, we suggested that the shortest route be chosen to minimize the trees that will be felled,” he said. Stating that greens are not against the laying of pipeline, as water is an essential commodity, Chatterjee added, “The need of the pipeline as well as causing minimum damage to ecosystem needed to be explored. We have also suggested to NMC to involve all stake holders in such decisions so that a good solution can be arrived at towards sustainable development.” Recently, Nagpur West MLA Vikas Thakre had also spoken up about the issue, and wrote a letter to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B appealing that not a single tree should be cut for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-greens-prod-nmc-changes-water-pipeline-route-to-save-trees/articleshow/78777456.cms||Manka Behl
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Nigerian peddler held; 6 gm cocaine seized||HYDERABAD: A Nigerian was arrested for drug peddling at Langer Houz on Tuesday. Police seized six grams of cocaine worth Rs 48,000 from the possession of the accused. Acting on specific information, a Task Force team kept a watch at Langar Houz flyover on Tuesday morning and arrested Daniel Ayotunde Olamide, a Nigerian, who was trying to sell cocaine to prospective customers. Police team seized six grams of cocaine, two passports, a Honda Activa scooter, a cell phone and Rs 15,000 cash from his possession. The 32-year-old confessed he is pursuing B Com Final year at Vivekananda degree college in Kukatpally while staying at an apartment in Sun City, Bandlaguda. Daniel is a native of Ijebu in Lagos state of Nigeria. Task force Inspector Gattu Mallu said Daniel came to Hyderabad on July 26, 2014 on student visa and joined Vivekananda degree college. Police said Daniel had been selling a gram of cocaine for Rs 8,000 and transferring the sale proceeds to John through bank accounts and e-wallets. The accused along with the seized material was handed over to Langar Houz police for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nigerian-peddler-held-6-gm-cocaine-seized/articleshow/78777416.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 8,000 MT trash collected||HYDERABAD: In light of the torrential rains over the past week and the accumulated trash in several parts of the city, GHMC sanitation staff carried out a special monsoon drive collecting 8,293 metric tonnes of trash across the city. GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar said that the GHMC machinery was working for the restoration of normalcy in the city. The drive that began on Sunday helped identify 7,608 piles of waste. An additional 277 vehicles are being used to clear the heaps of rubbish. From Charminar zone 4,782 metric tonnes of waste were collected, Khairatabad 1,029 metric tonnes, 768 metric tonnes in LB Nagar, Kukatpally 732 metric tonnes, Secunderabad 549, Serilingampally zone 433 metric tonnes of waste. In addition to this, GHMC cleared construction and debris on roads in GHMC area for free vehicular movement. In this drive, 204 main road stretches were inspected, and waste identified at 190 locations, out of which in 68 locations C&D waste was lifted and shifted to designated centre. The lifting in remaining locations is under process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-8k-mt-trash-collected/articleshow/78777443.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Woman, daughter beat to death man who made obscene calls||COIMBATORE: A woman and her daughter on Tuesday beat a 46-year-old man to death at Periyar Nagar in Karamadai here after he allegedly made inappropriate phone calls to the younger woman over the past week. A police officer from the Karamadai police station said Dhanalakshmi, 32, a widow, who has been living with her 50-year-old mother Mallika at Periyar Nagar, received a call from an unidentified number a week ago. “She answered the call and told the caller that he had dialled the wrong number. However, the person repeatedly called her and sometimes spoke to her in an obscene manner. Dhanalakshmi recorded the calls and informed her mother, who is also a widow. In an attempt to identify the caller, they invited him to their house on Tuesday afternoon.” The man turned up at their house around 2pm and a heated argument broke out between the mother-daughter duo and him. “Later, they beat him with logs and he suffered injuries on his legs, head, face and lips. He walked a few metres but collapsed on the road and died,” the officer said. People in the vicinity alerted the Karamadai police, who visited the spot and sent the man’s body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem examination. Police identified the deceased as N Periyasamy of Arul Nagar in Rathinapuri. The Karamadai police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and detained Dhanalakshmi and Mallika. They would be produced before a judicial magistrate court on Wednesday. Periyasamy’s body would be handed over to his family after the autopsy on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-daughter-beat-to-death-man-who-made-obscene-calls/articleshow/78777452.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Re-exams for SSC, HSC to be in November-December||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will conduct repeat examination for class X (SSC) and XII (HSC) between November 20 and December 10. The practical and oral examinations will begin on November 18. A detailed timetable for the exams is available on the board’s website www.mahahsscboard.in. Students can submit the online forms from October 20 to 29 without late fee, and from October 30 to November 2, with late fee. The forms are open for regular students, repeater students, private students and students who want to apply in the class improvement scheme. Students who wish to apply in the class improvement scheme will get two chances—November-December 2020 and February-March 2021. This year, about 7% of the 18 lakh SSC students did not clear the exam and 13% of the 15 lakh HSC students did not pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/re-exams-for-ssc-hsc-to-be-in-nov-dec/articleshow/78777077.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana defers all exams till Dasara||HYDERABAD: Telangana government has deferred all school and college exams till Dasara following India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad’s prediction of heavy rainfall across the state till October 22. The announcement was made by education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy on Twitter. Following the minister’s announcement, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Dr BR Ambedkar Open University and Osmania University deferred all their exams scheduled to resume from October 21 after two-day break. “The revised date will be intimated later for all exams... However, there is no change in the schedule of exams which are going to be held from October 27, 2020,” an official release JNTUH registrar Manzoor Hussain said on Tuesday. Even BRAOU postponed undergraduate third year exams that were scheduled on October 21-23 in AP and Telangana. OU has also decided to conduct post-graduate exams for all courses from October 27. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-defers-all-exams-till-dasara/articleshow/78777457.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents plan short trips for Dasara weekend||HYDERABAD: With celebrations missing from the city, many are packing their bags to head out for a short road trip or check in to city hotels for a ‘staycation’. Resorts, tourist locations in Telangana and neighbouring states are the preferred destinations for many for the Dasara weekend. “We will be starting our road trip on October 23 and would be covering Kuntala waterfalls and Pochera waterfalls before heading to Yavatmal from jungle safari,” said Rajat Kotharu, a chartered accountant. He said that four families in three cars will be part of this four-day road trip. Resorts and hotels, which are located on the outskirts of the city, are high in demand as many of them are completely booked on October 25 and October 26 and many families are heading there to have private garba or dandiya nights. “Our resort can accommodate about 100 people and it is completely booked for the Dasara weekend,” said Sanketh Reddy, managing director, Brown Town Resort and Spa, which is located in Moinabad. He said that the newly opened resorts have several theme-based cottages — Jaipur, Wayanad, Shimla, among others, which will give the visitors an opportunity to relive their time spent in their hometowns. “Five to six families are coming together to book party lounges to celebrate the festival. With incessant rains, many are preferring to have indoor celebrations and are booking banquet halls,” he added. Likewise, The Golkonda Resorts & Spa, which is located in Gandipet, is completely booked for this Saturday and Sunday. “We are receiving queries from individuals and for the wedding. For Dussehra, it is completely sold out,” said Rahil, associate director of sales, Golkonda resort. Though some had plans of flying out to various locations, they are now unsure given the weather predictions.“We were planning to go to Mysore for Dasara, but are in a dilemma now because of the incessant rains,” said Bhargav P, an IT employee adding that they might now opt for a staycation at a luxury hotel in the city instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-plan-short-trips-for-dasara-weekend/articleshow/78777469.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 21, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 10am to 10pm Metro services from Saptami to Dashami||KOLKATA: During the four Puja days, Metro will run from 10am to 10pm at 20 min intervals along the north-south corridor. For East-West Metro, which is used by very few people, services will be from 2pm to 8pm and trains will ply every 30 minutes. The north-south line’s existing Sunday schedule will be replicated from Saptami (Friday) till Dashami (Monday), with the first and last trains leaving at 10am and 9pm. Currently, there are no Sunday services along the East-West corridor. Footfall for Sector V-Phoolbagan section hovers around 400 against the Kavi Subhas-Noapara’s nearly 90,000 ridership. Metro Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi said, “We did plan some special services, but the high court doesn’t want crowding. We cannot work contrary to the directive.” Puja organizers on Tuesday moved a review petition before the high court. Even if there is a revised order on Wednesday, it will be too late to reorganize the slots for e-pass booking. Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state government has appointed to develop the URL for e-passes, said, “We will require at least 24 hours to change the slots.” Meanwhile, East-West Metro added a seventh train to its existing fleet on Tuesday. There are 14 now BEML-made rakes for East-West Metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10am-to-10pm-metro-services-from-saptami-to-dashami/articleshow/78777454.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||SDO, JE suspended, 3 stafferssacked for aiding power theft||LUCKNOW: The sub divisional officer and junior engineer were suspended and three ad hoc employees were terminated from Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (MVVNL) after they were found allegedly involved in power theft at eight flats of an apartment in Thakurganj. The action was taken after a vigilance team conducted a raid in an apartment in Dubagga early Tuesday morning and found power theft in eight flats. The team found a total of 28 KW load was being illegally used. The power theft accused flat owners were identified as Sayeed Mohammed Ali, Urooj Fatima, Rizwan, Sujat Ali, Shoaib, Danish, Muzammil and Musbar Ali. “Among the eight, Sujat Ali, Shoaib, Muzammil and Musbar Ali are repeat offenders and will be sent to jail,” said MVVNL public relations officer Shalini Yadav. “SDO Rizwan Siddique and JE Anil Kumar have been suspended and three ad hoc employees of night shift Nand Kishore, Rahul Singh and Lalit have been terminated with immediate effect for their alleged involvement in power theft,” she added. Sources said the accused owners of flats in the Dubagga apartment were involved in power theft for over five years with the help of discom staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sdo-je-suspended-3-stafferssacked-for-aiding-power-theft/articleshow/78778313.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Glaciers retreating but rate falling: Professor||LUCKNOW: The all-India online lecture series in Hindi being organised by the Union ministry of earth sciences to spread awareness about science began on Tuesday. The inaugural lecture was delivered online by Lucknow University’s professor of geology Dhruvsen Singh. Prof Singh, who was part of India’s first and second expedition to the Arctic in 2007 and 2008, spoke on ‘Gangotri Glacier and Climate Change: Natural or Anthropogenic’. “All glaciers of the Himalaya are retreating at different rates, but at the same time, some are also advancing, which indicates that global warming is not the only reason behind the glacier retreat. However, some extreme climatic events due to global warming have created panic. We need thorough research to find out anthropogenic/natural factors behind the glacier retreat,” he said. “The Gangotri glacier’s pattern of retreat since 1935 shows that it is decreasing, but at the same time, the rate of retreat is continuously declining. Glaciers will melt/retreat whenever temperature is more than zero degree Celsius, but the decreasing rate of retreat is contrary to the panic created over the issue by many organizations,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/glaciers-retreating-but-rate-falling-prof/articleshow/78778288.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress demands aid to rain-hit farmers||HYDERABAD: Stating that the heavy rains have damaged the quality and quantity of crops in lakhs of acres in Telangana, the Congress on Tuesday urged the state and central governments to not only relax procurement norms of various crops but also announce Rs 20,000 per acre compensation to farmers. Congress MLC T Jeevan Reddy said instructions should be immediately issued to the officials at the procurement centres to accept all varieties of paddy. Also, the government should fix a price of Rs 2,500 per quintal towards the minimum support price of a fine variety of paddy (fine rice). “It is unfortunate that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has not come out of Pragathi Bhavan, his camp office-cum-residence despite the fact that thousands of families have been rendered homeless due to inundation of their houses and colonies following heavy rains,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-demands-aid-to-rain-hit-farmers/articleshow/78777488.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Goa||Silent walk in London to protest Mollem projects||Panaji: Goans in London staged a silent walk to call for an end to the upcoming projects at the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park. The initiative was led by UK-based social activist Carmen Miranda, adhering to pandemic norms. Belonging to varying backgrounds and different ages, the protesters held placards with messages including ‘Goans against coal’, ‘Save Mollem national park’, ‘No coal hubs in Goa’, and ‘Save Goa for the future generation’ among others. “I hope to inform and encourage Goa’s diaspora worldwide to join us in our solidarity and in voicing our deep concerns about the imposition of mega projects that are polluting, not sustainable, destroy the environment, the biodiversity and water resources, and do not comply with the global and international urgency of phasing out coal and fossil fuels, and above all don’t even benefit the great majority of Goans. In fact, the coal transport and hubs in Goa issue is just for the benefit of coal-fired power stations and steel corporations in Karnataka and for their profits,” Miranda told TOI. In a video shared by Miranda, the London-based Goans can be seen wearing their thermals, coats and face masks and walking in a procession maintaining social distance. The protesters commenced the silent walk from Alexander Palace park in North London in a symbolic gesture of solidarity with Goans in Goa. “This gathering is for all the Goans. We are standing for our people back home,” said one of the protesters in the video. “Everyone is worried about the rapid destruction of Goa’s villages, and forests. Some wondered what would be left , when they eventually returned home after a few years of working here,” Miranda said. More protests will be held in areas of London and outside London where there are large concentrations of Goans, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/silent-walk-in-london-to-protest-mollem-projects/articleshow/78777460.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 7,000 houses of the poor in districts destroyed in rains||HYDERABAD: Crops in nearly 25 lakh acres of land, of the total 1.3 crore acres of land under cultivation, were destroyed in the monsoon downpour during the last three months in various parts of the state this year. As many as 7,000 houses belonging to the poor in different districts, barring Greater Hyderabad limits, were either damaged or partly-damaged in the last three months. As per the National Disaster Management Guidelines, if pucca houses are completely damaged due to floods or any other calamity, the government has to pay Rs 92,000, Rs 5,200 if it’s a shed or a hut that has been completely damaged and Rs 3,200 if partly-damaged. Further, the state government had issued a government order in the year 2015 to make these payments to poor whose houses are affected by heavy showers or flooding. However, most houses that were damaged are not pucca constructions and compensation is reportedly not paid in many areas. Activists say that the poor still live in kutcha houses which can collapse easily, leading to injuries and loss of life. “It is better if the state government takes up a detailed enumeration of such houses to provide the poor support with the help of other agencies too,” said S Ramesh, a relief worker from Nagarkurnool. Experts observe that the government thoroughly assesses the damage caused by a natural calamity of government properties, but loss to private property is not assessed properly. “If private property is also taken into consideration, the damage will be huge than what is being predicted, let it be houses, or other personal belongings of the people, there has to be some change in our policy in this direction,” said Dr S Venakateswarlu, a researcher on urban floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7000-houses-of-the-poor-in-districts-destroyed-in-rains/articleshow/78777492.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Hafeez Baba Nagar residents rue flood losses in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: “Not until I saw a 70-year-old lady beating her chest and crying in agony did the full force of the calamity hit me. Her entire life’s savings including her clothes got swept away in the current of the overflowing nala which is located just adjacent to the area,” said Mohammad Mateen, a resident of Nadeem colony in Hyderabad’s Old City. Mateen, who was in Nanded to visit his relatives last week, returned home on Tuesday morning to people walking in knee deep sewage water and piles of garbage swept up by the flood waters. A few kilometers away, in Baba Nagar’s B-block, an intermediate second year student Fatima Sultana, 17, said all her books, clothes and Rs 50,000 cash that her parents saved to get their four children educated washed away in the flood. “I couldn’t pass my intermediate exams in the first attempt, so I was planning on clearing the subjects by studying hard this time from the books that I had. But all my books are now destroyed, and we don’t have the money to buy them again,” she cried. Fatima’s mother, Razia Sultana said that they had not receive any help from the authorities even when the family had to spend three days on the terrace after their entire house was submerged in water. “We had no time to collect our belongings. All our life’s savings including my children’s books, electronics and all our clothes got swept away,” she said. Meanwhile, AIMIM MLA Kausar Mohiuddin who was visiting the rain affected colonies such as Baba Nagar, Virasat Nagar, Nadeem colony and Shatam Nagar said, “Majority of the families have been evacuated and shifted to safer places and the water level is also slowly receding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hafeez-baba-nagar-residents-rue-flood-losses/articleshow/78777516.cms||Moulika.KV
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||This fall is lifting spirits||AHMEDABAD: It was a magic figure of 996 on Monday that nearly completed the continuous fall of daily Covid-19 positive cases in the state – from its highest daily tally of 1,442 on September 25, in a matter of 24 days, the daily cases tally got dropped by 31% - something which is not seen routinely in other Indian states. On Tuesday, the recovery rate of Gujarat was 88.9%. But the officials are in no mood to rejoice yet – on Tuesday, the daily tally shot up by 13% in a day with 1,126 cases. “The festive season is already on. While majority of the population is adhering to the norms of social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitizer frequently, a small fraction of the society is not following it,” said a senior state health department official. “Thus, cities like Ahmedabad and Surat have devised their own mechanism to ensure that the major hotspots have more stringent implementation of norms.” While the numbers are constantly falling, the composition of the cases and deaths have remained almost the same for Gujarat – four major districts of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot – still account for majority of the cases due to their densely-packed urban clusters. In fact, the share of eight municipal corporation areas has always hovered around 50%, point out epidemiologists. “Factors such as more travels compared to rural areas, frequent visits in neighbourhood, lack of social distancing, etc. work against the epidemic control in urban clusters. Thus, the cities of Ahmedabad and Surat account for 30% of the state’s total cases. Handling the epidemic in cities would be half the game won,” said a public health expert. It’s also to do with the smaller pockets – Jamnagar district on a couple of occasions even surpassed tally of Vadodara and Rajkot in beginning of October before the cases fell down by about 25% in a fortnight. Experts said that districts in South Gujarat except Surat have not recorded a major surge after August. “Likewise, cases in eastern districts have also remained consistent. Some districts of Saurashtra and north Gujarat are in focus. Teams from centres such as Ahmedabad and Surat are sent for assisting the local doctors and also training them in the best practices, diagnosis and home care. In October, the share of hospitalized patients is close to 50%, as 33% of the patients are now under home care,” said a senior health department official. Experts however have already predicted second peak in the winter months. They said that whatever we can do to save the rise in cases at present would help reduce the future number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-fall-is-lifting-spirits/articleshow/78777550.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||New Lucknow MC tippers face technical snags||LUCKNOW: As many as 12 tippers of the 220 introduced by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) for garbage collection just six days ago have been rendered dysfunctional due to technical snags. According to LMC, clutch plates in these tippers are not functioning correctly. Due to this, the operators are having trouble in changing gears, resulting in jammed vehicles. Purchased at Rs 15 crore, the 220 tippers were flagged off by urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia and municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi on October 14. LMC environment engineer Pankaj Bhusan said, “Vehicles that have developed snags will be sent to the company for repair as per the contract with the company.” Equipped with GPS device, these tippers have four compartments for collecting dry, wet, hazardous and sanitary napkins waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-lmc-tippers-face-tech-snags/articleshow/78778319.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ahmedabad||Top tax official succumbs to virus||Ahmedabad: Shock waves ran through the income tax (I-T) department fraternity on Tuesday as Devashish Roy Choudhury, the chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT) for tax deducted at source (TDS) passed away after a severe cardiac arrest. The department sources said that he was Covid-19 positive. “He passed away at 1.45pm in Ahmedabad. His untimely death is not only shocking but also a great loss for the whole IRS fraternity,” said top I-T department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/top-tax-official-succumbs-to-virus/articleshow/78777552.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Hyderabad||Relief work at camps begins, Covid looms||HYDERABAD: With citizens housed at flood relief camps where social distancing is practically impossible, health screening and distribution of masks has been taken up by authorities to prevent Covid-19 spread. While testing for Covid is going on in the camps and basthi dawakhanas are being run round the clock in several locations, with most people in relief camps returning to their houses as soon as water is receding a bit, outbreaks of diarrhoea, cholera, typhoid, dengue and malaria are feared by state health authorities. “Most of the people left their houses unprepared and once water receded a little, they are going back. It’s a dynamic situation at the camps and practically impossible to have social distancing. We are trying to create awareness among people evacuated from flood affected areas and have distributed masks, hand sanitisers in relief camps apart from health screening. We have alerted HMWSSB officials and they are testing samples for water contamination as water borne diseases pose a threat of epidemic outbreaks in flood affected areas,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. Volunteers are reporting complaints of fungal infections, diarrhoea and fever from flood affected areas where either people are not evacuated or have returned. Around 70% of people in flooded areas have complained of fungal infection, 20% of diarrhoea, 10% of fever, cold & cough as per a door-to-door survey of flood affected areas by Helping Hand Foundation, an NGO delivering medicines to the affected. “In many areas water has receded, but muck and slush has made difficult for people to come out and access medical and health care services. People are requesting door delivery of health services in many areas,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, founder, Helping Hand Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relief-work-at-camps-begins-covid-looms/articleshow/78777543.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 21, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Clinical training of MBBS, dental students crippled||MANGALURU: The pandemic has put the mandatory oneyear internship for MBBS and dental students, which helps them acquire skills through clinical training, on crutches. Internships for medical and dental students in coastal Karnataka generally begin in March, but when the nationwide lockdown was announced, some dental colleges reportedly sent students home. While most MBBS interns stayed back, they haven’t had enough clinical exposure as most out-patient departments in medical college hospitals either shut down or had very few patients. Dr Venkataraya Prabhu, dean, Kasturba Medical College (KMC), Mangaluru, said all interns in the batch are deputed to departments like surgery, community medicine and orthopaedics and they spend about a month or two in each department on rotation. “They are deputed to every department for some time, but the question is whether they got the kind of exposure they need. And already seven months are over,” Dr Prabhu said. Dr Jayaprakash Alva, dean, Father Muller Medical College, said, “The number of out-patients this year has been far fewer compared to previous years. As a result, the current batch of interns has not got the kind of exposure students in previous batches got. It’s not that we assigned our MBBS interns only to Covid-19 duty. We did post them in all departments, both during the lockdown and thereafter.” Dr Alva said that on a normal day prior to the pandemic, the hospital saw an average daily footfall between 1,700 and 2,200 patients seeking treatment. However, post the outbreak, it fell to 150-200 although more people seeking treatment are trickling in now. “We had about 900 out patients on Monday,” Dr Alva said. “But MBBS interns are not getting the clinical training they are supposed to get. That is the reality.” OPDs in some medical college hospitals were shut for six months from March and while medical interns were deputed to Covid-19 duties, dental interns were asked to either go home or stay back in hostels. Some dental colleges don’t have UG interns as their final year examination was not held. Medical students of KMC intern either at Wenlock District Hospital or Lady Goschen Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-cripples-mbbs-dental-student-interns-clinical-training/articleshow/78775631.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 21, 2020||Bhopal||Process of land acquisition for Bhopal metro begins||Bhopal: District administration has set into motion the plan for swift acquisition of land for Bhopal metro rail project. It includes land under possession of 18 different government departments along with private properties.Direct allotment of land will take place for metro rail to speed up the process of land transfer. It is expected to be handed over to Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MPMRCL) in the next two months, according to sources. In 2019, MPMRCL had issued notifications to acquire land for the construction of the Bhopal metro rail project. Property owners along the metro rail phase-I route, starting from Arera Hills to AIIMS, Bhopal and along Purple route, AIIMS to Karond, are expected to be intimated soon. MPMRCL will pay compensation for the acquired land, said sources.District administration officials are expected to handover detailed reports identifying obstacles. A large portion of land to be acquired is from government departments. The report will be submitted to the government. After getting the directives, removal of obstacles and land equitation would take place.In a pre-emptive move, heavy machinery has been shifted on the route from AIIMS to Karond. In the first phase, obstacles from AIIMS to Subhash Nagar will be removed. A detailed survey report for the proposed metro station and shopping complex near Roshanpura intersection is also likely to be submitted in the coming days.Pul Bogda is expected to be a technical and land acquisition challenge for the administration. Meetings are expected to follow for metro stations for the Purple and Red Metro lines. Tendering for shifting of discom lines on the route is also to be undertaken by the agency. PWD and CPA have also issued NOC for construction on the route of AIIMS route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/process-of-land-acquisition-for-bhopal-metro-begins/articleshow/78776226.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||In a first, 12 accused of crime against women externed||LUCKNOW: Acting tough on people accused of committing crime against women, Lucknow police has, for the first time, externed 12 repeat offenders from the city for six months. Most of the accused were in their 20s or early 30s and worked as mechanics or ran kiosks. The move is a part of ‘Mission Shakti’ which has been launched in the state to ensure safety and security of women. “Acting on the directives of the chief minister, we identified people who been repeatedly accused of crime against women. After a rigorous exercise, names of 12 people surfaced. We went through their criminal record, booked them under the Gangster’s Act and externed them from the city,” Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey said. He said the decision would send a strong message to anti-social elements that tough action would be taken not only against hardcore criminals but also those who indulge in crime against women and girls. Police have externed at least 150 criminals so far but this is the first of its kind action in the city in cases of crime against women.  Accused, Nisar (33) of Para, had four cases of sexual harassment, rape and under ST/SC Act against him. Madan (26) of Aashiana has cases of sexual harassment and under Pocso Act against him. He used to work in a shop. Saleem (25) and Maqbool (20) of Chinhat and Irfan (34) of Saadatganj were charged with rape and sexual harassment. All of them worked as mechanic. Shobhit Yadav (21) was also booked for sexual harassment and under ST/SC Act. Others externed are Ram Yadav (32) of SGPGI area, Sunny (23) and Suresh (32) of Krishnanagar, Ram Awatar (24) of Mohanlalganj and Mathura Prasad (49) of Indiranagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-a-first-12-accused-of-crime-against-women-externed/articleshow/78778320.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Low-key welcome for goddess Durga this year in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The much-awaited Durga Puja festivity will begin from Thursday. However, in the wake of the Covid pandemic, devotees will have to opt for online darshan of the goddess and home delivery of prasad. No offering or cultural activities will be allowed in the puja pandals. A look at how Durga Puja will be celebrated at some prominent places in the city: Bengali Club: Only puja rituals will be carried out with full precautions against Covid. RDSO: Puja will be held at a new venue, Milani, instead of Rajdhani Hall. Sahara States: Puja celebrations have been cancelled. Instead, puja will be held at a private place with a much smaller Durga idol, among only the committee members. Sector-D, Aliganj: Milan Sangh Durga Puja Committe has cancelled celebrations this year. Aliganj’s Trans-Gomti Dussehra and Durga Puja: Puja festivities will be held in a hall instead of the usual venue of Chandrashekhar Azad Park. Pija will be telecast live on its Facebook page. Latouche Road: Puja Sangsad Society will allow devotees via token system to keep a record of them in case of contact tracing. Only 50 visitors will be allowed to enter at a time after thermal scanning. Charbagh: Durga Puja organised by Manav Adarsh Sewa Samiti has roped in a cook to prepare prasad which will be home delivered to devotees on Maha Navami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/low-key-welcome-for-goddess-durga-this-year/articleshow/78778325.cms||Aditi Singh
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||DM orders FIR against contractor for poor construction of UPSRTC bus station & women’s hospital, suspends jr engineer||PILIBHIT: District magistrate (DM) Pulkit Khare has ordered the lodging of an FIR against Mukesh Arora — the contractor who built both the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) bus station and the 50-bed Puranpur women’s hospital — and the suspension of junior engineer Sikandar Pal of Uttar Pradesh State Construction Corporation Limited (UPSCCL), the government agency assigned by the state administration to carry out the projects, for shoddy construction quality of both buildings. In addition, he has pulled up V K Gangwar, UPSRTC assistant regional manager, for negligence in regularly inspecting and reviewing the quality of construction. Khare had made a surprise inspection of the two buildings being constructed on Tuesday. The total construction cost of the bus station had been assessed at Rs 5.36 crore, while the women’s hospital had a budget of Rs 5.14 crore. Construction work of the bus station was scheduled for completion on October 21, while the deadline for the women’s hospital is December, said Khare. He said he had found the material used in construction, finishing and furnishing to be of extremely inferior quality, with “third grade” bricks used to lay the platforms in the bus station, electrical appliances of sub-standard quality, and many electrical switches not working even before stage construction is complete, Khare said. Similar deficiencies were detected in the construction of the women’s hospital. The DM announced he has set up a panel of assistant engineers from PWD and the district rural development authority (DRDA) under the chairmanship of Puranpur SDM Rajendra Prasad, to technically examine the quality of construction work, and “unveil all irregularities and inferior construction concealed under the cement plaster”. He said UPSCCL assistant engineer A P Singh has been called to explain the deficiencies, and could face legal action if he failed to file a satisfactory reply. Officials of UPSCCL, UPSRTC and the health department have also been sternly directed to remove all discrepancies and shoddiness of construction, before the premises are handed over for operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-orders-fir-against-contractor-for-poor-construction-of-upsrtc-bus-station-womens-hospital-suspends-jr-engineer/articleshow/78774956.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||50 SP workers booked for protesting without permit||PILIBHIT: As many as 25 identified and 20-25 unidentified workers of Samajwadi Party’s Pilibhit unit, including district president Anand Singh Yadav and vice-president Narendra Mishra, were booked on Monday evening, for taking out a procession on Monday afternoon to protest against the state government, without obtaining prior permission from the administration. At the end of their protest, the SP workers had handed over a memorandum of their demands to the ADM (judicial), Devendra Pratap Mishra. Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi himself filed the complaint in the case at his police station. He said the SP men violated CrPC Section 144 that was in effect in Pilibhit district, and failed to produce valid permission for the protest and procession, when asked for it. The SHO said the protesters had also infringed upon Covid-19 guidelines, and created uproar outside and inside the ADM’s office by raising anti-government slogans, adding the protesters were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269-270 (malignant act likely to spread infection) and 452 (house trespass) of IPC, and sections 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/50-sp-workers-booked-for-protesting-without-permit/articleshow/78774964.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Storm after ‘kaam chalau’ tag on deputation teachers||LUCKNOW: The principal of district institute for education and training (DIET) triggered a mammoth controversy by officially designating government teachers on deputation as ‘kaam chalau’ (makeshift), sending shock waves in the state’s teaching fraternity. These teachers, who were qualified and permanent staff, were sourced from primary schools in 2009 and deputed in DIET to fill vacancies till permanent appointments were made. In an October 17 order, senior lecturer, DIET Etah, Hari Singh, on behalf of principal Jitendra Singh (who was on leave) relieved three teachers from DIET duty and tagged them as ‘kaam chalau’ in the transfer order. Sanjay Sharma, one of the teachers directed to return to his original place of work in Upper Primary School, Kurina, in Sakit block of Etah told TOI, “The arrangement can be kaam chalau, but teachers can never be kaam chalau. In no communication issued to us, we have been referred to this way. This is a derogatory term for teachers.” The teaching fraternity was left aghast by the insult. “Why are teachers being treated so shabbily? Those asked to leave school and join DIET are qualified and permanent. They should be treated with dignity and the kaam chalau tag defeats this purpose,” said Vinay Singh, state president UP Primary Teacher Trained Graduate Association. Talking to TOI, DIET principal Jitendra Singh said, “I took up the matter after joining duty. I have issued a new order, restoring their original designations. The senior lecturer who wrote the order has admitted his mistake.” Senior officials in basic education, however, said, teachers brought to DIET have been loosely referred to as ‘kaam chalau’, but never in official communication. The 2004 government order referred to hiring of experienced primary teachers for DIET to fill up 25% posts. This was replaced by a new order in 2007, which referred to ‘kaam chalau’ facilities in DIET by sourcing teachers from government primary schools. Ironically, a 2009 order for appointing guest lecturers for DIET was stayed after an apex court ruling. “Even though the term is derogatory, it was verbally used at government meetings till a decade ago. We need to change the mindset and respect teachers ,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/storm-after-kaam-chalau-tag-on-deputation-teachers/articleshow/78778333.cms||Isha Jain
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||Maruti Manpade, champion of farmers’ rights, dies of Covid||Bengaluru: Maruti Manpade, veteran CPI-M leader, died at a private hospital in Solapur, Maharashtra, on Tuesday due to Covid-19 related complications, the family revealed. He was 65 and is survived by wife and two sons. Manpade was serving as vice president of Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha, an organisation affiliated to All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS). Members of his family said he contracted Covid-19 some weeks ago and suffered from complications arising from the infection for the past two weeks. He was recently shifted to a private hospital in Solapur from Kalaburagi. Associated with the Communist Party of India (Marxist), he was a popular functioanry who fought for the rights of farmers and agricultural labourers in the state especially in the Kalyana Karnataka region. During the nationwide lockdown induced by the pandemic and even after restrictions were lifted, Manpade had worked to highlight and alleviate the sufferings of the poor and needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/maruti-manpade-champion-of-farmers-rights-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78775649.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||85-year-old killed by son, grandsons for property in Kheri||BAREILLY: An 85-year-old man was hacked to death allegedly by his son and two grandsons over property in Lakhimpur city's Gandhinagar locality on Tuesday morning. The victim, Mahadev Verma, was sleeping when he was killed. The accused are absconding, said Vijay Dhull, SSP Lakhimpur Kheri. Mahadev, a resident of Bhanpur Gaurtara village, was living with his younger son, Pappu, an autorickshaw driver in the city. Mahaev owned 40 bighas of agricultural land in the village. His older son, Shivbalak, wanted half of the land right away in order to sell it. However, Mahadev had refused to divide his property and paid with his life. Police have booked Shivbalak and his two sons for the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/85-year-old-killed-by-son-grandsons-for-property-in-kheri/articleshow/78774968.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 21, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Stop govt aid to madarsas, says Usha Thakur||INDORE: With just two weeks to go for bypolls, Madhya Pradesh culture minister Usha Thakur sparked a controversy on Tuesday by demanding a stop to government aid to madarsas, alleging that such institutions are involved in anti-national activities. Congress accused the minister of deliberately bringing a “communal angle” to the bypolls, and asked the Election Commission to take note of it. Thakur, the Mhow MLA, made the statement at a press conference in the BJP’s official ‘war room’ for Indore-Ujjain division, where bypolls are due in seven seats. She has already dubbed the November 3 by-election a “battle between patriots and traitors”. Calling for a uniform education system, Thakur alleged that religion-based education is promoting radicalism and animosity. “As you can see, all the radicals and terrorists have studied in madarsas. Jammu & Kashmir was turned into a terrorist factory. Such madrasas, which can’t link (children) to nationalism and mainstream of society, should be brought into mainstream education for the collective progress of society,” she argued. Whatever creates problems for nationalism, should be closed in the interest of the nation, she said. The minister repeated her demand: “Government aid to these institutions (Madrasas) should be discontinued. Waqf Board is a capable organisation and if someone, in a personal capacity, wishes to impart religious teachings, he is free to do so as per the provision of the Constitution.” She accused the former Kamal Nath government of proposing a 10% tax on income of temples. “It was no less than ‘Jizya Tax’. Because, the temples’ income should be spent on local management, ‘Sanskarshala’ ‘Annakshetra’ and ‘Sewakshetra’,” the minister said. Congress protested Thakur’s statements. “BJP is an expert in diverting issues. Since it is losing the contest, it’s trying to introduce a communal agenda in the by-elections and the culture minister’s statement is a part of this plan. The Election Commission should take note of this,” MPCC media coordinator Narendra Saluja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/stop-govt-aid-to-madarsas-says-mp-culture-minister/articleshow/78776243.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Train wheels to stop from Friday as staff demand bonus||NAGPUR: Thousands of railway employees on Tuesday observed ‘Bonus Day’ to express discontent and anguish against the ministry of railways for non-payment of productivity linked bonus (PLB) to the railwaymen for 2019-2020. The protest call was given by the All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) at a meeting on October 16. Shiva Gopal Mishra, general secretary of AIRF, has warned that on October 22, there will be direct action if the railway ministry failed to announce PLB on October 21. “Train services across India could come to a halt for two hours on Thursday if the railway ministry decides not to pay PLB to employees. If the strike goes ahead, it would be the first time that railway services across the nation have come to a halt in 46 years,” said Mishra. In Nagpur, thousands of employees affiliated to National Railway Mazdoor Union (NRMU) and Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh (CRMS) staged protests against the Indian Railways. “We interacted with railway employees by organizing gate meetings and explained to them that PLB is linked to the period between April 2019 and March 2020, when there was no pandemic,” said NRMU divisional secretary SK Jha. “There has been an increase in freight revenue by 15% as announced by railway minister Piyush Goyal himself. This has amply proved that railway employees are Covid-19 warriors and staunch patriots. The ministry should announce bonus immediately. Till now bonus was to be announced a month ago,” said CRMS divisional president Virendra Singh. Slamming the powers that be for ignoring the commitment of employees when the pandemic was at its peak, Mishra said, “The uninterrupted supply chain of essential commodities as well as transportation of stranded migrants was possible only due to the dedicated and tireless efforts of employees during this Covid-19 pandemic. There is anguish among employees.” In his appeal, Mishra said, “Urgent action is requested to avoid unwanted confrontation in the larger interest of industrial harmony prevailing over the Indian Railways for quite some time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/train-wheels-to-stop-from-friday-as-staff-demand-bonus/articleshow/78777562.cms||---
October 21, 2020||India||Retired cop to court: Restrain Republic from TRP-scam talk||MUMBAI: A former assistant commissioner of police, Iqbal Shaikh, filed on Monday a suit before the city civil court against Republic TV editor-inchief Arnab Goswami to restrain him and Republic TV from discussing or referring to the TRP case and defaming Mumbai police. The suit alleges Goswami, as owner and editor of the channel, is using his position to “arbitrate his case”. The suit, which will be heard on Wednesday, seeks damages worth Rs 5 lakh for loss of reputation to Shaikh, a “decorated officer of the august institution of Mumbai police”. The primary legal ground the suit relies on is that under statutory guidelines issued by the Press Council of India, the owner of a media house cannot prevail on the editor for his own private interest. It claimed Goswami “is serving his private interest as owner of the channel to wriggle out of the case”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/retired-cop-to-court-restrain-republic-from-trp-scam-talk/articleshow/78779147.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tweet threat to Vijay Sethupathi’s daughter, '800' row||CHENNAI: The city police’s cyber crime wing on Tuesday booked a man for issuing rape threats to actor Vijay Sethupathi’s minor daughter over his role in ‘800,’ the biopic on former Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan. The actor has withdrawn from the film following Muralitharan’s request. Reacting to Rithik Raj’s threat on Twitter handle @itsrithikrajh, DMK Lok Sabha member Kanimozhi called it “barbaric” and “extremely dangerous”. Several others demanded action against the suspect who deleted his account. An investigation officer said they were yet to trace the suspect. “We have approached Twitter to give us details of the man to track him with the help of his URL and internet protocol (IP) address. We have also approached a few central government agencies to support us in tracing the suspect,” he said. Based on a complaint by St John Ambulance Association, the cybercrime wing registered a case.The suspect was booked under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause a riot, enmity), 294 (B) (using obscene language) of IPC and 67-B of IT Act (Punishment for the publishing of material depicting children in the sexually explicit act, in electronic form). Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal tweeted: “There has been a lot of concern in social media regarding comments made in social media against a celebrity. On receipt of the complaint to this effect a case in Cyber Cell has been registered.” Ever since the promos for the biopic were released, Vijay Sethupathi has been facing flak for agreeing to portray a former cricketer whose alleged silence against the ‘atrocities’ of the Sri Lankan government against Tamils in the island nation. The hashtag #ShameOnVijaySethupati had been trending over the past week, but the latest threat on Twitter has sparked outrage. “The perverse intimidation of Vijay Sethupathi’s #daughter is not only barbaric but extremely dangerous to the very fabric of our society. Making women and children the soft targets is a cowardly act. Police should take stern action against the perpetrator,” tweeted Kanimozhi, who is also the DMK women’s wing leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/800-row-tweet-threat-to-sethupathis-daughter/articleshow/78777580.cms||A Selvaraj
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: All women allowed on locals from 11am to 3pm, after 7pm||MUMBAI: In yet another step aimed at unlocking the economy, women commuters in Mumbai will be allowed to board suburban trains during morning and evening off-peak hours starting October 21. The decision is significant given the large presence of women in the workforce and the fact that trains are the city’s lifeline. The railways had dragged its feet on the move after the state government first proposed it on October 16. The decision came after a reminder by the state chief secretary on Tuesday morning. Railway minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, “I am happy to announce that Railways will allow women to travel on suburban trains from 21 Oct between 11 am to 3 pm & after 7 pm. We were always ready and with the receipt of a letter from Maharashtra Govt today, we have allowed this travel.” Times ViewThe move to open up local train services for all women is likely to have a positive impact in all spheres of economic activity. Women who form a sizeable component of the workforce will thus find it easier to reclaim their routines and their financial independence. It is imperative though that social distancing is rigorously practised and masks worn by all female commuters to prevent an acceleration in the spread of the coronavirus.At present only workers categorised as essential by the state are allowed to travel on local trains. This includes employees of government, health and banking sectors, lawyers and dabbawallahs. The latest move, coming during the festival season, allows all women to commute on trains without an employee ID or QR code during the specified hours. At present,CR runs 706 trains and WR 700 services. A CR official said, “Around 30 per cent of the total commuters on suburban railway consists of women. We will increase the services after assessing the demand over the next few days as the state government has not given any assessment of the number of passengers likely to travel.” The state’s request to open up train services to women from 11am to 3 pm and 7 pm till the end of the day was appare-ntly stonewalled initially as the railways felt that the abs-ence of access control around stations would lead to overcrowding and commotions. On Sunday, the matter was discussed between chief secretary Sanjay Kumar and Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. On Tuesday, Kumar again wrote to the general managers of CR and WR reminding them of the government’s October 16 letter and talks held seeking concessions for women travellers during non-peak hours. “However, the implementation of the joint decision is yet to be initiated,” he wrote. Hours after this letter, railway minister Goyal announced the decision on his twitter handle. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant reacted saying railways, under pressure from BJP, had procrastinated and that it was Congress which had forced their hand. “Result of pressure by @INCMaharashtra. We exposed strategy of railways to procrastinate and give reasons,” said Sawant in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/all-women-allowed-on-locals-from-11am-to-3pm-after-7pm/articleshow/78777653.cms||Manthan K Mehta
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||Man tonsures wife for insisting on attending uncle’s last rites||BAREILLY: Furious at his wife for insisting to attend the last rites of her uncle, a man allegedly beat her up, tonsured her and locked her up in a room while her in-laws watched in silence. The incident took place in Budaun's Bisauli town on October 17. She remained locked up in the room till she managed to break free and flee to her aunt's house on Monday. Then, she went to the police station to lodge a complaint against her husband and in-laws. Speaking with police, 31-year-old Seema Devi recounted a tale of torture and abuse at the hands of her alcoholic husband, Rajpal, for nine years. Seema said her in-laws were also to blame as they always took their son’s side. Seema said, “My father’s elder brother passed away on October 17. He was like my father and I wanted to see him for the last time but a drunk Rajpal would not allow it. When I insisted, he thrashed me blue and black and later, shaved my head. My in-laws did not try to rescue me." "I don’t want to go back to my husband because he will definitely kill me and my son.” The couple has a seven-year-old son. Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “We have registered an FIR under IPC’s sections 509 (act or gesture intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 500 (punishment for defamation) and 498A (cruelty to a married woman) against the husband, his parents, in-laws and one relative. The husband and the relative have been detained and action is being taken as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-tonsures-wife-for-insisting-on-attending-uncles-last-rites/articleshow/78774976.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||Over 30,800litre illicit liquor seized across UP during last week||PILIBHIT: Extra vigil in the wake of upcoming polls in Bihar and by-elections in UP has resulted in the seizure of over 30,800 liters of illicit liquor in the state last week, police said. It has long been alleged that candidates distribute free liquor to locals, especially to people from the weaker sections of the society, to influence their voting behaviour. Joint teams of the state excise department and the police also recovered 94,732 kilograms of ‘lahan’ (raw material used for distillation of illicit liquor). The excise teams have registered 1,033 cases in this connection. Additional chief secretary of excise department, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, said, “As many as 382 people involved in the illegal distillation, sale and supply of illicit liquor were arrested and sent to jails. 25 vehicles used for the smuggling of the stock were confiscated.” As many as 33 check posts of the excise department at UP-Bihar border had been set up to curb the smuggling of liquor to Bihar, he said. “Within UP too, the district-level officials had been directed to remain vigilant,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-30800litre-illicit-liquor-seized-across-up-during-last-week/articleshow/78774995.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Hospital cites cardiac arrest, kin unconvinced||KOCHI: The intimation of Harris (49) succumbing to Covid-19 at Ernakulam medical college hospital on July 20 was a rude shock to his wife Ruksana who spoke to him in a video call some four hours prior to that. The new allegations about medical negligence contributing to his death strengthen the family's suspicions. A video clip — reportedly sent by a nursing supervisor to the staff asking them to be more careful in attending to Covid-19 patients — had attributed his death to dislocation of ventilator tubes. On Tuesday, a junior doctor — Dr Najma Salim — also spoke to the media in support of the allegation. The government has ordered a probe into the allegation and suspended the nursing supervisor from service. "Harris had breathing difficulty but he was perfectly healthy. The death has left my sister (Ruksana) shattered; she has confined herself to four walls of a room in my brother’s house," said brother-in-law Anwar Haneef who had visited the hospital. Anwar had also spoken to Harris over the phone hours before his death. Harris was admitted to the ICU on June 26, seven days after he arrived from Kuwait. He was lodged at a covid care centre in Puthencruz till then. “He had Covid symptoms like throat pain, sleeplessness and body pain. The doctor who used to visit the centre every two days advised him to take paracetamol. As there was no respite even after six days, he called the covid control room and they advised him to visit the medical college. He himself arranged a taxi and went there," Anwar said. On the day of his death, Anwar had taken bananas, tissue paper and dhoti to Harris on his request. “He had no comorbidities other than obesity. The doctors had told us that he would be shifted to the ward from ICU in two days and he could be discharged after a week. But, we were informed about his death around 6pm on July 20. We had filed a complaint with the hospital superintendent but to no avail," he said. Hospital authorities have, meanwhile, refuted the negligence charges. "Harris died of sudden cardiac arrest. There was no negligence in providing treatment," Dr A Fathahudheen, nodal officer for Covid care at the hospital, told a news conference on Tuesday. A hospital release said the oxygen level of Harris was very low as he was obese. "He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He was under treatment at the medical college for 24 days. He was in a serious condition due to acute covid pneumonia. He had a condition of snoring when his oxygen level dropped," it said. The release also said he was not on a mechanical ventilator but on an NIV ventilator with 100% oxygen support. "Its tubes will not fall. The doctor (Dr Najma Salim) was not on ICU duty on that day. Doctors who were on duty that day had not informed any incident as alleged to authorities," it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hospital-cites-cardiac-arrest-kin-unconvinced/articleshow/78776278.cms||T C Sreemol
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||Dalit teen girl found murdered in cane field in Rampur||BAREILLY: A body of a 15-year-old Dalit girl, who had gone missing on Monday night, was found murdered in the cane fields of Kaliya Nagla village under the Tanda police station limits in Rampur district on Tuesday. According to the police, the girl, who studied in 7th class, was spotted by her father, Vijay Singh, in the afternoon when he and other family members were searching for her. Police said a complaint has been received and an FIR has been registered against a local youth, who is currently absconding. They said they are waiting for the autopsy reports to ascertain the cause of death. “The family has raised suspicion on one local youth based on which an FIR has been registered under section 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The body has been sent for autopsy and reports are currently awaited,” SHO of Tanda police station Madhav Singh Bisht told TOI. The deceased is survived by parents and two elder brothers. The father works as a labourer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-teen-girl-found-murdered-in-cane-field-in-rampur/articleshow/78774971.cms||Maria Khan
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Helped by free coaching, 11 from Barmer’s remote corners script success in NEET||Jaipur: As many as eleven students from tiny hamlets and settlements in the heart of desert district of Barmer have cleared the NEET exam. All of these have at some point in time worked as construction labourers, loaders or at liquor shops, and have now scripted inspiring tales of hard work and persistence with their performance in the exam. Barmer-based ‘50 Villagers Sewa Sansthan’, a free coaching institute formed by a group of government doctors, officers and teachers for government school students living in hamlets or villagers, has claimed that their 11 students have qualified for a seat each in a government medical college. Dr Bharat Saran, who is posted as a medical officer in Barmer founded the institute in 2012 with an aim to provide coaching to five students, in a small space in Barmer. “Our model’s vision is initiated by doctors, guided by teachers, supported by everyone and dedicated to the former President APJ Abdul Kalam. It is based on Bihar’s Super 50. It took me three years to taste success and in the year 2015, my first student got selected for NEET,” said Saran. Thereafter, he found support from the like-minded people and built its capacity to 50 at present. The facility is fully residential and the criteria for selecting students are very tough, considering the limited resources,” said Saran. This year, they had a batch of 45 students picked from different villages and hamlets across Barmer. The best score among them was secured by Laxman Kumar, who scored AIR 3727. The next success story comes from Aadarsh Lukhu village in Barmer, where Jeta Ram worked as a construction labourer after class X. He went on to score AIR 5307 in the exam. Pukh Raj, who rode a tractor supplying water until a year ago has got 631 score. Son of a MGNREGA labourer, Girdhari Ram of Nimboli village in Barmer, is going to be first doctor in the entire area. Ram has cracked NEET exam with AIR 9411. Living in a mud house in his village, Ram has worked as a daily wage earner in his free time to support his family of six. So far, the institute has scripted 32 success stories and by the next year, the figure will reach 43. “All our students have been qualified in NEET but for us, actual success is counted when all our students can get a medical seat in a government college,” said Saran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/helped-by-free-coaching-11-from-barmers-remote-corners-script-success-in-neet/articleshow/78777590.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Bring all BPL families under Ayushman Yojana ambit: CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed all district magistrates to carry out a special campaign to cover all BPL (below poverty line) families under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. Even as 1.2 crore families in UP are registered under the scheme, there are about 2 crore BPL families which are yet to be covered. In a meeting with the district magistrates on Monday night, the Chief Minister said a campaign should be launched to identify beneficiaries and register them for golden cards which would enable people get free treatment. “The district magistrates should monitor and review the implementation of the scheme. They should ensure that there is no delay in payments to hospitals linked with the scheme,” he said. “About 2 crore families are still not covered under Ayushman Bharat Scheme. A proposal in this regard is under consideration to ensure that every needy person gets benefitted,” a government spokesperson said. According to sources, the government is planning to widen the ambit of the scheme by using the National Food Security Act (NFSA) as the basis for identification of beneficiaries. “In this way, more than half the state’s population will be covered under the scheme. If NFSA is made the basis, beneficiaries of other schemes like Antyodaya and Patra Grahasti Yojna will get linked to Ayushman Bharat as well,” an official said. This would result in the increase of 3.6 crore families (14 crore additional beneficiaries) under the scheme, he added. Currently, the beneficiaries are identified on the basis of social, economic and caste census of 2011 under which around 1.2 crore families are already covered under the scheme and 8 lakh families are benefitting from the Chief Minister’s Jan Arogya Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bring-all-bpl-families-under-ayushman-yojana-ambit-cm/articleshow/78778350.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||New food processing units to get 2% Mandi fee exemption||LUCKNOW: New food processing units established under the Infrastructure and Industrial Investment Policy of 2012, with an investment of Rs 5 crore or more in plant and machinery, will be given an exemption of 2% in Mandi fees for five years. The decision was taken in a meeting headed by agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha on Tuesday to resolve a pending issue of M/s JRG Foods Pvt. Ltd, Amroha regarding exemption in Mandi fee. The company had sought approval for an exception of 2% Mandi fee against 0.5%. The matter had been pending for the past four years and on September 21, 2020, a presentation was made before chief minister Yogi Adityanath who directed the APC to resolve the issue at the earliest. On Tuesday, the APC directed the Moradabad divisional commissioner to hold a meeting of the Exemption Committee Board for granting exemption from the Mandi fee to JRG Foods Pvt Ltd and send a recommendation to the government. Sinha said that under the Infrastructure and Industrial Investment Policy-2012, there was no condition regarding the source of raw material and where the product was being sold, and therefore a 2% exemption could be allowed to the unit. The Agricultural Marketing Department has issued a revised notification by deleting ‘reduction in exemption rate’ from Mandi fees to allow all newly established food processing industrial units to get the benefit of this policy decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-food-processing-units-to-get-2-mandi-fee-exemption/articleshow/78778356.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Bareilly||VHP activists, locals vandalise police station in Bareilly over interfaith couple, force deployed||Bareilly: Members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) along with several local residents on Tuesday vandalised Quila police station after the police failed to recover a girl who had eloped with a youth of another community in Bareilly. The girl, who is a minor according to the family, went missing on October 17 and an FIR was registered at the police station. On Tuesday, a video was sent to the local police, in which the girl can purportedly be seen claiming to be a major and to have married the youth on her own will. She also requested the police not to harass the youth’s family members in the video. On Tuesday, VHP activists and local residents, including the girl’s family members vandalized the local police station. Additional director general (Bareilly zone) Avinash Chandra along with DIG Rajesh Pandey and SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan rushed to the spot along with additional force and controlled the situation. SSP Sajwan said, “We had deployed four teams to find the girl and we will find them soon. A sub-inspector and constables who used force on the family have been suspended while the SHO has been transferred to reserve police lines.” The ADG said, “There is no ‘love jihad’ issue here and we will recover the girl on top priority. A few anti-social elements amongst the protesters tried to disturb the communal harmony, but we have controlled the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/vhp-activists-locals-vandalise-police-station-in-bareilly-over-interfaith-couple-force-deployed/articleshow/78775008.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 21, 2020||Ajmer||Three arrested for murder of sarpanch’s son in Kishangarh||AJMER: Police on Tuesday cracked the murder mystery of Bhagchand Chotiya, who was shot dead in Kishangarh market on Sunday. Three accused have been arrested while hunt is on for three others. The motive behind the murder is said to be village rivalry between two groups as well as revenge. Police said the weapon used in the murder has been seized and they are looking for one more weapon which was used. Another accused who is not involved in the murder case, has been arrested under the Arms Act. SP Ajmer Kunwar Rastradeep on Tuesday evening briefed the media at Gandhinagar police station of Kishangarh and said that three accused who were involved in shooting are arrested. They are — Heera Lal of Naya Gao, Rampal of Madoti and Devaram of Roopangarh. They made a strategy to kill Bhagchand Chotiya on Sunday and had been preparing for it since a long time. The SP said that the role of Balwaram also came out during investigation and it is confirmed that Balwaram from Dholpur central jail was in contact with the accused. Police will bring Balwaram and take action accordingly. But he confirmed that the murder was because of vengeance as Chotiya had given evidence against Balwaram. The other reason was that Chotiya and his family were emerging politically and economically and there was some rivalry which led to an increase in the enmity between these two groups. He added that three more accused are identified who were involved in the murder and police teams are chasing them. He denied revealing their names but said that everyone knows about them. Sources said that one of the accused on the run is Hanuman Singh, nephew of Balwaram, who is absconding after the incident. Police official added that the motive is clear and it came out during the interrogation of accused that they wanted to take revenge and also, it was confirmed that Balwaram was in touch with the accused on this matter and was giving advice. Police said that Rajveer, resident of Gandhinagar of Kishangarh, was also arrested under Arms Act as his involvement in murder has not came out but he supplied the arms to the accused. One weapon used in firing has been seized while police are looking for another weapon which was also used during firing. All three accused who are arrested were on the spot and had fired at Chotiya. The investigation also cleared that there was no sharp shooter from any other place and the locals planned the murder and used weapons. Bhagchand Chotiya was murdered on Sunday evening when accused opened fire on him in the main market of Kishangarh. Chotiya was the main witness in 2011 Bhanwar Singh Sinodiya murder case and on his evidence, Balwaram and his five accomplices got life imprisonment. Balwaram is lodged at Dholpur jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/three-arrested-for-murder-of-sarpanchs-son-in-kishangarh/articleshow/78777628.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||4 killed in Churu accident||Jaipur: Four youths were killed on the spot after a truck hit them in Churu’s Taranagar around 11.30pm on Monday. Police said the youths were standing next to a bike when the truck crushed them. The driver has been detained. The deceased were identified as Suresh Kumar, Balwan Singh, Sanjay Jat and Vikram Jat. Taranagar SHO Radheshyam Thalore said, “The accident took place near a bus stand when the truck hit the bike and overturned. The youths were crushed to death and died before they could be taken to hospital.” According to officials, overloading appears to be the reason for the accident. Initially the driver fled from the spot, but was nabbed soon. Sources claimed that a large number of overloaded trucks pass through this area at night. Overloading is a violation under the MV Act and carries a fine of Rs 2,000. “This was an extremely unfortunate incident and out of the four, two were siblings. We have the driver in our custody and he will be booked under relevant IPC sections. We will keep a stricter vigilance on heavy vehicles passing through the area to prevent such accidents,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-killed-in-churu-accident/articleshow/78777611.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Cases of crop residue burning down, but UP cities still polluted||LUCKNOW: Incidents of crop residue burning have shown a decreasing trend in the state over the past few years but air quality index (AQI) in non-attainment cities continues to remain in the ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ or severe categories for October. These cities are where air pollution levels are higher than the national standard. Data from UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) showed that crop residue burning and construction and demolition activities were the major causes of air pollution in the state. UPPCB’s action taken report (ATR) for the period from October 1 to 17 showed a total of 320 incidents of crop residue burning in the state. The maximum, 39, took place on October 13, followed by 38 on October 17 and 37 on October 12. In the corresponding period in 2019, 464 incidents took place. The single-day peak went up to 77 incidents on October 16, 63 on October 15 and 53 on October 17. In 2018, the count for the duration was 561 and in 2017, it was 1,139. The state government has been taking strict action against defaulters. As many as 164 FIRs have been registered against crop burning incidents in the state till October 18. Penalty worth Rs 7.3 lakh has been imposed and Rs 2.6 lakh recovered. Action has also been taken against 110 officers/staff. Crop residue burning is one of the seven ‘key’ air pollution sources that UPPCB has acted against. The total number of defaulters caught causing air pollution, through various sources, during the period was 771. Of this, 293 were caught by inspection teams in non-attainment cities for crop residue burning. As many as 203 defaulters were booked for using old vehicles; 80 for causing pollution through brick kilns and 63 for dust from construction and demolition activities. To check this, water sprinkling on roads and mechanical sweeping of roads is being done, said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cases-of-crop-residue-burning-down-but-up-cities-still-polluted/articleshow/78778364.cms||Neha Shukla
October 21, 2020||Imphal||Kerala bakery shuts shop after 25 years in Manipur||ALAPPUZHA: What bouts of homesickness and years of insurgency couldn’t do, Covid-19 eventually did. Ukhrul’s Kerala Bakery, famous among local Manipuris for its puffs, jalebis, samosas and patented Kerala-style chicken curry, has shut shop, as its owners 68-year-old R Ranganathan and his wife Anila, moved back to their village in Alappuzha. Following the long lockdown imposed by Covid, they were unable to pay rent or their employees. “I keep getting calls from Ukhrul, the people there asking me to come back and reopen Kerala Bakery,” says Ranganathan. These days, Ranganathan and Anila busy themselves tending a small vegetable patch on their house premises at Kanakakunnu in AlappuzhaHe’s tempted, half his mind wants to go back but he knows the eatery’s 25-year-saga has ended. “We tried a lot to survive this lockdown in Manipur and keep Kerala Bakery going. But we were unable to pay wages to our employees and we also needed to pay the rent of the shop and our residence,” he explains. These days, Ranganathan and his wife busy themselves tending a small vegetable patch on their house premises in Kanakakunnu, a healthy recreation in their sunset years. “We cannot forget Manipur and its people till we breathe our last. My son Sachin was born and brought up in Manipur and he’s more Manipuri than Malayali,” says Anila. Ranganthan’s daughter Lakshmi is a nurse and his son an engineer in the Middle East. Ranganathan left for Manipur when he was 28 and started working at his brother’s grocery shop. The brothers moved to several places in Manipur – Jessami, Kharsom, Maryam, Nungbi etc -- where they ran small hotels named Kerala Hotel and Kairali before Ranganathan moved to Ukhrul in 1995 to start Kerala Bakery on his own. In between, Ranganathan ran Kerala Hotel at Waziho in Nagaland and later another Kerala Hotel at Meluri in the same state. Apart from mainland Indian snacks, which were a novelty at that time in Ukhrul, Ranganathan catered Malayali comfort food too. His baked milk products were a huge hit. But running the establishment was not easy. “We had to trek through the hills for over 30 km either way from the wholesale market to Ukhrul carrying goods like sugar, soap and jaggery on our heads,” Ranganathan recalls. It all started when one of his relatives, who was working in General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) of the ministry of defence in Manipur, came to Kerala for a visit. “He first took my younger brother Remanan to Manipur to try his luck at a recruitment event for Assam Rifles in 1979. But he didn’t get selected,” Ranganathan says. Later, Ranganathan joined Remanan in Manipur and they began running hotels. They never looked back. Till Covid hit them out of the blue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/a-malayali-flavour-in-faraway-manipur/articleshow/78781674.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kochi||Kerala bakery shuts shop after 25 years in Manipur||ALAPPUZHA: What bouts of homesickness and years of insurgency couldn’t do, Covid-19 eventually did. Ukhrul’s Kerala Bakery, famous among local Manipuris for its puffs, jalebis, samosas and patented Kerala-style chicken curry, has shut shop, as its owners 68-year-old R Ranganathan and his wife Anila, moved back to their village in Alappuzha. Following the long lockdown imposed by Covid, they were unable to pay rent or their employees. “I keep getting calls from Ukhrul, the people there asking me to come back and reopen Kerala Bakery,” says Ranganathan. These days, Ranganathan and Anila busy themselves tending a small vegetable patch on their house premises at Kanakakunnu in AlappuzhaHe’s tempted, half his mind wants to go back but he knows the eatery’s 25-year-saga has ended. “We tried a lot to survive this lockdown in Manipur and keep Kerala Bakery going. But we were unable to pay wages to our employees and we also needed to pay the rent of the shop and our residence,” he explains. These days, Ranganathan and his wife busy themselves tending a small vegetable patch on their house premises in Kanakakunnu, a healthy recreation in their sunset years. “We cannot forget Manipur and its people till we breathe our last. My son Sachin was born and brought up in Manipur and he’s more Manipuri than Malayali,” says Anila. Ranganthan’s daughter Lakshmi is a nurse and his son an engineer in the Middle East. Ranganathan left for Manipur when he was 28 and started working at his brother’s grocery shop. The brothers moved to several places in Manipur – Jessami, Kharsom, Maryam, Nungbi etc -- where they ran small hotels named Kerala Hotel and Kairali before Ranganathan moved to Ukhrul in 1995 to start Kerala Bakery on his own. In between, Ranganathan ran Kerala Hotel at Waziho in Nagaland and later another Kerala Hotel at Meluri in the same state. Apart from mainland Indian snacks, which were a novelty at that time in Ukhrul, Ranganathan catered Malayali comfort food too. His baked milk products were a huge hit. But running the establishment was not easy. “We had to trek through the hills for over 30 km either way from the wholesale market to Ukhrul carrying goods like sugar, soap and jaggery on our heads,” Ranganathan recalls. It all started when one of his relatives, who was working in General Reserve Engineer Force (GREF) of the ministry of defence in Manipur, came to Kerala for a visit. “He first took my younger brother Remanan to Manipur to try his luck at a recruitment event for Assam Rifles in 1979. But he didn’t get selected,” Ranganathan says. Later, Ranganathan joined Remanan in Manipur and they began running hotels. They never looked back. Till Covid hit them out of the blue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-malayali-flavour-in-faraway-manipur/articleshow/78776321.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Reconsider amendment in Banking Regulation Act: Gehlot to PM Modi||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has strongly objected to the amendment made in the Banking Regulation Act on September 16, 2020, giving the control of cooperative societies to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gehlot stated that the move has made Rajasthan Co-operative Societies Act 2001 which is responsible for managing and monitoring co-operatives irrelevant. “The amendment will cease to have control of the state on co-operatives. It will adversely affect the basic spirit of the cooperative banks and the cooperative movement in the states. I requested the PM to reconsider the said amendment and restore the earlier system,” reads the letter, which is in possession of the TOI, sent to the PM on October 19. The state has close to 35,000 cooperative societies in the field of agriculture, milk, consumer wholesale, land etc. The move, however, is only applicable for the 30 cooperative societies, including Urban Cooperative Bank (35), Kendriya Sahkari Bank (29) and Apex Bank (1) which are dealing in the banking services. The amendment was passed in the Parliament on September 16 in the midst of the farm bills controversy. A government official said these 29 Kendriya Sahkari Banks have over 4,000 Gram Sewa Sehkari Samiti (GSS) which are known as ‘Mini Banks’ in the rural areas are affiliated with it. In turn, every GSS has 300-400 farmers as its members or stakeholders. “In the earlier system, the administration and management of these cooperative societies is running as per the Rajasthan Co-operative Societies Act 2001 and following RBI rules. The change is the amendment has made both the functions—administration and rules rest with the overburdened RBI,” said the officer. Raising another concern, Gehlot in his statement said it has been made compulsory for 51% members of the board of directors of cooperative banks to have professional experience. This condition is not practical, he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reconsider-amendment-in-banking-regulation-act-gehlot-to-pm-modi/articleshow/78777650.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Centre using agencies as political weapons: Rahul||Kozhikode: Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi – who is on a three- day visit in his constituency – said that the current central government has a tendency to use national agencies as political weapons. He was responding to the questioning of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah by the enforcement directorate on Monday after attending a Covid review meeting in Wayanad on Tuesday. “If somebody is not doing what they (Centre) want politically, they think that they can use CBI and ED to pressurize and threaten them. Not only Farooq Abdullah, many other leaders and I myself am personally facing these assaults; I have a number of cases against my name. These institutions are designed to bring justice to the people of India. They are not personal instruments of the prime minister,” he said. Kamal Nath’s remarks unfortunate Rahul also disapproved the ‘item’ remark made by MP Congress chief Kamal Nath against minister Imarti Devi and termed it ‘unfortunate’. “One cannot treat women with disrespect. Kamal Nath ji is from my party. But, I personally don’t like the type of language that he used. I do not appreciate this type of language regardless of who uses it. It is unfortunate,” Rahul said. Continuing his attack on the NDA government over the standoff with China along LAC in eastern Ladakh, Rahul said PM Narendra Modi should tell the nation when the Chinese troops will be thrown out of the Indian territory. “But the Prime Minister won’t have the guts to say that. The PM will not say one word about China,” he said when asked about the 6pm address by the PM. “It is shocking to me. There is no country in the world today when a foreign power can take 1,200 sq km of the country and there is no answer from the leadership,” Rahul said. Responding to a question on the gold smuggling case, he said, “Already NIA and others are investigating the issue. Let’s see where the investigation goes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/centre-using-agencies-as-political-weapons-rahul/articleshow/78776331.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM to call special assembly session against farm laws||JAIPUR: The state cabinet on Tuesday decided to call a special session of the assembly to pass a resolution against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. During the meeting, the ministers under the chairmanship of CM Ashok Gehlot discussed three farms bills: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. “The members after discussing the implications of the laws observed that those were against the farmers. It was decided that soon a special session of assembly would be called to discuss the laws in detail and pass a resolution against the laws,” an official statement. The cabinet was of the view that the new laws would lead to black marketing and price rise of farm produce. The decision coincided with Punjab assembly passing a resolution on Tuesday. Punjab became the first state in the country to pass a resolution against the laws. The move came weeks after Rahul Gandhi had asked Congress governments to look for a legal and constitutional route to stop the implementation of the laws. Gehlot had been hinting of exploring all options to stop the implementation of the law. Earlier in the day, he tweeted, “Today Congress Govt in #Punjab has passed Bills against these laws & #Rajasthan will follow soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-to-call-special-assembly-session-against-farm-laws/articleshow/78777646.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra is first state to cap mask rates, cheapest to be sold at Rs 3, N-95 for Rs 19||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has become the first state in the country to cap prices of all kinds of masks based on the recommendations of a state-appointed committee set up to determine maximum rates for the critical Covid care item. While a two-ply surgical mask will now be available for just Rs 3, a three-ply one will be sold for Rs 4 and an N-95 V-shaped one for Rs 19. Till now, the cheapest N-95 mask was sold for around Rs 70. The state issued a government resolution (GR) on Tuesday to cap the rates till the Epidemic Diseases Act is in force. The state GR has also made it mandatory for manufacturers and distributors to print the quality and MRP on the masks. Besides, masks cannot be sold at more than 70% of the MRP to healthcare providers such as hospitals and nursing homes. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said, "To prevent the spread of coronavirus, the state has been appealing to citizens to wear masks and are also penalizing those not wearing them. Therefore, masks had to be made affordable for the common man. The chief minister and the deputy chief minister have approved the initiative to cap the prices of masks." The GR has pointed out that the prices had increased "enormously". Besides, the Central government's cap on mask rates had ended in June and the prices subsequently increased with citizens bearing the burden of the spike. Therefore, it had become essential to bring the prices of masks under control to prevent the spread of the virus. The state committee set up under the chairmanship of Sudhakar Shinde, chief executive officer of the State Health Assurance Society (SHAS), recommended drastically reduced MRP for various kinds of masks. The prices set by the committee are four to six times lower than those fixed after the Centre's National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) advisory. For instance, the price of an N-95 V-shaped mask priced at Rs 135 as per the NPPA advisory, has been brought down to Rs 19 by the state. The prices were arrived at by the committee after GST officials visited mask manufacturing facilities and examined their books. They then arrived at the cost of manufacturing and profit margins required for the masks with the help of cost auditors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-is-first-state-to-cap-mask-rates-cheapest-to-be-sold-at-rs-3-n-95-for-rs-19/articleshow/78779151.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan ACB arrests UIDAI official from Delhi||JAIPUR: The ACB arrested an official of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) from Delhi on Tuesday following a complaint that the accused was demanding bribe for giving franchise for issuing Aadhaar card. He was arrested while taking Rs 1 lakh bribe. The accused official was identified as 43-year-old Pankaj Goyal, an assistant director general in UIDAI. Goyal has been suspended and will not be allowed to leave the headquarters without permission, the ministry of electronics & information technology, UIDAI, said. The complainant told TOI: “For setting up of e-mitra centres or Aadhaar card kiosks, we have to first apply to the district administration. The request is then sent to state IT department and then to UIDAI. I sent 15 such files which were yet to be cleared and though I had never met Goyal, I had been speaking to him on phone. He had asked for the bribe.” On October 16, the complainant registered a case with Kota’s ACB unit and ASP Chandrasheel Thakur started the investigation. According to the complainant, the accused had asked for Rs 15,000 per file. The complainant had 14 files which were to be cleared and claimed that he did not want to pay the bribe. On October 19, the complainant called the accused who asked him to meet him at his office. He handed over the money to Goyal who kept the cash in his desk drawer. Cops arrested him after he accepted the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-acb-arrests-uidai-official-from-delhi/articleshow/78777652.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Forest dept releases brochure on Jhalana Leopard Reserve||JAIPUR: To provide information to tourists, the forest department on Tuesday released the brochure on Jhalana Leopard Reserve which has made its mark in the international and local circuits of wildlife lovers. Located in the heart of the bustling city, Jhalana is said to be the best site for leopard sighting. The forest spreads over just 20 square kilometre on the south-east of Jaipur. It houses a healthy population of 30 leopards that are visible to tourists from mere 10-20 feet. In a programme, attended by forest minister Sukhram Bishnoi, chief wildlife warden Arindam Tomar and state wildlife board member Dhirendra Godha and other forest officials, the brochure was released. Forest ranger Janeshwar Chaudhary said, “The attempt is to provide useful information to the tourists, including booking safaris, flora and fauna and others. Apart from leopards, the park has various attractions such as 132 species of avifauna, 220 species of flora, 20 species of reptiles to name a few,” he said. The brochure reads plethora of measures which department took to upgrade facilities at Jhalana, including air-conditioned waiting rooms for the visitors, an interpretation centre, where all the information and details of the Jhalana safari and wildlife species will be provided in form of presentations, videos, images and posters. The Shikar Audhi which has not been prominently promoted till date is also included in the catalogue. It reads, “The guest on a nominal extra charge can visit the erstwhile hunting place. The place stands testimony to all the hunts that were carried out in Jhalana. Guests can take their own tea snacks and enjoy the commanding views offered from the top.” An official said, in a bid to boost leopard conservation in the state, the forest department has also installed camera traps in Jhalana and Amagarh forest reserves to assess their population. “Taking a cue from the Project Tiger launched by the Centre in 1973, the state had launched the project to conserve leopards, which are plenty in number. The CM had allocated Rs 7 crore for Project Leopard in the 2017-18 budget,” said a forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-dept-releases-brochure-on-jhalana-leopard-reserve/articleshow/78777655.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala farmers get loans by pledging live trees||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad’s Meenangadi grama panchayat, which is aspiring to become the first carbon neutral panchayat in the country, has launched a novel tree banking scheme under which farmers have started getting bank loans by providing live trees as security. The project, launched by finance minister T M Thomas Isaac via videconference on Tuesday, is expected to incentivize residents to grow more trees in their homesteads which will enable the local body to offset its carbon emissions to attain the carbon neutral status. Farmers, who earlier used to cut and sell trees in their homesteads to overcome financial crisis caused by recurring agrarian distress, can now mortgage the trees and get money against it as loan from the Meenangadi Service Cooperative bank on an annual basis. Under the project, the farmers need to repay the interest free loans only when the tree is felled and sold after it has matured. Farmers will annually get Rs 50 for every tree which has been planted under the programme. Residents of Meenangadi panchayat had planted 1.57 lakh trees as part of the carbon-neutral programme between 2017 and 2019 and now the trees are being geotagged. Loans will be initially provided for as many as 7,596 trees which have been geotagged in two wards. To mark the launch of the programme, two farmers — K Madhavan and Sumathi — were provided cheques of Rs 5,000 each for the trees geotagged in their homesteads. The state government had deposited Rs 10 crore in the cooperative bank in 2017-18, which is being used for providing loans under the project. Isaac said that the tree banking scheme has the potential to boost economic and social development of the district. “Currently, many people are shying away from planting trees as timber yield would be available only to the next generation. But the tree banking programme would incentivize mass growing of trees by farmers by providing loans each year which have to be repaid only after the tree is sold on attaining maturity,” the minister said. He added that the state government was looking at raising funds for the programme under the green bonds to be issued by KIIFB and negotiations were under way with other international agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/farmers-get-loans-by-pledging-live-trees/articleshow/78776339.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Lucknow||Expedite Ganga e-way project: Min to UPEIDA||LUCKNOW: To expedite the construction of 594 km-long Ganga Expressway between Meerut and Prayagraj, UP industries minister Satish Mahana on Tuesday asked the UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) to get all important proposals related to it cleared by UP cabinet. Mahana said the proposed six-lane expressway, expandable up to eight lanes would lend a boost to the industrialisation of areas along it. The expressway, he said, would be equipped with all top class facilities. UPEIDA also plans to construct an air strip on the expressway near Shahjahanpur. The expressway would allow vehicles to zoom at the maximum speed of 120 km/hr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/expedite-ganga-e-way-project-min-to-upeida/articleshow/78778373.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Now, abused, harassed women can lodge police complaint on WhatsApp||RANCHI: In the backdrop of the increasing criticism over the crime against women, state DGP M V Rao on Tuesday said the police will launch a WhatsApp number where girls and women can send complaints of sexual harassment. Addressing the media, Rao said, “The number will be launched on Wednesday. A DSP-rank officer and a few policewomen will contact the woman soon after we received the complaint and take proper action while keeping her identity secret.” He added, “Police will either give protection to the girl or take legal action against the accused if required.” Explaining the reason behind launching the social media number, Rao said they found several girls and women were harassed or stalked before they were raped or murdered. “If proper action was taken up at the right time, such crimes could be prevented. In a recent incident, a girl was raped but she was harassed by the accused persons for several months. Had proper action been initiated earlier, the girl could have been saved from the culprits,” the DGP said, adding, “No girl or woman should feel ashamed of complaining about a crime against her. They should immediately report if they feel insecure anywhere, be it at school or the streets.” He further said police will ensure speedy trials in such cases. The top cop also stressed on the role of parents in safeguarding their daughters and said they should not leave their children alone for a long time. “The parents must also protect their children from the darker side of social media,” he said. Rao opined that parents should also consider their grooming part lacking if their sons were involved in such crimes. On Maoists, the DGP said the activities of the rebels, including extortion, are on a sharp decline. “Other signs of their waning strength are divisions among the outlawed organisation and surrender by many of their cadres. The efforts of the Maoist leaders to lure migrants and labourers into their fold have not achieved much success. Moreover, 50 naxals have been arrested since September,” he said. On the security apparatus for the upcoming bypolls, he said several check-posts have been set up at the inter-state borders and special patrolling is on to prevent movement of cash, liquor and criminals. “In the past week alone, police seized 2,407 litres of country made liquor and 1,500 litres of foreign liquor from the border areas,” the DGP said. Rao said preventing crime and making adequate arrangement for festivals will be a challenge for the police in the coming months. “Since business activities will be at their peak during the festivals, crimes like loot, theft and dacoity will rise,” he said. He announced that the police department will honour eight martyrs on the Police Day which will be observed on Wednesday. As part of welfare activities for the personnel starting from Wednesday, the department will ensure their better mental health, Rao said. It may be noted that cases of suicides have increased in the force recently. “Policemen have been asked to keep a watch on each other for timely redressal of problems. Moreover, group activities will be increased at the police lines,” Rao added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/now-abused-harassed-women-can-lodge-police-complaint-on-whatsapp/articleshow/78778387.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||Vaguely defined laws used to stifle voices of activists in India: UN official||RANCHI: The United Nations high commissioner for human rights Michelle Bachelet on Tuesday condemned the arrest of tribal rights and social activist Stan Swamy and asked the Indian government to release him at the earliest. In a letter to the Centre, Bachelet said, “The 83-year-old Catholic priest, Stan Swamy, a long-standing activist engaged in defending the rights of marginalized groups, was charged and reportedly remains in detention, despite his poor health. I urge the government to ensure that no one else is detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly – and to do its utmost, in law and policy, to protect India’s robust civil society.” In her letter, released to the local media by members of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, an umbrella organisation of several rights groups, she added, “India has long had a strong civil society, which has been at the forefront of ground-breaking human rights advocacy within the country and globally. But I am concerned that vaguely defined laws are increasingly being used to stifle these voices.” Swamy was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from his residence in Ranchi on October 8 in connection with the 2017 Koregaon Bhima violence case in Pune, Maharashtra. He is charged with having links with the CPI (Maoist). In the letter, Bachelet also urged the government to review the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to prevent its misuse. “I urge the authorities to carefully review the FCRA for its compliance with international human rights standards and to release people charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for simply exercising basic human rights that India is obligated to protect.” She said FCRA, adopted in 2010 and amended in September, has had a detrimental impact on the right to freedom of association and expression of NGOs working in the field of human rights. It also disturbed their ability to serve as effective advocates to protect and promote human rights in India. “Most recently, Amnesty International was compelled to close its offices in India after its bank accounts were frozen over alleged violation of the FCRA. It has been invoked over the years to justify an array of highly intrusive measures, ranging from official raids on NGO offices and freezing of bank accounts to suspension or cancellation of registration, including of civil society organizations that have engaged with UN human rights bodies,” Bachelet said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vaguely-defined-laws-used-to-stifle-voices-of-activists-in-india-un-official/articleshow/78778238.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||First arrest in Dumka rape, murder case||DUMKA: Police on Tuesday said it has arrested Polus Hembrom (21) for his suspected involvement in the gang-rape and murder of an 11-year-old tribal girl last Friday. “We have substantial evidences against Hembrom and he has been sent to jail. Hunt for the other culprits is on," Dumka SP Ambar Lakda said, refusing to divulge any further information regarding the probe or suspects. “The investigation is on and revealing any information will jeopardise the probe," he said. Meanwhile, hundreds of people, including women, from Sinduriya village gheraoed Ramgarh police station on Tuesday to protest against the alleged police detention of innocent locals. The protesters said police, under political pressure from state government ahead of the upcoming bypolls on November 3, had picked up four persons, including two minor boys, as they lived near the spot where the girl was killed. Source said the minors were later released on Monday. “Both the boys have told us that police were resorting to pressure tactics and torture to force them to confess," a protester alleged. The stir was withdrawn after Jarmundi sub-divisional police officer of Animesh Nathani assured prtoesters that justice will be done in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/first-arrest-in-dumka-rape-murder-case/articleshow/78778312.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: JMM distances from Lobin’s rape remark, BJP seeks governor intervention||RANCHI: Facing flak for its Borio MLA Lobin Hembrom’s controversial statement on the recent gang-rape and murder of a tribal girl in Dumka, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Tuesday distanced itself from the comment and said it was the lawmaker’s personal opinion. Talking to reporters in poll bound Dumka on Monday, Hembrom had said that the rising incidents of rape and gang-rape are testimony to the negligent approach of parents towards their daughters. “They allow their daughters to move out of home even after dusk. Boys and girls often cross socially-accepted lines because they have easy access to internet and mobile phones. Their parents remain in the dark over their children’s conduct.” JMM general Supriyo Bhattacharya said: “He commented on an issue and a social evil. It was his personal opinion and party does not endorse his view. Chief minister Hemant Soren has very clearly stated that Jharkhand will not turn into another Hathras or Shaharanpur. The guilty will be brought to justice.” BJP, however, issued a strong statement against Hembrom. “The women of Jharkhand are crying for justice and politicians from JMM and Congress are making such unfortunate remarks. Crimes against women are rising and the DGP is claiming that everything is fine. These comments clearly indicate the mindset of JMM and Congress leaders,” BJP spokesperson Pradip Sinha said in a statement. The saffron party also urged Governor Droupadi Murmu to take cognizance on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-distances-from-lobins-rape-remark-bjp-seeks-guv-intervention/articleshow/78778376.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||Treat Raghubar in Rinpas: JMM to BJP natational president||RANCHI: JMM on Tuesday strongly objected to the former chief minister Raghubar Das’s recent remark of calling the Jharkhand government a thief and urged the BJP national leadership to take a tough stand against him. State BJP leaders have already condemned Das for his comments and asked him to refrain from making such statements. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said the remark, which Das presumably made at a public contact program in bypoll-bound Bermo, indicated that he has no regard for the elected government or the legislators of the ruling coalition alliance of JMM, Congress and RJD. Accusing Das of making derogatory statements about tribal communities from time to time, Bhattacharya urged BJP national president J P Nadda to take a tough stand against him. “He is inciting hatred and division on the lines of caste and religion. This needs to be stopped. JMM also urges you to get him treated at Rinpas because he refuses to reform himself,” he added. The footage of Das’s remark in Hindi was widely circulated on social media. In the clip, Das was heard telling a group of locals in Bermo to speak up against “injustice of the thieves”. “Chup maat raho, aap log chup rehte ho isiliye chorta log raaj karta hai (Don’t remain silent. Just because you keep silent, thieves are ruling),” Das was heard saying in the footage while former minister Amar Kumar Bauri was seen applauding. Bhattacharya said, “Is this the way one should speak? It was because of his foul mouth that our leader and chief minister Hemant Soren had filed a case against Raghubar ji. But since Hemant ji has a large heart, he withdrew the case after the assembly election was over,” Bhattacharya said. On December 19, Soren lodged a written complaint against Das with the Muffassil ST/SC police station in Dumka. In his complaint, Soren alleged that Das, during his speech in an election rally in Mihijam (under Jamtara assembly constituency in Santhal Pargana) on December 18, had used cuss words relating to Soren’s name, surname and tribal lineage. The complaint, on whose basis an FIR was lodged against Das, was withdrawn on March 2. Launching a counter-attack against Das, Bhattacharya said, “How dare he called the ruling dispensation a thief when his government was neck-deep in corruption? At present, only the Meinhardt deal is being probed. Gradually, we will probe all the wrongdoings of the previous government.” Meanwhile, state BJP president Deepak Prakash said, “Raghubar ji is a former CM and national vice-president of the party. The statement spoils the image of our party. I will request him to not make such remarks.” Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a promotional event in the city, Prakash added, “Such statements even if made by a BJP karyakarta at the block level or by a national-level office bearer is equally unfortunate and condemnable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/treat-raghubar-in-rinpas-jmm-to-bjp-natl-prez/articleshow/78778368.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||Congress prepares war room, BJP bombs heavyweights in Bermo||BOKARO/RANCHI: Congress and BJP, the two key contenders of the Bermo bypoll seat, intensified their efforts on the ground ahead of the November 3 polling date. While Congress has set up a war room and deployed MLAs in each block for overall management, BJP has pressed two of its heavyweights — former chief minister Raghubar Das and Union minister Arjun Munda — who are constantly campaigning in the constituency for the last few days. For Congress, part of the ruling grand alliance in the state, Centre’s alleged step-brotherly treatment towards Jharkhand after ouster of the BJP government last year, will be the biggest poll plank besides “anti-farmer, anti-people” laws introduced by the Union government, said party workers. Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said, “We have positioned our MLAs and other party workers at strategic points for poll management who have already taken charge of the election works. Besides trying to reach every voter and household with the report card of our government in the last 10 months despite a step-brotherly treatment and loot by the NDA government in the Centre, our focus will also be to convince voters for exercising their franchisee without fail.” While one of the co-working presidents of the party — Rajesh Thakur — has been made the in-charge of the party’s war room in Bermo, MLAs like Pradeep Yadav, Rajesh Kacchap, Bandhu Tirkey, Mamta Devi, Vixal Konagadi, Amba Prasad and Irfan Ansari have been asked to build up public connect at the blocks. Congress has put up late MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh’s son Kumar Jaimangal as their candidate here against BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. A total of 16 candidates are in fray on this seat. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said equal emphasis is being laid in Dumka, another seat where the bypoll is being held simultaneously. In Dumka, Congress’s ally JMM has fielded Basant Soren against BJP’s Lois Marandi. “The grand alliance partners will fight it out with full spirit to retain both our seats. The way the Union government has been trying to destablise financial health of this tribal state by blocking funds and auto-debits, it is indicative how serious are they about Jharkhand. People will answer against the Centre’s oppression through the ballots,” he said. BJP on the other hand started carpet bombing leaders like Das and Munda besides a host of others since the last one week. While Das has been camping here for three days and holding different rallies, Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda began his stint in Bermo from Monday. At a campaign rally in Jaridih, Munda accused the state government of having failed on all fronts, predicting that the outcome on both these seats may have a bearing on the health of the incumbent regime. “People have realised that the JMM government can’t fulfil any of its promises and there is a spate of lawlessness in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-prepares-war-room-bjp-bombs-heavyweights-in-bermo/articleshow/78778331.cms||Divy Khare
October 21, 2020||Ranchi||Hazaribag girl hangs self, leaves note blaming cops for not acting against her tormenters||HAZRIBAG: A woman hanged herself at her home in Bocho village in Hazaribag on Sunday night, leaving behind a suicide note accusing the police of failing to take action against some persons, including her college mates, who allegedly hacked into her social media account and posted vulgar comments and photographs. Hazaribag SP Kartik S confirmed the incident, but rejected the charges the 21-year-old undergraduate student of St Columba’s College made in the note. He said, “She had filed an FIR at the Mufassil police station against a few persons, including some students from her college. We acted promptly and arrested two persons she had named.” In the note, the girl said she her tormenters were out on bail and continued to harass her, threatening to attack her with acid if she complained. She wrote she has no choice but to end her life as even the police has failed to help her. Kartik said neither the girl nor her family complained to the police about the threats she recieved. The girl’s father said, “All that I know is that my girl died because of a few persons who were harassing her. They should get strict punishment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hbag-girl-hangs-self-leaves-note-blaming-cops-for-not-acting-against-her-tormenters/articleshow/78778277.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Business||Flying out of Mumbai airport set to get costlier||NEW DELHI: The Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) has proposed levying an ad-hoc user development fee (UDF) of Rs 200 and Rs 500 for every domestic and international outbound passenger, respectively, till March 31, 2023, to tide over the Covid crisis. It has informed the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) about a “cash shortfall for meeting operational expenses” due to extremely low levels of air traffic in pandemic times that has resulted in loss of both aeronautical and non-aero revenues. The ad-hoc levy has been sought to “ensure economic and viable operations of (the) airport”. The ad-hoc UDF proposed for every departing domestic passenger, which is currently nil at Mumbai, is Rs 200. For every international departure, MIAL has proposed Rs 500 as ad-hoc UDF — taking the total UDF (adding UDF of Rs 116) to Rs 616. For international tickets issued in foreign currency, the ad-hoc proposed for every departing passenger is $7.23 in addition to UDF of $1.68, taking the total to $8.91 (with assumed exchange rate of Rs 69.11 for USD). AERA, in turn, has sought stakeholder comments on MIAL’s annual tariff plan for the third control period of April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2024, that includes proposal for this ad-hoc UDF. The regulator will take a call on this issue, including whether the ad-hoc UDF should be allowed and if yes how much, after considering the same. All airports — the PPP ones in Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Kochi; with Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangaluru getting added to this list by November 12 when Adani Group has to take over; and those run by the state-run Airports Authority of India (AAI) — are facing a similar drying up of revenues due to the pandemic. At the same time operational expenses due to enhanced sanitisation measure and PPEs have gone up. It may be a matter of time where these airports, at least the PPP ones, seek a similar ad-hoc levy like MIAL. AAI chairman Arvind Singh had said earlier this month that the PSU’s “revenue was down by 80% in April-June, 2020, quarter over same period last fiscal. It is yet to cross 50% mark of revenue of last year and had to take working capital loan.” About the proposed ad-hoc UDF, MIAL CEO R K Jain has said in a letter to AERA on October 15, 2020: “If (this) payment is made within 15 days from receipt of bills, collection charge of Rs 2.5 per departing passenger shall be paid by (MIAL) to collecting airline. No collection charge in case to be paid if airline fails to pay within 15 days or in case of part payment. To be eligible to claim collection charges, the airline should have no overdue on any account with the airport operator.” MIAL has proposed that airlines will be eligible for this collection fee only if they give passenger data in a certain timeframe. And for a delay in giving this data, the airport operator has proposed a daily penalty of Rs 10,000 on airlines. The letter adds: “(This)… annual tariff plan (is) proposed to be effective from January 1, 2021 till March 31, 2024…. (on) September 14, 2020, we had brought out the necessity of permitting ad-hoc UDF upto March 31, 2023 in order to ensure economic and viable operations of airport… Due to Covid-19, there is disruption in passenger traffic, (aircraft movement) resulting into severe adverse impact on aero and non-aero revenue. There is cash shortfall for meeting operational expenses, which needs to be bridged partially through collection of ad-hoc UDF as proposed by MIAL,” the letter says. The Association of Private Airport Operators (APAO) had this March sought the levy of a corona surcharge — termed “a nominal passenger facilitation charge” — to cover for the extra expenses and lower revenues. APAO members are PPP airports at Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Cochin, and greenfield airports coming up in Navi Mumbai and Mopa in Goa. Airports and airlines do not expect to see pre-Covid levels of overall air traffic to return before 2023 or 2024. Surviving the long revenue drought is a challenge for them, as well as other commercial entities and even households, with some foreign airlines folding up already during the pandemic and almost all Indian carriers struggling to survive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flying-out-of-mumbai-airport-set-to-get-costlier/articleshow/78779153.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Schools in Andhra Pradesh to reopen on November 2||VIJAYAWADA: Schools in the state are set to reopen from November 2. While addressing a video conference on ‘Spandana programme’, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy announced that all schools will follow Covid-19 guidelines when they reopen. The state education department has designed the academic calendar with 148 academic days. The state government has decided to conduct classes on alternative days. Classes 1,3,5,7,9 will have classes on one day and 2,4,6,8 will have classes on the next day. Schools above 750 students will have two working days per class per week and schools with less than 750 students will have three working days per week. All schools will function for half day in November and students will be sent home after having mid-day meal. The chief minister directed the authorities to take necessary measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in schools. The state school education department is preparing an action plan along with the health department in conducting the classes. Hand sanitation and physical distancing will be made mandatory in schools. Students will be divided into small sections to prevent congestion in classrooms. Teachers associations and parents expressed happiness over the decision of the state government. “The state government has finally taken a decision on resuming schools and we welcome it. Classes on alternative days will help reduce chances of the spread of Covid-19. School managements should sanitise classrooms every day and maintain a healthy environment,” said K Maha Lakshmi, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/schools-in-state-to-reopen-on-nov-2/articleshow/78775079.cms||Venu Lanka
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Manish Ngr ROB, RUB, Wardha Road flyover to be complete after Diwali||Nagpur: The Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) and railway underbridge (RUB) and Wardha Road double decker flyover would be complete after Diwali, MahaMetro officials told the media on Tuesday. The structures would be handed over to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which would decide the date of opening. The RUB and ROB are one-way structures but they may be made two-way in the future depending on the traffic flow, said executive director Anil Kokate. “Central Railways has a plan to construct another RUB beside the Manish Nagar railway crossing. When the RUB is open, our two structures can be easily made two-way,” he added. Kokate admitted that the ROB was earlier a four lane two-way structure. “However, due to problems in land acquisition, we had to make it two lane. Seventeen houses and two open plots were needed to be acquired for the four-lane ROB. The residents were just not ready to move out. Besides acquiring their property was costing over Rs150 crore. So we modified the design,” he said. Executive director Naresh Gurbani said that contrary to popular perception, some works remained to be done on the flyover and RUB. “Five works of the flyover remain. They are spherical bearings post installation inspection and adjustment works, rectification works of expansion joints, drainage rectification works, installation of traffic signage boards and plantation on the median,” said Gurbani. The ED further said that six works remain on the RUB — installation of traffic signage boards, road furniture work, including work of fixing of traffic mirrors and other signages, expansion joint treatment and other related works, minor works of rectification of sunpipe installation, installation of traffic signal post as per directions of the traffic police department and rearrangement of traffic diversion island at Ujjwal Nagar. The ROB is visibly incomplete. Five works remain to be done — lighting arrangement, including installation of electric poles, railway spant works of crash barrier, wearing course laying finishing works, etc, drainage pipe fixing works, installation of traffic signage boards and painting of the ROB. The three structure are NHAI projects which are being done by MahaMetro on the directions of union highways minister Nitin Gadkari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/manish-ngr-rob-rub-wardha-road-flyover-to-be-complete-after-diwali/articleshow/78776368.cms||Ashish Roy
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Group 1 prelims: Andhra Pradesh HC verdict on October 22||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday reserved orders in petitions challenging Group-1 preliminary examinations. The court said it would announce the verdict on October 22 with Group-1 mains exam scheduled for November 2. A batch of petitions were filed with the court after the preliminary examination was conducted on May 26, 2019. Petitioners had contended that as many 51 questions of the 120 appeared with mistakes in Telugu translation. They also said their chances of selection were affected as programmable calculators were not allowed for the exam which went against the notification. Appearing for the petitioners, senior counsel A Satya Prasad told the court that aspirants with a Telugu-medium education were at a disadvantage because of the faulty translation. He contended that the exam be conducted again so as to provide an equal opportunity to all students. In response, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) counsel, Mallikharjuna Rao told the court that the commission did not consider 25 questions which had mistakes and the results were given accordingly. He said the notification stated to refer to the question in English if there were difficulties in the Telugu version or translation errors. Rao defended the decision on calculators saying it was not mandatory that they be allowed as per the notification. “Calculators are allowed only based on the questionnaire and if there is no need for programmable calculators, APPSC can take a decision to not to allow them,” he said. With the APPSC stating that it did not consider 25 questions to evaluate the results, the high court asked the commission to clarify whether there were any questions it had omitted to find in the remaining 26 the petitioners had raised objection to. It asked the APPSC to give its clarification by Wednesday and posted the matter for judgment on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/group-1-prelims-hc-verdict-on-oct-22/articleshow/78775109.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Parity can’t be sole ground for giving bail, says court||Nagpur: In a case of economic offences, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, citing criminal jurisprudence, has held that “parity can’t be sole ground for grant of bail”. “Parity is not a rule of law. In a given case, parity may be a relevant consideration. But there is no inexorable rule that if a co-accused, who is similarly circumstanced, is released on bail, the accused must get similar benefit on principle of parity,” justice Rohit Deo held. While dismissing a bail application by petitioner Mangesh Jagtap, who allegedly defrauded Andhra Bank of Rs 9.45 crore with his accomplices, justice Deo observed that accusations against him are grave and material on record is prima facie clinching. Along with him, Ajinkya Deshmukh, Amol Kumbhare, Anagha Bhusari, Vikky Jat, and Amit Bhagwat are accused of entering into a criminal conspiracy to perpetrate a fraud of humongous proportion. Of them, Bhusari and Bhagwat were granted bail and Jagtap too filed a plea for bail, which was rejected by the sessions’ court. The bail plea was strongly opposed by assistant government pleader Neeraj Jawade, contending that the accused’s conduct along with width and amplitude of criminal acts would be a distinguishing factor if allegations against him are compared with others. “The genesis of parity principle is anxiety of judges, impelled by prudence, to ensure consistency in orders and perception that if similarly placed litigants are treated differently, the credibility of the justice dispensation system shall be in jeopardy,” the judge noted. He added even if he assumed that petitioner is similarly placed with other accused, he would still be disinclined to invoke principle of parity, as accusations are grave and material on record is prima facie clinching. “The audacious, albeit crude, modus operandi of economic offence shocks one’s conscience. While consistency in orders is ordinarily desirable, when the conscience revolts, the anxiety to ensure consistency must give way to the voice of the conscience. HC’s conscience can’t be a hostage to mistaken and misplaced notion that since co-accused are granted bail, the petitioner accused must be bestowed with similar indulgence.” Clarifying that there’s nothing in the trial court’s order that would cause prejudice to the accused, the HC directed sessions’ judge to conduct trial with utmost priority within six months, as soon as regular functioning resumes. “The petitioner is not similarly circumstanced. The submission that principle of parity comes into play misses the point that shades, colour and contours of his felonious misconduct are markedly different. He’s accused of unabashedly fabricating documents including one purporting to be a registered sale deed. He allegedly duped and defrauded not only the bank, but made life miserable for many gullible persons in whose names loans were obtained on forged and fabricated documents,” the HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parity-cant-be-sole-ground-for-giving-bail-says-court/articleshow/78776379.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 21, 2020||India||IAF’s first woman officer dies at 96||BENGALURU: Wing Commander (retd) Vijaylakshmi Ramanan, the first woman officer of the Indian Air Force (IAF), passed away at her daughter’s house late on October 18 and ashes were immersed in the Cauvery river at Srirangapatna on Tuesday. She died due to age related ailments; she was 96. Her son-in-law SVL Narayan, while confirming her death, told TOI: “She was independent until the very end. She moved in with us (Jayanagar) about seven years ago. She lived by herself at her Ulsoor road home until then. About 10 days ago, she developed some complications and we shifted her to Command hospital, where she recovered. Then, she slept on Sunday and passed away very peacefully in her sleep.” Aside from Narayan and Sukanya (her daughter), Vijayalakshmi is survived by her son Sukmar Ramanan, who is settled in Los Angeles. Her husband, Wing Commander (retd) KV Ramanan had passed away in 1971. "In fact, they were the first couple of the IAF, but we lost my father-in-law very early to cancer. Vijayalakshmi had also designed the IAF uniform for women,” Narayan said. Born on February 27, 1924 , Vijayalakshmi joined the Madras Medical College for MBBS in 1943. She was awarded the best outgoing student in 1948, and was a recipient of the Balfour memorial medal medal for Medicine and prize for Surgery by Madras University. She then did her MD in obstetrics and gynaecology and worked in Egmore Maternity hospital in Chennai as assistant surgeon. Vijaylakshmi was commissioned in the Army Medical Corps on August 22, 1955 and was seconded to the IAF on the same day, making her the first woman officer in IAF. During her service, she was posted at Air Force hospitals in Jalahalli (Bengaluru), Kanpur , Secunderabad among other places. Besides being a gynaecologist and delivering babies , she also had administrative duties of the medical board, family planning. She also took classes for nursing officers in obstetrics and gynaecology. "During the wars in 1962, 1966 and 1971, she had extra duties in the wards treating wounded soldiers. She was awarded the Vishisht Seva Medal in 1977, years after she had got Permanent Commission in 1971,” he family said, adding that she retired as a wing commander in 1979. Narayan said that she was not only a doctor but also a musician. “She had trained in Carnatic music and was an AIR (All India Radio) artiste from the age of 15. She represented her college in various music competitions. She broadcasted regularly from Delhi, Lucknow, Secunderabad and Bengaluru,” her family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iafs-first-woman-officer-dies-at-96/articleshow/78779159.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Age no bar: Engineer (88), 15-year-old waiting at GATE||MUMBAI: The Graduate Aptitude Test for Engineering (GATE) 2021 could be one for the record books. Among those taking the test is an 88-year-old civil engineer, probably the oldest candidate. At the other end of the spectrum is a 15-year-old from Rajasthan, perhaps the youngest to register. With no age bar imposed on candidates, while it is not unusual to see senior citizens appearing for the exam-a 75-year-old candidate is known to have taken the exam two years ago-the organising institutes feel the octogenarian from UP has set a new benchmark. Meanwhile, as the IITs have opened the national test to third-year UG students after a decade, the youngest to apply seems to be a prodigy in his third-year B Tech instrumentation engineering. ‘Relaxed minimum age for GATE as qualification matters, not age’The student will graduate in 2022 and will appear for GATE in his core subject, said Professor Deepankar Choudhury, organising chairman of GATE 2021, from IIT-Bombay. Usually, B Tech graduates who are around 21-22 years old take the exam. With the pandemic delaying graduation plans, the organising IIT has allowed students in the third year to apply as well. Over one lakh of the 8.8 lakh total aspirants are in their third year. GATE is a qualifying exam for those seeking admissions to masters and PhD programmes in science & technology and placements in public sector undertakings. Director of IIT-Bombay, Subhasis Chaudhuri, said the institute is delighted at the self-confidence and youthful exuberance of the senior citizen. “We support his aspiration and are hopeful to have him as our graduate student also!” he said. Organising chairman Choudhury, said, “It is a hallmark exam for people of all ages. While it is difficult to guess the real reason, some may want to crack the test to just check their proficiency. Less than 20% candidates who take the exam qualify. It looks good on the profile to mention one is GATE-qualified. An elderly candidate may want to set an example or motivate his younger colleagues.” The senior citizen from UP was born in 1932 and graduated in B Tech civil engineering in 1958. As for the younger candidates, the GATE committee initially permitted only those born in or before 2000. “But we got a call from a 17-year old girl from IIT-Bombay zone who wished to apply. We then relaxed the minimum age too, as age is never a criteria, but qualification is, and she is eligible as per minimum qualification set for GATE 2021,” said Choudhury. Among the new changes, the organising institute — IITBombay — has also allowed candidates to pick more than one paper in specific combinations. Though only 7.2% of the total applicants have applied for two papers, the number may increase by month end when the institute will open the registration portal to allow students to modify their paper preferences. This year, GATE 2021 was also open for students from the humanities background for the first time ever. Over 14,000 students from arts and commerce backgrounds have applied for the humanities and social sciences paper. Of the total 8.8 lakh applicants in the country, around 1.7 lakh have registered from IIT-Bombay zone alone —the highest among eight zones. GATE is jointly organised by seven older IITs and IISc Bangalore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/age-no-bar-engineer-88-15-year-old-waiting-at-gate/articleshow/78779160.cms||Yogita Rao
October 21, 2020||Nagpur||Attack on traffic cops: HC gives 1 month to finish trials||NAGPUR: Stressing on the need to expedite cases against those attacking cops on duty, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the sessions court to complete trials within a month if the charge-sheets are filed. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala asked the principal district and sessions judge to ensure that the concerned magistrates act expeditiously to commit cases to the trial court. “We direct the respondent to supply a legible copy of this statement to the district and sessions judge, who shall take immediate steps to see that cases wherein charge sheet has already been filed should finish within a month from the date of committal of matters to the sessions court,” the judges said. The HC’s response came after reading the affidavit by DCP (traffic) informing that eight instances of slapping, beating or assaulting traffic constables on duty took place during the last one year and charge sheet was filed in six cases. The affidavit was filed in a suo motu PIL (No7/2019) on rampant traffic violations where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed amicus curiae and assisted by Nidhi Dayani. Before adjourning the hearing till November 3, the bench further asked government pleader Sumant Deopujari to respond to the DCP’s (traffic) proposal to procure 1,000 body cameras that would be attached to traffic constables’ uniform for keeping a tab on their activities. TOI had reported about this proposal in detail. “We’re informed that such a proposal is being forwarded to the state home department as one of the measures to control traffic cops,” said the judges. In response to HC’s directives (October 15), the home department’s principal secretary filed a reply informing that a meeting is scheduled to be held in this regard and an affidavit would be placed on record thereafter. The judges, however, expressed disappointment by stating that “After going through it, we find that hardly can it serve the purpose and some concrete steps are required to be taken.” On the issue of installing traffic booths in the middle of roads as per HC’s directives last year, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) through counsel Sudhir Puranik filed an affidavit stating that the work of erecting them at identified places would be completed within three months. “We’re informed that a model of a traffic booth is prepared and is approved by the DCP. We would also like the amicus curiae to look into it and make suggestions. The NMC should start the process of erection of such booths. We expect the corporation to file an affidavit after a month stating the progress,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attack-on-traffic-cops-hc-gives-1-mth-to-finish-trials/articleshow/78776392.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA floats tenders for Sea Harrier museum, hopes to finish by Feb, 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has floated tenders for the development of Sea Harrier museum on Beach Road. This project is one of the key components of the proposed Rs 40crore integrated museum and tourism complex. VMRDA has decided to adopt a piecemeal approach for the integrated museum project by developing different components before integrating them into one. The development body seeks to finish the Sea Harrier museum by February, 2021 by finalising tenders in November. Speaking to TOI, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the Sea Harrier will be suspended from the ceiling inside Rajiv Smruthi Bhavan in glassed surroundings as if it were flying. “The Rajiv Smurthi Bhavan will be renovated to match up to the designs and elevations of nearby museums. The museum will house artefacts related to the fighter jet,” said the VMRDA commissioner while adding that this would be another tourist attraction of the city. Sea Harrier aircrafts were first introduced into the Indian Navy on December 10, 1988. The aircraft was based at INS Hansa in Goa and operated from the deck of the aircraft carrier INS Viraat. The Indian Navy de-inducted Sea Harrier fighters in 2016 making way for MiG-29K fighter jets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-floats-tenders-for-sea-harrier-museum-hopes-to-finish-by-feb-2021/articleshow/78775131.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 21, 2020||India||Boy, 15, resists bid to rape sis, gets killed||PATNA: A 15-year-old boy was strangulated to death for resisting a co-villager’s bid to rape his 18-year-old sister in Muhammadpur village in Saran district on Tuesday. Police have launched a manhunt to trace the 21-year-old accused. Paramilitary forces meant for election duty and policemen were deployed in the village as a precautionary measure to prevent communal tensions. In her complaint, the girl alleged that her 15-year-old brother and minor sister resisted when the accused barged into their house and tried to drag her out in a bid to rape her, Chhapra sadar SDPO Muneshwar Prasad Singh said. Police booked the accused and raided several places, including his relatives’ houses to arrest him, Manjhi SHO Niraj Kumar Mishra said.The minor’s body was handed over to his family after postmortem. The SDPO said the accused had cleared matriculation and intermediate examinations. “He was a first-year BA student in a Chhapra college and was simultaneously preparing to crack competitive examinations to enter the armed forces,” he said. \||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/boy-15-resists-bid-to-rape-sis-gets-killed/articleshow/78779161.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Doctors save 18-year-old Covid-19 survivor’s limb||VISAKHAPATNAM: An avid sports enthusiast, the 18-year-old Dhana Srinivas could have lost his right leg as a side effect of Covid-19, if not for prompt action by doctors. Traces of the coronavirus had an adverse impact on the lower part of the youngster’s right limb, which could have necessitated amputation. But doctors of a city-based corporate hospital have managed to get the young boy back on his feet. Srinivas, a resident of Visakhapatnam, was hospitalised on October 2. A CT angiography of the limb helped doctors identify the problem. The next day, he underwent a series of corrective procedures such as thrombectomy, peripheral angioplasty, and pedal arch reconstruction to salvage the limb. Dr Siba Sankar Dalai, an interventional neuro-radiologist at Medicover Hospitals, said, “We are happy that the young man responded quickly to our treatment and is back on his feet within a week and has been discharged.” Dr Dalai added that many Covid-19 patients have landed up with thromboembolic complications two-four weeks of complete cure. They generally present gangrene of leg, hand and brain stroke and this boy was one such victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/doctors-save-18-year-old-covid-19-survivors-limb/articleshow/78775155.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Zoo sets up self-sustaining fodder plot to save money||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a novel initiative, the city’s Indira Gandhi Zoo Park (IGZP) has started a self-sustaining fodder plot that will grow its own grass, fruit and vegetables on which herbivores, birds and reptiles can feed. The move is expected to save expenses on procuring food from outside the zoo. The daily fodder requirement for herbivores at the zoo is around two tonnes. The idea behind the self-sustaining model, set up on six acres, was developed as a means to cope with the huge loss of revenue (over Rs 2 crore) that the 625 acre zoo has faced in the last six months and the need to supplement fast-depleting funds. As per orders issued by the Central Zoo Authority, the zoo has remained closed since March. Annual footfall, which over the last few years hovered at around 10 lakh, has dropped to zero since the lockdown was imposed. Speaking to TOI about the funds and current financial situation of IGZP, curator Dr Nandini Salaria said, “The zoo has its ploughback gate revenue and some support from the state government for feeding of animals and maintenance of animal enclosures, but again this is a very limited fund available with the zoo. Since there is no revenue being generated this year, the fund is not getting refilled but just depleting. We are trying to prioritise our essential requirements and act accordingly.” Elaborating on the fodder plot, the curator said, “We have started the organic fodder plot for raising some grasses, fruits and vegetables for the herbivores, birds and reptiles. Till now, these were being procured from outside the zoo through a tendered contractor. This self-sustaining model will not only help in providing healthy and hygienic good, but also will save a good amount of money .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zoo-sets-up-self-sustaining-fodder-plot-to-save-money/articleshow/78775193.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 21, 2020||India||When a 71-year-old enrols in his daughter’s alma mater||AHMEDABAD: Kalyan Natrajan, 71, is perhaps the oldest student MICA has admitted so far. What made his enrolment unique is, there are many instances of children going to their parents’ alma mater. But here is a man who is going to his daughter’s alma mater. While Girija, his daughter, completed her graduation from MICA’s flagship PGP course, Natrajan has enrolled in an online PG course on sales and marketing. Due to the nature of the courses, such instances are rare at premier institutes, but experts said online courses offered by premier educational institutes have opened doors for working or even retired executives to pursue their dreams of getting a degree. Dr Anita Basalingappa, chairperson of online programmes at MICA, said Natrajan is among 31 participants of the course that started in July 2020. “His interest in class sessions and sincerity in participation and interacting with others, where the age range is 23 to 45 years, is commendable,” she said, adding that he could well be MICA’s oldest student to date. “His case exemplifies that there is no age to learn new skills.” Natrajan, founder of ELCA Laboratories, which has four branches across the country, said he identified marketing as one of his ‘weaknesses’ in his business plan. “Then Covid-19 happened. While I was working from home, I still had time and I came across a course that attracted me. I thus enrolled in it,” he said, adding that in our everchanging world, a person needs to add new skills. “My daughter’s education from the same institute a decade ago was an added advantage.” City-based experts said a few of such instances in the short-term or summer courses have taken place at other premier institutes, but such a role reversal is rare due to stringent admission requirements at such institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-a-71-year-old-enrols-in-his-daughters-alma-mater/articleshow/78779164.cms||Parth Shastri
October 21, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Accenture recruits 209 Gitam students||Visakhapatnam: Accenture India has selected 209 students of Gitam Institute of Technology in a campus placement drive conducted on Tuesday. These students, pursuing their BTech and MCA courses, have been selected for the roles of full stack engineer with a package of Rs 6.5 LPA and ‘associate-software’ with a package of Rs 4.5 LPA.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/accenture-recruits-209-gitam-students/articleshow/78775245.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Hold physical, not virtual, BMC standing panel meet today: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the BMC to conduct Wednesday's standing committee meeting with the physical presence of 27 members to discuss and decide on the 647 items listed out in its agenda. The meeting was otherwise scheduled to be held via videoconference. The BMC's decision to hold a virtual meeting of the most important civic panel after almost seven months of being in abeyance and posting almost 650 items in the agenda on a single day had prompted two BJP corporators-including party group leader in BMC Prabhakar Shinde-to file a PIL on Monday. BJP is the second largest party in the BMC, after Shiv Sena. The bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni said, "We appreciate the corporation's efforts during Covid...but if standing committee members are not allowed physical meeting, what message does it send to the society?" "Since the standing committee is meeting after a hiatus of nearly seven months, it is all the more necessary that the meeting is held in the personal presence of all the members," said the HC. It permitted the BMC to "make arrangements as would be conducive for all the members to remain present...and participate in the discussions and deliberations on the matters in the agenda". Amogh Singh, counsel for the corporators, said that "Rs 2,000 crore of public funds" was at stake and the apprehension was that in a video- conference meeting, members may be muted and proper deliberations may not take place for approval of so many decisions. He added that "if they can crystallise 50 important ones, members could prepare". Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy with advocate Joel Carlos, representing BMC standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav, said the agenda list was long and daunting only because of the backlog from all the months. "We will go through the matters seriatim, will deliberate and take what we can. It is certainly not anyone's understanding that 647 will be passed on one day," he said. The HC recorded his statement and clarified all matters be taken "seriatim-one after the other". Senior counsel Anil Sakhare, for the BMC, said civic chief Iqbal Chahal had on October 14 written to the government for permission to hold a physical meeting in the general body hall at the BMC headquarters. He is still awaiting a reply. But, CJ Datta said, "This is the first time...BMC will hold a virtual meeting. We know from experience...there can be teething problems ...It is a working necessity. We will intervene." The bench then passed orders for holding the meet physically since it is a large hall which can seat 180 persons and there will be less than 50 people. Calling the HC decision a BJP victory, party spokesperson in BMC Bhalchandra Shirsat said, "The HC ordered a physical standing committee meeting be held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hold-physical-not-virtual-bmc-standing-panel-meet-today-bombay-hc/articleshow/78779166.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 21, 2020||Vijayawada||Navaratri Brahmotsavams||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy blessed devotees on the highly revered Garuda Vahanam on the occasion of Navaratri Brahmotsavams at Tirumala temple on Tuesday. Adorned in precious and antique ornaments, Lord Srinivasa showered divine blessings on humanity on the auspicious Garuda Seva eve. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/navaratri-brahmotsavams/articleshow/78775276.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 21, 2020||India||Deaths from crashes due to mobile use while driving rose 33% in 2019||NEW DELHI: Nearly 30% of the total 1.5 lakh deaths in road accidents in 2019 were due to not wearing helmets and another 16% of fatalities were on account of not wearing seatbelts. The fatalities in road crashes caused due to use of mobile phones while driving increased by nearly 33% last year compared to 2018, according to data released by the road transport ministry. The report on road accidents shows that out of the 56,136 two-wheeler riders who were killed last year, 44,666 were found riding without helmets. Uttar Pradesh topped the list of states in this category with 7,069 deaths, followed by Maharashtra (5,328) and Madhya Pradesh (3,813). Delhi also reported 178 such fatalities. In the case of seatbelt violations, a total of 20,885 persons (drivers and passengers) were killed in 2019, which was 14.5% less than 2018. While the number of drivers killed for not wearing seatbelt increased by 2.3%, the fatalities declined in the case of passengers by nearly 25%. An analysis of the report also brings out that there is a maximum rise in deaths in percentage terms due to use of mobile phone while driving among all types of violations. Number of deaths in such crashes increased to 4,945 in 2019 with UP leading the list with 2,650 fatalities. However, speeding continues to be the biggest reason for fatal crashes. In 2019, such fatalities increased to 1.02 lakh compared to 97,588 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deaths-from-crashes-due-to-mobile-use-while-driving-rose-33-in-2019/articleshow/78779181.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 21, 2020||India||Road deaths: Delhi worst, Jaipur No. 2 among cities||NEW DELHI: Jaipur reported the second highest number of road deaths among million plus cities in 2019 after Delhi, which remains the city with maximum fatalities despite 227 less deaths in 2019 compared to the previous year. Jaipur had ranked fourth in 2018. Among the states, Uttar Pradesh continued to report maximum road deaths since 2015 followed by Maharashtra, which has registered second highest deaths for the past two years. The data released by the road transport ministry show that UP registered 22,655 deaths in 2019 followed by Maharashtra (12,788). Tamil Nadu has been the biggest change maker among all states and UTs by reducing fatalities by nearly 33% in the past five years; from 15,642 in 2015 to 10,525 in 2019. Union road transport ministry Nitin Gadkari has asked all states to adopt the Tamil Nadu model of recording data, investigation and taking remedial measures. Madhya Pradesh has been reporting more road fatalities and ranked third among the states with high number of deaths in 2019. Among the million-plus cities, Delhi reported 1,463 deaths followed by Jaipur (1,283) and Chennai (1,252). Mumbai ranks at 11th reporting 447 fatalities during last year. Overall, the total fatalities across the country in 2019 stood at a little over 1.51 lakh, which was barely 0.2% less than the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/road-deaths-delhi-worst-jaipur-no-2-among-cities/articleshow/78779184.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Anand Teltumbde pushed ‘new’ Dalit militancy: Witness||MUMBAI: A witness in the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case has told the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that in a meeting, activist and academician Anand Teltumbde had made a statement about reinventing Dalit militancy as well as revolutionary resurgence under the Maoist leadership. The statement of the witness is part of the supplementary chargesheet submitted before the special NIA court recently. The chargesheet has six statements made by witnesses, whose identities have been truncated. Another witness claimed Teltumbde used to attend international conferences in countries like the Philippines, Peru and Turkey under the guise of academic visits and bring back Maoist literature and videos in digital form. Witnesses told NIA about Umar Khalid, Navlakha tooThe witness said the videos and literature were shown to members of CPI (Maoist), a banned organisation, during training and classes. Teltumbde was arrested on April 14 and is among the eight against whom the NIA submitted a supplementary chargesheet on October 9. The case pertains to caste clashes that broke out at Bhima Koregaon near Pune on January 1, 2018. The witness also claimed that absconding accused Milind Teltumbde, an alleged senior member of CPI (Maoist), used to discuss plans to expand the naxal movement in urban areas with his brother, Anand. “Milind used to meet Anand for guidance to advance the movement of CPI (Maoist) in the jungle and urban areas,” the chargesheet said. The chargesheet also said Milind used to say his older sibling had inspired him to join the movement. The chargesheet said among the ‘urban naxals’ are arrested accused Arun Ferreira, cultural group Kabir Kala Manch members Ramesh Gaichor, Sagar Gorkhe and Jyoti Jagtap, Surendra Gadling, Vernon Gonsalves, Gautam Navlakha, P Varavara Rao, Shoma Sen, Sudha Bharadwaj, Rona Wilson, Sudhir Dhawale and Mahesh Raut. A third witness said he had “heard” about jailed former JNU student Umar Khalid (not named in this case) being an ‘Urban Party Member’ and working with other members in Delhi to promote their agenda. The witness said Khalid was among those who had delivered speeches at Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017. Another witness described activist Navlakha as a Maoist sympathiser. “Gautam Navlakha has written books on Maoists, he has visited the jungles along with Swedish writer (not named in statement) and met Maoist leaders. Navlakha has participated in meet of Release of G N Saibaba Defence Committee. Navlakha always speaks on Left-oriented politics. Navlakha is a good friend of Varavara Rao,” the chargesheet said. It further stated Navlakha was involved in civil rights groups. Referring to recently arrested Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, a witness told the NIA that since party members were arrested from several parts of the country and the party did not have a face, the 83-year-old was given the “responsibility” as he was against the government. “Sant (as mentioned in statement) Swamy is having his own identity… his own NGO at Jharkhand,” the chargesheet said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anand-teltumbde-pushed-new-dalit-militancy-witness/articleshow/78779187.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 21, 2020||Bengaluru||HD Kumaraswamy leads lone JD(S) campaign||BENGALURU: Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy is almost leading a lone campaign for JD(S) candidates in RR Nagar and Sira as senior party members, especially Vokkaliga MLAs, are maintaining a distance because of reported factional tussles. In the past 10 days, Kumaraswamy has campaigned in Sira thrice and in RR Nagar four times. A Kuruba MLA from Bidar South and some second-rung functionaries joined him. But no Vokkaliga legislators turned up. Former minister HD Revanna made a brief appearance when the party’s Sira candidate, Ammajamma, submitted her nomination. JD(S) patriarch HD Deve Gowda made a pit stop before the bypolls were announced. Both Sira and RR Nagar have a sizeable population of Vokkaligas, the main support base of JD(S). The Sira election was called following the death of the sitting legislator, B Satyanarayana of JD(S). Failure to retain this seat, in Tumakuru district, will further hurt the party, which has suffered a series of setbacks in the past two years. Despite the stakes, the JD(S) campaign has not picked up. Political observers are surprised because three nearby constituencies are represented by JD(S). RC Anjinappa, the Tumakuru district president of JD(S), is optimistic. “The campaign will gather momentum this week as Deve Gowda is scheduled to address a rally on Wednesday,” he said. Distribution of responsibilities without internal consultations is one reason for discontent among MLAs, say JD(S) insiders. For instance, the party’s decision to ask Tumakuru Rural legislator BC Gowrishankar to take charge of Kallambella hobli in Sira taluk has upset his supporters, who believe he deserves a bigger role. Gowrishankar said the issue had been resolved. “There were minor issues and they have been addressed. You will see the real vigour of our campaign after Deve Gowda’s visit on Wednesday,” he said. In the RR Nagar contest, legislators Sa Ra Mahesh, DC Thamanna, CS Puttaraju and Suresh Gowda are yet to make a campaign appearance. They represent constituencies in the neighbouring districts of Mysuru and Mandya. In another headache for the Deve Gowda family, many mid-level functionaries have quit and joined BJP and Congress. GH Ramachandra, who was the JD(S) candidate in RR Nagar in 2018, has joined BJP. Chamundeswari legislator GT Devegowda met state Congress president DK Shivakumar recently, sparking speculation that he, too, may leave. On Monday, JD(S) called a meeting to pacify upset members and seek their cooperation, but there was no breakthrough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kumaraswamy-lone-jds-campaigner-in-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/78779130.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
October 21, 2020||Gurgaon||Badwani gang member arrested||GURUGRAM: The crime branch of Gurugram Police arrested a member of Sandeep Badwani gang after a brief encounter on Tuesday. According to police, the accused had tried to kill an inspector of Haryana police in the city. “Sandeep had earlier killed the inspector’s uncle and now the gang was trying to kill the cop to create a sensation in Gurugram and expand their extortion network,” a police officer said. On September 6, police inspector Sonu Malik was shot at by two assailants in Palam Vihar when the former had gone to meet a property dealer. He was attacked by the duo outside his office and three rounds were fired at him. One bullet hit Malik’s arm and he fell down. The duo then fled the spot. On Tuesday, inspector Joginder Singh, in-charge of Palam Vihar crime unit, received information about the movement of a criminal. A team of police personnel set up a checking point near Dharam Colony. They signalled a person travelling on a two-wheeler to stop but he tried to escape. When the police team chased him, the accused opened fire on the team. After a brief chase and exchange of fire, police apprehended the accused who sustained a bullet injury on his leg. The accused was identified as Sombir alias Chand from Jindh. He was a member of Sandeep Badwani gang. Multiple cases are registered against him in Bhiwani, Jindh and Sonipat districts for murder, attempt to murder, robbery and firing on police. “The accused wanted to kill the police inspector to create sensation in Gurugram to expand the extortion racket of the gang,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan adding that the accused is a member of Sandeep Badwani gang. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said the gang is active in Jindh and Sonipat area and wanted to expand their extortion network in Gurugram. “They wanted to kill a police inspector to instil fear about the gang among the city residents,” the ACP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/badwani-gang-member-arrested/articleshow/78778024.cms||Bagish Jha
October 21, 2020||World||NASA's OSIRIS-REx spacecraft successfully touches asteroid||CAPE CANAVERAL: A NASA spacecraft descended to an asteroid Tuesday and, dodging boulders the size of buildings, momentarily touched the surface to collect a handful of cosmic rubble for return to Earth. It was a first for the United States — only Japan has scored asteroid samples. "I can't believe we actually pulled this off,” said lead scientist Dante Lauretta of the University of Arizona. "The spacecraft did everything it was supposed to do." 🌟(BOOP) SUCCESS🌟 After over a decade of planning & countless hours of teamwork, we are overjoyed by the success o… https://t.co/fYehTy9cKx— NASA (@NASA) 1603239868000The Osiris-Rex spacecraft sent back confirmation of its contact with asteroid Bennu more than 200 million miles away, drawing cheers from the mission team. But it could be a week before scientists know how much, if anything, was grabbed and whether another try will be needed. If successful, Osiris-Rex will return the samples in 2023. Following commands sent well in advance by ground controllers near Denver, the spacecraft took 4 1/2 hours to make its way down from its tight orbit around Bennu. Bennu's gravity was too low for Osiris-Rex to land — the asteroid is just 510 metres across. As a result, the spacecraft had to reach out with its 3.4-meter robot arm and attempt to grab at least 60 grams of Bennu. “What is amazing with this mission is that it over performed. It over performed in every way.” Administrator… https://t.co/snMK489puw— Thomas Zurbuchen (@Dr_ThomasZ) 1603237975000The University of Arizona's Heather Enos, deputy scientist for the mission, described it as "kissing the surface with a short touch-and-go measured in just seconds"” At Mission Control for spacecraft builder Lockheed Martin, controllers on the TAG Team — for touch-and-go — wore royal blue polo shirts and black masks with the mission patch. The coronavirus pandemic had resulted in a two-month delay. Tuesday's operation was considered the most harrowing part of the mission, which began with a launch from Cape Canaveral back in 2016. A van-sized spacecraft with an Egyptian-inspired name, Osiris-Rex aimed for a spot equivalent to a few parking spaces on Earth in the middle of the asteroid's Nightingale Crater. After nearly two years orbiting Bennu, the spacecraft found this location to have the biggest patch of particles small enough to be swallowed up. After determining that the coast was clear, Osiris-Rex closed in the final few metres for the sampling. The spacecraft was programmed to shoot out pressurized nitrogen gas to stir up the surface, then suck up any loose pebbles or dust. Contact was expected to last a mere 5 seconds to 10 seconds, with the spacecraft quickly backing away. Congratulations to the entire @OSIRISREx team and all of @NASA’s partners on this mission! We are on the way to ret… https://t.co/6lKzMcrxwm— Jim Bridenstine (@JimBridenstine) 1603232278000By the time flight controllers heard back from Osiris-Rex, the action already happened 18 1/2 minutes earlier, the time it takes radio signals to travel each way between Bennu and Earth. Scientists want between 2 ounces (60 grams) and 4 pounds (2 kilograms) of Bennu's black, crumbly, carbon-rich material — thought to contain the building blocks of our solar system. NASA's science mission chief, Thomas Zurbuchen, likened Bennu to the Rosetta Stone: "something that's out there and tells the history of our entire Earth, of the solar system, during the last billions of years.” Another benefit: Bennu has a slight chance of smacking Earth late in the next century, although not as a show-stopping life-ender. The more scientists know about the paths and properties of potentially hazardous space rocks like this one, the safer we'll all be. Osiris-Rex can make up to three touch-and-go maneuvers in case it comes up short. Regardless of how many tries it takes, the samples won't return to Earth until 2023 to close out the USD 800-plus million quest. The sample capsule will parachute into the Utah desert. “That will be another big day for us. But this is absolutely the major event of the mission right now,” NASA scientist Lucy Lim said. Japan expects samples from its second asteroid mission — in the milligrams at most — to land in the Australian desert in December. NASA, meanwhile, plans to launch three more asteroid missions in the next two years, all one-way trips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-spacecraft-touches-asteroid-for-rare-rubble-grab/articleshow/78779198.cms||---
October 21, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra for bulk drug park on 5,000 acres in Raigad||MUMBAI: A year after dumping former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis's plan to build a Rs 3 lakh crore refinery in Ratnagiri district, the industries department led by Subhash Desai of the Shiv Sena has drafted a plan to set up a bulk drug park in Raigad district under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Atma Nirbhar Bharat plan. Desai said the industries department was vying for the bulk drug park in Raigad and wanted the approval of the Centre. He said 5,000 acres in 17 villages in Roha and Murud taluka of Raigad had been earmarked. "There is huge scope for development of the pharmaceutical sector, which has massive job potential," the minister said. Fadnavis had stayed firm on setting up the Nanar refinery in Ratnagiri despite opposition from the locals. Besides massive investment, he was expecting large-scale employment generation. The Shiv Sena backed the locals and made it a poll plank, declaring that it would not allow the project. Just before the Lok Sabha election, the industries department issued a notification for de-notification of the 19,000 acres of land meant for the project. The Covid-19 pandemic taught the Centre that the country was facing an acute shortage of basic drugs, which had to be imported from China. A proposal for three parks, with an incentive of Rs 1,000 crore for each park, was made. The Centre invited applications and notified a marking system based on availability of water, power, land and technical manpower, ranking in ease of doing business, and incentive policy. An official said October 16 was the last date to apply. "We are sure that in view of the massive infrastructure, Maharashtra will be short-listed," the official said. The official said that 1,000 acres for the project was in government possession. "While Rs 2,500 crore will be required for basic infrastructure, we expect an investment of Rs 30,000 crore," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-for-bulk-drug-park-on-5000-acres-in-raigad/articleshow/78779200.cms||---
