October 22, 2020||Goa||Clubs left with too little time to prepare for ISL||PANAJI: SC East Bengal had little time to put their team together and will now have just three weeks of pre-season training to prepare for this edition of the Indian Super League (ISL), which kicks off on November 20. East Bengal, fortunately, have all their foreign players and coach Robbie Fowler in Goa at the moment, and the new entrants should be able to kickstart training next week. Others are not so lucky. Chennaiyin FC, for example, are awaiting the arrival of five of their seven foreign players, while coach Csaba Laszlo got his visa stamped only on Tuesday. Along with the rest of the foreign players, he should be in Goa later this week. Odisha FC are also waiting for their coach Stuart Baxter. Assuming both coaches land here later this week, their 14-day mandatory quarantine period means they may not even have a fortnight to put their thoughts into action. Significantly, both are new to India. “Football wise, we all know this is not an ideal scenario and that we need more time for pre-season. But we are also cognisant of the fact that a lot of things are beyond the control of everyone, including the League. “If our coach was from Spain, he would have been here. It affects (us) but it’s nobody’s fault. Some will benefit, some will lose; that’s how it will be. We are just grateful that the league is happening,” said Abhik Chatterjee, head of football operations. This is an unusual season. In times of Covid-19 and quarantine protocols, teams have struggled to put their best foot forward. Till the time of filing this report, only four teams – ATK Mohun Bagan, FC Goa, Hyderabad FC and SC East Bengal – had their full contingent of signed foreign players in Goa. Even FC Goa who are based here and brought in their domestic players before anyone else have been hampered. FC Goa first had issues with their team hotel and had to shift to another one on the outskirts of the city. When they returned to the hotel which will be their home for the next five months, training had to stop due to the mandatory seven-day quarantine. Hyderabad FC have seen Covid-19 positive cases in their team hotel, while Mumbai City haven’t had the best of starts after being forced to stop training for two days since incessant rain battered their training ground at Nagoa. ATK Mohun Bagan were the first team to kick off full training sessions. Coach Antonio Habas is the first, and till now only, chief coach to take charge of training session. Not everything, though, has been to his liking. ATK Mohun Bagan are one of three teams who have floodlights available for training, but when the club last checked, lights were not working. “The vendor is currently working on the floodlights at (Nehru Stadium) Fatorda. Once that is done, he will move to Benaulim (where ATK Mohun Bagan are training),” said one source who has been tracking the development. Away from prying eyes, Bengaluru FC have been training at the Inspire Institute of Sport in Bellary. They kick-started their training sessions with domestic players before anyone else. However, the late signings of Kristian Opseth and Fran Gonzalez means the former champions will not be at full-strength in training until next month. FOREIGN PLAYERS AND COACHES YET TO ARRIVE IN INDIA Chennaiyin FC: Csaba Laszlo (coach), Enes Sipovic, Rafael Crivellaro, Esmael Goncalves, Jakub Sylvestr and Fatkhullo Fatkhulloev Bengaluru FC: Kristian Opseth, Fran Gonzalez, Deshorn Brown NorthEast United: Idrissa Sylla, Luis Machado and Kwesi Appiah Kerala Blasters: Facundo Pereyra, Bakary Kone Odisha FC: Stuart Baxter (coach), Cole Alexander Jamshedpur FC: Stephen Eze, Nicholas Fitzgerald Mumbai City: Mourtada Fall||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clubs-left-with-too-little-time-to-prepare-for-isl/articleshow/78795935.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 22, 2020||World||Pakistan's political crisis deepens||ISLAMABAD: The recent arrest and subsequent release of former prime minister Nawaz Sharif’s son-in-law in Karachi has heightened the political tension in Pakistan by directly involving the army and police, men in uniform, in a battle between the incumbent government and Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance comprising 11 opposition parties with the sole purpose of ousting prime minister Imran Khan from office. Sharif had drawn new battle lines in the ongoing political turmoil when, at an October 16 PDM rally in Gujranwala, Pakistan Punjab, he named the Army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, and ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed as the “selectors” and main backers of the “incompetent and selected” PM Imran Khan and his “failed” government. Sharif’s narrative, countered poorly by the government which termed it a Narendra Modi-led agenda, has changed PDM’s entire battle plan. The original plan was meant to expose the failed policies and poor performance of Khan’s government. Though Sharif had skipped speaking at a second PDM rally in Karachi on October 18, his anti-military line was taken forward by other opposition leaders, including his daughter Maryam Nawaz, Jamiat-i-Ulema Islam (F) chief and PDM president Maulana Fazlur Rehman, Pakistan Peoples Party chairman Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and nationalist leaders from Balochistan, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Analyst Nazrul Islam says it is not the first time that the military leadership has been blamed for conspiring against civilian leaders and governments in the country. “More alarming is that civilian rulers for the first time are blaming a serving army chief, and not a military ruler, for all the wrongdoing in the country,” Islam said. Hours after the Karachi rally, police had barged into Maryam’s hotel room and arrested her husband on charges of raising slogans at the mausoleum of Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Following the arrest, Maryam, the Sindh government, and opposition leaders claimed that the Sindh police chief was kidnapped and kept hostage for four hours at the office of the sector commander of the Pakistan Rangers, a paramilitary force, and forced to register an FIR after refusing to take any action against Capt Muhammad Safdar (Retd), Maryam’s husband. On Tuesday, the Sindh police spilled the beans after several high-ranking officials applied for leave citing demoralisation of the police force. The move had built enormous pressure on the security establishment, prompting the army chief to order an inquiry into the Karachi incident. Gen Bajwa, the army’s media wing said, has directed the Karachi corps commander to “immediately inquire into the circumstances to determine the facts and report back as soon as possible”. Aamir Ghauri, editor of The News, says all political forces are being tested to the maximum — “the government for delivering on promises, the opposition from strength to pull down the government and the army for its ability to underpin a favourite. People are still largely playing the perplexed spectator”. “The latest action by the Sindh police, however, has given a new turn to the circus. If the bureaucracy becomes a party to the political malaise, it could tip the balance in favour of the opposition. The next few months are going to be very interesting provided there is no external input,” Ghauri said. With no clue to how the PM will handle the political crisis, there is increasing pressure on the security establishment to deal with the situation. Any action against the opposition directly or indirectly involving the security agencies could deepen the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistans-political-crisis-deepens/articleshow/78796926.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
October 22, 2020||World||Adding a Sikh ethnic tick box to UK census would cost over Rs 2,000 crore and delay census by full year, court hears||LONDON: If the census order approved by the UK Parliament is “quashed” and redesigned with a Sikh ethnic tick-box, it will delay the entire census being carried out by a full year and cost a quarter of a billion pounds (Rs 2,411 crore), amounting to an “astonishing waste of public funds”, the Cabinet Office has told the high court here. The England and Wales census is scheduled to take place in March 2021. Jonathan Auburn, barrister for the Cabinet Office, told the administrative court of the high court on Wednesday that commercial contracts had been entered into, 200 staff employed and three million forms printed, so quashing the order would “give rise to massive costs and a massive waste of public funds”. He said the delay would not only damage the integrity of statistics, but also have detrimental consequences to the whole realm of public sector decision-making and funding allocations, ranging from health, to migration and employment. “There has never been a case before you to show such a level of detriment to public administration,” he said. The Sikh Federation (UK), with the backing of more than 150 gurdwaras and Sikh organisations, has brought a judicial review against the Cabinet Office challenging the lack of a specific Sikh tick-box in the response section of the ethnicity section of the 2021 census. The federation claims ethnic data on Sikhs needs to be recorded to assist public bodies with planning services and claims not all Sikhs identify as Sikh by religion. Mr Justice Choudhury, presiding over the hearing, said he would hand down judgment in a few weeks’ time. “The census won’t prevent anyone from identifying themselves as ethnically Sikh as the Sikh response can be written in,” Auburn argued. “The huge detriment to delaying the census dwarfs the very limited issued raised by this claimant now. We feel it is crucial the census is held in March 2021. There will be very serious consequences if it is set back.” He described some of the Sikh Federation (UK)’s claims as “mischievous and misleading” and described their legal challenge as “frankly ridiculous” and “bizarre”. He denied claims that the Office of National Statistics (ONS) had secretly changed its evaluation tools in a radical way on the “test” for ethnic tick boxes between 2011 and 2019, and said the changes were “minor.” He also denied that the findings of focus groups had been “pivotal” to the decision not to include a Sikh ethnic tick-box in the census, saying the ONS did take into account a survey of 112 gurdwaras which found support for a tick box. “We did not think it was useful statistically but we didn’t ignore it,” he said, “The federation has been heavily involved for the past 10 years in seeking to pressure the ONS to have a Sikh tick-box,” Auburn told the court, adding, “Being Sikh is a rather more nuanced or tricky identity than being Ukrainian. People will ask, ‘Am I Sikh, Indian, or Asian?’” He said whilst some British Sikhs identified as Asian or Indian, some saw themselves as Punjabi, not Indian, whilst younger Sikhs were more concerned about being British. “If having the tick-box affects the data quality, where is the unlawfulness?” David Wolfe QC, representing the Sikh Federation (UK), denied the Federation was to blame for the census being delayed, and cast blame on the Cabinet Office. He said the Sikh Federation had been enthusiastic to ensure that the issues were decided at the earliest to “minimise external disruption" which was why the Federation had already brought two judicial reviews. “In contrast the defendant has played its hand to maximise the potential for disruption and turn that back against the claimant as the reason why his claim should fail,” he stated. “Their proposition is ‘You are too late, you should have challenged the white paper previously’” he said referring to the ONS white paper in December 2018 which recommended against a Sikh ethnic tick box.  “That argument didn’t feature before Lang," he said. " “She dismissed it as premature, not too late,” Wolfe said. Mrs Justice Lang DBE ruled the Federation's first legal challenge was premature. A second judicial review application was issued when the draft census order had been laid before Parliament, but before it had been approved in Council. That application was withdrawn when the order was approved and this claim issued instead. “We are not too late. Had we brought a claim in relation to the white paper, we would have been told it was premature”, Wolfe said. “He said it was quite “improper” for the Cabinet Office to sit on his hands and encourage the judge to dismiss the challenge on prematurity grounds and now a year later to say there will be a significant impact on the ONS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/adding-a-sikh-ethnic-tick-box-to-uk-census-would-cost-over-rs-2000-crore-and-delay-census-by-full-year-court-hears/articleshow/78796985.cms||NAOMI CANTON
October 22, 2020||India||Don’t touch innocents, don’t leave culprits: J&K LG to cops||SRINAGAR: In a clear message to the police, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday said they should not touch innocents and at the same time should not let off culprits. Speaking on the occasion of police commemoration day at Zewan in the city, the LG said the message from the police should be loud and clear: “Begunah ko mat chhedo, gunahgaar ko mat chhodo (don’t touch the innocents and don’t leave the culprits).” He added that the Union Territory cops have been doing a commendable job, especially on the anti-terror front. “If people sleep at ease, it is because of the police force, who work tirelessly to protect the UT from the evil forces and militants, who are supported by our neighbour,” Sinha said. He said the administration is committed to resolving the issues confronted by policemen and the families of “martyred” cops. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh, who also spoke on the occasion, said that 40 policemen lost their lives in the line of duty in the UT so far this year. In the past 30 years, 6,000 J&K policemen have laid down their lives while performing their duties, he added. “J&K Police is committed to bringing peace in the UT. We offer supreme sacrifices to prevent anti-peace elements from fomenting trouble,” the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-touch-innocents-dont-leave-culprits-jk-lg-to-cops/articleshow/78797042.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 22, 2020||Business||Deprived of tourism revenue, Leh economy gets a poll boost||LEH: By 4 p.m. on Wednesday afternoon, nearly all meat sellers in Leh and its satellite town of Choglamsar ran out of stock. The reason: Polling staff leaving the district headquarters were adding some meat to the standard government ration kit for their deployment at faraway or desolate locations. This is one example of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Leh (LAHDC-Leh) poll boosting local economy that largely depends on income from seasonal tourism but has been besieged this year by Covid outbreak and border tension with China. About 90,000 voters will cast their ballot on Thursday to elect 26 councillors to the 30-member council, frequently referred to as ‘mini Assembly’. Four members are nominated. District officials reckon the local economy could easily get a booster dose of about Rs 1.5 crore that the poll could cost. This ranges from spending on transport, printing, voter awareness campaign, procurement of masks and arrangements for polling staff and additional security personnel. The spending by candidates will easily pump another Rs 1.3 crore into the local economy. There are 94 candidates and each has a expense ceiling of Rs 1.4 lakh, most of which is expected to be spent on providing for food and fuel etc for campaign staff as well as publicity material sourced locally. For example, officials said about 125 local taxis and maxi cabs have been hired for poll duty. Trucks have been chartered for bringing EVMs (electronic voting machines) from Srinagar. Officials reckon transport alone would cost Rs 15-20 lakh. About 4,300 polling staff have been deployed and will each get an allowance ranging between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,000 and are expected to spend on some amounts on personal items etc at the micro level, officials said. “For villagers partially depending on income form home stays during the tourist season, the polls will provide some support,” one official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/deprived-of-tourism-revenue-leh-economy-gets-a-poll-boost/articleshow/78797067.cms||Sanjay Dutta
October 22, 2020||Mumbai||Amid the pandemic, DJs go digital this Navratri||The coronavirus outbreak has not just changed the way we live and work, but also our celebrations, be it weddings or festivals. We saw the impact of it recently on Ganesh Chaturthi, where the celebrations were muted in Maharashtra, and we now see the same happening with Navratri, a festival that’s usually celebrated on a large scale in Mumbai. Most dandiya gigs have gone online and Mumbaikars have taken to it with the same gusto. Premal Thakkar, a young businessman, tells us, “My wife and I would get season passes for all nine nights, and this is the first time in our lives that we are not going out for Navratri. However, online gigs are good, too, and we are enjoying with our family.” Deejays get busy with online gigsDeejays and musicians, who used to be booked in advance for big dandiya events, are now performing gigs online. Says DJ Akhtar, “It’s a bit slow for all the deejays this year, but many have taken to online streaming. Performances are happening digitally throughout the country. The pandemic may have dampened the celebrations, but everyone’s spirits are high.” DJ Ali Merchant adds, “The emotions are the same this Navratri, but the scene is different, not just for deejays but for every performing artiste. Though Mumbai is trying to go back to its booming nightlife, there aren’t as many gigs like every year. So, deejays can be seen making optimum use of streaming platforms and social media to reach out to people with their content.” Musicians create special garba playlistsDrummer Naitik Nagda has created a mashup of songs that has already become popular online. He shares, “We created the Tathaiyaa Garba Mashup, so that people can enjoy dandiya at home. While earlier, I would play to an audience of 15,000 or 25,000, this year, because it is digital, I am playing for around ten times more people.” DJ Rink, too, has come up with a playlist of her own for this festival. She says, “It is through music that we can reach out to people. So, we have created a mashup of Gujarati songs for those who miss playing garba.” Shilpa Khona, homemaker and mother of a five-year-old, is one such person who is happy with the playlists online. “We stay in a joint family and every evening, we enjoy playing garba online. There is great music available and the best part is that we can choose the tempo, rhythm, beats and melody as per our preference,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amid-the-pandemic-djs-go-digital-this-navratri/articleshow/78794287.cms||Debarati S Sen
October 22, 2020||Delhi||With restrictions in place, Delhi set for a subdued Durga Puja||Live streaming of puja, home delivery of bhog and online offering of pushpanjali are some of the safety measures that Durga Puja organisers in Delhi have come up with to host the festivities amid the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier this week, several committees of CR Park, GK I and GK II and Kalkaji took a decision to not organise festivities like every year. While some associations have organised ghot puja (worshipping an urn symbolising the goddess), others will worship the idols and live stream it, so that devotees can offer pushpanjali from their homes. CR Park, which is home to multiple pandals every year, has only one small pandal inside the Kali Mandir this time. Only ghot puja will be performed at CR Park with the minimum number of members in attendanceLimited or no visitors allowedMost associations will not allow visitors due to COVID-19 restrictions, but arrangements have been made for live streaming. Organisers at CR Park say that a limited number of committee members will be allowed to enter. Arambagh Puja Samiti will allow visitors, but they will have to pre-book slots. Prodip Ganguly, member of managing committee of CR Park, Kali Mandir, says, “We’ve made all arrangements to live stream Durga Puja this year. We will also be delivering bhog on prior online booking.” Some puja associations have also arranged for live dhak beats from West Bengal as dhakis have not been able to travel to Delhi. Coronavirus as the Mahishasur Safdarjung Enclave’s Matri Mandir has created a 12-feet tall artwork of Durga slaying the coronavirus. The members have also made copies of this artwork which will be displayed across the pandal. A 12-feet tall flex at Matri Mandir in Safdarjung Enclave depicts Durga slaying ‘Coronasur’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-restrictions-in-place-delhi-set-for-a-subdued-durga-puja/articleshow/78790879.cms||---
October 22, 2020||India||New space policy gives full freedom to pvt players to set up sat constellations, earth stations: Isro chief||NEW DELHI: With the objective to completely open the Indian skies for the private sector, the department of space (DoS), in its recently revealed draft Spacecom Policy 2020, has eased stringent rules and regulations so as to enable private entities to become global players in space communication arena. On the lines of Starlink and Kuiper satellite constellation projects of American private space majors Elon Musk-owned SpaceX and Jeff Bezos-led Blue Origin, “Indian entities will also be able to establish and operate satellite systems to provide capacity for communication services with authorisation” once the draft provisions are cleared by the Modi cabinet. The draft Space-Based Communication Policy of India-2020 (Spacecom Policy- 2020) and Spacecom NGP-2020, on whom the DoS sought public views before November 4, stated, “Indian entities can undertake design, development and realization of satellites and associated communication systems. They can establish satellite system through their own built satellite or procured satellite. They can establish telemetry, tracking & command earth stations and satellite control centre in or outside India. They can also offer the capacity to commercial and societal communications within India as well as outside, and can supply their systems and solutions to international markets”. It also said that Indian entities can avail of Indian as well as non-Indian orbital resources to establish their space-based systems for communication services over India and outside. The authorised Indian entities can directly offer their capacities to customers. Speaking to TOI, Isro chairman and DoS secretary K Sivan said, “The previous satcom policy had some provisions for private entities. But the new draft policy gives full freedom to private players as they will be able to carry out satcom activities. They can have their own satellite constellations and operate their own earth stations. When the new system will come into effect (after the Cabinet nod), IN-SPACe (Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre) will put in place all safeguards and strategies to protect our national interest.” Sivan said with the implementation of these major space reforms, “Indian private entities can become global players and carve out space for themselves in the international market.” The big space reforms were ushered in when the Union Cabinet had in June this year gave its consent to allow private players to access Isro’s space assets and also participate in interplanetary missions. Clearly defining the boundaries for private entities, the draft policy said, “The authorisation process shall ensure that the use of non-Indian orbital resources and the proposed new Indian orbital resources shall not pose any constraint to operations of existing and planned satellites under Indian administration, and should not be in violation of coordination agreements entered into with India and other countries.” The authorisation does not imply granting of any service license or frequency/siting clearances for earth stations. These must be obtained separately from the appropriate authorities under I&B ministry, ministry of communication in India or similar regulatory authorities in other countries as the case may be, it clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-space-policy-gives-full-freedom-to-pvt-players-to-set-up-sat-constellations-earth-stations-isro-chief/articleshow/78798562.cms||Surendra Singh
October 22, 2020||World||AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine trial Brazil volunteer dies, trial to continue||SAO PAULO/FRANFURT: Brazilian health authority Anvisa said on Wednesday that a volunteer in a clinical trial of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University had died but added that the trial would continue. Oxford confirmed the plan to keep testing, saying in a statement that after careful assessment "there have been no concerns about safety of the clinical trial." A source familiar with the matter told Reuters that the trial would have been suspended if the volunteer who died had received the Covid-19 vaccine, suggesting the person was part of the control group that was given a meningitis vaccine. CNN Brasil reported that the volunteer was a 28-year-old man who lived in Rio de Janeiro and died from Covid-19 complications. Anvisa provided no further details, citing medical confidentiality of those involved in trials. AstraZeneca declined to comment immediately. The Federal University of Sao Paulo, which is helping coordinate phase 3 clinical trials in Brazil, separately said the volunteer was Brazilian without revealing where the person lived. It is up to an independent review board to decide whether trials will continue, a spokesman for the university said. The board is made up of experts not from AstraZeneca, nor the universities nor the Brazilian biomedical research center FioCruz that plans to produce the vaccine in Brazil. So far 8,000 of the planned 10,000 volunteers in the trial have been recruited and given the first dose in six cities in Brazil, and many have already received the second shot, he said. AstraZeneca shares fell 1.8%. Brazil's federal government has plans to purchase the UK vaccine and produce it at FioCruz in Rio de Janeiro, while a competing vaccine from China's Sinovac Biotech Ltd is being tested by Sao Paulo state's research center Butantan Institute. Brazil has the second deadliest outbreak of the coronavirus, with more than 154,000 killed by Covid-19, following the United States. It has the third largest number of cases, with more than 5.2 million infected, after the United States and India. Watch Covid vaccine: Volunteer in Oxford vaccine test dies in Brazil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-trial-brazil-volunteer-dies-trial-to-continue/articleshow/78798635.cms||---
October 22, 2020||India||Covid: High caseloads, but Maharashtra, Rajasthan & Bengal scale down testing||NEW DELHI: Some coronavirus high caseload states such as Maharashtra, Rajasthan and West Bengal have scaled down testing despite their positivity rates (total confirmed cases per 100 tests) being at alarming levels of 15%, 10% and 9% respectively. Maharashtra’s total testing over 14-day periods has come down to 9.7 lakh during October 5-18 compared to 11.52 lakh during the previous fortnight (September 22-October 5). At 15%, the state continues to top the chart with the highest positivity rate among all states since the beginning of the pandemic. TOI analysed total testing by states and their positivity rates over two 14-day periods —September 22-October 5 and October 5-18.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The top 10 states conducting highest tests in absolute numbers are UP, Bihar, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Delhi, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh in that order. Rajasthan, too, has shown a spike in positivity rate, climbing to double digits at 10% in the fortnight ending October 18. But, like Maharashtra, it has also registered adecline in testing — from 3.15 lakh tests during September 22-Oct 5 to 2.71 lakh during October 5-18. West Bengal, with a positivity rate of 9%, has shown a fall in absolute testing numbers. Others which fall in the same category are Delhi and Andhra Pradesh where positivity rates are 6% or higher but absolute testing figures are showing a decline. India is close to reaching the 10-crore testing mark this week having already conducted 9.72 crore tests as on Wednesday. Only the US with 12.7 crore has conducted more tests. As per tests per million, Delhi leads with testing 2 lakh samples for every 10 lakh people, Andhra 1.37 lakh, Tamil Nadu 1.2 lakh, Kerala 1.14 lakh, Karnataka 1 lakh, Bihar 78,563, Maharashtra 67,500, UP 59,764, Rajasthan 45,611 and West Bengal 42,088.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-high-caseloads-but-maharashtra-rajasthan-bengal-scale-down-testing/articleshow/78798806.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 22, 2020||India||New Spacecom policy to allow private Indian companies to launch sats, sell services||BENGALURU: Just weeks after deciding to open up the space sector, the department of space (DoS) has proposed to enable private Indian firms to not just use existing space assets for communication services, but also develop new systems, launch satellites and sell services to foreign customers under its Spacecom Policy-2020. Companies will be allowed to set up control centres outside India and use overseas space assets, says a draft of the policy, which will replace the existing Satcom Policy. “The (new) policy will have everything the Satcom Policy has in terms of protection of our assets, creation of new assets, monitoring and operations. The major changes are to encourage the private sector and renew focus on enhancing national security capabilities,” K Sivan, secretary, DoS, told TOI. The policy envisages measures to monitor and authorise use of space assets for communication to or from Indian territory. Read AlsoNASA's OSIRIS-REx spacecraft successfully touches asteroidA NASA spacecraft descended to an asteroid Tuesday and, dodging boulders the size of buildings, momentarily touched the surface to collect a handful of cosmic rubble for return to Earth. It was a first for the United States — only Japan has scored asteroid samples.The policy also lists steps to bring more assets under India’s control for enhancing ability to utilise space-based communication for national needs. “This is the first step. Soon, we’ll have specific policies on launch vehicles, navigation, remote sensing, space exploration, human spaceflight and a national space policy. These will propel India to the next level,” Sivan said. The draft reads: “They can establish telemetry, tracking & command earth stations and satellite control centre in or outside India. They can offer the capacity to commercial and societal communications within India as well as outside India. They can also supply their systems and solutions to international markets.” Firms can avail Indian and non-Indian orbital resources to establish systems for services within and outside India. Indian resources can be availed from designated entities under the department of space on a commercial basis, while foreign resources can be used following the new norms. Commenting on the draft policy, Tanveer Ahmed, CTO of space tech firm Digantara, said: “It’s a positive move clearing regulatory concerns and aug menting investor confidence. We hope to see a quick, paperless application process.” Read AlsoGaganyaan: Isro now in talks with NASA for key techBENGALURU: The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), which has already tied up with multiple countries to get help with various facets of India’s first human spaceflight mission — Gaganyaan — is now in talks with the US’ NASA, examining if it can gain access to some critical technologiesRohan M Ganapathy, director, Bellatrix, said the onus is on the industry to expedite introduction of new technologies while Srinath Ravichandran, cofounder, Agnikul Cosmos, said the firm is looking forward to a boom in small satellite launches. The draft adds that satellite communication systems which can’t be addressed in an open-to-all commercial domain shall be brought into operation with the involvement of the government for sustainability. Satcom programmes focused on societal development — tribal development, social empowerment, health, education and disaster management — will remain under the domain of the department of space. “Such programmes exist to address specific objectives, and may not be commercially viable in nature,” the draft reads. In another development, the department of space last week signed an agreement with space PSU NewSpace India Limited, allowing the latter to further encourage the private sector. The MoU, Isro said, “will enable NSIL transfer technologies to the private industry”. Watch Spacecom policy 2020: Pvt companies set to get OK to launch satellites||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/private-companies-may-soon-develop-sat-systems/articleshow/78798865.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 22, 2020||India||‘Punjab bills could force out pvt players, hit diversified farmers’||NEW DELHI: Punjab farm bills, seeking to remove the state from the ambit of the newly enacted central laws, might have pleased protesting farmers in the state, but the Centre is unlikely to change its stand on the existing minimum support price (MSP) mechanism and will continue to focus on ongoing procurement during the current Kharif Marketing Season (KMS). Officials in the agriculture ministry feel that the state has simply played to the gallery by giving legal guarantee to the MSP, but it would complicate the issue when private traders start leaving the state resulting in loss to the non-paddy and non-wheat farmers as the bills only covered these two crops. Congress leaders have argued that the bills will protect farmers from predatory private players and ensure they do not under sell their produce. “Of course, these two are major crops. But, farmers there have also started switching over to other crops keeping in view better returns over production cost. Absence of private traders means no back up for farmers,” said an official. Read AlsoWill review Punjab bills, says Centre; Congress seeks quick nodUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said the Centre will review the farm bills passed by the Punjab assembly and take suitable action in the interest of the country’s farmers. After a marathon five-hour discussion, the Punjab assembly on Tuesday, unanimously passed bills toHe was referring to provisions in the state bill where the private traders will have to pay a fee for trade outside the APMC mandis, arguing that Punjab traders won’t do business in the state if they find it beneficial to purchase farm produce from UP and MP. Agriculture experts too have tried to decode it from the market angle. “The course taken by the Punjab government is just to gain political mileage. It is very much clear that implementation of certain provisions of the state’s proposed legislation will be difficult in agri-commodity market since financial resources are provided by the Centre for purchase at MSP,” said Sudhir Panwar, farm expert and former member of the UP planning commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-bills-could-force-out-pvt-players-hit-diversified-farmers/articleshow/78798906.cms||---
October 22, 2020||India||Police invoke additional charges in TRP scam||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police probing the TRP manipulation scam on Wednesday added four more penal sections against the accused in the case, including disappearance of evidence of an offence and destruction of document to prevent its production as evidence. Two more channels, News Network Channel and Mahaamovie, have also been brought under the ambit of the probe into rigging of viewership figures. Sources said the additional IPC sections were added after Republic TV, one of the channels under scanner, refused to part with information sought by the police. The police had sought details about an internal report prepared by Hansa Research and the vigilance team of the Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC), which was aired by the channel on October 10. To measure TRPs, BARC had installed people metres in the homes of select audiences. Read AlsoMaharashtra blocks CBI from probing cases in state without its nodA day after the CBI responded with speed to a request from UP police and orders from the Centre to take over a ‘TRP scam’ probe in Lucknow, the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government on Wednesday blocked the central agency from investigating any case in Maharashtra without the prior consent ofBARC had given the contract of monitoring the barometers to Hansa Research. The police added Sections 179 (refusing to answer public servant authorised to question), 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) and 204 (destruction of document to prevent its production as evidence) of the IPC. Earlier, police had registered the FIR under the IPC sections related to cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. A police officer said, “Some of these sections have been added as there is noncooperation from the officials of the channels who have been summoned and asked to produce documents.” Read AlsoHC asks Mumbai police to submit details of TRP scam probe in a sealed coverHearing a petition for quashing of the FIR in the TRP scam filed by Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, the Bombay HC on Monday said police will have to first issue him “summons” like it did to eight Republic TV employees. The HC observed: “Today he is not an accused in the crime, how canPolice have been probing the role of three channels — Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema — for inflating viewership figures. Meanwhile, the statements of Republic TV CFO Shiva Sundaram, its distribution head Ghanshyam Singh and executive editor Niranjan Narayanswamy were recorded by the police on Wednesday. Sundaram has been asked to appear again on Thursday. Republic TV’s COO Priya Mukherjee is also likely to join investigations on Thursday. The two ex-employees of Hansa Research, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Ramji Verma, arrested by the crime branch on Tuesday (two ex-Hansa employees were held before that) were produced before the 37th metropolitan magistrate on Wednesday and remanded in police custody till October 23. In the remand application, police said Verma and Vishwakarma had said that agents of News Network Channel and Mahaamovie used to pay them to rig TRPs. “We want to investigate and unearth the entire conspiracy. We also want to know how many more relationship managers of Hansa Research were involved in the scam and to examine the flow of money in the bank accounts of Umesh Mishra (another arrested accused) and Verma,” the remand application stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-invoke-additional-charges-in-trp-scam/articleshow/78798920.cms||---
October 22, 2020||India||Chinese spy was tasked to get info on Dalai Lama; sleuths looking for her Kolkata aide: Police||NEW DELHI: Investigations into the Chinese espionage ring busted by the Delhi Police has revealed that the arrested Chinese woman, Qing Shi, had been allegedly tasked to gather a list of names of officials posted in important ministries. Indicating a bigger plan by the Chinese security establishment, police have found that Shi’s assignment also included obtaining details of doctors treating Dalai Lama apart from hospitals he visited for check-up and the medicines he took, sources said. Cops are now looking for a Kolkata-based woman who was part of the espionage ring and operating in tandem with Shi. This woman has gone underground since Shi’s arrest. Shi told cops that a monk at Mahabodhi temple had introduced her to the Kolkata woman in 2019. The woman handed her documents in English which she had to translate into Mandarin before sending them to senior functionaries in the Chinese security establishment. Investigating officers say teams are likely to go to Kolkata and other places to question those who were in touch with Shi. Shi along with journalist Rajeev Sharma were arrested mid September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-spy-was-tasked-to-get-info-on-dalai-lama-sleuths-looking-for-her-kolkata-aide-police/articleshow/78798956.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Business||Trade hit by record 60% surge in freight||MUMBAI: Trade, both exports and imports, has been badly impacted over the last few weeks after sea freight charges saw one of the highest ever increases of 60% in recent times. The development came after shipping companies hiked rates substantially. To make matters worse, exporters are facing a massive shortage of containers due to lower imports over the last few months. The cost impact is being felt across industries such as engineering, auto components, chemicals, pharma and devices. There has been an increase in freight costs of 20-30% in October alone. Air freight is also up by 30-40% owing to reduced overseas flights due to the pandemic. For importers, it’s a double whammy — in the wake of the increased freight rates, there is a higher outgo in terms of duties, which will impact companies’ margins in future, industry experts told TOI. Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president Sharad Kumar Saraf told TOI, “Exports are affected more by sea freight, in which there is a 60% increase in rates for main European ports over the last six months. Similarly, freight rates to Latin American ports have increased by 50%, and for the US it is being increased regularly since February. This is an unprecedented increase and a clear indication of a monopolistic and unfair trade practice.’’ Freight rate for October has risen sharply from $300 to $800 (per 40ft full container load), particularly for Middle East, European, North and South American ports. Availability of containers has further worsened even at regular ports like Mundra and Nhava Sheva, while the situation in inland container depots is worse. “There is also a huge hold-up of shipments at ports, resulting in inordinate delays and cost-escalation (for industry). Imports are subjected to thorough checks,” Pharmaceutical Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) chairman Dinesh Dua said. The clearance of shipments currently takes 15-20 days as against nearly a week earlier. This is also being attributed to faceless assessment at ports. Raising the issue with the government, the industry has sought a regulatory body for shipping companies operating from domestic ports, according to a letter to the Directorate General Shipping. The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, adds, “Shipping lines are increasing freight (rate) in fortnightly or monthly intervals consistently since July. Besides the increase, the shipments are getting delayed as the vessels are going full. Shipping companies are able to increase the freight by forming cartels.” Industries across the board are worried. “Both air and sea freight have gone up over the last few months, which may have an impact on companies,” Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA) president Mahesh H Doshi said. Logistics company Maersk’s MD (South Asia) Steve Felder said, “Freight rates are a function of demand and supply, and they vary based on how these two change. Clearly, Equipment shortages impact supply and we are constantly looking to manage it. In recent months, we have seen a general shortage of equipment in the market due to an imbalance between imports into and exports out of India. However, our goal is to ensure that we can help our customers in enabling their trade. With exports rising from different parts of the country, we need to position empty containers accordingly across India, thus adding up to the overall cost of logistics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trade-hit-by-record-60-surge-in-freight/articleshow/78797206.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 22, 2020||Patna||‘Justice for Sushant’ cry falls silent in Bihar||PATNA: The clamour over the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, which hogged the limelight for weeks till the announcement of the polls in Bihar, appears to be missing from the election pitches even as campaigning is on in full swing. With barely a week to go for the first phase of the polls, most parties, including the ruling NDA, that were clamouring for a CBI probe into the actor’s death, have largely shied away from raising the issue during their campaigning. Even sitting MLA and Sushant’s cousin, Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, who is the BJP candidate from Chhatapur assembly constituency, has not made it an election issue during his campaigning. A close relative of the MLA said, “He is not available for comment as he is admitted to a hospital for treatment.” Read AlsoIn Bihar, political stability did not result in prosperityIn the three decades from 1960 to 1990, Bihar’s politics looked like a game of musical chairs. Chief ministers changed with the seasons. The state swore in 25 CMs and was placed under President’s Rule five times. Only in 12 of those 30 years did a CM survive a whole financial year. Governance wentCM Nitish Kumar had briefly raised the SSR in his first virtual rally with party supporters in the first week of October, saying he had ordered the CBI investigation because the actor’s family demanded it. But since then he has refrained from mentioning the case in his rallies. However, BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah told a private news channel on Monday that some people in Bihar may cast their votes on the issue of the actor’s death. But blamed the Maharashtra government for blowing it out of proportion. Read AlsoFree Covid vaccine, 19 lakh jobs: BJP releases Bihar manifestoBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday released its manifesto for the three-phased Bihar elections promising to distribute the coronavirus vaccine free of cost once approved by the ICMR, and also assured 19 lakh jobs for youths of the state. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, releasing the“Had the Maharashtra government recommended a CBI investigation, it would not have become an issue. I was taken aback as to why the Maharashtra government didn’t do it and allowed to it become a big fuss,” Shah said, adding, the home ministry did not interfere in the investigation. Sushant was found dead at his Bandra apartment flat in Mumbai on June 14. His death had raised a political storm in poll-bound Bihar with leaders cutting across party lines clamouring for CBI probe. They also made a beeline to the actor’s Patna home to meet his father KK Singh. Bihar assembly polls: Complete coverageThe Nitish Kumar-led NDA government recommended the CBI probe barely two days after an FIR was lodged with the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25. Six people, including Sushant’s girlfriend actor Rhea Chakraborty, were named in the FIR lodged by the actor’s father. Then DGP Gupteshwar Pandey went a step further and sent a police team to Mumbai to probe, led to a spat between Bihar and Maharashtra officials and politicians over the quarantine of an IPS officer from Patna. RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the opposition’s CM face, was among the first to demand CBI probe into SSR’s death. However, he has preferred to ignore the issue so far in his election campaigns which are drawing massive crowds. Read AlsoThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again…Bihar wasn’t the poorest state 60 years ago but is poorest now“It’s a fact that our leader had raised the issue both in the state assembly and outside. But the SSR death case is not a political issue,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari. He, however, said that the party wants the CBI to punish the accused responsible for the actor’s death. The state convenor of BJP’s art and culture cell Pravin Singh had got over 60,000 posters and banners printed to keep the issue alive. Posters saying, ‘Na Bhule Hain, Na Bhulne Denge’, were put up everywhere in the state capital. “The issue would be raised again after the election. We are maintaining a low profile due to certain reasons,” Pravin said on Tuesday, refusing to divulge the reasons for not making it an election issue. Read AlsoLiberalisation too didn't help BiharPoor economics and a state division in 2000 pushed Bihar further backBJP sources said former Maharashtra CM and Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis on the day he first visited the state clarified that SSR’s death case was not a political issue. “The message was loud and clear both for the workers and the leaders of the party about the issue,” a senior BJP leader said. Former director of AN Sinha Institute of social studies D M Diwakar said, “The FSL report of the AIIMS-Delhi changed the narrative. Since it became clear that Sushant was not murdered the situation has completely changed. And so is the case with the political parties in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssrs-case-shunted-out-of-bihar-election-bandwagon/articleshow/78800822.cms||Ramashankar
October 22, 2020||Business||Mutual fund distributors can’t be named ‘advisers’: Amfi||MUMBAI: To align mutual fund distributors (MFDs) with the recent Sebi rules to strictly segregate the distribution business from investment advisory, mutual fund trade body Amfi has barred MFDs from using ‘advisers’ and some other related terms in their company and brand names. The decision has been taken to help retail investors differentiate between MFDs and financial and investment advisers. On July 3, Sebi had barred people dealing in securities distribution from using the nomenclature “independent financial adviser or IFA or wealth adviser or other similar name” unless registered with Sebi as an investment adviser. “Pursuant to the above regulatory amendment, MFDs whose registered name has terms such as adviser, advisor, financial adviser, investment adviser, wealth adviser, wealth manager, wealth managers, etc are required get their registered name changed,” Amfi said in a circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mf-distributors-cant-be-named-advisers-amfi/articleshow/78796984.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Allahabad||Protests after man found dead||Irate residents blocked traffic by protesting after an auto mechanic was found murdered in Khawas ka Tara village, under limits of Manda police station, on Thursday. The protesters blocked the busy Tara Crossing Road for hours and ended the agitation only after police assured them that the killers would be nabbed soon. According to Manda police, an auto mechanic Vijay Rai (20) was found dead in a garage on Thursday morning where he had gone to sleep. As the news about the murder spread, local residents assembled and blocked traffic movement on the road. They did not even allow the police to take the body for a postmortem examination. After being alerted, Additional DG (Prayagraj zone) Prem Prakash and other police officials rushed to the spot and pacified the crowd. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/protests-after-man-found-dead/articleshow/78815057.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Patna||All eyes on Jehanabad constituency||JEHANABAD: The Jehanabad assembly segment is set to witness a direct contest between education minister Krishna Nandan Verma and RJD candidate Suday Yadav in the upcoming state assembly polls. The entry of Indu Kashyap into the fray as an LJP candidate has made the contest interesting. Indu was a BJP leader, who upon denial of ticket from the party, switched to the LJP. Verma has switched his constituency for the second time. In 2005, he was elected as a JD (U) candidate from Makhdumpur, but later joined the RJD. However, the party denied him a ticket from Makhdumpur in 2010. Five years later, he switched to Ghosi and contested on a JD (U) ticket as a Grand Alliance candidate and won. If elected this time, Verma will be credited with representing all the assembly constituencies in Jehanabad district — Jehanabad, Makhdumpur and Ghosi. He has already represented Makhdumpur and Ghosi. “I am seeking votes on the basis of the development brought by chief minister Nitish Kumar during his tenure. If people elect me this time, I will make sure that the works under the ‘Saat Nishchay’ scheme are completed on a priority basis,” the minister told this newspaper and added, “Earlier, Jehanabad was known for jail breaks and Maoist violence, but under the regime of Nitish, these incidents became a matter of the past.” Meanwhile, many voters have decided to choose their candidate on the basis of development in the upcoming electoral battle in the Jehanabad constituency that has 2,86,098 voters, including 1,50,106 men and 1,35,984 women. Niranjan Keshav, a voter, said, “I will exercise my franchise keeping development in mind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-eyes-on-jehanabad-constituency/articleshow/78795830.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Patna||Gopalganj lawyer shot at||PATNA: Unidentified bike-borne criminals shot at a practising lawyer of Gopalganj civil court Navin Kumar (35), at Bidutola under the Thawe police station area in Gopalganj district on Wednesday. Thawe police station SHO Vishal Anand said that the lawyer was on way to court on bike from his residence at Jamasari village under the Ucchkagaon police station area in the district, when the miscreants attacked him.“The lawyer was rushed to sadar hospital from where he was referred to Gorakhpur for better treatment,” the SHO said. Three empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. According to police sources, some land dispute was the reason behind the attack. Sadar SDPO Naresh Paswan said that a team was sent to Gorakhpur for recording the lawyer’s statement. “However the lawyer was shifted to Lucknow for further treatment and the police team had been sent there,” he said. Meanwhile, routine work at Gopalganj civil court was disrupted as lawyers did not attended in any proceedings and also blocked the busy SBI Chowk for 2 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gopalganj-lawyer-shot-at/articleshow/78795646.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 22, 2020||Business||Car exports hit skid row, down 58% in April-Sept||Chennai: With pandemic hit markets in the Middle East and Latin America facing demand slowdown, passenger vehicle exports from India have fallen off the cliff. Exports fell 57.5% to 1,55,156 units in the April-September period but the small mercy is that the second quarter the numbers are better than the lockdown-hit first quarter. Passenger vehicle export numbers were down 67% in Q1 at 77,784 units but improved a bit to 1,11,555 units in Q2, though still own 42%, data from SIAM showed. Car marketers say the main reason for the slump is that the markets where Indian cars are shipped have been ravaged by the pandemic. This includes markets in the Middle East, South Africa, Latin America and South Asia. Also for market leaders the focus right now is the domestic market so export volumes are secondary. “We are not producing at 100% capacity still and whatever we make the demand pull is in India rather than in global markets,” said an official at a car maker. Car marketers say the Q2 numbers show that export demand is picking up but slowly. “Things are improving but the pace is slow,” said a Ford India spokesman. Ford saw a 74% drop in April-July and a 64% drop in April-September. Others too have seen a similar curve — Maruti was down 56% in Q1 and 40% in H1, Hyundai 77% in Q1 and 69% in H1, Renault 80.5% in Q1 and 60% in H1 and M&M 74% in Q1 and 63% in H1.However there is some light at the end of the tunnel. Some companies are pushing exports to use up existing capacity, others are adding new platform products to their portfolio and still others are banking on global launches. Nissan has just launched the Magnite compact SUV which will have an important export role, Skoda Auto Volkswagen India, which has exported over 25,000 cars in the January-September period, will add new markets and products once its plant switches to the new platform India 2.0 line. Currently it exports cars like the left hand drive Vento to Mexico and South Africa. And Honda, which had earlier restricted their shipments of Amaze and WR-V to South Africa and neighbouring countries, is now targeting right hand drive markets for the new City to double exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/car-exports-hit-skid-row-down-58-in-april-sept/articleshow/78796375.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 22, 2020||Patna||79 NRI voters register for assembly election||PATNA: The office of the chief electoral officer, Bihar, has seen a whopping increase of around 600% in the number of Non-Resident Indian (NRI) voters for the upcoming elections, as compared to the data of the last assembly elections. Altogether 79 NRI electors including 70 males and nine females, have registered their names in the electoral rolls for the state assembly elections. However, in 2015 assembly elections, there were only 11 NRI voters including the seven registered in Gaya Town assembly constituency, three in Masaurhi (Patna) and one in Phulwari (Patna). As per the data provided by the election office, out of 79 overseas voters registered in this election, 14 each are from Gaya and Darbhanga districts, 11 are from Gopalganj, seven each in Patna and Rohtas, five in Muzaffarpur, four in Bhojpur, three in Nalanda, two each in Sitamarhi, Kaimur, Nawada, Jamui and Buxar, and one each in Paschim Champaran, Madhubani, Samastipur and Aurangabad districts. Of the nine women, five are from Gaya Town assembly constituency, three are from Darbhanga’s Alinagar and Hayaghat constituencies and one from Kargahar in Rohtas. Additional chief electoral officer Baijnath Singh said non-resident Biharis (NRBs), those who want to get registered as voters in the state, filled up Form 6A by providing the required documents including self- attested photocopies of passport. “After the form submission, the verification process starts by booth-level officers while revising the elector rolls. The revision in rolls is a continuous process,” Singh said. He added: “The number of registered NRI voters have increased, which is encouraging and hope more NRBs will also enrol themselves in future.” “After registering in the electoral list, the NRIs will have to come down to cast their vote at the polling booths in their respective constituencies. There is no arrangement of e-voting for NRIs,” additional chief electoral officer Sanjay Kumar Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/79-nri-voters-register-for-assembly-election/articleshow/78796581.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||ICMR nod for IIT-Kharagpur team’s Covid testing device||KOLKATA: Researchers at IIT-Kharagpur have received validation for ‘COVIRAP’ — the diagnostic machine developed by them for its efficacy in detection of Covid — from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Multiple commercial units have already approached the institute for technology licencing of the device that is easy to operate and affordable, and can produce results in a custom-developed app in an hour. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said this would impact lives in rural India as the device is portable, can be operated on low energy and by minimally trained rural youth. He added, “Developed at a cost of less than Rs 1,000, this has made high-quality and accurate Covid testing affordable for around Rs 500. This can be reduced through government intervention.” V K Tewari, director of IIT-Kharagpur, said this was one of the greatest contributions in the area of virology and may replace PCR-based tests to a large extent. Subsequent financial support for this project was provided by the IIT Foundation, USA. It was developed by a team led by Suman Chakraborty from the department of mechanical engineering and Arindam Mondal of the school of bio-science. ICMR-NICED director Shanta Dutta said, “This needs a rapid commercial scale-up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/icmr-nod-for-iit-kgp-teams-testing-device/articleshow/78796675.cms||---
October 22, 2020||---||Tejashwi lone crowd-puller of opposition camp||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has his work plans cut out -- making short speeches and address more rallies in a day while sticking to his poll agenda of promising employment and industry. Tejashwi has also learnt from PM Narendra Modi as how to interact with people during the election rallies. The son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is the CM face of the opposition Mahagathbandhan, is in high demand by the Mahagathbandhan candidates as he is young and pulling good crowd at his every election meeting. “In fact, he is the lone crowd-puller in the opposition camp,” an RJD leader said. Tejashwi addressed 12 rallies on Wednesday, each of 15 minutes approximately. He is scheduled to address a similar number of rallies on Thursday. On the other hand, chief minister Nitish Kumar has been addressing four rallies on an average per day and talking for 30 to 40 minutes. BJP leaders are speaking for around 20 to 25 minutes in their rallies. Addressing a rally at Kargahgar on Wednesday, Tejashwi lashed out Nitish for not creating jobs or bringing industries to the state in the past 15 years. He also tried to woo contractual teachers, ASHA workers, Anganwadi sevikas and other self-help groups. “Parents are teaching their children to get a job. But Nitish Kumar did nothing in this regard in the last 15 years. He has become tired and cannot manage Bihar anymore. I am young with new energy and will take everyone forward. All self-help groups will be regularized and minimum Rs4,000 will be given to them as honorarium,” he said. He said if his government is formed, it will reduce the electricity tariff by half. Political experts feel Tejashwi is most in demand in the Mahagatbandhan side, unlike BJP, which has many star campaigners. “Tejashwi has to cover many places and manage that within certain time period. This is the reason he keeps his speeches short and crisp,” said a political expert, adding, “He is drawing huge crowds. There is freshness in him and his contents are focused, impacting common people, unlike BJP leaders, who are speaking mostly on emotive issues being talked about for a very long period. For that matter, CM Nitish Kumar repeats the content in amost all his speeches.” RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan recalled how Lalu sometimes used to shorten his speech during election rallies. “Lalu Ji had been in huge demand and all the candidates wanted to have him in their constituencies. We remember there were instances when he used to get down of chopper and garland the candidate, asking the audience to vote for him. Even Tejashwi is in huge demand among the Mahagathbandhan candidates. They want him to visit their constituencies at least once,” said Gagan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-lone-crowd-puller-of-opposition-camp/articleshow/78795928.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Billava leader Jaya C Suvarna passes away in Mumbai||MANGALURU: Karnataka Rajyotsava Awardee and former president of Billavara Association, Mumbai, Jaya C Suvarna passed away at his Goregaon East residence early on Wednesday morning. He was 74. He is survived by wife and four sons. His funeral will be held at the Goregaon East on Wednesday itself, said family sources. He was born at Adve near Padubidri, now in Udupi district, to Chandu Poojari and Acchu Poojarthi in 1946. Suvarna came to Mumbai, after completing his initial education at Adve, to earn a livelihood. He graduated from Shri Chinai College, Mumbai. He purchased Jay Prakash Hotel at Goregaon East in 1974. He was the founder president of the Billava Mahamandala established in 1997, a conglomerate of more than 180 Billava unions and organisations. From the past decade, he had associated himself with educational activities and helping Billavas get a higher education. He was also the former chairman of Bharat Cooperative Bank (Mumbai) Limited, and honorary president of the administration committee of Shri Kshetra Gejgegiri Nandana Bittil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/billava-leader-jaya-c-suvarna-passes-away-in-mumbai/articleshow/78795151.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad MC demolition drive continues||AHMEDABAD: Officials of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation were embroiled in heated arguments with residents when they went to remove encroachments in Motera, where illegal construction had come up on an AMC reserved plot. Officials said as they went to the area, local residents who had carried out illegal construction come out and obstructed them and even manhandled them. Officials said the illegal construction was eventually demolished, and the plot was freed. AMC officials said in Shilaj, three constructions on about 807 square metres were demolished. These were permanent constructions. In West Zone, some 2,100 sq feet of construction on margin space was demolished. In Sabarmati ward, an illegal room at a primary school which was under construction was also demolished. In the East Zone, in Vastral ward, an illegal construction on the first floor in the Mahadevnagar area was demolished. This construction was on 3,200 square feet. In the Central Zone, in the Asarwa-Shahibaug area, encroachments on the 4km stretch near Ratnasagar Crossroads was removed and 968 sq feet of commercial sheds and 19 enroachments were removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-demolition-drive-continues/articleshow/78796871.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Khadi department boost to ‘diyas’, idols||LUCKNOW: The Khadi department has decided to display ‘diyas’ and Lakshmi Ganesh idols made by local artisans at big shops in cities. Additional chief secretary, khadi gramudyog, Navneet Sehgal said that lack of consistency in clay idols and ‘diyas’ had been one major reason why Chinese made products were preferred over local wares. “The department handed out more than 200 moulds for idols to artisans and ‘diya’ making machines so that we can have good quality, consistent products this year. A decision has been taken to display these products in major shops in all districts. We are in the process of tying up with them to display these products ahead of Diwali,” he said. Sehgal added that around 20 shops would be set up on the Khadi Board campus in Lucknow about four days before Diwali where artisans, who were recipients of the moulds and machines, would display their products. The ‘diyas’ and idols will also be on sale in khadi gramudyog outlets and Gandhi Ashrams. Meanwhile, MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh has given directions to set up committees in each of the 18 divisions in the state, headed by the joint commissioner, industries, to promote schemes and programmes being rolled out by the government to boost local industries in their areas. The performance of each of the committees will be reviewed and those who have performed well will be rewarded, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khadi-dept-boost-to-diyas-idols/articleshow/78798345.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Shimla||After 7 months, Kalka-Shimla train resumes with no passengers||CHANDIGARH: The popular Kalka-Shimla Himalayan Queen plied without a single passenger on the first day of its resumption after a gap of seven months on Wednesday. Three passengers had booked tickets for the train but did not turn up, according to the records. “We did not cancel the train. It departed at the scheduled time of 12.10pm,” said S S Gokul, superintendent, Kalka railway station. He said arrangements of thermal screening and sanitisers were made and all staff members wore masks. He said he was receiving queries from New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, expecting the traffic on the route to pick up again. He said the catering services have not started yet. G M Singh, railway manager, Ambala division, said he was expecting more traffic on the narrow gauge section once the farmers protest against the three farm laws ends. Railway minister Piyush Goyal had posted about the first festival special train. In a message posted on his Twitter account on Tuesday, the minister wrote, “The festival special train between Kalka and Shimla will start operations from October 21. This will enhance ease of movement and provide a big boost to the tourism and hospitality sector. Take all the necessary precautions while travelling for a safe and happy journey.” CITY CONNECTED Kalka-New Delhi ShatabdiChandigarh to Gorakhpur Chandigarh to Patna Express trains The railway board has approved the proposal of the Ambala division for conversion of passenger trains into mail or express trains for Chandigarh. As a result, the Kalka-New Delhi passenger train is now an express train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/after-7-months-kalka-shimla-train-resumes-with-no-passengers/articleshow/78802276.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Senior doctors to be on call during Puja across Kolkata; private hospitals revise rosters||KOLKATA: With the Puja holidays set to begin from Friday, private hospitals across the city have enhanced the number of beds and duty roster of doctors and nurses alike. Hospitals have also drawn up lists of ancillary doctors who were not involved in treatment of Covid patients so that they can stand as reserves in case hospitals face a manpower crisis. “We have a list of such doctors. Barring three to four consultants, all of our doctors will be in the city during the Puja. We have made a primary and a stand-by roster for the four Puja days,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. Senior consultants from disciplines apart from those involved in Covid treatment have been asked to be on call as and when their services are required at three units of AMRI Hospitals. “Our hospitals already have doctors from disciplines like GI surgery and nephrology on the Covid management team. We will expand the list. Hopefully, availability of senior doctors is not going to be an issue. The crisis is greater among the nursing staff,” said a source in AMRI Group of Hospitals. While many hospitals have launched a recruitment drive for nurses, they are not getting enough candidates. Unlike previous years, when OPD services would remain shut for the four Puja days, all hospitals will keep their OPDs open this time. But elective surgeries will be put on hold. RN Tagore hospital will not conduct scheduled surgeries for four days while Peerleess will keep it shut for two. “The bed occupancy during Puja used to be just about 50%. But this time it could be as high as 80% because of Covid patients. We have to prepare a comprehensive roster so that we have enough manpower,” said an official at Ruby General Hospitals. At the same time, online medicine suppliers and drug stores will remain open round-the-clock during the festival. “We appeal to consumers to place orders in advance for Ashtami and Nabami,” said BL Mittal, Sastasundar executive chairman. Frank Ross pharmacies, too, will remain open 24x7 during Puja, said Gautam Jatia of the medicine chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sr-docs-to-be-on-call-during-puja-pvt-hosps-revise-rosters/articleshow/78796652.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Strike threat over GPS watches baffles MC||CHANDIGARH: The Safai Karamchari Union has threatened an indefinite strike from Friday for making sanitation workers wear GPS-enabled watches to keep a tab on their movement at a time when field employees of horticulture, building and roads (B&R), public health and electrical and engineering officers and senior bureaucrats have not objected to them being tagged. A total of 4,000 GPS watches have been distributed to different wings of the civic body. As many as 2,184 of them are with the sanitation department headed by the medical officer of health, while the rest have been distributed to other wings. None of the employees from the other department have complained about the watches and are wearing them regularly. “We are working at our respective sites and getting full salaries accordingly,” a field employee of the building and road department said. Another employee of the public health wing said, “We have been wearing these watches for past few months and there are no health issues. Moreover, it is quite easy for us to click our photo and mark attendance.” However, Safai Karamchari Union is demanding all 10,000 employees of the MC, including those stationed in the office, wear the watches. Krishan Chadha, president of the union, said, “Why only a few employees are singled out for the GPS watches. Why clerks, superintendents and peons have not been given the watches? These watches are defective. We have decided to hold a strike from Friday. Let’s see if talks mature or not.” A senior office of the MC said, “There are neither any health issues nor any technical snag with the watches. There is a technical team to look into such issues, which do not exist. These are simple GPS-enabled watches to track employees.” MONTHLY RENT: RS 18L The project is the first of its kind in the region A company is providing 4,000 watches to the MC for Rs 437.78 a piece per month The civic body has to pay Rs 18 lakh rent per month The watches will be provided for three years. The period can be extended for five years by a year at a time as per performance. The project is already successful in Indore, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Panchkula and some other cities TALKS ON Sources said some BJP leaders are in talks with Safai Karamchari Union leaders to convince them not to hold the strike. The union members are holding regular meetings with other unions of different departments of the UT administration for their support KEY features Geofencing zoning, camera, speaker and microphone facilities. Creating an automatic attendance register An alert is sent to the designated person in case the person takes the watch off during working hours or leaves the assigned work area. Cloud-based software application to handle attendance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/strike-threat-over-gps-watches-baffles-mc/articleshow/78798077.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad MC board to e-meet||AHMEDABAD: The AMC has decided to revert to the online format for its board meeting. The AMC had in September organized an in-person board meeting at Tagore Hall. Officials said that the AMC general board meeting will be held online in the last week of October. The officials said that in September, the assembly session was held so the AMC decided to hold an in-person meeting. A source said that though some senior officials have started attending office, the elected wing has opted for the e-meeting. A senior officer said that organizing an in-person meeting would have entailed testing of corporators again, which eats into resources. As for the opposition, it is in a fix at the moment. The leader of the opposition, Dinesh Sharma, has submitted his resignation to the party high command.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-board-to-e-meet/articleshow/78796843.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||IRS body pays homage to top tax official||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers’ association in Ahmedabad organized a condolence meet at Aaykar Bhavan for Devashish Roy Choudhary, CCIT (TDS), who succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday. His colleagues said Choudhary, a 1986-batch officer with a three-decade stellar career, worked in Mumbai, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Ahmedabad apart from his deputation at CoFEPoSA in the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau. In a note on Wednesday, Suresh Kumar, president of the Ahmedabad IRS Association, said the CCIT will be remembered for his knowledge of the law, helping nature, affection and understanding towards everyone and his participation in every departmental activity from cricket to musical evenings. “Adequate precautions are in place for all officials. About 15 staff members have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. The majority of them have recovered,” said a senior income tax (I-T) department official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/irs-body-pays-homage-to-top-tax-official/articleshow/78796673.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||ICDS to tie up with shelter home to address diet issues, government to HC||AHMEDABAD: After the Gujarat high court called for improvement in food quality and amenities at the women’s protection home in Palanpur, the state government told the court that for a proper nutrition, the district office of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) will tie up with the shelter home. The secretary of the women and child development department, Manisha Chandra, made the statement before the high court on Monday as the court summoned officials to explain conditions at the shelter home. The Banaskantha district collector and Chandra appeared before the court and addressed it on the issue. The HC asked the government to state on affidavit its plans to improve conditions at shelter homes. The HC had sought a report after am inmate, who was sent to the shelter home in Palanpur on the court’s order, complained about the pathetic conditions at the home. The secretary submitted that the issue of nutrition would be given top priority without delay considering the presence of young mothers and children at shelter homes. In response to the HC’s directions to arrange for formal education for residents, the secretary informed the HC that for girls below 18, the shelter home has tied up with the education department, but for those older than 18 years, arrangements for higher studies will be made in the near future. The secretary also informed the HC that the government realized a need for a uniform policy to upgrade and improve functioning of all all shelter homes last year and rules are already in place. Recruitment will take place accordingly in the near future. The HC also told the government to deal with aspects of cleanliness, nourishing and adequate diet, supply of necessities for daily living, first aid and basic medical facilities, regular counselling for the mental and physical health of inmates, educational avenues, formal and vocational training with computers and libraries, and supportive staff in its affidavit. A further hearing is posted for October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icds-to-tie-up-with-shelter-home-to-address-diet-issues-govt-to-hc/articleshow/78796779.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Business||Banks step up festive deals in car, home loans||MUMBAI: After interest rate cuts and schemes to draw individual borrowers, banks have stepped up festive offers. SBI on Wednesday said that it would offer a concession of up to 25 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) for home loans above Rs 75 lakh. The discount is subject to the borrower’s credit score and can be availed if applied through SBI’s digital platform Yono. Axis Bank too has launched a festival campaign offering home loans at 6.9% and auto loans within 8%. Yes Bank also announced special deals for the festival season, which include 100% of the value of an automobile as car loan and home loans that extend up to 35 years. According to Rajan Pental, head of retail at Yes Bank, there is a lot of demand for loans because of deferment of purchases during the lockdown. The private lender is offering auto loans at below 8% for a tenure up to eight years. “In an extension of its festive offers announced recently, SBI offers a credit score-based concession of up to 20bps from 10bps earlier, for a home loan between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 2 crore. The same concession would also be applicable for home loan customers for a loan amount of up to Rs 3 crore in eight metro cities. An additional 5bps concession for all home loans is given if applied through Yono,” the bank said. According to SBI MD C S Setty, the bank is currently offering its lowest rate on home loans. “With the country all geared up to the post-Covid era, we are witnessing increased customer demand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-step-up-festive-deals-in-car-home-loans/articleshow/78796924.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Business||Market recovery from March is broad-based: Sebi chief||MUMBAI: On the face of mounting doubts among investors if the current market rally is speculative and may not sustain in the long run, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Wednesday presented several data points to prove that the rally, although disconnected from the economy, is broad-based and increasingly looks less risky. Tyagi agreed that India was going through very difficult and challenging times with the June quarter GDP showing a 23.9% de-growth. He also agreed that the market-wide lower circuit breaker was triggered on two occasions within a span of just two weeks — “an occurrence which has never happened in the past”. However, he said that the markets have recovered well since then with the sensex and Nifty both very close to the all-time highs hit in January this year. At the same time, market volatility has also relatively stabilised with the India VIX now hovering around 25, down from 84 in March. “One repeatedly hears that the liquidity and low interest rates are the only prime factors driving up the markets, and that there is a disconnect between the market and the real economy, I would like to place before you certain positive aspects of the market recovery, so far,” Tyagi said at the inaugural session of CII’s financial markets summit. Tyagi said the market recovery has been broad-based and its analysis reflects this fact on three counts. First, along with large-cap stocks, mid- and small-cap stocks have recovered since their March lows. Data showed that while the large-cap and mid-cap indices have risen around 55%, the small-cap index has increased around 70%. Second, analysis showed the recovery is not only in the heavy weight stocks, but was across the board in the index. “40-50% of the constituents in each index category — large-, mid- and small-cap — outperformed the respective indices this financial year,” he said. “Third, the recovery is broad-based outside the indices as well — out of the stocks that have traded on the NSE and the BSE this financial year, more than 93% of the stocks on the NSE and more than 75% of the stocks on the BSE have yielded positive returns in this fiscal as on September 30.” The markets regulator also urged all the stakeholders in the market to work towards bringing in reforms in the market place, rather than waiting for the government and the regulator to bring in such measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mkt-recovery-from-march-is-broad-based-sebi-chief/articleshow/78797136.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vadodara||Amul forays into camel milk ice-cream, milk powder||VADODARA: The humped ship of the desert will now help you remain cool in scorching heat. After introducing fresh and long-life camel milk apart from chocolates, home-grown dairy giant – Amul – has forayed further into value-added products with the launch of camel milk ice-cream and milk powder. A first even for India’s dairy major, camel milk has remained in the news since last two years. In September 2018 Prime Minister Narendra Modi had hailed its virtue. Addressing a gathering at Amul Dairy’s chocolate plant at Mogar in Anand district, Modi had narrated how he was ridiculed for describing camel milk as nutritious once. It was during his stint as chief minister of Gujarat that he had tried promoting camel milk for its nutritive value and was “scoffed at” by people around him, he had revealed. “Amul camel milk powder will enable lakhs of individuals to try the goodness of camel milk across the country for the first time,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul. “The milk powder made from natural camel milk procured from camel herders in Kutch will have shelf life of eight months,” he said. “This will be real boon to the milk producers of Kutch as it will help extend the shelf life of milk and extend its availability through Amul’s nation-wide distribution network,” Sodhi said, adding that since Amul launched camel milk products, rates of camel milk in Gujarat have doubled, leading to revival of the sector. GCMMF had entered into a MoU with the Kutch District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Limited or Sarhad Dairy, Sahjeevan Trust and the Kutch Unt Uccherak Maldhari Sangathan for procurement, processing and marketing of camel milk in April 2018. Kutch milk union is currently collecting nearly 70,000 litres of camel milk every month. There are around 30,000 camels in Gujarat, mostly of Kutchi and Kharai breeds. The state is home to around 1,000 camel breeders mainly from Rabari, Fakirani Jat, Sama and Sodha communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-forays-into-camel-milk-ice-cream-milk-powder/articleshow/78794655.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 22, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan hits campaign trail||PALIGANJ (PATNA): A day after hosting his father, the late Ram Vilas Paswan’s Brahmabhoj, LJP chief Chirag Paswan hit the campaign trail on Wednesday, beginning with the Paliganj assembly segment in rural Patna where the LJP candidate is former BJP vice-president Usha Vidyarthi, pitted against JD (U) sitting MLA Jai Vardhan Yadav. The 38-year-old, who carries the weight of his father’s legacy and his supporters’ expectations, began his campaign quoting his father: “Sher Ka Bachcha Hoga to Jungle Cheer Ke Nikal Jayega…Main Jungle Cheerne Nikla Hoon.” He added, “I cry every night for hours as I miss Papa... I was in the middle of this battle when he passed away. Would he have wanted me to continue sobbing?” Before heading out from his SK Puri residence, Chirag’s mother Reena Paswan blessed him by putting a tilak on his forehead and fed him a teaspoon of curd for good luck. Dipu (Chirag’s nickname) touched his mother’s feet as she hugged him and said, “Achche Se Jeet Ke Aayo.” He also presented the first copy of the ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document, the manifesto of his party to his mother. He then addressed the press on his vision document accompanied by his uncle and Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, cousin and Samastipur MP Prince Raj and party leaders including Surajbhan Singh and Raju Tiwari among others. Chirag hit the road around 12.30 pm. As per EC norms, Chirag’s cavalcade had only five vehicles, including a campaign bus with the logo of ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’. His first brief stopover was at Bikram Mor, where a large group of supporters surrounded his car and raised slogans. He came out of the car and greeted the supporters and the cavalcade moved ahead as hundreds of bikes and few other vehicles followed him. At Dulhin Bazar, Chirag addressed a jam-packed roadshow along with party’s candidate Usha Vidyarthi. “I am going through a very tough phase in my personal life. It has only been a few days since Papa’s demise and I have come here to fulfil his dream. Papa used to always tell me never to be scared of walking alone. He used to say if your path is right, then hundreds, lakhs and crores of people will join you and they will never let you feel lonely. And today you people have shown with your love that I am not alone,” he said as his supporters raised the slogan, ‘Chirag Bhaiya Mat Ghabarana, Tumhare Piche Sara Jamana’. Launching an attack on RJD as well as JD (U, Chirag said Bihar is waiting for development for the past 30 years. “The talks of development are still confined to roads, electricity and drains, while the rest of the country is witnessing new heights of development. Why do our youth need to go to other states for education and employment, why can’t they get such basic opportunities in Bihar? We have come out with ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ to address such issues,” he said. He added, “I want our state to move ahead on the path of development with rapid speed. It is in sync with such thought that we have chosen our candidate Usha Vidyarthi Ji, who is the most educated and knowledgeable candidate in this assembly segment. I urge you all to make Usha Ji victorious to ensure a developed Bihar.” Chirag’s roadshow, which was now even longer, reached Jehanabad around 7 pm, where hundreds more joined him. “You don’t get to interact with people on the ground when addressing public meets after coming down from chopper. Roadways are my personal favourite to connect with people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-hits-campaign-trail/articleshow/78806786.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 22, 2020||Patna||Will Tejashwi Yadav emerge out of dad Lalu’s shadow||PATNA: This assembly election is going to be a litmus test for the opposition’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as he is heading the Mahagathbandhan’s campaign for the first time in the absence of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in fodder scam cases. Tejashwi made his political debut in 2015 assembly election as Lalu’s son. Political experts feel he is in the process of coming out of his father’s shadow. However, it is not easy as Lalu is still in people’s minds — across caste, community and religion. Even Tejashwi admits that he follows his father’s ideology and will be working for the uplift of the weaker sections and social justice. “For the first time in the party’s history, Lalu or his wife and former CM Rabri Devi is missing from RJD posters. It’s considered as Tejashwi’s bid to distinguish himself from his father and project RJD in a new frame with a young face for the younger generation. But, this could not be possible without Lalu’s permission,” said a political analyst. Political experts also feel that the younger Yadav scion is raising issues like employment, industrialization and migration to woo youth and mark a place for himself as a young generation leader, who is looking forward beyond caste and religion. Even RJD workers have accepted him as the party leader. Senior RJD leaders, who were upset with Tejashwi earlier, could be spotted with him now. For instance, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari can be seen accompanying Tejashwi on several occasions. RJD’s state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “Young or old, all have faith in Tejashwi ji. He is handling the party well.” Tejashwi is also said to be handling the Mahagathbandhan with maturity and party insiders said he has been personally communicating with prominent leaders of alliance party leaders. Understanding the reality, he gave good share of seats to the Left parties. “But he played smart politics in case of Congress, maybe on his father’s advice. Though RJD gave good number of seats to Congress, but not the ‘quality’ constituencies to contest. That means RJD has kept in its kitty the seats where it considered high chances to win,” a Congress leader said. As far as his election rallies are concerned, Tejashwi is pulling more crowds than his opponents. But whether the people attending his rallies will vote for him is yet not ascertained. Even in the previous parliamentary election, Tejashwi attracted good crowds, but failed to garner their votes. Political analyst Nawal Kishore Choudhary said Tejashwi has started making a place for himself now. “But 80 to 90% of his identity is as Lalu’s son. However, from his talks and articulate behaviour, people have started realizing that he has the potential to become a leader in the future. But still he does not have everything to have an edge over chief minister Nitish Kumar, a man equal to the stature of Tejashwi’s father with grassroots experience in politics and a product of JP movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-tejashwi-emerge-out-of-dad-lalus-shadow/articleshow/78796041.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Colleges likely to reopen post-Diwali||Dehradun: The state higher education department is likely to reopen the degree colleges of Uttarakhand after the Diwali festival. The state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat said, "We have taken feedback from all the stakeholders regarding the reopening of the colleges and are currently waiting for the guidelines of the Central government, but before that our primary concern is to declare the results by month-end." There are several colleges and universities where the students are yet to appear for the practicals and therefore, the department has decided to ask the institutions to declare their results at the earliest, officials familiar with the development said on Wednesday. Schools in the Himalayan state are set to reopen from November 2 and the education department is taking steps to ensure that students are pyschologically prepared to resume classes after a gap of over seven months, education department officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/colleges-likely-to-reopen-post-diwali/articleshow/78795303.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 22, 2020||Business||Aditya Birla Fashion in tie-up talks with Flipkart||BENGALURU: Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail (ABFR) is in talks with Walmart-owned Flipkart for a strategic alliance, through which it can sell a minority stake, two sources aware of the matter said. ABFR has also scheduled a board meeting to discuss a fund-raise on Friday where the proposal may be taken up. The move comes at a time when brick-and-mortar stores have been hit hard by Covid and fashion retailers are increasingly looking at e-commerce as a channel for growth. ABFR had a market capitalisation of Rs 11,679 crore on Wednesday on the BSE at close of trading. “It could be an investment for a maximum of 10% stake or less,” one of the people aware of the talks added. Sources said that while ABFR is looking at an investment, the talks with Flipkart group are focused on a partnership that will boost its brands’ presence online across the e-tailer group’s platforms like Myntra. The conglomerate had previously ventured into e-commerce on its own in 2015 with its platform Abof, but that did not take off and had to be shut in 2017. Then in 2018, it brought back Abof as a private brand, which is also sold on online marketplaces like Amazon India and Flipkart, albeit on a small scale. E-commerce has seen growth due to pandemic-induced changes in shopping behaviour. Industry executives said fashion brands have done relatively well in the ongoing online festive sales, but traditional retail is yet to match pre-Covid levels. This is visible in earnings. For example, ABFR reported a steep fall in revenues to Rs 314 crore in the June-ended quarter compared to Rs 1,817 crore and Rs 2,562 crore in the preceding quarters ended March 2020 and December 2019, respectively. Its net loss during the June quarter was about Rs 400 crore, as compared to Rs 140 crore in the preceding quarter. “As a matter of policy, we do not comment on rumours and market speculation,” a spokesperson of ABFR said. “As a policy we don’t comment on market speculations,” a Flipkart spokesperson said. “Clearly, the growth in fashion retail is happening online. Such a partnership with Flipkart would help ABFR’s brands and give them online exposure. Flipkart is also looking to boost its brand portfolio and it recently picked up around 27% stake in Flying Machine brand,” another source added. ABFR owns Pantaloons and sells brands like Allen Solly, Peter England, Louis Philippe and Van Heusen in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aditya-birla-fashion-in-tie-up-talks-with-flipkart/articleshow/78797110.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 22, 2020||Patna||My govt established rule of law: Nitish||MOTIHARI/CHHAPRA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said his government established the rule of law while serving the state for the last 15 years. He also claimed the crime rate had gone down and people were living in peace. “Bihar ranks 23rd in the country in terms of crime, according to the latest report of the central government,” he said at an election meeting at Kesariya in East Champaran district in support of JD(U) candidate Shalini Mishra. He said Shalini has promised to serve the people with dedication. Making a scathing attack on the opposition, Nitish said, “Recall the ‘jungle raj’ days when it was difficult for people to step out of their houses after sunset. Kidnapping, loot, massacre were the order of the day. Doctors and businessmen had left the state. During my ‘Nyay Yatra’ I assured people to establish rule of law and develop the state. We have kept our promises. If you want to continue good governance in Bihar, then please bring back NDA to power.” “During the last 15 years of his regime, I have done a lot for women empowerment. They have been given 50% reservation in the panchayats. Around 10 lakh women self-help groups are working in state,” Nitish said. Former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh, MP, and JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary among other NDA leaders also addressed the meeting. Addressing an election meeting at Islamia High School in Olhanpur under Marhoura subdivision of Saran district, Nitish sought votes for JD(U) candidate Altaf Ahmed Raju. This was the CM’s first election meeting in the district. Raju is pitted against RJD’s Jitendra Rai in Marhoura. Lashing out at the RJD rule in the past, Nitish said, “Kidnapping had taken the shape of an industry during the rule of hubby (Lalu) and his wife (Rabri).” He said if people voted NDA back to power, he would work for more development. Enumerating the works done by him in the last 15 years, Nitish mentioned 50% reservation for women in panchayat and urban local body elections, flyovers, state highways and many more. Without taking the name of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yada, he said some people would lure the voters by making false promises, but be cautious. “If given another opportunity to serve, I would try my best to provide solar energy to all villages, technical training and employment opportunity to youth, irrigation facility to farmlands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/my-govt-established-rule-of-law-nitish/articleshow/78795282.cms||H K Verma
October 22, 2020||Trichy||Twin murder near Kumbakonam: Cop suspended for negligence||THANJAVUR: Deputy Inspector General Rupesh Kumar Meena (Thanjavur range) on Wednesday ordered suspension of the inspector of Nachiyarkoil station citing negligence in her duty. The action against inspector Rekarani came in the backdrop of the twin murder near Kumbakonam on Monday night. Police said P Kamaraj, 45, an advocate, and his friend C Sakthivel, 35, hailing from Claret Nagar, were hacked to death by a gang. There was enmity between Kamaraj and his relative Rajavelu over a property dispute for several years. Both had approached the Nachiyarkoil police and lodged complaints against each other on October 10. However, the issue between the two was not settled at the station. Meanwhile, Rajavelu's son Anand and his accomplices hacked Kamaraj and his friend Sakthivel to death while they were returning home on a bike. Police arrested four people including Anand on Tuesday. Citing negligence in duty, the DIG suspended Rekarani. Had the inspector settled the property issue, the murders could have been averted, police sources said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/twin-murder-cop-suspended-for-negligence/articleshow/78798105.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: UG admissions still incomplete, session likely to start from December||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University’s undergraduate admission process is still incomplete, even a month after the merit list was declared. LU had done away with the entrance test this year to make up for the time lost due to closure because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The merit list was declared on the basis of 10+2 marks of the candidates, but counselling for the seat allotment is taking more than the expected time. The academic session of first year students usually begins in July, but this year it is already delayed by four months. Candidates are worried that at least a month more will take in completion of all formalities and another month for classes to begin. “Normally, first semester examinations are held in December, but this year it seems classes will start by December,” said Ajay Kumar, a BSc aspirant. “I was expecting the session to begin in October but the pace at which things are going, it seems that it will get derailed by six months, which will adversely affect our career prospects in the long run,” said BSc candidate Anamika Shukla. Another candidate, Atul Sengar, said, “LU affiliated colleges who did admissions on their own have completed the process and classes are about to start, but in LU the second phase of seat allotment is still underway.” LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “The admission process is nearly comeple and the session will begin soon. Students will get adequate time for classroom teaching. Even if the semester examinations are held in February, we will plan things in a way that the course is completed in three years so that students do not suffer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-session-late-by-4-months-may-start-in-dec/articleshow/78798292.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Modi to dedicate 3 key projects virtually: Nitin Patel||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually dedicate farmers welfare, tourism and heath sector projects on October 24 before visiting the state on October 31. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and government spokesperson said, “PM Narendra Modi will dedicate three key projects to the people of Gujarat on October 24 using virtual platform from New Delhi. The PM will dedicate the new premises of the 850-bed U N Mehta heart hospital built at the cost of Rs 470 crore. This will include special facility for children.” He added, “The PM will also dedicate the country’s largest ropeway project at Girnar. Lakhs of devotees have to climb around 10,000 steps to reach Dattatreya temple on Girnar mountain. It will now become easier for anyone to go on top of the mountain,” Patel added. The deputy CM also said that the PM will also launch the first phase of Kishan Suryodaya Yojana under which farmers of 3,000 villages will get daytime power for irrigation. “It will be a big relief for the farmers,” he said. PM Modi is likely to visit Gujarat on October 31. He will dedicate the seaplane tourism project between Ahmedabad and the Statue of Unity (SOU) and also dedicate a series of tourism projects at SOU in Kevadiya. The PM will take part in the National Unity Day celebration as well and will virtually address civil service probationary officers. Tje PM will be visiting Gujarat for the first time after the lockdown. He last visited Gujarat when US president, Donald Trump, had arrived in the city. The state unit of the BJP is excited about the PM’s visit, which will take place just days before the November 3 assembly byelections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-modi-to-dedicate-3-key-projects-virtually-nitin-patel/articleshow/78796798.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coast Guard recovers charas worth Rs 7 lakh off Jakhau||AHMEDABAD: The Interceptor Craft IC-125 of the Indian Coast Guard Station (ICGS), Jakhau, has recovered five 1kg packets of a narcotic substance while carrying out a surveillance sortie off Kadiyari Bet near the Jakhau harbour. The recovery was made on Tuesday. The preliminary sample testing indicated that the substance was charas, worth approximately Rs 7 lakh.This Coast Guard mission was part of numerous such operations carried out successfully in the recent past in the area of responsibility of the ICGS Jakhau. The operations have so far resulted in the seizure of narcotics worth Rs 303 lakh. Coast Guard assets are being deployed 24X7 at sea as well as in air to maintain effective surveillance at coastal and maritime borders of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coast-guard-recovers-charas-worth-rs-7l-off-jakhau/articleshow/78796932.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC orders protection for couple after man’s conversion||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered Patan district police to provide protection to a young couple after they got married against the wish of their family members and with the Muslim man converting to Hinduism. The HC had summoned the woman after her mother had filed a habeas corpus petition alleging that she was abducted by a Muslim man and the family feared for her life. The woman appeared before the court on October 16 and said that she had willingly gone with her boyfriend, who was a Muslim. He converted to Hinduism and later they performed marriage in Arya Samaj in Delhi. She produced certificates of her husband’s conversion and their marriage. The HC also called the man, who assured the court that he would take care of his wife. He also told the court that they were in love since their college days. Expecting sharp reactions from families looking at the marriage and religious conversion, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice Nirzar Desai ordered Patan SP to provide protection for two months and then review the couple’s security situation. If the couple intended to shift to any other district, the officer will have to arrange for security by coordinating with concerned officials. The situation will have to be monitored for at least nine months by maintaining secrecy protocol so that the couple’s security is not jeopardized. To say that religion is a personal matter of an individual, the HC quoted spiritualist and reformist Vimla Thakar that each one may continue to follow faith and religion of their choice and liking within four corners of their respective homes, however, the moment they step out of their respective homes, they shall not be oblivious of their obligations of first being the citizens of this country and shall conduct themselves accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-protection-for-couple-after-mans-conversion/articleshow/78796792.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic polls: Infighting continues in BJP over distribution of tickets||JAIPUR: Infighting in BJP over the distribution of tickets for municipal polls have come out in the open. The issue of denying tickets to candidates recommended by local BJP MLAs such as Kali Charan Saraf, Ashok Lahoti and Narpat Singh Rajvi and former MLA Rajpal Singh Shekhawat have created a rift in the state unit. Saraf had been enjoying a say in distribution of tickets in all municipal wards falling in his constituency for the past 15 years. This time however, half the candidates recommended by him have been dropped by the party state president. “Saraf is the tallest BJP leader from Jaipur at present. He is known for distributing tickets to candidates of his choice not only in his constituency but had the capability to grant tickets in other constituencies. This is probably the first time that his recommendations were turned down by the party aggressively,” said a BJP leader, who is closely following the developments related to municipal polls. Similarly, recommendations of Rajvi, Lahoti and Shekhawat was refused by the party chief to accommodate other candidates. The snubbing has not gone down well with these leaders who have started complaining about the authoritative behaviour of Poonia. Saraf won the Malaviya Nagar seat by less than 2,000 votes against Congress candidate Archana Sharma. “Corporators hold key for any MLA. Since Saraf is on a sticky wicket due to 15 years of anti-incumbency, he recommended one name against 2-3 names sought by the party chief for every ward. The ward counsellors double up as party informers and feedback givers for their constituency MLA. These leaders fear that counsellor who was not picked by them might not help them in seeking tickets and mobilising voters,” said a party source. Upbeat over the praise received from PM Narendra Modi over his relief work during lockdown, Poonia by doing so gave a message to the party leaders that their existence is due to the party and not otherwise. His team, however, said rejections were made due to several reasons. “The RSS backed recommendations have been given the high priority over the MLAs list. The remaining rejections were purely on the basis of the recommended winnability,” said a BJP leader close to Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infighting-continues-in-bjp-over-distribution-of-tickets/articleshow/78798085.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Patna||HC: Parties can put up hoardings on pvt property||PATNA: The high court on Wednesday paved the way for political parties to put up hoardings, banners, posters and other publicity materials on private properties after seeking written permission from owners by interpreting private properties as “persons” under the Bihar Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1987. The HC judgment would allow political parties to put up any number of hoardings, banners, posters as there is no cap on their expenditure during an election while candidates have a ceiling of Rs 28 lakh for campaigning as per rules and regulations of the Election Commission of India (ECI). The judgment was delivered by the bench of Justice Ashutosh Kumar while hearing a writ petition filed by a firm Century Business Private Limited, which had been given the contract by BJP for putting up 950 hoardings on private properties across the state for its top leaders for election campaigning. However, the office of the chief electoral officer had not granted permission for the same based on Bihar Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1987. Sub-section 3 of Section 3 of the Act allows any person or persons contesting an election either as an Independent or on the symbol of a recognised political party, to use a private property with the owner’s written consent for election campaign during the period notified by EC for the completion of the electoral process. Senior counsel SD Sanjay, who is also the Centre’s former additional solicitor general, appearing for the firm submitted that the CEO has misinterpreted the local law to the extent that it considers only a person or persons and not political parties which are also an association of persons. Sanjay, who is also the legal head of BJP’s state election cell, submitted that clause 16 of chapter 16 of the model code of conduct allows contesting candidates or political parties for putting up poster, hoardings and banners on private premises with the owner’s written permission which conflicts with the provision in the defacement law. They also submitted that the high court has the power to interpret a specific part of defacement law which was amended in 2010 allowing the use of private properties for election campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-parties-can-put-up-hoardings-on-pvt-property/articleshow/78796568.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: FIR against man who entered SMS girls’ hostel||JAIPUR: A case has been registered against an unidentified person for trespassing into the girl’s hostel of SMS Medical College. The accused, who is learnt to be a policeman, was found in the hostel bathroom. “On October 19, the person entered the hostel when the guard was away and roamed around in the corridors. He went to the bathroom and when he came out, someone spotted him. On being questioned about his presence in the girl’s hostel, he said he was a cop. We have lodged a case of trespassing and started an investigation,” said an official of Moti Doongri police station. Cops are yet to find the person and the purpose of him being being in the hostel remains unclear. “Once we find the person, we will know the reason why he entered the hostel. He did not do anything while apart from going to the bathroom,” said the official. Cops will also look at the CCTV camera footage to identify the person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-man-who-entered-sms-girls-hostel/articleshow/78798078.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chandigarh||After 7 months, Kalka-Shimla train resumes with no passengers||CHANDIGARH: The popular Kalka-Shimla Himalayan Queen plied without a single passenger on the first day of its resumption after a gap of seven months on Wednesday. Three passengers had booked tickets for the train but did not turn up, according to the records. “We did not cancel the train. It departed at the scheduled time of 12.10pm,” said S S Gokul, superintendent, Kalka railway station. He said arrangements of thermal screening and sanitisers were made and all staff members wore masks. He said he was receiving queries from New Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, expecting the traffic on the route to pick up again. He said the catering services have not started yet. G M Singh, railway manager, Ambala division, said he was expecting more traffic on the narrow gauge section once the farmers protest against the three farm laws ends. Railway minister Piyush Goyal had posted about the first festival special train. In a message posted on his Twitter account on Tuesday, the minister wrote, “The festival special train between Kalka and Shimla will start operations from October 21. This will enhance ease of movement and provide a big boost to the tourism and hospitality sector. Take all the necessary precautions while travelling for a safe and happy journey.” CITY CONNECTED Kalka-New Delhi ShatabdiChandigarh to Gorakhpur Chandigarh to Patna Express trains The railway board has approved the proposal of the Ambala division for conversion of passenger trains into mail or express trains for Chandigarh. As a result, the Kalka-New Delhi passenger train is now an express train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-7-months-kalka-shimla-train-resumes-with-no-passengers/articleshow/78798080.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hotels’ average daily rate down 30%||AHMEDABAD: Even though it has been nearly five months since hotels resumed operations in Ahmedabad, revenues of hoteliers appear to be hit. While occupancy levels in the city have been barely one-fourth of what they were around this time of the year before the pandemic, the average daily rate (ADR) has also taken a beating. Industry estimates suggest that the ADR is down by at least 30% across branded, four- and five-star hotels in Ahmedabad and has plunged to as low as Rs 2,800 per room per night. To woo customers, hotels are adding value to packages. “Currently, the ADR has suffered because Ahmedabad is a market with excessive supply and until demand returns it will stay down,” said a city-based hotelier. “In the pandemic, the profile of travel has changed drastically and considering the restrictions on international travel as well as on business travellers, it is difficult to get to the higher end of the ADR.” The hotelier went on to say: “Meanwhile, each hotel is focusing on increasing occupancy and this is one of the reasons the ADR is low.” Echoing a similar view, Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad, said, “There has been a substantial reduction in the ADR across the market during the pandemic.” Sharma added: “With travel hampered and demand declining, each hotel is trying to expand its occupancy and so is our hotel.” Sharma went on to say: “We’re trying to provide heightened value by offering guests enhanced inclusions in our various accommodation packages besides concentrating on our commitment to safety.” At present, room occupancies across hotels haven’t crossed half the capacity. “Corporates and private companies have discouraged their employees from travelling in the wake of the pandemic,” said a travel agent based in Ahmedabad. “This has had a major impact on the movement of people to Ahmedabad as well as on tourism in the city and hotels are thus bound to suffer.” While most hotels are eyeing revenues through the food and beverage segment, they are also looking at buoyant business during the festive and wedding seasons, especially with bookings pouring in for wedding ceremonies. “Hotels are focusing on increasing revenue streams through innovations in the food and beverage segment and we’ve seen an encouraging response from customers,” said Sonika Chaturvedi, general manager, Courtyard by Marriott. “Moreover, the upcoming festive season is looking bright with bookings for weddings pouring in. While the business is less against last year, it is indeed providing the much needed cushion to the hospitality sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hotels-avg-daily-rate-down-30/articleshow/78796896.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Vitals normal, but Soumitra Chatterjee remains drowsy||KOLKATA: Soumitra Chatterjee, who is admitted to Belle Vue Clinic, remained stable on Wednesday. His vitals were normal and he had no breathing difficulty. The veteran actor, however, remains drowsy due to Covid encephalopathy and doctors are monitoring his condition. Chatterjee is suffering from an “extended Covid encephalopathy”, which keeps him drowsy and semi-conscious, according to Belle Vue Clinic critical care head Arindam Kar. “Encephalopathy may last 60-90 days. Chatterjee hasn’t yet recovered from it. His response remains slow and involuntary, which is a worry. We have apprised his family and are preparing for a prolonged period of monitoring,” said Kar. He added that Chatterjee’s breathing difficulty has eased and he is often being taken off oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vitals-normal-but-soumitra-remains-drowsy/articleshow/78796667.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid warriors forced to pay for water?||AHMEDABAD: They are feted as frontline Covid-19 warriors, but students at GMERS Medical College, Sola, shell out an average of Rs 1,000 so that they get clean water to drink. Residents at the campus say that almost all the RO machines and water coolers are either not working or don’t give clean drinking water. “We have made several representations to the authorities as the water facilities at all hostels are not up to the mark. As health is a major concern due to Covid-19, especially for doctors on duty, we have approached a water supplier,” said a third-year medical student on condition of anonymity. When contacted, Dr Upendra Patel, RMO of Sola Civil Hospital, which is associated with the medical college, called the assertions ‘false’. “We are getting water from outside the campus to ensure quality water for residents and staff. We do not want to take any risk as this is a Covid-19 hospital. There’s no other reason,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-warriors-forced-to-pay-for-water/articleshow/78796733.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Patna||Confusion, circumstances keep poll cauldron boiling||PATNA: A curious set of circumstances has turned the three-phase Bihar assembly elections into a suspenseful play of an electoral battle that is devoid of any manifest thrill, so much so that even a seasoned psephologist might feel deterred to give any forecast. The confusion caused by the coronavirus pandemic and the crowd showing disinterest due to pressing economic reasons has only confounded the situation. The entire polling process would be over in slightly over a fortnight, with the elections on October 28, November 3 and November 7, followed by results on November 10. “What can I say. There is no excitement in the constituencies. Earlier, people used to come to rallies and even meetings in hordes, but not this time. They don’t really give out anything to make up anything of the poll result,” a senior BJP functionary said. However, for obvious reasons, the BJP leader did not mention the comparatively bigger crowd that is turning up at the rallies addressed by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the CM face of the grand alliance. Otherwise, the two major political formations locked in the electoral battle are the NDA comprising JD(U), BJP, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the grand alliance consisting RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI and CPM. The CM face of the NDA is Nitish Kumar. It is ironical that it should be mentioned, when earlier it used to be an irreversible fact. There is also the six-party grand democratic secular front (GDSF) led by Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha and progressive democratic alliance (PDA) led by Pappu Yadav. Further, the decision of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan to contest 143 of the 243 assembly seats has caused seemingly irredeemable confusion in the rank and file of the NDA, to the extent that Union home minister Amit Shah said recently that BJP would take the decision on him after the elections are over — a master understatement and also ambiguity of the highest order. However, even if the outcome is uncertain, the stakes of the NDA and grand alliance are high in each of the three phases. The situation can be assessed in the light of the 2015 wins to get a sense of the fight by grouping the 243 seats as per the seats that lies in respective three phases of the 2020 polls. For, JD(U) and BJP are together in the NDA for the last three years. They, in 2015, had won 30 of the 71 seats that make the first phase of the 2020 polls, against 37 of RJD and Congress. Similarly, of the 94 seats in the second phase, JD(U) and BJP together accounted for 40 wins, while RJD and Congress had 36. As to the third phase, JD(U) and BJP had 44 MLAs from the 78 seats, against 32 of RJD and Congress. As to the 2020 elections, as per the candidates fielded by JD(U) and RJD, the two parties are almost neck to neck, hoping to win maximum of them to lead the government formation exercise. In first phase, JD(U), along with HAM(S), is contesting 42 seats, and RJD 42. In the 94-seat second phase, JD(U) has fielded 48 candidates and RJD 55. In the third phase, RJD has upped the stakes by contesting 46 seats and JD(U) 35, while BJP is also contesting 46 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/confusion-circumstances-keep-poll-cauldron-boiling/articleshow/78795211.cms||Abhay Singh
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid encephalopathy strikes a 4th of patients above 60, say medics||Kolkata: Covid encephalopathy triggered by the viral attack has turned out to be a major worry for doctors across Kolkata hospitals with a gradual surge in the number of elderly patients suffering from the disorder. Around a fourth of Covid patients aged above 60 are struck by encephalopathy, according to a section of private hospital medics. A fallout of Covid, it affects the blood vessels and the parenchyma region of the brain leading to prolonged drowsiness and stunted response. Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee has been afflicted by it and it remains his principal illness. According to Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine expert Rahul Jain, “It could be mild, moderate or severe and could be fatal if the recovery is not fairly quick. Encephalopathy could be precipitated by either the virus or the immunological response to it. Its intensity could vary and around 40% of those with the disorder have severe consequences.” While Covid was originally believed to resemble the flu, with pneumonia lung manifests, studies in USA, Iran, Italy and China now suggest that the virus also attacks the brain, heart, kidneys and vascular system, and can cause severe inflammatory responses, venous thromboembolism (VTE), and multi-organ failure. Covid patients have been observed with ischemic stroke, intracranial haemorrhage, focal cerebral arteriopathy, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, encephalitis and acute haemorrhagic necrotizing encephalopathy. Steroids are the only and the most effective weapon against encephalopathy, according to RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. “They are being used to temper the immune-response. But it may not work very effectively or quickly enough. In such cases, there’s no alternative but to wait and hope for the best,” he added. Covid encephalopathy-induced drowsiness should start receding in five-six days, according to Belle Vue Clinic critical care head Arindam Kar. “Unless there is structural damage to the brain, the effects of encephalopathy generally start receding in less than a week. In some cases, however, it could be different,” said Kar. In severe cases, particularly if it gets prolonged, a brain stroke is a possibility. While Chatterjee has been diagnosed with the ailment, he has suffered no structural damage to his brain yet. Encephalopathy is rare among the younger population, though. “It is more common among senior citizens either due to their weak immune response, which also tends to get unregulated, leading to a cytokine storm,” said a pulmonologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-encephalopathy-strikes-a-4th-of-patients-above-60-say-medics/articleshow/78796660.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 22, 2020||Patna||436 use postal ballot to exercise franchise||PATNA: Altogether 436 electors have voted through postal ballot in the first phase of the state assembly elections for five constituencies in Patna, including Mokama, Barh, Masaurhi, Bikram and Paliganj. These voters include persons with disabilities (PwD), people who are 80-year-old or above, Covid-19 patients who are in institutional or home quarantine, and those deputed for notified essential services. The electors were provided postal ballots from October 17 to 21 by the returning officers with proper security and videography arrangements to ensure secrecy, safety and transparency in the process. It is the first time that postal ballot facility is being extended PwD and people above 79 to vote through ballot paper, under the amended Conduct of Election Rules 1961. The voting for the first phase will be held on October 28 at 2,204 polling stations in Patna. As per the data provided by the district electoral office, around 196 people above 79 years voted through ballot paper, including 118 in Mokama, 42 in Bikram and 36 in Masaurhi. There were total 42 PwD voters which includes 25 in Mokama and 17 in Masaurhi, while four Covid infected patients were from Masaurhi. Besides, 165 officials deployed in election duty also had to vote through postal ballot at SK Memorial Hall. Patna DM- cum- district electoral officer Ravi Kumar told this newspaper that the postal ballot for the first phase of elections have concluded on Wednesday. “The procedure has been completed as per the guidelines of the Election Commission of India. Similarly, the postal ballot facility will be available ahead of second phase polls,” he said. Over 52,000 eligible voters belonging to PwD and senior category have opted for the postal ballot for the first phase of Bihar polls. In the first phase elections, polling would take place in 71 constituencies spread over 16 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/436-use-postal-ballot-to-exercise-franchise/articleshow/78796137.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 22, 2020||Patna||Central team visits NMCH and PMCH||PATNA: A three-member central team inspected the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and PMCH on Wednesday, to review the arrangements and preparations made by the hospital administrations for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The team also issued instructions to improve the health facilities and services ahead of the festive season and Bihar elections. The central team comprising joint secretary in the ministry of agriculture Atish Chandra, Dr CS Kalkar from All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Kolkata and Dr Deependra Kumar Rai from AIIMS- Patna visited the both the health facilities. The team will send the report to the Centre. Besides, principal secretary, health department, Pratyaya Amrit, secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh, and additional secretaries Kasuhal Kishore and Manoj Kumar also took stock of the situation with the other officials. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh on Wednesday said that the health department has been speculating that the number of Covid cases might arise due to the state assembly elections and festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/central-team-visits-nmch-and-pmch/articleshow/78795321.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 22, 2020||Goa||Taxi operators meet transport minister with grievances||Panaji: Taxi associations from North and South Goa met transport minister Mauvin Godinho to waive their taxes for three months. With no business during the pandemic, GoaMiles operators told the minister their grievances about fixed rates and sought rationalising of taxi fares. “I am going to do an audit of all the taxi-related issues and services and take a decision in favour of the maximum stakeholder. The demand is to have uniform rates between GoaMiles and taxi owners. I am examining it and will have another meeting with them before deciding,” Godinho said. He said that the airport counter must be given to the taxi drivers by the Airport Authority of India instead of the transport department. “Taxi operators, whether at the airport or through the app, their concerns must be considered,” the minister said. He said that the government will have to take a decision in favour of the Goans whose businesses are suffering due to the pandemic. He said that wearing of badges by taxi drivers will be implemented strictly. “Local taxis will indirectly receive protection this way. GoaMiles taxis will also be required to have it,” the transport minister said. With the tourism trends likely to bring clientele to Goa in December, he said that precautions must be taken by taxi drivers while catering to tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taxi-operators-meet-transport-minister-with-grievances/articleshow/78798599.cms||---
October 22, 2020||---||‘Justice for Sushant’ cry falls silent in Bihar||PATNA: The clamour over the late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, which hogged the limelight for weeks till the announcement of the polls in Bihar, appears to be missing from the election pitches even as campaigning is on in full swing. With barely a week to go for the first phase of the polls, most parties, including the ruling NDA, that were clamouring for a CBI probe into the actor’s death, have largely shied away from raising the issue during their campaigning. Even sitting MLA and Sushant’s cousin, Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, who is the BJP candidate from Chhatapur assembly constituency, has not made it an election issue during his campaigning. A close relative of the MLA said, “He is not available for comment as he is admitted to a hospital for treatment.” Read AlsoIn Bihar, political stability did not result in prosperityIn the three decades from 1960 to 1990, Bihar’s politics looked like a game of musical chairs. Chief ministers changed with the seasons. The state swore in 25 CMs and was placed under President’s Rule five times. Only in 12 of those 30 years did a CM survive a whole financial year. Governance wentCM Nitish Kumar had briefly raised the SSR in his first virtual rally with party supporters in the first week of October, saying he had ordered the CBI investigation because the actor’s family demanded it. But since then he has refrained from mentioning the case in his rallies. However, BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah told a private news channel on Monday that some people in Bihar may cast their votes on the issue of the actor’s death. But blamed the Maharashtra government for blowing it out of proportion. Read AlsoFree Covid vaccine, 19 lakh jobs: BJP releases Bihar manifestoBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday released its manifesto for the three-phased Bihar elections promising to distribute the coronavirus vaccine free of cost once approved by the ICMR, and also assured 19 lakh jobs for youths of the state. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, releasing the“Had the Maharashtra government recommended a CBI investigation, it would not have become an issue. I was taken aback as to why the Maharashtra government didn’t do it and allowed to it become a big fuss,” Shah said, adding, the home ministry did not interfere in the investigation. Sushant was found dead at his Bandra apartment flat in Mumbai on June 14. His death had raised a political storm in poll-bound Bihar with leaders cutting across party lines clamouring for CBI probe. They also made a beeline to the actor’s Patna home to meet his father KK Singh. Bihar assembly polls: Complete coverageThe Nitish Kumar-led NDA government recommended the CBI probe barely two days after an FIR was lodged with the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna on July 25. Six people, including Sushant’s girlfriend actor Rhea Chakraborty, were named in the FIR lodged by the actor’s father. Then DGP Gupteshwar Pandey went a step further and sent a police team to Mumbai to probe, led to a spat between Bihar and Maharashtra officials and politicians over the quarantine of an IPS officer from Patna. RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the opposition’s CM face, was among the first to demand CBI probe into SSR’s death. However, he has preferred to ignore the issue so far in his election campaigns which are drawing massive crowds. Read AlsoThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again…Bihar wasn’t the poorest state 60 years ago but is poorest now“It’s a fact that our leader had raised the issue both in the state assembly and outside. But the SSR death case is not a political issue,” said RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari. He, however, said that the party wants the CBI to punish the accused responsible for the actor’s death. The state convenor of BJP’s art and culture cell Pravin Singh had got over 60,000 posters and banners printed to keep the issue alive. Posters saying, ‘Na Bhule Hain, Na Bhulne Denge’, were put up everywhere in the state capital. “The issue would be raised again after the election. We are maintaining a low profile due to certain reasons,” Pravin said on Tuesday, refusing to divulge the reasons for not making it an election issue. Read AlsoLiberalisation too didn't help BiharPoor economics and a state division in 2000 pushed Bihar further backBJP sources said former Maharashtra CM and Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis on the day he first visited the state clarified that SSR’s death case was not a political issue. “The message was loud and clear both for the workers and the leaders of the party about the issue,” a senior BJP leader said. Former director of AN Sinha Institute of social studies D M Diwakar said, “The FSL report of the AIIMS-Delhi changed the narrative. Since it became clear that Sushant was not murdered the situation has completely changed. And so is the case with the political parties in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ssrs-case-shunted-out-of-bihar-election-bandwagon/articleshow/78796108.cms||Ramashankar
October 22, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Woman with 80% damaged lungs breathes in fresh air||RAJKOT: Her lungs were 80% damaged, but not her willpower, which egged her on to fight for survival and emerge victorious in fight against Covid-19Meet Chanduba Jadeja, a 72-year-old woman who was admitted to Saint Joseph Hospital in Gandhidham. “My mother had a comorbidity of lung infection. There was an acute deficiency of oxygen in her body. However, her survival instinct was so strong that it overpowered the illness and made her emerge victorious against the disease,” says Jadeja’s son Gajendrasinh. Dr Jayesh Rathod of Saint Joseph Hospital, under whose treatment Jadeja was placed, explains: “Almost 80% of her lungs were damaged. However, her will for survival did the miracle. The willpower of a patient plays a pivotal role in the treatment. If the patient has a strong willpower it generates positivity in the mind and subsequently in the body, which ultimately improves the healing process.” Jadeja, who was kept on the ventilator for 24 hours and BiPap machine providing oxygen for five days, says: “The doctors and the nursing staff at the hospital took me as their own family member. They would give such love and care that it boosted my morale and made me pass through the 11 days of treatment successfully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-with-80-damaged-lungs-breathes-in-fresh-air/articleshow/78794870.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi lone crowd-puller of opposition camp||PATNA: RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has his work plans cut out -- making short speeches and address more rallies in a day while sticking to his poll agenda of promising employment and industry. Tejashwi has also learnt from PM Narendra Modi as how to interact with people during the election rallies. The son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is the CM face of the opposition Mahagathbandhan, is in high demand by the Mahagathbandhan candidates as he is young and pulling good crowd at his every election meeting. “In fact, he is the lone crowd-puller in the opposition camp,” an RJD leader said. Tejashwi addressed 12 rallies on Wednesday, each of 15 minutes approximately. He is scheduled to address a similar number of rallies on Thursday. On the other hand, chief minister Nitish Kumar has been addressing four rallies on an average per day and talking for 30 to 40 minutes. BJP leaders are speaking for around 20 to 25 minutes in their rallies. Addressing a rally at Kargahgar on Wednesday, Tejashwi lashed out Nitish for not creating jobs or bringing industries to the state in the past 15 years. He also tried to woo contractual teachers, ASHA workers, Anganwadi sevikas and other self-help groups. “Parents are teaching their children to get a job. But Nitish Kumar did nothing in this regard in the last 15 years. He has become tired and cannot manage Bihar anymore. I am young with new energy and will take everyone forward. All self-help groups will be regularized and minimum Rs4,000 will be given to them as honorarium,” he said. He said if his government is formed, it will reduce the electricity tariff by half. Political experts feel Tejashwi is most in demand in the Mahagatbandhan side, unlike BJP, which has many star campaigners. “Tejashwi has to cover many places and manage that within certain time period. This is the reason he keeps his speeches short and crisp,” said a political expert, adding, “He is drawing huge crowds. There is freshness in him and his contents are focused, impacting common people, unlike BJP leaders, who are speaking mostly on emotive issues being talked about for a very long period. For that matter, CM Nitish Kumar repeats the content in amost all his speeches.” RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan recalled how Lalu sometimes used to shorten his speech during election rallies. “Lalu Ji had been in huge demand and all the candidates wanted to have him in their constituencies. We remember there were instances when he used to get down of chopper and garland the candidate, asking the audience to vote for him. Even Tejashwi is in huge demand among the Mahagathbandhan candidates. They want him to visit their constituencies at least once,” said Gagan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-lone-crowd-puller-of-opposition-camp/articleshow/78800355.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 22, 2020||Business||Desi tyre exports benefit from anti-dumping duties on China||Chennai: India’s tyre exports are getting help from the anti-China sentiment sweeping different parts of the world. The 25%-37% anti-dumping duty slapped by the US on Chinese tyres and the 5%-15% anti-dumping duty imposed by most Latin American countries has opened up fresh opportunities for Indian tyre exporters.JK Tyre has used this opportunity to increase its second quarter export sales by 16% to Rs 337 crore. “We have seen robust demand from the US and Latin America. The anti-dumping duty imposed by the US and all the Latin American countries (on Chinese tyres) has helped us enhance our exports. The anti-China sentiment is percolating in most of these places. Chinese tyres were cheaper than Indian tyres but their performance, safety was not comparable and this is a big plus point,” said AK Bajoria, president, JK Tyre.The US is already the largest tyre export destination for India. “Share of the exports to US from India has gone up from 15% in FY19 to 17% in FY20 amounting to Rs 2,120 crore,” said Rajiv Budhraja, director general Automotive Tyre Manufacturers Association (ATMA). Top ten exporting countries include markets such as Germany, Italy and France, he added.Indian tyre companies are now targeting the kind of aggressive footprint that Asian brands (including Chinese) have so far had. “We do believe Indian brands can be an excellent alternative to other Asian brands and have a potential to capture a meaningful portion of world trade. We are pursuing our market strategy based on our own product - market opportunities and we have a growing demand for our products in select export markets,” said Satish Sharma, president, Apollo Tyres:.Ditto for Ceat. “We are already present in the Latin America and the US market. With the current duty restrictions, we are seeing lot of demand in US, Canada and Latin American markets for various product categories. We will work with our partners in these markets and continue to invest in products, channel and technology in these markets,” said Arnab Banerjee, COO Ceat.Tyre exports have been a success story even before the pandemic. According to ATMA, in the last five years, tyre exports from India have grown at a CAGR of 8 %. going up from Rs 8,825 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 12,840 crore in FY 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/desi-tyre-exports-benefit-from-anti-dumping-duties-on-china/articleshow/78796409.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 22, 2020||Business||Ultratech sees 8% volume growth in Sept quarter||Chennai: In a telling sign of economic recovery, India’s largest cement maker Ultra Tech on Wednesday said its cement despatches during July-September quarter- a traditionally weak quarter due to monsoon rains, rose 8%. Consolidated revenues grew to Rs 10,231 crore from Rs 9,486 crore. While Net profits grew 113% to Rs 1,234 crore. “The performance was exceptional due to both volume growth and cost cutting initiatives,” said Atul Daga, CFO of the company. He said that demand growth from rural housing and government projects, in the Central, Eastern and Northern regions were strong and pushed September production numbers to nearly 73% of pre-Covid levels. “Our overall capacity utilisation levels were 68% for the September quarter as agains 66% a year ago,” he said. The company also said there was enough comfort on pricing. The EBITDA per tonne during the quarter was Rs 1,387, up 30% “Cement prices will remain firm,” he said. UltraTech can make nearly 114 million tonnes of cement a year across 54 factories. The company’s stock price closed at Rs 4,630, up 1.8% when the benchmark Sensex was up 0.4% on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ultratech-sees-8-volume-growth-in-sept-quarter/articleshow/78796429.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Business||Bajaj Finserv Q2 net down by 20%, Bajaj Finance’s 36%||Satyanarayan.Iyer@timesgroup.com Pune: Insurance businesses absorbed the shock of a rare lower profit from Bajaj Finserv’s flagship consumer durable finance venture. The holding company of Bajaj Group’s various financial and insurance ventures posted a net profit of Rs 1,618 crore, 20% lower than the year-ago quarter. The life and general insurance segments posted a profit before tax of Rs 287 crore (24% higher y-o-y)and Rs 587 crore (46% higher y-o-y), respectively. However, the overall profit was dragged down by the pandemic-hit consumer durable finance business (Bajaj Finance). Bajaj Finserv’s gross written premium also increased 5% to Rs 6,833 crore. Bajaj Finance, posted a 36% drop in its second quarter consolidated net profit at Rs 965 crore hurt by the pandemic. The company added 3.6 million new loans during the quarter against 6.5 million in the year-ago period. This was, however, an improvement over the decrease in the first quarter of the fiscal when it added only 1.8 million loans. The assets under management for the company remained virtually unchanged at nearly Rs 1.4 lakh crore. The financier’s provision against potential loan losses also sharply rose to Rs 1,700 crore against Rs 594 crore, a year ago. The company, faced with the pandemic’s impact on economic activity, said that it along with its subsidiaries “continue to manage through this once-in-a-lifetime situation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-finserv-q2-net-down-by-20-bajaj-finances-36/articleshow/78797767.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 22, 2020||Business||RBI’s Rs 1L cr refinance ops for 5 sectors||TNN Mumbai: The RBI on Wednesday announced targeted long-term repo operations (TLTROs) of Rs 1 lakh crore to refinance bank lending to five specified sectors. These are agriculture, agri-infrastructure, secured retail, micro, small & medium enterprises, and drugs, pharmaceuticals & healthcare. Banks that borrow under the TLTRO must use the money for fresh investment in debt issued by entities in specific sectors. It can also be used to extend loans and advances to these sectors. The central bank also said that it would give lenders who availed of financing under earlier TLTROs the opportunity to reverse their transactions before maturity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-rs-1l-cr-refinance-ops-for-5-sectors/articleshow/78796852.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Surat||No TV in net sensation’s house||Surat: Shree Jadhav, 3, became an internet sensation due to his 4.26 minute viral video of Indian classical singing with his father Tanhaji. And one of those who shared the video included Amitabh Bachchan. In fact it was after senior Bachchan shared the video on his twitter and Instagram, the video reached millions. But Shree does not know the Shahenshah of Bollywood. When asked if he knows Bachchan, Shree said, “I don’t know him. I have never seen him.” In fact Shree has never seen any movie or cartoon. He enjoys listening and singing music. Same is the case with his elder sister Shreya, 12. She, too, spends maximum time listening or learning music. Jadhav family do not have a TV at their home. “We don’t have a TV at home and with a purpose. We don’t wish to keep it. Due to this none of the family member’s time is wasted on watching TV,” said Tanhaji. Family of musicians since generations, each of Jadhav family members have knowledge of Indian classical music. Shreya learns violin and she regularly practices with her father. “We are darbari singers who performed for royal families. And I am passing on the knowledge to children as well,” said Tanhaji, a music teacher in Tapi Valley School. Shree likes to play games on mobile phone. He understands Marathi, Hindi and Gujarati language and can also communicate in Marathi and Hindi. He took admission in school earlier this year and is currently in junior KG. Tanhaji shared the video of him singing with Shree on his YouTube channel that went viral on social media. Many noted musicians and celebrities have shared it online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-tv-in-net-sensations-house/articleshow/78795025.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 22, 2020||Patna||1,277 new Covid cases in state||PATNA: Altogether 1,277 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,08,238. Officially eight deaths, including five from Patna, were reported after which the toll reached 1,019. However, with 1,96,208 recoveries, there are 11,009 active cases in the state. According to health department sources, one death each was reported from Bhojpur, Purnea and Supaul. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered five deaths. including that of a 55-year-old resident of Ashok Nagar, a 36-year-old man from Bank Colony and another 55-year-old from P C Colony. The other two, both women, belonged to Gosakha village in Saran and Jamashri village in Gopalganj. The hospital’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 21 patients were admitted to the AIIMS-P and 18 discharged on Wednesday. There are 174 Covid patients undergoing treatment at the hospital at present. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. While five patients were admitted there, four were discharged. There are 21 corona patients at the hospital. Of the 1,277 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, 308 were from Patna, taking the tally to 33,566. However, with 30,637 recoveries and 252 deaths, there are 2,677 active cases in the state capital. Some other districts where Covid cases were registered include Munger (69), Drabhanga (65), Muzaffarpur (60), Purnea (53), East Champaran (46), Saharsa (41), Lakhisarai (41) and Araria (38). A tweet shared by health minister Mangal Pandey stated that altogether 1,319 patients had recovered from corona in 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 94.22%. During the same time period, 1,41,222 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1277-new-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/78795240.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad, Surat in daily tally dead heat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday added 1,137 positive cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 1.63 lakh. It was the second consecutive day on which the state recorded an upward trend in the daily tally. The new cases included 239 from Surat, 177 from Ahmedabad, 118 from Vadodara, and 104 from Rajkot. With the update, the cumulative cases in the four districts reached 34,540, 40,828, 14,668, and 11,844 respectively. An analysis of daily cases in eight municipal corporations reveals that the tallies of Ahmedabad and Surat have come closer. In the past three days, Ahmedabad recorded on average 163 cases compared to 167 in Surat. To put the figures in perspective, the average daily cases for Surat in September were 177 compared to 156 in Ahmedabad. On Wednesday, Ahmedabad recorded 165 compared to 169 in Surat. The two cities have cumulatively recorded 50 deaths in the past ten days of the 94 occurring in Gujarat. The state also registered the deaths of nine positive patients, taking the toll to 3,663. The deaths included three from Surat, two from Ahmedabad, and one each from Vadodara, Banaskantha, Bharuch and Sabarkantha. The cumulative death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vadodara reached 1,880, 827, and 208 respectively. In all, 1,180 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.45 lakh. The discharges included 257 from Surat, 181 from Ahmedabad, 133 from Rajkot, and 103 from Vadodara. The number of active cases in Gujarat has now reached 14,215, which accounts for 8.7% of the total positive cases so far. The shares of discharged and deceased patients was 89% and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat carried out 52,986 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 55.32 lakh. As on Wednesday evening, Gujarat had 5.38 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-surat-in-daily-tally-dead-heat/articleshow/78796661.cms||---
October 22, 2020||---||Chirag Paswan hits campaign trail||PALIGANJ (PATNA): A day after hosting his father, the late Ram Vilas Paswan’s Brahmabhoj, LJP chief Chirag Paswan hit the campaign trail on Wednesday, beginning with the Paliganj assembly segment in rural Patna where the LJP candidate is former BJP vice-president Usha Vidyarthi, pitted against JD (U) sitting MLA Jai Vardhan Yadav. The 38-year-old, who carries the weight of his father’s legacy and his supporters’ expectations, began his campaign quoting his father: “Sher Ka Bachcha Hoga to Jungle Cheer Ke Nikal Jayega…Main Jungle Cheerne Nikla Hoon.” He added, “I cry every night for hours as I miss Papa... I was in the middle of this battle when he passed away. Would he have wanted me to continue sobbing?” Before heading out from his SK Puri residence, Chirag’s mother Reena Paswan blessed him by putting a tilak on his forehead and fed him a teaspoon of curd for good luck. Dipu (Chirag’s nickname) touched his mother’s feet as she hugged him and said, “Achche Se Jeet Ke Aayo.” He also presented the first copy of the ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document, the manifesto of his party to his mother. He then addressed the press on his vision document accompanied by his uncle and Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras, cousin and Samastipur MP Prince Raj and party leaders including Surajbhan Singh and Raju Tiwari among others. Chirag hit the road around 12.30 pm. As per EC norms, Chirag’s cavalcade had only five vehicles, including a campaign bus with the logo of ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’. His first brief stopover was at Bikram Mor, where a large group of supporters surrounded his car and raised slogans. He came out of the car and greeted the supporters and the cavalcade moved ahead as hundreds of bikes and few other vehicles followed him. At Dulhin Bazar, Chirag addressed a jam-packed roadshow along with party’s candidate Usha Vidyarthi. “I am going through a very tough phase in my personal life. It has only been a few days since Papa’s demise and I have come here to fulfil his dream. Papa used to always tell me never to be scared of walking alone. He used to say if your path is right, then hundreds, lakhs and crores of people will join you and they will never let you feel lonely. And today you people have shown with your love that I am not alone,” he said as his supporters raised the slogan, ‘Chirag Bhaiya Mat Ghabarana, Tumhare Piche Sara Jamana’. Launching an attack on RJD as well as JD (U, Chirag said Bihar is waiting for development for the past 30 years. “The talks of development are still confined to roads, electricity and drains, while the rest of the country is witnessing new heights of development. Why do our youth need to go to other states for education and employment, why can’t they get such basic opportunities in Bihar? We have come out with ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ to address such issues,” he said. He added, “I want our state to move ahead on the path of development with rapid speed. It is in sync with such thought that we have chosen our candidate Usha Vidyarthi Ji, who is the most educated and knowledgeable candidate in this assembly segment. I urge you all to make Usha Ji victorious to ensure a developed Bihar.” Chirag’s roadshow, which was now even longer, reached Jehanabad around 7 pm, where hundreds more joined him. “You don’t get to interact with people on the ground when addressing public meets after coming down from chopper. Roadways are my personal favourite to connect with people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/chirag-hits-campaign-trail/articleshow/78796023.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 59k mark||Dehradun: The Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand has now crossed the 59,000 mark with 505 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. At least 140 cases were reported from the state capital. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that 14 deaths were reported in the state, taking the Covid toll to 960. “Among the 14 deaths, six were reported from Dehradun, four from Haldwani, three from Srinagar town and one from Chamoli,” said Tripathi, adding that the state's recovery rate has reached 89% with 52,632 people getting cured from the total of 59,106 cases. According to the health bulletin, 11,687 samples were found to be negative. Of the positive cases, 52 were reported in Udham Singh Nagar, 49 in Nainital, 47 in Pauri, 39 in Chamoli, 37 in Haridwar, 30 in Uttarkashi, 26 in Pithoragarh, 25 in Rudraprayag, 24 in Almora, 20 in Tehri and eight cases each in Bageshwar and Champawat districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-covid-tally-crosses-59k-mark/articleshow/78795309.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||FIR filed against DCP Rahul Jain||Jaipur: A case under CrPC Section 156 has been registered against DCP Rahul Jain by former BJP MLA Kailash Verma’s brother.Last year on September 5, city’s Kho Nagoriyan police registered a case of murder of newspaper hawker Mannu Vaishnav. A law and order situation arose and police registered a case against Verma. This is a counter FIR in the same case. The 50-year-old newspaper hawker was hacked to death by a customer with an axe in Kho Nagoriyan areaThe murder triggered huge protests bordering on communal lines and city police had to resort to a lathicharge in which two former MLAs, a photojournalist and the kin of the deceased were injured. Following huge protest, Kho Nagoriyan SHO Virendra Singh was suspended.Jaipur East DCP Rahul Jain told TOI, “The counter case was sent through court u/s 156(3) CrPC in which police conducted an enquiry and returned to court u/s 157 CrPC. Now the court has asked to register the same case.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-filed-against-dcp-rahul-jain/articleshow/78798104.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Specially abled persons to be nominated to urban local bodies||JAIPUR: The department of local bodies (DLB), in a letter to the deputy commissioner for specially abled persons, has informed that persons with disabilities (PwDS) will be nominated to the urban local bodies. In a letter to the deputy commissioner for specially-abled persons, dated October 12, director and ex-officio special secretary, local bodies, Deepak Nandi wrote, “After thorough examination of the proposal to nominate PwDs to the, it has been decided make such provisions. In view of this, the specially-abled persons can be nominated at the time of nominating the members.” According to officials, it will be implemented after due process is completed and also after getting an approval from the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/specially-abled-persons-to-be-nominated-to-municipal-bodies/articleshow/78798129.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Trichy||UGC tells Tamil Nadu to look into plaint on new English course||TRICHY: University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked the Tamil Nadu government to look into the grievance of college teachers on the introduction of a new professional English subject for undergraduate students of arts and science colleges. Teachers say the new course would be an additional burden for teachers who lack expertise to teach the subject. It was Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva who took up the matter with the UGC citing a letter from the joint action council of college teachers (JAC), Tamil Nadu raising apprehensions on the additional core add-on subject during the pandemic. Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education (TANSCHE) had prepared the new syllabus in September and come up with learning material after several consultation with experts. The new professional English book has to be taught as an additional one-hour daily add-on paper on par with the major paper from this academic year (2020-21). Siva said that such a course can be best learnt only in a classroom environment and not in virtual environment. Further, non-English literature teachers being forced to handle a professional English paper will not fetch the desired result. Academically and economically underprivileged students are suffering the repercussions of Covid-19 pandemic. The new course has come as an additional burden as it has been made mandatory to pass the course to get their degree, said Siva in his letter. JAC Tamil Nadu convener M Krishnaraj said that on one the hand the government is reducing syllabus because of the pandemic but also introducing additional paper. An English language teacher should possess post-graduate degree with NET-SET in English. But Tamil Nadu government has directed a Tamil, Mathematics and other major teachers to teach professional English. There has not been any such direction from UGC so far and the government has unilaterally taken the decision, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ugc-tells-state-to-look-into-plaint-on-new-english-course/articleshow/78798120.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Agra||Mercury drops below 20 degrees Celsius, AQI in poor category in Agra||AGRA: Mercury level dropped below 20 degrees Celsius in Agra region on Wednesday morning. According to Meteorological department, the temperature is likely to decrease by another two degrees Celsius in the next one week. Meanwhile, the air quality index on Tuesday afternoon remained in the poor category. According to the weatherman’s report, the minimum temperature on Wednesday morning was recorded 19 degrees Celsius which was two degrees below normal for the time of the year. In the afternoon, the mercury level increased to a maximum limit of 36 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) report, the air quality index (AQI) in Agra, which falls in eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), on Wednesday was recorded at 268, which is in the poor category. The poor category AQI can cause “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. The maximum level of PM 2.5 was recorded at 345 milligrams per cubic metre, considered hazardous to health by doctors. Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 beyond the safe limits can harm the respiratory system as the ultrafine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream. Asthma and tuberculosis patients should avoid going to construction sites or any dusty area. They should avoid public places, especially during the daytime. Wearing a face mask can significantly prevent respiratory complications caused by air pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mercury-drops-below-20-degrees-celsius-aqi-in-poor-category-in-agra/articleshow/78795308.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t let Durga Puja be a super-spreader event in Bengal: Experts||KOLKATA: The court has already stepped in to minimize the extent of damage that uncontrolled celebrations can leave behind this Durga Puja as far as the spread of Covid infection is concerned. Healthcare experts have been constantly expressing their apprehensions about an escalation in positive cases post the festival. But above all, the public has to behave responsibly to keep coronavirus at bay, felt experts during a webinar on Wednesday. “Durga Puja is very close to people’s hearts in Bengal. But Covid-19 has jolted all of us out of normal life. This year, we have to exercise restraint. We had to close the puja at Belur Math for devotees keeping in mind the well-being and safety of society. Responsibility is on our shoulders to break the transmission chain,” said Swami Satyeshananda of Ramakrishna Mission. The monk was speaking at a webinar organised by the Covid Care Network (CCN) on ‘Covid and festivals – say no to relaxation’. The organization, set up by like-minded people, including healthcare professionals, Covid winners and their family, has been working on awareness, reaching out to stigmatized patients and helping with counselling, medical attention and ambulance services. “The virus travels with people and celebrates when there is a crowd. Super-spreader events that have large gatherings give a free passage to the virus. If we allow this free passage, containing the pandemic will become difficult. If we can work from home, why cant we pray at home?” said K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation India. The panel of experts felt that all events that lead to gathering — be it political, social or religious — should be done with restrictions for now. Lauding the awareness efforts of CCN epidemiologist Swarup Sarkar felt that an inclusive approach by educating people of their responsibility and the need to follow health norms would fetch better result than forceful containment measures. “Covid is going to stay here for another year or two. There should be no place for complacency. Durga Puja should not become a bane,” said the epidemiologist who is a member of Bengal’s Global Advisory Board on Covid-19. “You have a wonderful festival coming up. We encourage people to stay safe, maintain protocols like social distancing and if possible, celebrate it at home,” said Josh Morrison of 1 Day Sooner, an organization that is working in getting volunteers for human trial that would speed up the Covid-19 vaccine. Morrison felt that India has resources to manufacture vaccines as and when approved. “We took up this issue because we all are feeling that we are not dressed the right way for the festival. This is not the way we would have welcomed the festival this year,” said hepatologist Abhijit Chowdury. Economist Jean Drez was also a part of the panel where the moderators were onco surgeon Diptendra Sarkar and mountaineer Satyarup Siddhanta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/experts-dont-let-puja-be-a-super-spreader-event/articleshow/78796746.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Police Commemoration Day: Trivendra Singh Rawat approves Rs 75L grant for martyrs’ fund||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday announced that Rs75 lakh has been sanctioned for Police Martyrs’ Fund and a Rs 1,000 hike in uniform allowance for inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) in the police department. The CM made the announcement during his address before the top brass of state police department on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day at Dehradun police lines. Notably, inspectors and ASIs get Rs 3,000 as uniform maintenance fund at present, according to the police department. After paying tributes to the police who laid down their lives in the line of duty, CM Rawat said, "The responsibility of maintaining internal security and law and order within the country lies with the police and paramilitary forces and they are ready to sacrifice their lives while performing their duties." Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 to pay homage to 10 CRPF personnel killed in an ambush by Chinese troops in 1959 in Ladakh's Hot Spring area. Rawat remembered 265 police and paramilitary personnel, including six from Uttarakhand, who laid their lives in the line of duty last year. He also applauded the role of police in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-commemoration-day-cm-rawat-approves-rs-75l-grant-for-martyrs-fund/articleshow/78795323.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 22, 2020||Nashik||Ex-prez of Trimbakeshwar council killed||Nashik: Dhananjay Yadavrao Tungar, a 46-year-old former council president of Trimbakeshwar, was murdered by a resident of the same town on Wednesday afternoon. After the murder, the suspect, identified as Sameer Gondake, went to the Trimbakeshwar police station and was detained. He was arrested late on Wednesday evening. “A financial dispute is believed to be the cause of the murder. However, the case is still being investigated,” said SP Sachin Patil. The incident took place around 1 am. Tungar was at his residence where a religious ritual for his brother, who had passed away recently, was underway. On getting a phone call, he left the house and drove in his car to the ring road near the MTDC complex. He reportedly met Gondake near the Ahilya sam in Trimbakeshwar. “An argument broke out between the two. Gondake then attacked Tungar with a sharp knife-like weapon and fled the spot,” said Patil. He added that Tungar was taken to a hospital in Trimbakeshwar, where he was declared brought dead. Dhananjay Tungar was elected to the Trimbakeshwar Municipal Council in 2007 and 2012 as an independent candidate and was also elected the council president. He joined the Shiv Sena in 2017 and unsuccessfully contested the municipal council election. Since then, he had distanced himself from politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ex-prez-of-trimbakeshwar-council-killed/articleshow/78795306.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: NABARD chief assures Trivendra Singh Rawat of required support in development projects||DEHRADUN: GR Chintala, chairman of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday. According to a communique, the CM appreciated NABARD’s continuous support for the development of the state and in particular, the development of rural infrastructure and asked the development bank to become a partner in the construction of the Saung dam project worth Rs 1,200 crore. The NABARD chief assured the CM of all possible cooperation. He added that the limit of small loans for co-operative banks has been increased from Rs 500 crore to Rs 750 crore and this limit can be increased further if the state requests for the same||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nabard-chief-assures-cm-of-required-support-in-development-projects/articleshow/78795335.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 22, 2020||Kanpur||Bheetargaon CHC wins award of Rs 7 lakh under Kayakalp scheme||Kanpur: Bheetargaon community health center of the city, adjudged as runnersup under Kayakalp scheme in the state, has won cash award of Rs 7 lakh by securing 91.2 percent points . Besides seven communit y health centres of Kanpur division, which were also adjudged as best health centers, too would get cash awards under the Kayakalp scheme. According to the health department , as man y as 10 district hospitals of the division have also been selected for the award. Two CHCs of the city-- Kalyanpur and Bidhnoo-- have been selected for consolation prize under the Kayakalp scheme. The Government of India had launched the Kayakalp scheme for hospitals with an object to keep them clean by adopting best practices of medical science. The health centers are assessed in three stages on the basis of a fixed check list. The health centers, which collect more than 70 percent points, are selected for national and state- level awards consisting of cash prize and an appreciation letter. Dr RK Singh, additional director, health and family welfare, said that all units of the division had performed better and did a commendable job. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra stated that it was a matter of pride for the health centers for this achievement. Dr Singh stated that the major achievements of Bheetragaon CHC were a herbal garden and adequate space for sitting and RO drinking water for patients and their attendents. Dr Surendra Singh said a winner CHC of the state gets an award of Rs 10 lakh. Since Bheetargaon CHC was adjudged as second, it would receive a sum of Rs 7 lakh. He said 75 percent of the prize money would be spent on maintenance of the CHC and the remaining 25 percent to be distributed as prize money among its staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bheetargaon-chc-wins-award-of-rs-7-lakh-under-kayakalp-scheme/articleshow/78795590.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to take call soon on reopening of schools||JAIPUR: The state education department will take a call on reopening of schools in coming days. Department officials held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss whether schools can be reopened from November 1 or should it be delayed for another month. During a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, some ministers were of the view to keep schools closed till November 30. Dotasra said a final call would be taken after consulting with education department officials. “During the meeting, the officials examined the ground situation related to Covid cases in all the districts. Also, on preparedness of schools and teachers to meet any emergency situation. The re-opening of close to 70,000 schools with 85 lakh students will require its own standard operating procedure (SOP),” said a source. The view of extending the closure was also discussed considering the fact that festive season was around the corner and no one could predict how the impact of festivities on cases. “Rules such as a number of students per class has to be fixed. In the present situation, it is not possible to accommodate all students in a class,” said an official. On Thursday, the outcome of the meeting would be submitted to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra who will further hold another round of meeting with officials. “The final call on the reopening of schools will be taken after discussing with CM Ashok Gehlot,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-take-call-soon-on-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78798138.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow third most polluted city in the country||Lucknow: Air pollution level in the state capital crossed the 300 mark on Wednesday, making Lucknow the third most polluted city in the country. For the first time in October, Lucknow had Air Quality Index (AQI) of 328, figuring in the ‘very polluted’ category. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) listed seven cities with AQI above 300 for the category. Three other UP cities were Meerut (second place), Baghpat (third) and Muzaffarnagar (fifth). The most polluted city in the country was Panipat in Haryana which has been making the headlines for bad air quality due to stubble burning. According to CPCB, on Wednesday, Panipat had AQI of 350, the worst air quality nationally. Two other Haryana cities with AQI above 300 were Faridabad and Bhiwadi. Exposure to AQI above 300 can lead to respiratory illness. Popular as the sports city of India, Meerut is no longer good for physical fitness with AQI of 339. Almost twinning in terms of bad air were western UP towns Baghpat and Muzaffarnagar, struggled with poor AQI of 325 and 320 respectively. Haryana’s Bhiwadi and Faridabad were comparatively better than UP cities. City-based environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta said, “In Uttar Pradesh, around 96 flyovers are under construction and vehicular movement is at its peak due to festival season. Weather conditions are favourable for a spike in air pollutant levels. Since temperatures are going down, particulate matter is suspended in the air and low wind speed is not allowing the dust to disperse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-third-most-polluted-city-in-the-country/articleshow/78798294.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 22, 2020||Trichy||Denying graft charges, dalit panchayat prez holds sit-in||Trichy: The dalit president of Perugamani panchayat in the district carried out a protest in front of the Gandhi statue at the village on Wednesday claiming that she was being falsely accused of corruption by non-dalit elected representatives. However, her accusers dismissed the charge and stood firm on their allegation of corruption in developmental works in the panchayat. Panchayat president A Kiruthiga Arunkumar sat in front of the statue accusing vice-president L Manimegalai, ward member S Senthilkumar and a resident, M Muthurajan, of discriminating against her on caste lines by raising cooked-up charges. “If I am seated in the office, they will not step into the office,” she alleged. As her protest drew public attention, the block development officer (BDO) of Andhanallur union reached out to her and promised to look into her complaint. The protest came after Muthurajan submitted a petition to district collector S Sivarasu on October 19, listing out a series of allegations of funds misappropriation in the name of carrying out infrastructure and other repair works in the panchayat since she was elected. Muthurajan dismissed the allegation of caste discrimination saying that a dalit woman was married to his family. “I exposed her corruption through RTI applications. That’s why she is making such false allegations,” he said. The village has nine wards and a village panchayat president post. While the president post is reserved for dalits, the wards are split into reserved as well as general category. Rubbishing the allegation of caste discrimination levelled by Kiruthiga, ward member Senthilkumar said, “Anyone can verify in our village whether caste discrimination exists. Since her irregularities are exposed, she is levelling such allegations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/denying-graft-charges-dalit-panchayat-prez-holds-sit-in/articleshow/78798137.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nashik||FDA slaps six sweets sellers with fine of Rs 17,000||Nashik: The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Nashik, has started taking action against sweetmeat shop owners in the city if they have not started putting the ‘best before date’ on sweets which are sold in loose In the past four days, the FDA has slapped six sweet sellers, with a fine of Rs 17,000 for not putting the ‘best before date’. As per the directives from the government and senior officials of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), the Nashik office of FDA has made it mandatory for sweets sellers to put the ‘best before date’ on all the sweets products that are sold in loose. Chandrashekhar Salunke, the joint director of FDA, Nashik, said the compulsion of putting labels of ‘best before date’ was made mandatory from October 1. Ahead of the implementation of this rule, the FDA had conducted meetings with sweets sellers in the city and informed them about its need as most of the sweets are milk-based and will hence perish fast. Salunke said after spreading awareness about the same, food inspectors have started visiting shops of sweets to check if they are abiding by the new rule. “Over the past four days, the food inspectors visited 36 sweet shops across the city and found 30 of them abiding by the new rule while six of them were not. The six sweets sellers were given notices after which they came to the FDA office and paid fine of Rs 17,000,” said Salunke. Salunke said since the festive season has begun, the food inspectors will visit the sweet shops more frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-slaps-six-sweets-sellers-with-fine-of-rs-17000/articleshow/78795332.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 22, 2020||Nashik||Worker dies after lift collapses||Nashik: A 26-year-old worker died after the lift in which he was working in a construction site fell on October 9. Taking into account the negligence of the building contractor in taking proper safety measures, Gangapur police have booked him under sections 304 (A) and 287 of the IPC. The Gangapur police said the incident took place on October 9 at Datta Chowk in front of Suyojit Garden. The deceased, identified as Milan Sanjay Pawar of Harsul, Pawar Pada in Trimbakeshwar taluka, was working on a construction site of a 17-storey building. In the evening, the wire rope holding the lift snapped and the lift collapsed. Anchal Mudgal, a senior police inspector of Gangapur police station said the building contractor took Pawar to a private hospital after the incident. However, on the next day, Pawar succumbed to the injuries. Mudgal said as no one from the deceased’s family was ready to register an offence, an officer of the Gangapur police registered an offence against the building contractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/worker-dies-after-lift-collapses/articleshow/78795344.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 22, 2020||Surat||This Surat business family had donated 36 bodies in 10 years||SURAT: Ten years ago, 251 people from a famed business family from Surat took a unique en masse pledge - the body of any member who dies henceforth will be donated to medical colleges for the benefit of students. In fact, the pledge taken by Savani family turned into a campaign across Saurashtra. In the last 10 years, bodies of around 36 members of the family who died in this period have been donated to various medical colleges across Gujarat. Savanis, with roots in Ramparda village near Palitana, are into education and diamond business in Surat. This is the highest body donation by a single family, probably in the country, said people engaged in healthcare. Savani families are spread over 109 villages in 17 talukas of six districts in Gujarat. “We took this pledge considering severe shortage of bodies for medical students in colleges. In the last 10 years, 40 in the family, mostly those above 60 years, died. Of these, bodies of 36 were donated while four were found unfit due to some technical reasons,” said Dhanji Savani, vice-president of their community organization Shree Savani Patel Parivar. Savani, who is into diamond business, added that the pledge initiated by Vallabh Savani in 2010 took shape of a campaign which has resulted in the medical colleges getting inundated with bodies. Medical colleges with 250 students require around 30-35 bodies for anatomy studies every year. "We have 200 students and one body is required for every 12 students for anatomical studies. So, around 15-16 bodies are needed every year in our college. Due to increased awareness among people, especially in Surat, we have 32 bodies at present,” said Dr. Deepa Gupta, head, anatomy department, SMIMER College, told TOI. Mahesh Savani, who runs PP Savani Group of educational institutions, told TOI: “My 70-year-old mother Ajvaliba died two months ago and had expressed her wish to donate the body. She was among the 251 people to take the pledge. However, due to Covid-19, body donation could not be done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vow-a-pledge-floods-med-colleges-with-bodies/articleshow/78795374.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 22, 2020||Kanpur||Lucknow contractor found dead in his car||KANPUR: The body of a Lucknow -based 37-year-old contractor, Ravi Narain Mishra, was recovered from a car in Auras police area of Unnao district at Agra-Lucknow Expressway on late Tuesday night. The body was found on the rear seat of the car, the engine of which was on, the police said. Auras police station in-charge Raj Bahadur said, “We have apprised his family members. The cause of the death could not be ascertained and we are awaiting the postmortem report to establish facts. The family members of the victim have denied if he had personal enmity with anyone.” “We established the deceased’s identity through the mobile phone recovered from his possession. He was a resident of Baraura Hussain Bari, Campbell Road, Lucknow,” he further said. Police said that late on Tuesday night, Expressway patrolling team spotted the man lying in the car near Atiya village. The engine of the car was on. “After informing the police control room, the team rushed the man to primary health centre, Auras, where he was declared brought dead on arrival,” added police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lucknow-contractor-found-deadin-his-car/articleshow/78795637.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Enjoy Puja at home, Kolkata schools advise kids||KOLKATA: From making students aware of the risks involved in visiting crowded pandals during the festival to organizing the Puja awards virtually, schools are leaving no stones unturned to counsel students and parents to stay indoors during the festivities. “Our teachers have counselled students about the need to remain safe and healthy for their own sake and for the sake of their near and dear ones during the Puja festivities,” said South Point School spokesperson Krishna Damani. In keeping with the situation, students of South Point High School will carry out the assessment for the M P Birla Puja Utkarsh Samman virtually this year. A notice was issued where students were urged to celebrate the festival safely by staying indoors. “We have discouraged students to visit pandals. Recently, CISCE had instructed schools to start Covid-awareness campaigns. We are holding such awareness programmes on the virtual platform, through various assignments and activities, right from pre-primary to Class XII. We told the students to avoid crowd, maintain physical distance and sanitize their hands regularly. On the virtual platform, placards are being displayed. Similar precautions are being circulated on the app that we have developed,” said Vivekananda Mission School principal Sarmistha Banerjee. She added that even in the parent-teacher meetings, guardians were cautioned about dangers of violating the Covid protocols. “The senior students will also appear in online examinations immediately after we resume classes post-vacation,” she pointed out. La Martiniere for Boys principal John Rafi said: “While conducting classes, the teachers gave out pep-talk and encouraged students to maintain Covid-related protocols and advised them to stay at home and enjoy the festivities.” In the open house that was conducted in the junior section on Tuesday, teachers interacted with the parents and discussed the ways to keep everyone safe during the celebrations. Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas had undertaken an elaborate counselling session with the students before the school closed for Puja vacation. “During online interactions, we have reminded students about the SOPs that are being advised. I have requested them to celebrate the vacation in a different way. I am not advising the children to stay away from going to the pandals but have made it clear that they should not enter them. Also, immediately changing the clothes after returning home should be the mantra to stay safe,” Biswas recommended. He had also told students that because of the lockdown and Amphan, thousands are in economic distress. “I requested my students to show some compassion towards those people,” he advised the students. Birla Bharati School’s principal Apala Dutta said that all the guidelines to protect students are being shared with the guardians. “We have advised them to spend the Puja vacation by talking to their friends, family members and cousins over virtual calls. They should also get dressed, but stay indoors and enjoy virtual Durga Puja,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/enjoy-puja-at-home-schools-advise-kids/articleshow/78776385.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 369 more test Covid positive, highest in 12 days||LUCKNOW: Fresh Covid-19 infections witnessed a flare up on Monday as 369 new cases, highest in 12 days, were reported in the city in last 24 hours. This is also for the first time in 28 days that the number of new cases were more than the recoveries (281). The deaths, however, came down to two, which was the lowest in 83 days. Gomtinagar recorded highest 29 cases followed by Rae Bareli Road (28), Aliganj (25), Indiranagar (20), Talkatora and Alambagh (19 each), Chinhat and Aashiana (18 each), Madiaon (17), Hazratganj and Chowk (14 each), Vikasnagar (13) and Jankipuram (12). According to the state Covid bulletin, the caseload since the outbreak has reached 60,632. Of these, 56,313 (92%) patients have recovered, 833 (1.3%) could not survive while 3,486 (6%) are still under treatment. According to CMO office, 10 patients died at hospitals in Lucknow on Wednesday. Two of them belonged to the city while the remaining were from other districts. A 68-year-old resident of Lucknow died of septicemia during treatment at KGMU. He was brought to the hospital with severe lung infection. Wednesday’s surge in new cases coincided with minimum temperature dropping below 20 degrees Celsius for the first time in post-monsoon season. According to experts, mercury will drop further in coming days which would increase moisture content in the atmosphere and create a conducive atmosphere for virus transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/369-more-test-ve-highest-in-12-days/articleshow/78798302.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||More pujas this yr, but power demand dips||Kolkata: Power utility CESC has received 85 more applications for temporary electricity connection for Durga Puja than it did last year. With three more days to go for Saptami, officials at the utility said more applications are expected. While the Durga Puja count has been creeping up gradually in recent years, so many additions in a year when life has been wrecked by the pandemic has suprised everyone. “Till Tuesday, we have received 4,572 applications for Puja connection, up from 4,487 applications that had come in last year. They do not include pujas in apartments or bonedi bari. This has been the trend over the past three years," said CESC vice-president (distribution services) Avijit Ghosh. Despite the addition of nearly 100 Pujas, the electricity demand is expected to be nearly 15% lower than last year when 52MW was consumed by the Pujas. While weather plays a factor since it will more much more pleasant in the third week of October than it was last year when the festival was in the first week of October, nearly all Puja organisers except Sreebhumi Sporting have applied for lower load. Sreebhumi has applied for 174KW, the same as it did last year. But others like New Land, Tala Park Pratyay, Maddox Square and Chakraberia Sarajanin that had applied for higher loads than Sreebhumi have this year reduced their load substantially. This is the strategy that Puja organizers have adopted to prevent crowding after dark when lights come into play. The highest power demand is predicted on Panchami when factories will be operating and pandals lit up as well. Shasthi too being a weekday is expected to see decent demand. But load is expected to dramatically drop by 250MW on Saptami when private offices shut down. Thereafter, the decline is poised to continue till Dashami when the peak demand is expected to be only 1,220MW. If it rains during the Puja, the demand will drop further. The CESC official said all plants, equipment and network were prepped up to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the festival. Around 100 additional repair teams will be deployed at strategic locations. In addition, there will be 200 emergency mobile vans patrolling the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-pujas-this-yr-but-power-demand-dips/articleshow/78776397.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu seeks OBC quota in all-India seats this year||CHENNAI: Batting for implementation of 50% OBC reservation in All India Quota (AIQ) seats, as per the state government policy for UG medical courses, from this academic year, the state government, in a written submission to the Supreme Court on Monday provided screenshots of the application forms where candidates had to indicate to which category (general, SC/ST, EWS and OBC) he or she belonged. The TN government had filed a SLP in the Supreme Court praying for the implementation of the OBC quota this academic year itself. This was after the Madras high court ordered the setting up of a committee to study the state’s request, saying its decision would apply only from the next academic year. Tamil Nadu termed the objection of the Union government and Medical Council of India to its request as “hyper technical and factually not tenable.” The Centre and MCI had opposed the implementation of the reservation policy in the current academic on technical grounds. Stating that it was too late in the day to implement the state-specific reservation, they said the seat matrix for UG admission was already published and the candidates may not have indicated their reservation in their applications. “The registration fees payable by each candidate is dependent on which category he/she belongs, with fees payable by OBC and general candidates being higher than that for SC/ST candidates,” the state government said, attaching the copy of Instructions and Procedures for Online Application Forms, indicating the different fees payable by the respective category of candidate. The Union government had argued that applying state-specific reservation to the AIQ (other than Central institutions) will lead to a situation where OBC candidates from other states who qualify for these AIQ seats in Tamil Nadu institutions will benefit. This may create “a conundrum” for students coming from states with no OBC reservation, it said. The state government submitted that introducing OBC reservation in the AIQ would ultimately “benefit and upliftment” OBC candidates throughout the country, irrespective of their origin. “It is submitted that since the judgment passed by the Supreme Court in January 2007, reservation for SC and ST is being effectively implemented in seats in the AIQ. There is no reason why the modalities of this established practice cannot be made as readily available to OBC reservation,” the state government said. In 2019-20, the state surrendered 539 seats for AIQ in MBBS, out of the total sanctioned seats of 3,600. If the OBC quota is implemented, approximately 270 seats will be reserved for OBC under the state's reservation policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-seeks-obc-quota-in-all-india-seats-this-yr/articleshow/78806894.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu seeks OBC quota in all-India seats this year||CHENNAI: Batting for implementation of 50% OBC reservation in All India Quota (AIQ) seats, as per the state government policy for UG medical courses, from this academic year, the state government, in a written submission to the Supreme Court on Monday provided screenshots of the application forms where candidates had to indicate to which category (general, SC/ST, EWS and OBC) he or she belonged. The TN government had filed a SLP in the Supreme Court praying for the implementation of the OBC quota this academic year itself. This was after the Madras high court ordered the setting up of a committee to study the state’s request, saying its decision would apply only from the next academic year. Tamil Nadu termed the objection of the Union government and Medical Council of India to its request as “hyper technical and factually not tenable.” The Centre and MCI had opposed the implementation of the reservation policy in the current academic on technical grounds. Stating that it was too late in the day to implement the state-specific reservation, they said the seat matrix for UG admission was already published and the candidates may not have indicated their reservation in their applications. “The registration fees payable by each candidate is dependent on which category he/she belongs, with fees payable by OBC and general candidates being higher than that for SC/ST candidates,” the state government said, attaching the copy of Instructions and Procedures for Online Application Forms, indicating the different fees payable by the respective category of candidate. The Union government had argued that applying state-specific reservation to the AIQ (other than Central institutions) will lead to a situation where OBC candidates from other states who qualify for these AIQ seats in Tamil Nadu institutions will benefit. This may create “a conundrum” for students coming from states with no OBC reservation, it said. The state government submitted that introducing OBC reservation in the AIQ would ultimately “benefit and upliftment” OBC candidates throughout the country, irrespective of their origin. “It is submitted that since the judgment passed by the Supreme Court in January 2007, reservation for SC and ST is being effectively implemented in seats in the AIQ. There is no reason why the modalities of this established practice cannot be made as readily available to OBC reservation,” the state government said. In 2019-20, the state surrendered 539 seats for AIQ in MBBS, out of the total sanctioned seats of 3,600. If the OBC quota is implemented, approximately 270 seats will be reserved for OBC under the state's reservation policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-seeks-obc-quota-in-all-india-seats-this-yr/articleshow/78798150.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Active coronavirus cases drop below 30,000 in UP||LUCKNOW: The number of active coronavirus cases declined further in UP on Wednesday and went below the 30,000 mark. As per the health bulletin, the total active infections reached 29,364, which took the state back to the situation in mid-July. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that about 55% of the active cases were under home isolation and urged them to stay cautious about any warning sign to avoid any suffering. As per the bulletin, 2,464 fresh cases and 3,332 recoveries were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases reached 4.61 lakh while the number of recoveries crossed 4.25 lakh. Prasad said that UP’s recovery rate has crossed 92% mark and was rising steadily. However, he stressed that the risk of infection was still high as there was no vaccine or specific medicine for the treatment of this infection. “Any deviance from the prevention protocol could mean morbidity or mortality which is not in the interest of those dependent on you,” he said urging people, especially office goers, to wear masks, follow social distancing and wash hands with soap. The state also recorded the death of 42 persons taking the total number of Covid-19 casualties to 6,755. Officials said that with changing weather conditions and increasing economic activity has made it easy for the pandemic virus to spread. “Humans are the host of the infective virus that can also use particulate matter to spread the infection. Therefore, utmost precaution is the need of the hour,” said a senior government doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-corona-cases-drop-below-30k-in-up/articleshow/78798336.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 22, 2020||Kanpur||Ghatampur byelection: Webcasting at 48 booths||KANPUR: To ensure transparency during polling at Ghatampur on November 3, live webcasting will be done at 48 very sensitive polling booths of the constituency. The procedure will help monitor polling and any electoral violation, including bogus voting can be swiftly reported to returning officers or observers. The webcast facility will be checked for glitches at every booth two days prior polling. Also, pink and model booths will be set up to encourage women to vote and raise polling percentage, said district magistrate and district election officer Alok Tiwari. “Of 481 booths, 84 booths have been declared critical and webcasting would be done at 48 booths,” he said. “Pink polling booths are managed entirely by women, where special arrangements are done to enable mothers accompanied by children and pregnant women to vote. Model booths will also be set up with facilities of shade, chairs, first aid, potable water and ramps for physically challenged,” said tehsildar Vineet Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ghatampur-byelection-webcasting-at-48-booths/articleshow/78795687.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Why rainwater doesn’t go down stormwater drains||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation is on the verge of completing a `440cr stormwater drain project that began in 2018 as part of many measure post the 2015 floods. However, the civic body has been working without a map of the entire network of drains in the city. Engineers said they have used on-site knowledge and the detailed project report submitted by Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited (TUFISL). But they are not sure if all these drains are interlinked and connected to rivers and ponds. “Every drain project is taken up at the ward level and the local engineer and contractor execute it. We were given detailed project report after TUFISL conducted a study on the entire network with a consultant. Post the 2015 floods, the monitoring officers appointed by the state government conducted a field study. That report and TUFISL study were used to execute the construction of the drain,” said a senior official. Since last July, about 250km of drain network has been added to the city’s existing 1894km line. On Sunday and Tuesday, however, when heavy rain lashed the city, the newly constructed drains around the Express Avenue mall were of no use. Drains along interior roads in Madipakkam, Thiruvanmiyur and Kodambakkam came a cropper. While roads often get flooded as drain inlets are blocked by garbage, that’s not the sole reason. Every drain is constructed individually at the ward level with the gradient and slope based on the prerogative of the area engineer and contractor. “They have information such as length, width and height but not other details such as utilities, slope, connection to the other drain. Interlinking of drains is done separately,” said a ward-level engineer. Sometimes, a drain on one road is part of one package and the other drain located in the adjacent street will be constructed several months later in another package with a different gradient. “Whether each drain is connected to a nalla, canal or river is not known to the civic body,” said an official. While the quality of the drains has improved after project management consultants were appointed, the gradient, slope and design of the drain are not monitored at the headquarter level rendering them useless during heavy rain. “The decisions are taken at the lower level at the sites,” said an official. TUFISL, the funding agency for the project completed the detailed project report for each basin - Kovalam, Kosasthalaiyar and Cooum - but separately. It did not hand over micro level drawings to the corporation. When TOI contacted an official at TNUIFSL, he said they created designs for separate basins. Whether they work when interlinked, he wasn’t sure. A senior corporation official said they will appoint a consultant to study the entire drain network and prepare the map. “One cannot say the entire project is useless. Experts have studied the project and the reports have been submitted. Many areas do not report flooding,” said Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner, works (incharge).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-rainwater-doesnt-go-down-stormwater-drains/articleshow/78796795.cms||Komal Gautham
October 22, 2020||Delhi||26-year-old held in south Delhi for sending obscene videos to woman||NEW DELHI: A 26-year old man was arrested for sending obscene videos and messages to a girl from north-east India residing in south Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave. The woman told police that she received a video call from an unknown number and when she answered, the caller flashed at her. He then sent her several lewd videos of himself. Police said on Wednesday that the accused had indulged in similar behaviour with other women too. When the cops arrested the accused Salman, and scanned his mobile phone, they discovered he had sent similar videos and messages to at least 30 women. When investigating officials reached out to some of the women to check they had filed a complaint, most said they had blocked the man rather than file an FIR. According to police, the victim in the latest incident complained that on October 12 she received a WhatsApp video call from an unknown number. When she accepted the video call, the caller exposed himself to her. Later, the man started sending his nude videos and pictures to her. Despite not responding to these, the woman continued to receive videos and calls from Salman. After a case was registered for stalking and outraging the modesty of a woman and for violations provisions of the IT Act, an investigating team was set up under inspector Umesh Barthwal and consisting of sub-inspector Vivek Malik and constable Nemichand. “The phone number was found registered in Kota, Rajasthan, so we sent a team there,” said Devender Arya, DCP (Southwest). “The person in whose name the number was registered revealed his friend Salman was using the SIM card. Salman was tracked and arrested in Rohtak.” During interrogation, Salman admitted using WhatsApp to send sexually explicit content to random girls. Police retrieved the mobile phone and SIM card used in the offence. In a similar incident, two men from Noida were arrested for sending obscene messages and pictures to a woman on her phone and through social media and threatening her not report the matter to police. The arrested, Deshbandhu Singh, 24, is the chief security guard at a private company, while Gajender Singh, 23, a school dropout, is a helper in the same company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/26-year-old-held-for-sending-obscene-videos-to-woman/articleshow/78796801.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||UG admissions still incomplete, session likely to start from Dec||Lucknow: Lucknow University’s undergraduate admission process is still incomplete, even a month after the merit list was declared. LU had done away with the entrance test this year to make up for the time lost due to closure because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The merit list was declared on the basis of 10+2 marks of the candidates, but counselling for the seat allotment is taking more than the expected time. The academic session of first year students usually begins in July, but this year it is already delayed by four months. Candidates are worried that at least a month more will take in completion of all formalities and another month for classes to begin. “Normally, first semester examinations are held in December, but this year it seems classes will start by December,” said Ajay Kumar, a BSc aspirant. “I was expecting the session to begin in October but the pace at which things are going, it seems that it will get derailed by six months, which will adversely affect our career prospects in the long run,” said BSc candidate Anamika Shukla. Another candidate, Atul Sengar, said, “LU affiliated colleges who did admissions on their own have completed the process and classes are about to start, but in LU the second phase of seat allotment is still underway.” LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “The admission process is nearly comeple and the session will begin soon. Students will get adequate time for classroom teaching. Even if the semester examinations are held in February, we will plan things in a way that the course is completed in three years so that students do not suffer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ug-admissions-still-incomplete-session-likely-to-start-from-dec/articleshow/78798327.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 22, 2020||Kanpur||UP union minister slams opposition, seeks vote for Upendra Paswan||KANPUR: Union minister of state Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti addressed a public meeting at Aanupur ground in Sajeti area of the district in support of the BJP candidate Upendra Paswan on Wednesday evening. Ghatampur assembly constituency of the district is slated to go for bypolls on November 3. Niranjan attacked the opposition over their ‘Garibi hatao’ campaign. “Their Garibi hatao campaign is just a gimmick. They did nothing to remove poverty in their regimes, it’s only Prime Minister Narendra Modi who can understand the pain of the poor,” said Sadhvi said. She praised CM Yogi Adityanath for ‘changing the colour of uniform of basic school students’. “Earlier, the children used to wear khaki dress, which resembled uniform of a peon rather than that of a school student. Now, you see these uniforms. They are because of CM Yogi,” said the minister further. She also attacked Congress for spreading lies and misleading farmers and stated that the BJP will get votes in the upcoming byelections on the basis of the farmer’s Bills. Niranjan pleaded people and said that once again they should vote BJP in the upcoming bypoll which will be their true tribute to late minister Kamal Rani Varun. The seat fell vacant after the death of state minister Kamal Rani Varun (62). She had been undergoing treatment at SGPGI, Lucknow. Varun had tested positive for Covid-19 on 18 July. She died on August 2 due to complications brought on by the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sadhvi-slamsoppn-seeks-vote-for-paswan/articleshow/78795662.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 22, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Jobless worker stabs wife, three daughters to death||RAJKOT: In a macabre incident, a jobless labourer allegedly stabbed his three young daughters and wife to death in Jakhania village of Kutch district’s Mandvi taluka, on Wednesday. The labourer, Jakhu Sanghar, fled from his house after committing the crime. While police say that the exact motive behind the brutality will be known only after he is caught, but people close to this family and community members said Jakha had been reeling under extreme poverty since the beginning of the lockdown in March last week. Jakhu stabbed to death his wife Bhavna (33) and daughters — Trupti (10), Kinjal (5) and Dharmishta (2). Shivji Sanghar, president of Akhil Kutch Sanghar Samaj, told reporters, “Jakhu might have been forced to take this drastic step owing to the acute financial crisis he had been passing through since the beginning of the lockdown.| “Jakhu worked as a labourer in a pipe manufacturing unit, but was rendered jobless ever since March with Covid-19 began. As he was not getting any work, he appeared to have decided to resort to such an extremity,” claimed Shivji. J N Panchal, Mandvi deputy superintendent of police, told TOI: “On reaching the village, we found the three girls lying dead, while Bhavna was writhing in pain. We rushed her to Mandvi Civil Hospital where she was declared dead on admission. The real reason of the crime will be known, once the accused is arrested.” Meanwhile, Mandvi police have formed three teams to track down Jakhu and nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jobless-worker-stabs-wife-three-daughter-to-death/articleshow/78794898.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Tusker tramples youth to death in Nanjangud||MYSURU: A tribal youth was trampled to death by a tusker on Doranakatte Colony Road in Nanjangud taluk on Tuesday night. According to forester, Ganesh, 25, who was mentally disturbed and a resident of Doranakatte Colony, was walking from Bankahalli towards his house around 8 pm, when the tusker attacked him. He was killed on the spot. The incident happened between Venkatagiri Colony and Doranakatte Colony. The villagers, who noticed the tusker in the village, shouted to alert Ganesh, but the youth walked near the tusker, which trampled him to death. Yediyala ACF Ravikumar and RFO Manjunath visited the spot and assured compensation from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tusker-tramples-youth-to-death-in-nanjangud/articleshow/78794848.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Opposition supporting men with PFI links: UP BJP chief||LUCKNOW: UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Wednesday asked the opposition parties what message they wanted to convey by supporting those accused of causing caste conflict in UP. His remark came hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi met the family of Kerala-based journalist Siddique Kappan who has been arrested by UP Police for his alleged link with PFI, which is accused of fomenting caste clashes in the aftermath of rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras. Singh said political leaders who support terror accused or those involved in violent conflicts need to be exposed. He said that unlike previous regimes, the BJP government will not allow anarchy and violence gain roots in UP. Singh slammed the opposition saying that the parties which do not think beyond a family would never be able to work for people’s welfare. The remark came on a day when senior SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav filed his nomination for the Rajya Sabha. Singh said the central and the state governments are working towards the prosperity of people through various welfare schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-supporting-men-with-pfi-links-singh/articleshow/78798370.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Registered workers in UP to get Rs 7,500 for daughter’s books||LUCKNOW: The UP Labour Welfare Council will now provide Rs 7,500 to a worker to buy books for a daughter pursuing education after class 12. The scheme will be applicable to all workers registered with the state labour board. In a meeting of the council chaired by chief secretary RK Tiwari on Wednesday, it was decided to provide this aid under the Mahadevi Verma Book Purchase Financial Assistance Scheme. It was also decided that the labour department will give a financial reward to children of workers who register a good performance in the field of sports. For children selected for a sport at the district level, a sum of Rs 10,000 will be given; Rs 25,000 if the child is selected to play at the state level, and Rs 50,000 for selection at the national level. In case the selection takes place at an international level, the government will award Rs 1 lakh. Tiwari said that for identification of beneficiaries, a committee should be set up at the district level which will be headed by the district magistrate. Meanwhile, the chief secretary also gave directions for providing a financial assistance of Rs 12,000 to workers under the Swami Vivekanand Historical Tourism Travel Scheme for visiting religious and historical sites. He said the scheme could be operated under an existing scheme of the tourism department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/registered-workers-to-get-rs-7500-for-daughters-books/articleshow/78798353.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vadodara||Trader’s cash, ornaments stolen||VADODARA: A trader from Mumbai lost his belongings worth Rs 4.2 lakh while he was on his way to his native place in Rajasthan in a private luxury bus. In a complaint lodged at Karjan police station on Tuesday, the trader Kantilal Purohit told police that a thief took away his bag while the bus had stopped for dinner at a highway restaurant on October 19. Purohit and his wife were on their way to Khirodi village in Jalore district of Rajasthan. According to Purohit, when the bus driver stopped the bus at Ramdev Hotel near Karjan on national highway-48, he and his wife along with 15 other passengers got down for meals. The driver and the cleaner of the bus were also having their meals at the restaurant. Around 9.50 pm when Purohit and his wife returned to the bus, they did not find their bag and informed the driver and cleaner about it. When other passengers were asked if their luggage was safe, it was learnt that only Purohit’s bag was missing. He later called police and the cops checked the luggage of other passengers but Purohit’s valuables were not found. Police said that the bag contained Rs 5,000 cash and gold ornaments worth over Rs 4 lakh. Cops suspect that a local could be involved in the theft as in the past too several passengers have lost their valuables from nearby restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/traders-cash-ornaments-stolen/articleshow/78794705.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: South doctors on Covid duty continue to stay in hotels||PANAJI: Doctors on Covid duty in South Goa who were told to vacate their accommodation on single basis in private hotels stayed put after the Goa Association of Resident Doctors (GARD) raised the issue of the government transferring them to Margao and Colva residencies on room-sharing basis. The doctors were initially told they could continue their stay in hotels till Wednesday when a decision would be taken, but they have not received any further communication on the matter. The resident doctors had protested the move to shift them into residencies on sharing-basis stating that it put them and their colleagues at a higher risk. They stated that they were disheartened by the order and said putting them in rooms on sharing-basis would increase the risk for infection and reinfection which would fail the purpose of the stay. After the concern was raised, health minister Vishwajit Rane took to social media to say that he agreed with the association’s request. He further added that he took up the issue with the chief minister who assured him that instructions would be given to the collector to ensure single bedrooms are provided. The doctors, nurses, MTS workers and technicians working at ESI Covid hospital and South Goa district hospital are currently accommodated at Hotel Laxmi Empire, Hotel Ginger, Hotel Go Goa, Hotel Apple Rosa in Margao and Hotel Williams Beach Retreat Pvt Ltd in Colva. Following the letter from GARD to the dean of Goa Medical College and hospital, the South Goa collectorate has kept its orders in abeyance. The collectorate had requisitioned 52 rooms in Hotel Laxmi Empire on July 21 as well as rooms of the other hotels. The collectorate then passed an order on October 16 relieving Hotel Laxmi Empire with effect from October 18. After GARD’s letter on October 17, the collectorate issued another order keeping all orders regarding the five hotels in abeyance until further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-docs-on-covid-duty-continue-to-stay-in-hotels/articleshow/78798662.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Man accuses ex-BSP MLA of duping him of Rs 5 lakh||LUCKNOW: A former employee in the accounts section of Uttar Pradesh Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation was duped of Rs 5 lakh on the promise of a job for his son. The victim Gurmeet Singh said a former Member of Legislative Assembly of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Chandradev Gautam had duped him by promising a job for his son using the office of his party president. In his complaint to police, Singh said he is presently working in Uttarakhand Vikas Nigam in Dehradun. He said he got acquainted to BSP leader Chandradev Gautam who had contested election from Ramkola constituency in Kushinagar on BSP ticket. Singh said Gautam was General Manager of Uttar Pradesh Scheduled Caste Finance and Development Corporation and so he came in touch with him. He said Gautam told him that he could get his son a job in BHEL, Jagdishpur through his party president and took Rs 5 lakh from him for facilitating it, but reneged on his promise later. “All the transactions were done in some company named Linker Associates,” Singh informed police in his complaint. SHO, Chinhat, Dhananjay Kumar said an FIR has been registered against Chandra Dev Gautam on the charges of dishonesty and criminal breach of trust and further probe was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-accuses-ex-bsp-mlaof-duping-him-of-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/78798315.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Surat||BJP leader alleges Rs 2,000 crore scam||SURAT: A former income tax officer, who retired 15 years ago to join BJP, PVS Sarma has alleged Rs 2,000 crore money laundering scam executed during the demonetisation period involving top jewellers, builders, textile and diamond industrialists. Sarma, who has demanded a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Department (ED) has also alleged connivance of chartered accountants (CAs), income tax officers in the multi-crore scam which defeated the purpose of the Income Disclosure Scheme (IDS) launched by by the central government in November 2016. The former I-T officer said that he is also willing to file an affidavit to prove his case. Sarma also tweeted the documents related to a jewellery firm claiming that the firm sold Rs 96 crore worth of jewellery and gold within few hours post the announcement of demonetisation on November 8, 2016. The company showed additional undisclosed income of Rs 84 lakh as premium making charges collected from the customers and deposited the cash received through the sales in the banks after November 9, he told a press conference. Talking to TOI, Sarma claimed, “Technically, a tax payer cannot file a case with the settlement commission after the assessment is over. But in this case, the jewellery firm went to the settlement commission before the assessment by the I-T, declaring the additional income of Rs 84 lakh through premium making charges. However, the jewellery firm got away with the payment of Rs 80 lakh income tax on the actual sale of Rs 110 crore worth of jewellery between November 5 to November 8.” Sarma, who is the vice-preisdent of city BJP unit, had served the department for 18 years. Earlier, he was the vice-president of All India I-T Officers’ Association and president of Gujarat I-T Officers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-leader-alleges-rs-2k-crore-scam/articleshow/78795316.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Meerut||Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary set to lose half of its area||MEERUT: Thirty-four years after the Uttar Pradesh government issued a primary notification declaring Hastinapur forest area a sanctuary, the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL) has now recommended a state government proposal for reduction of the sanctuary's area to half. According to the UP’s proposal, the sanctuary, whose area is currently 2,073sq km on the both the sides of Ganga in wester UP comprising Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Amroha and Hapur districts, will now be reduced to 1,094sq km. Wildlife activists feel the move will eventually destroy the sanctuary. However, Wildlife Institute of India (WII) officials, who were entrusted with the task of marking of the proposed boundaries, said that several towns and agricultural fields were already present within the sanctuary and that need to be excluded now. The NBWL has directed the state government to issue the final notification for the sanctuary within 30 days of the receipt of the recommendation. Last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had issued contempt-cum-execution notice to the Union ministry of environment and forest, UP government and others for non-implementation of its earlier order for final notification of the sanctuary. Due to lack of a proper government notification since 1986, the area does not enjoy the protection needed to check poaching and various other threats to the wildlife. Wildlife experts are a bit unnerved with the current development. Vipin Agarwal, a wildlife activist, said, "This step will eventually destroy the sanctuary because the builder lobby will ensure their interest is not compromised in any way." Vijay Pal Baghel, popularly known as the 'Green Man of India', said, “For the past decade, the government has been trying to erase this sanctuary and when they couldn't do it, they will now drastically reduce its size. The government’s excuse for reducing the size – that there are human settlements or government buildings in the sanctuary – doesn’t hold water. Rajaji National Park has been working that way.” Baghel said, “There is a sinister game plan under the garb of rationalization of the sanctuary. What is the need of constructing Ganga Expressway? Whose land will be devoured by this concrete structure? Obviously, the sanctuary’s. And then you will come up with hotels and commercialisation in the name of development.” However, petitioner in the case, Gaurav Bansal, who had been fighting for the notification of the sanctuary for the last four years, is upbeat. "There is no denying the fact that in present form, the sanctuary is quite haphazard with too much of human interference. Over the decades, the interference has only expanded bringing man-animal conflict to the fore. With the rationalisation of the area, the sanctuary will be more protected now." Senior scientist at WII, Bivash Pandav, told TOI, "In current scenario, there are many spots as big as towns, like Chandpur in Bijnor, large part of Amroha etc, which are part of the sanctuary. Other areas have also witnessed intense human activity, including agricultural fields. All such areas have been excluded in the proposal and we have recommended the inclusion of 187.62 sq km near the northern boundaries of the sanctuary which is frequented by swamp deer, for which, the sanctuary was made in the first place."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/awaiting-notification-for-over-3-decades-hastinapur-wildlife-sanctuary-set-to-lose-half-of-its-area/articleshow/78795403.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 22, 2020||Kanpur||Two private companies engaged to collect garbage in Kanpur||KANPUR: Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has entered into an agreement with two private companies—one of Indore and another a local company –to lift garbage from 15 wards of the city. According to RK Singh in-charge and executive engineer of Swachcha Bharat Abhiyan , the Indore- based company would collect garbage from ten wards including Shastri Nagar,Vijay Nagar, Sarvodaya Nagar, Lajpar Nagar, Sharda Nagar and zone-6 of Kalyanpur. Similarly, the local company had been entrusted with the job to collect garbage from the remaining five wards--Shyam Nagar, Daheli Sujanpur, Yashoda Nagar (west) and Krishna Nagar (east). He said the two companies would not only collect wet and dry garbage under a door-to-door collection scheme but also create awareness about cleanliness among residents. The executive engineer claimed that around 70 percent houses generate dry and wet garbage. The door-to-door collection process, he said, would be implemented soon in the entire municipal limit The garbage collected from door-to-door would be sent directly to the garbage disposal plant at Panki Bhaupur. “The segregated dry and wet garbage besides saving time at the plant would also keep the roads clean”, he said. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi on Monday directed the junior engineer to remove encroachment from the footpath near Sanjay Van in Kidwai Nagar. The enforcement squad of zone-3 launched an anti encroachment campaign in the area and removed all encroachments. The squad also collected Rs 40,000 as fine. KMC has decided to set up a tax collection centre in Kidwai Nagar night shelter home. At present, the office of zonal health officer is being raised on its ground floor. As per plan, the house tax collection center of zone-3 would be raised on the first floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-pvt-cos-engaged-to-collect-garbage/articleshow/78796050.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Marriage promises led to 57% rapes in UP||LUCKNOW: The maximum number of rapes in Uttar Pradesh in 2019 — 57% of all cases — took place on the false promise of marriage, reveals the latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The analysis of data further shows that in 37% cases in the state, the accused were known to the survivor, while around 6% perpetrators of the crime were unknown. Uttar Pradesh additional director general of police, prosecution, Ashutosh Pandey said, the data shows a distinct trend of rapes being committed by acquaintances of the survivors.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Women should not keep mum if any acquaintance commits the crime. They should come up and report rape cases as this will help in higher reportage and conviction and send a clear message to the perpetrators of such crimes. Women should be made aware about the rules and laws which is now being done by the state government under the ‘Mission Shakti’ programme,” he further added. ‘UP’s conviction rate best in crime against women cases’Besides, sustained and relentless efforts of the prosecution in perusal of cases has resulted in accused being held guilty in courts and as a result, UP has the highest conviction rate in cases of crime against women among all states, Pandey added. “UP had the highest conviction rate of 55% in cases of crime against women, followed by 50% in Uttarakhand and 45.5% in Rajasthan,” the ADG said. The prosecution department achieved a higher conviction rate because of technical advancements and easy availability of court proceeding details on the portalecourts.gov.in, he added. The conviction rate is improving and in the last 24 hours, 11 persons were sentenced to life imprisonment. The convicts include Akash, who had brutally killed his mother by stabbing her 17 times in Sambhal. Gajendra Saini, Murshid and three others have been sent to life imprisonment for murder of a child during dacoity in Amroha. “In Amethi, Shivbahadur was sentenced to life for murder of his 11 month old son, and in Ayodhya, Rajkumar was sentenced to life for murder of his employer and attempt to murder of employer’s son,” said Pandey. Six others were awarded 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment in cases of crime against women and were also slapped with fines. Bails of 90 accused in 86 cases of crime against women got cancelled, while 29 accused were externed from districts, the ADG said. A helpline has been launched for providing free legal opinion to women who are victims of crimes. Besides, the prosecution also counsels and guides witnesses before they appear to testify in court in cases relating to crime against women. Watch Uttar Pradesh: Marriage promises led to 57% rapes in state, says NCRB data||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/marriage-promises-led-to-57-rapes-in-up/articleshow/78798446.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 36 passenger trains to run as express services||CHENNAI: There will be fewer passenger services, the slow yet popular and cheaper trains that linked small towns with cities, when train services return to normalcy after Covid-19 restrictions are lifted. Southern Railway will convert 36 passenger trains into express services with fewer stops when the new timetable is released, most probably in December. On Tuesday, the Railway Board approved the list of trains suggested by the zone. The trains include 24 services within the state. Some of the trains are Arakkonam-Salem, Puducherry-Tirupati, Villupuram-Tirupati, Trichy-Rameswaram, Erode-Tirunelveli, Madurai-Villupuram, Mayiladuthurai-Dindigul, Nagercoil-Coimbatore, Coimbatore-Nagercoil, Erode-Tirunelveli, Tirunelveli-Erode passenger services. This means that the trains will skip several small stations forcing people to switch to buses. Travel cost will also go up. The minimum fare in passenger trains is Rs 10 and express trains Rs 30. Southern Railway is among the top three zones that will scrap the most number of passenger trains. In June, the board had asked each zone to send a list of trains. A railway official said the trains were identified based on a railway board move to convert passenger trains that connected destinations 200km away into express trains by removing uneconomical stops. “Some of the trains are too slow and ran almost the whole day or night. A final decision on the stops that need to be removed will be taken later,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/36-passenger-trains-to-run-as-express-services/articleshow/78796867.cms||V Ayyappan
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Active cases in Jaipur drop, number of critical patients stagnant||JAIPUR: Active cases have dipped significantly in Jaipur from 9,241 on October 8 to 6,624 on Wednesday, but the number of Covid-19 patients requiring critical care has not come down over the past month. ICUs and ventilators in some private hospitals are still running with full capacity. On September 17, there were 85 Covid patients on ventilators and 268 in ICUs. Now, according to health department’s Monday report, the number moved up to 144 patients on ventilators and 391 in ICUs. However, this is a slight dip from 452 ICU patients recorded on October 1. “Majority of the patients requiring ICU and ventilator support are those who are reaching hospitals eight to 10 days after getting infected, especially after they start having breathing difficulties. Our ICUs and ventilators are running with full capacity with such patients,” said Dr Virendra Singh, pulmonologist and president of a private hospital treating Covid patients. In government hospitals, 85 patients were in ICUs and 71 on ventilator support, while in private hospitals, 306 were in ICUs and 73 on ventilators. The government hospitals have 184 ICU beds and 115 ventilators for Covid patients, while private hospitals collectively have 629 beds in ICUs and 153 ventilators facilities. According to the health department’s report, 99 beds are vacant in ICUs in government hospitals. Also, keeping the growing cases in mind, the health department has also increased its treatment facility in both government as well as private hospitals. “In government hospitals, we do not have any shortage of beds for patients needing critical care. Almost 50% of our ICU beds are vacant. We have increased our beds in ICUs with ventilator facility. Earlier, there was a situation when ICUs were running with full capacity but now ICU beds are easily available as half of them are vacant. Recently, we have added 10 ICU beds with ventilators at our ESI hospital,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. Over the past month, the number of beds in ICUs and ventilators have increased noticeably for Covid patients. Earlier, as on September 17, there were 384 ICU beds and 156 ventilators. This has now increased to 813 ICU beds and 268ventilators in government and private hospitals of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-in-city-drop-no-of-critical-patients-stagnant/articleshow/78798174.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||CBI team visits Lucknow to probe ‘TRP scam’||LUCKNOW: A CBI team from the special crime branch unit of Delhi visited Hazratganj police station on Wednesday evening, hours after taking over the 'TRP scam' case. The FIR was lodged here on October 17 on the basis of a complaint filed by one Kamal Sharma, the regional director with a media and advertising agency. The CBI team collected documents on the basis of which the FIR was registered. Sources claimed that the team was likely to extend its visit to the city and question some persons in connection with the case. Sharma had alleged in his FIR that certain unknown accused had tampered and manipulated TRP to gain wrongfully. On the basis of his complaint, the FIR under the charges of criminal breach of trust, dishonesty, and tampering of meters and electronic records was registered against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cbi-team-visits-cityto-probe-trp-scam/articleshow/78798411.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Newly inducted 31,000 teachers in UP to join duty by November 3||LUCKNOW: The newly inducted 31,277 primary teachers in UP government schools will join duty from November 3. The process of school allotment will begin from October 29. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had issued appointment letters to these teachers on October 16, An order issued by additional chief secretary, basic education, Renuka Kumar on Wednesday stated that the allotment of schools will be done keeping in view the existing pupil-teacher ratio in primary schools. She told basic education officials to ensure that no teachers are posted in schools where the student-teacher ratio is optimal. As per the order, counselling will be held at district level from October 26-28. In order to have a transparent system of recruitment based on qualification and no corruption, Kumar said a senior official nominated by the district magistrate concerned will remain present at the counselling venue. The allotment of schools will be done under this official’s supervision. During the counselling, the selected teacher will have to appear in person along with a statutory identity card. Under no circumstances, a substitute will be allotted schools in case a selected teacher doesn’t make physical appearance. Covid protocols will be followed at every counselling venue. The 31,277 primary teachers will join the government schools after a delay of more than a year since the appointment process was challenged in the court. The selections were done by the UP Basic Education Board against 69,000 vacancies in 2019. The assistant teacher recruitment test (ATRE), a qualifying exam for appointment of teachers was conducted on January 6. The government had fixed the minimum cutoff for general category at 65% marks and for backward and other reserved categories at 60% marks. The order was challenged by some students in court and even went up to the Supreme Court. In its final order, the high court said only 31,661 posts out of 69,000 vacancies could be filled, leaving out those that were occupied by shiksha mitras. The merit list was drawn and in that 6,675 candidates who, were earlier appointed as shiksha mitras, were selected for permanent posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/newly-inducted-31k-teachers-in-state-to-join-duty-by-nov-3/articleshow/78798341.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Recovered Covid patient tests positive again, died||LUCKNOW: Was it a second Covid-19 infection that took the life of 51-year-old journalist Mohammad Haider Mehdi Ali from Sarfarazganj area on October 17 or a dormant novel coronavirus infection surged again a month-and-a-half after he first tested negative for the disease and declared ‘recovered’? According to Ali’s wife, he also had cancer for three years and diagnosed Covid-19 in mid-August. After treatment in Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC) for about 15 days, he was discharged on September 2 after testing negative. Another test a few days later came negative again. However, he had to be hospitalised again on October 15 following weakness. Covid-19 test this time found him positive again. He survived first infection, but the second one led to Covid pneumonia and septic shock resulting in death. The treating doctor at ELMC, Dr Dr Jalees Fatima, head, medicine department, said “It seems to be reinfection because of the big gap between two hospitalisations. He was treated for about 15 days after the first infection and sent home when the test report came negative. His cancer treatment continued as usual. After discharge, I examined him several times as a non-Covid patient. Had he been positive, his family, medical staff and I would have caught infection.” But, experts at SGPGI and RMLIMS suspect that rather than reinfection, it could possibly be a dormant novel coronavirus that remained idle in the patient's body for some time after being discharged and later heightened leading to death. They, however, agreed that the case raises several questions which can be answered only through research as scientists are still unaware of a lot of things about the virus. “Current guidelines call reinfection if it occurs three or more months after the first. This case could be what we call ‘constant shedding of virus’ which means the viral load declines to the level where it cannot be detected through tests. So far, only a couple of documented reinfections have occurred in the world, rest are speculations” said head microbiology, RMLIMS, Prof Jyotsna Agarwal. Head, microbiology, SGPGIMS, Prof Ujjala Ghoshal said, “Virus could have sustained in the body in a dormant state and resurged later, hence calling it reinfection would be scientifically inaccurate. The negative reports could be due to testing errors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recovered-covid-patienttests-positive-again-died/articleshow/78798307.cms||Yusra Husain
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Air poor, farm fires share 15% blame||NEW DELHI: The impact of stubble burning on the PM2.5 levels in Delhi’s air almost doubled to 15% on Wednesday from 8% on Tuesday, said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a central forecasting body. Track the pollution level in your cityThe capital’s air quality index (AQI) rose to 256 on Wednesday, but continued to remain in the “poor” category, according to the daily bulletin of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The early warning system for Delhi, a system developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, said AQI is likely to be in the “very poor” category on Friday and Saturday due to light winds and stagnant meteorological conditions. Safar identified 849 fire counts in Punjab, Haryana and the neighbouring region on Tuesday against 1,017 on Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The wind speed dropped to zero on Tuesday night and it affected dispersion of pollutants. Besides, the wind direction changed twice during the day on Wednesday and it impacted the dispersion of pollutants during transition phase.” Calm winds have prevailed in Delhi in most of the nights in October but the wind speed has picked up during the day, he said. But “it has been predicted that the wind speed will start reducing during day time in the coming days affecting Delhi’s AQI”, Srivastava pointed out. Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said, “Wind speed increased up to 5m/sec on Wednesday but wind direction changed from north-north-west (NNW) to south-south-east (SSE) and hence, concentration of pollutants will decrease.” Delhi had recorded this season’s worst AQI on October 15 when it entered the “very poor” category with 312 after eight months. However, AQI has been in the “poor” category since October 16. While an AQI reading of 50 or below is classified as “good”, readings between 51 and 100 fall in the “satisfactory” category and those between 101 and 200 are classified as “moderate”. “Poor” air ranges from 201 to 300, “very poor” from 301 to 400 and “severe” from 401 to 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-poor-farm-fires-share-15-blame/articleshow/78796868.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC summons VMC chief with details of schemes||PRAYAGRAJ: Hearing a PIL alleging non-discharge of public duties by urban local self-governments, the Allahabad high court has summoned the commissioner, Varanasi Municipal Corporation (VMC), before the court on November 23 with complete response relating to the schemes available with VMC and their execution. Hearing a PIL filed by Dhyanesh Bhattacharya and four others of Varanasi, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma directed to list this matter on November 23 for the next hearing. This public interest litigation (PIL) has raised a serious issue with regard to discharge of public duties by the urban local self-governments, prescribed under the 12th Schedule appended with the Constitution of India. The grievance of the petitioners was that VMC has utterly failed in its duties at least vis-a-vis public health, sanitation conservancy and solid waste management. Besides, urban forestry, protection of environment, promotion of ecological aspects, slum improvement and up-gradation, provision of urban amenities and facilities such as parks, gardens, playgrounds and cattle ponds are the other aspects which were being ignored by it. While passing the above directives, the court observed, “As per Article 243W of the Constitution of India, municipalities are supposed to perform functions and are required to implement schemes as may be entrusted to them, including those in relation to the matters listed in the Twelfth Schedule. Twelfth Schedule prescribes as many as 18 items relating to which municipalities are required to perform and also execute certain schemes. Suffice to state that the 18 items referred to above are inclusive of such other matters as are permitted under Part- IXA of the Constitution of India. The Municipal Corporation Act, 1959 also incorporates matters referred under the Schedule Twelfth.” The court passed this order on October 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-summons-vmc-chief-with-details-of-schemes/articleshow/78796127.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya ‘Deepotsava’ to get grander sans crowd||LUCKNOW: The Deepotsava to be celebrated in Ayodhya on the occasion of Diwali is all set to get grander this year. This being the year of the beginning of Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wants to send a strong message among devotees across the world by scaling up the celebrations further in the temple town this year, said a senior official. Though there would be no crowd this year. The CM had a meeting with principal secretary, culture and tourism, Mukesh Meshram and other officials. Yogi seeks blueprint for majestic Ayodhya DiwaliThe chief minister directed the officials for a gala celebration this Diwali though there would be no crowd in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Last year, 4.5 lakh earthen lamps were lit at Ram Ki Pairi to mark the 'Deepotsava’. While the CM had attended the festival with full zeal, the effort had earned a place in the Guinness Book of World Record. At the meeting, the CM sought a detailed presentation from the culture department for the ‘Deepotsava’ festival and asked the principal secretary to make it a memorable event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-deepotsava-to-get-grander-sans-crowd/articleshow/78798467.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||3.7 lakh SHGs ensured jobs for rural women in UP||LUCKNOW: UP government created a staggering 3.71 lakh self-help groups to tackle the dual challenge of rural joblessness and migrant influx during the Covid-induced lockdown period. "Yogi Government has taken firm steps towards making thousands of women financially self-reliant. Under the Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana and National Rural Livelihood Mission, it has launched a major campaign across the state under the name of State Rural Livelihood Mission to make women, especially in rural areas, self-employed and to become self-reliant," said a state government spokesperson. "These 3.71 lakh self-help groups were created through 592 development blocks across the state. These groups have been linked to 15945 village organisations and 775 cluster level associations," he added. Under the mission, 2.42 self-help groups have been linked with revolving funds, 1.42 lakh with community investment funds and 1.16 lakh have been provided bank credit linkage. Thousands of migrant laborers returning from other states have also been linked to employment through these self-help groups and women members of approximetely 30,000 families have already been linked to SHGs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-7l-shgs-ensured-jobs-for-rural-women/articleshow/78798431.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Advocate accuses client of blackmail, rape||AHMEDABAD: A woman advocate who has been practising in family court for a year on Tuesday filed a complaint of rape against her client, alleging that he raped her multiple times at a guest house in Aslali over the last five months. The woman, 27, a resident of Akhbarnagar, stated in her FIR with Vadaj police that she met the accused Pankaj Makwana, 30, a resident of Jetalpur village in Daskroi taluka of Ahmedabad district, a year ago, when he was filing a divorce petition. She stated that he had then promised to marry her once he separated from his wife. The woman said Makwana took her to a guest house in Aslali in June, where he raped her for the first time. In August, he called to the same place where he made her have a drink that was laced with some sedative. After drinking it, she fell unconscious and Makwana shot a video of her in the nude. She alleged that Makwana then raped her multiple times, by blackmailing her saying he would send the video to her father. On Tuesday, Makwana came to her house, abused her and her family members as she did answer his calls and assaulted them. She then called the police and filed a complaint for rape and causing hurt against Makwana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/advocate-accuses-client-of-blackmail-rape/articleshow/78798195.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kanpur||55-year-old man shot at for resisting kidnap bid of grandchildren||KANPUR: A man shot at and critically injured a 55-year-old man after he stopped him from kidnapping two children of his widowed daughter on Tuesday night in Banda district. According to reports, the man, Shyam Sunder Mishra lives with his wife Baby and two grandchildren in Mahed village, while his widowed daughter Puja, whose husband was killed in a road mishap about three years ago, was living with her alleged paramour in Bisandi village of the district. “Late, on Tuesday night, accused Sheelu Dubey, who is allegedly living with his widowed daughter after a love affair, along with his two aides including one Harishchandra, barged into Mishra’s house with an intention to kidnap his grandchildren sleeping with him. When they tried to run away with them, Mishra woke up and offered resistance and chased the trio raising an alarm,” said Kotwali in-charge Ram Asrey Singh. He added, “Sheelu, however, whipped out a country-made pistol and shot at his paramour’s father leaving him critically wounded. A case has been registered and Harishchandra, an aide of the main accused Sheelu, has been arrested. Searches are underway to make Sheelu as well one of his other aide arrest possible. Shyam Sunder Mishra, who had sustained bullet wounds, has been admitted to a hospital in Prayagraj.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/55-yr-old-man-shot-at-for-resisting-kidnap-bid-of-grandchildren/articleshow/78795697.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Mauser, 3 live cartridges, swords seized from 3 goons in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Jaripatka police on Wednesday evening arrested three notorious goons (one externed) and seized one Mauser, three live cartridges, sharp edged weapons, mobile phones and a two-wheeler. At around 4.30pm, while patrolling, a team of Jaripatka police spotted Vishal Bokde (24, a resident of Yeshodhara Nagar), Yogesh Belekar (31, a resident of Kanhan-Kandri) and Rahul Palaskar (30, a resident of Hudco colony) roaming in suspicious manner near Ambedkar Garden in Jyoti Nagar. Interrogation and subsequent search of a bag in their possession revealed one Mauser, live cartridges and swords. Police said Bokde was a notorious goon and involved in many serious offences, following which he was externed from the city. Police are probing further to ascertain from where they procured the Mauser and what are their plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mauser-3-live-cartridges-swords-seized-from-3-goons/articleshow/78798665.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Now, pay new charges if you want to change land use in master plan areas||JAIPUR: Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department has framed new rules for allowing change of land use defined in the city master plans. But the owners have to pay administrative fees now. After the high court directed the state government that land use norms laid out in the master plans can only be changed in larger public interest, the department is now trying to follow them strictly. In the past, the department allegedly frequently changed land use rules to allow development of areas without adhering to the original master plans. A senior town planner said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal has approved the new rules that require land owners to pay an administrative charge for changing the purpose of land use. This is for the first time the charges will be imposed. “This charge will be a minimum of Rs 50,000 and maximum Rs 5 lakh, depending on the area,” said an official. “If a land owner were to pay Rs 30,000 for land use change, he or she would now have to pay a minimum charge of Rs 50,000 fixed by the department. Similarly, if the charges are more than Rs 6 lakh, the owner will have to pay Rs 5 lakh as the upper limit has been capped. The department has fixed Rs 10 per sq mtr rate for land use conversion,” the official added. The local bodies will have power to change the land use for an area between 3,000 sq mtr to 6,000 sq mtr. Cities in which master plans have not been implemented, the local bodies will have power to change the land use having an area between 400 sq mtr to 4,000 sq mtr. For agriculture land in cities, where master plans have been implemented, the matter will be decided by the state-level committee constituted for land use change. At present, rules framed in 2010 are followed. The new guidelines have been made for hassle-free land use change. An official said that in cases of residential land, UDH will allow activities including daycare centres, nurseries, schools, dispensaries, hostels, informal shops, restaurants, libraries, MSMEs and petrol pumps. In commercial land use, activities including hotels, marriage gardens, banks, cinema halls, multiplexes and others are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/now-pay-new-charges-if-you-want-to-change-land-use-in-master-plan-areas/articleshow/78799243.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Rest your vehicles at signals to fight war against pollution in Delhi: Gopal Rai||NEW DELHI: ‘Red Light on, Gaadi off’, an awareness campaign to request people to switch off their vehicles’ engines at traffic signals, was launched at the 100 busiest traffic points on Wednesday. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai who launched the campaign at a traffic signal at ITO said, “This campaign is aimed at reducing vehicular pollution as nearly one crore vehicles are registered in Delhi and on an average, they burn fuel for about 15 to 20 minutes per day at the red light. If two crore people of Delhi join this campaign with full responsibility, we can reduce vehicular pollution by 15 to 20%.” Asking people to voluntarily join the campaign, Rai said, “Under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi government has launched a war against pollution. Only government agencies have been fighting against pollution till now but two crore people of Delhi will become part of war against pollution after they join this campaign. With active participation of every citizen, we can achieve our goal of reducing vehicular pollution.” The environment minister said all MPs, MLAs, councillors, trade organisations, industry organisations, officers’ organisations and RWAs had been asked to join the campaign. For educating commuters about the campaign, MLAs will participate on Thursday at Tilak Marg and Bhagwaan Das Crossing while councillors will participate on Friday at Barakhamba Road and Tolstoy Marg. MPs will take part in the campaign on Saturday at C- Hexagon - Rajpath Crossing near India Gate. The campaign will be conducted from October 21 to November 15 between 8 am and 8 pm. Nearly 2,500 civil defence volunteers have been deployed as environment marshals in collaboration with traffic police at 100 major traffic signals of Delhi. These volunteers will create awareness through placards. The environment marshals will work in two shifts. These marshals have undergone extensive training under the guidance and surveillance of district magistrates, officers from the traffic police and the transport department. Their activities will be monitored by senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rest-your-vehicles-at-signals-to-fight-war-against-pollution-rai/articleshow/78796912.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||20-year-old held for Jodhpur molestation||AHMEDABAD: Three days after he allegedly molested a 22-year-old girl near Bandhan Party Plot in the Jodhpur area, city police on Wednesday detained a 20-year-old youth, Ashish Thakor, a food delivery worker, from his home in the Satellite area. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police said the accused is a resident of the Gokul Awas Housing Scheme and would move about in Jodhpur and nearby areas.  “As he used to deliver food in the area, he had seen women walking in the evenings and mornings. On Sunday evening, he was sitting at an AMC garden near house of the victim and saw her walking, he drove his scooter behind her and molested her,” said Baloch. Baloch claimed that they had checked CCTV footage from other areas which had captured the accused. Sources said other locals first identified Thakor as a suspect and when he was picked up and questioned, he is said to have confessed to having molested the woman. A cop said, “When we questioned eight men on Tuesday, they told us that Thakor was roaming about in the area that day and he had followed the victim. His address was then found and he was picked up. He was interrogated thoroughly during which he told cops that he had committed the crime.”He was sent for a Covid-19 test after which he will be officially arrested.A local said Thakor often sat in the garden and talked to his girlfriend, who works as domestic worker in the Jodhpur area. On Sunday evening too, he had gone there, stood outside the garden with his scooter for a while and then allegedly perpetrated the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-yr-old-held-for-jodhpur-molestation/articleshow/78798214.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Teacher eligibility certificates to be valid for lifetime||CHENNAI: Aspirants writing Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) from now will be issued certificates valid for lifetime, instead of ones valid for seven years. “This provision would have prospective effect and for those who already have a TET certificate, NCTE would take a legal opinion and will act accordingly,” a resolution passed at the general body meeting of the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) said. NCTE has released the minutes of the meeting held on September 28. In Tamil Nadu, the validity of 80,000 TET qualified teachers is set to expire in six months and they have been demanding the state government to take steps to extend the validity in view of the pandemic. “More than 1.3 lakh candidates qualified in the past five TET exams conducted by Teachers Recruitment Board and around one lakh are yet to get jobs. The seven-year validity was not correct as other qualifying tests such as UGC-NET are valid for a lifetime,” said M Elangovan, state-coordinator, 2013 TNTET Qualified Welfare Association. In 2013, 75,000 candidates qualified in TET, which remains the highest so far. Demanding the Centre and state government to make certificates of candidates who have already cleared TET valid for lifetime, he added that the lifetime validity will be meaningful only if Tamil Nadu government relaxed the age limit — 40 years for OC and 45 years for other categories — for recruiting teachers. “In the past six years, there has been no recruitment of secondary grade teachers and by fixing an age limit, they eliminate a large number of qualified candidates. So the state government should withdraw the government order,” he said. Tamil Nadu Teachers Association president P K Ilamaran said the move would guarantee livelihood for teachers and urged NCTE to offer lifetime validity for candidates who already have certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/teacher-eligibility-certificates-to-be-valid-for-lifetime/articleshow/78798205.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||2 missing as small boat capsizes in Indravati river; 8 rescued||CHANDRAPUR: Two women have gone missing while 13 others had a close shave after a makeshift-boat capsized in Indravati river flowing along the Maharashtra — Chhattisgarh border in Sironcha tehsil of Gadchiroli on Tuesday evening. The rescue team of Somanpalli village, foresters and some fishermen from Chhattisgarh undertook operations late into the evening and managed to save eight people. Sources informed that 13 villagers, 10 women and 3 men, from Somanpalli had got into the boat from the cremation area on Indravati river to Kateli village in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh. Two boatmen had tied their canoes to create a long boat to accommodate 13 passengers. While there were no issues in the first trip, the boat capsized while returning. The two boatmen swam to safety at Somanpalli ghat and raised an alarm. Three of the male passengers too managed to swim to safety. Sironcha tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant informed that led by the kotwal, the local rescue team searched for the others till around 11pm. They were helped by some fishermen, foresters and revenue department officials. Eight passengers had managed to save themselves by holding on to rocks and trees, and were rescued. “We are still looking for the two missing women,” said Jaswant. Sources informed that the chances of Kanta Yelam and Shanta Gavde surviving are poor. “With swift flowing water and presence of crocodile in the river, possibility of tracing their bodies soon too appears slim,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-missing-as-small-boat-capsizes-in-indravati-river-8-rescued/articleshow/78786396.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Marigold flowers sell at Rs 200 a kg days ahead of Dasara||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: The delicate ornamental flower of marigold, which is used widely to adorn homes and vehicles during Navaratra and Dasara, is already selling at Rs 200 per kg. The recent spell of heavy rainfall in parts of Maharashtra has cause extensive damage to the marigold plants and farmers were forced to dump the flowers. In Kolhapur city, the marigold flowers arrive from farms in Karveer taluka and some parts of Sangli district. The recent rain has damaged marigold farms on 14 hectares in the district. Farmers in Sangli district have also removed the damaged flower plants and dumped them in the fields. Kolhapur district agriculture superintendent Dyandeo Vakure said, “We have report of damage to eight hectares of marigold flowers during the first heavy spells last week. There was heavy rainfall on Tuesday and we are estimating damage to more fields.” Agriculture department officials said farmers take up marigold cultivation as it yields good income in a short period of cultivation. The large-sized marigold flowers are costly and can command a price of Rs 300 per kg. These flowers are less preferred in households as the pujas are small, officials said. According to the data from Kolhapur agriculture produce market committee, around ten tonnes of flowers arrive every day. They are mostly sold by small road side vendors. They are complaining that the wholesale prices are high and leaves less margin for them them once sold in open market. ALERT FOR MORE RAIN The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has continued the yellow rainfall alert for the next two days. The rains battered Kolhapur and Sangli district on Tuesday night. According to the IMD Mumbai, around 40 mm average rainfall occurred in Kolhapur and 60 mm in Sangli in six hours on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, however, the city only received drizzles in some places, while most of the day remained dry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/marigold-flowers-sell-at-rs-200-a-kg-days-ahead-of-dasara/articleshow/78798199.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Now, pay new charges if you want to change land use in master plan areas||JAIPUR: Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department has framed new rules for allowing change of land use defined in the city master plans. But the owners have to pay administrative fees now. After the high court directed the state government that land use norms laid out in the master plans can only be changed in larger public interest, the department is now trying to follow them strictly. In the past, the department allegedly frequently changed land use rules to allow development of areas without adhering to the original master plans. A senior town planner said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal has approved the new rules that require land owners to pay an administrative charge for changing the purpose of land use. This is for the first time the charges will be imposed. “This charge will be a minimum of Rs 50,000 and maximum Rs 5 lakh, depending on the area,” said an official. “If a land owner were to pay Rs 30,000 for land use change, he or she would now have to pay a minimum charge of Rs 50,000 fixed by the department. Similarly, if the charges are more than Rs 6 lakh, the owner will have to pay Rs 5 lakh as the upper limit has been capped. The department has fixed Rs 10 per sq mtr rate for land use conversion,” the official added. The local bodies will have power to change the land use for an area between 3,000 sq mtr to 6,000 sq mtr. Cities in which master plans have not been implemented, the local bodies will have power to change the land use having an area between 400 sq mtr to 4,000 sq mtr. For agriculture land in cities, where master plans have been implemented, the matter will be decided by the state-level committee constituted for land use change. At present, rules framed in 2010 are followed. The new guidelines have been made for hassle-free land use change. An official said that in cases of residential land, UDH will allow activities including daycare centres, nurseries, schools, dispensaries, hostels, informal shops, restaurants, libraries, MSMEs and petrol pumps. In commercial land use, activities including hotels, marriage gardens, banks, cinema halls, multiplexes and others are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/now-pay-new-charges-if-you-want-to-change-land-use-in-master-plan-areas/articleshow/78799241.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Now, pay new charges if you want to change land use in master plan areas||JAIPUR: Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department has framed new rules for allowing change of land use defined in the city master plans. But the owners have to pay administrative fees now. After the high court directed the state government that land use norms laid out in the master plans can only be changed in larger public interest, the department is now trying to follow them strictly. In the past, the department allegedly frequently changed land use rules to allow development of areas without adhering to the original master plans. A senior town planner said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal has approved the new rules that require land owners to pay an administrative charge for changing the purpose of land use. This is for the first time the charges will be imposed. “This charge will be a minimum of Rs 50,000 and maximum Rs 5 lakh, depending on the area,” said an official. “If a land owner were to pay Rs 30,000 for land use change, he or she would now have to pay a minimum charge of Rs 50,000 fixed by the department. Similarly, if the charges are more than Rs 6 lakh, the owner will have to pay Rs 5 lakh as the upper limit has been capped. The department has fixed Rs 10 per sq mtr rate for land use conversion,” the official added. The local bodies will have power to change the land use for an area between 3,000 sq mtr to 6,000 sq mtr. Cities in which master plans have not been implemented, the local bodies will have power to change the land use having an area between 400 sq mtr to 4,000 sq mtr. For agriculture land in cities, where master plans have been implemented, the matter will be decided by the state-level committee constituted for land use change. At present, rules framed in 2010 are followed. The new guidelines have been made for hassle-free land use change. An official said that in cases of residential land, UDH will allow activities including daycare centres, nurseries, schools, dispensaries, hostels, informal shops, restaurants, libraries, MSMEs and petrol pumps. In commercial land use, activities including hotels, marriage gardens, banks, cinema halls, multiplexes and others are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-pay-new-charges-if-you-want-to-change-land-use-in-master-plan-areas/articleshow/78798196.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Now, pay new charges if you want to change land use in master plan areas||JAIPUR: Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department has framed new rules for allowing change of land use defined in the city master plans. But the owners have to pay administrative fees now. After the high court directed the state government that land use norms laid out in the master plans can only be changed in larger public interest, the department is now trying to follow them strictly. In the past, the department allegedly frequently changed land use rules to allow development of areas without adhering to the original master plans. A senior town planner said UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal has approved the new rules that require land owners to pay an administrative charge for changing the purpose of land use. This is for the first time the charges will be imposed. “This charge will be a minimum of Rs 50,000 and maximum Rs 5 lakh, depending on the area,” said an official. “If a land owner were to pay Rs 30,000 for land use change, he or she would now have to pay a minimum charge of Rs 50,000 fixed by the department. Similarly, if the charges are more than Rs 6 lakh, the owner will have to pay Rs 5 lakh as the upper limit has been capped. The department has fixed Rs 10 per sq mtr rate for land use conversion,” the official added. The local bodies will have power to change the land use for an area between 3,000 sq mtr to 6,000 sq mtr. Cities in which master plans have not been implemented, the local bodies will have power to change the land use having an area between 400 sq mtr to 4,000 sq mtr. For agriculture land in cities, where master plans have been implemented, the matter will be decided by the state-level committee constituted for land use change. At present, rules framed in 2010 are followed. The new guidelines have been made for hassle-free land use change. An official said that in cases of residential land, UDH will allow activities including daycare centres, nurseries, schools, dispensaries, hostels, informal shops, restaurants, libraries, MSMEs and petrol pumps. In commercial land use, activities including hotels, marriage gardens, banks, cinema halls, multiplexes and others are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/now-pay-new-charges-if-you-want-to-change-land-use-in-master-plan-areas/articleshow/78799242.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Economic offenders pose serious challenge to criminal justice system: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: Expressing concern over growing number of economic offences in the country, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court tersely observed recently that economic offenders pose a serious challenge before the criminal justice system. “Economic offences are committed for personal profit and casualty is well-being of the society. Such offences affect the country’s economy. Economic offences committed with cool and cold blooded design, involve deep rooted conspiracy. The intent is to satisfy personal greed regardless of consequences and harm to societal interest,” justice Rohit Deo said while rejecting a bail plea. Stressing that bail and not jail is rule, the judge pointed out that economic offences fall within exceptions. “Devious mindset armed with unlimited ill-gotten wealth may enable the economic offender to influence investigation, tamper with evidence and pressurize witnesses. The jurisprudential logic of a different approach to economic offences is not only the gravity of crime, equally relevant is the ability of an offender, who is likely to be an influential person with either status or standing or means, to influence the course of trial,” the judge said. Adding that economic offences constitute a class apart, the judge said it warranted a different approach. “The accused’s liberty and presumption of innocence must undoubtedly weigh in exercise of discretion. However, the state’s right to arrest, investigate and detain economic offenders and interests of civil society must also be borne in mind. The position of law that economic offences constitute a class apart since the deleterious effect on society’s moral fibre and vitality and strength of an economy is obvious, is too well settled to warrant exhaustive reference to the catena of decisions holding field.” Asserting that a safe and secure environment is an integral and intrinsic facet of the right to dignified living, justice Deo said the judges are duty bound to ensure that competing rights and aspirations are delicately balanced. “Equally sacrosanct is the right of society in general, and victim in particular to justice, to legitimately expect and aspire that a criminal is prosecuted and punished. An univariate cogitation on accused’s rights may conceivably eviscerate the justice dispensation system’s credibility.” Explaining that presumption of innocence is not a fetish, the judge said the state’s right to arrest, investigate and detain economic offenders deserves equal, if not more respect and consideration when pitted against competing right to liberty of an economic offender. “The chant of mantra “liberty and presumption of innocence” must be patiently heard and bestowed due consideration. However, the courts are duty bound to ensure that in din, the voice of society’s competing interests and victim is not muzzled,” justice Deo said, while rejecting a bail application. WHAT HC SAID * Economic offence is committed for personal profit and casualty is well-being of society * Such offences affect country’s economy and fall within exceptions * These are committed with cool and cold blooded design, involve deep rooted conspiracy * Intent is to satisfy personal greed regardless of consequences and harm to societal interest * Devious mindset armed with unlimited ill-gotten wealth may enable offender to influence probe * Judges duty bound to ensure that competing rights and aspirations are delicately balanced||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/economic-offenders-pose-serious-challenge-to-criminal-justice-system-hc/articleshow/78798197.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shopping up, but sales still muted in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The festive season has arrived and the markets are gradually looking abuzz with people. However, this year’s festival season comes with warnings of wearing masks, taking precautions and observing social distancing. The situation prompted PM Narendra Modi in his address to the nation, to advise people to remain wary while celebrating festivals, to keep themselves safe from contracting Covid-19. While streets of the city, be it CG Road, SG Road, Prahladnagar, Bodakdev or even the traditional markets in the Walled City at Teen Darwaza, Manek Chowk and Lal Darwaza and malls are witnessing more footfall, but sales have failed to reach usual festive season levels, or even that of pre-Covid days. “The sentiment looks upbeat in the wake of the pandemic; however, sales and demand are yet to completely pick up. While clothing and jewellery stores are witnessing some movement, there is barely any demand in other segments. On an average, retail trade has taken a hit at least by 40% against pre-Covid levels,” said Jayendra Tanna, president, Gujarat Traders’ Federation. While electronics and white goods have seen decent sales, the same for clothing remains low-key. Bhavesh Waria, president, Ahmedabad Electronics Dealers’ Association (AEDA), said, “While the festive season is fuelling sales, the demand is not as buoyant as expected and there is at least a 30% decline against last year’s festive season. Restrictions on Chinese imports has also affected availability.” Apparel and jewellery retailers however, have their hopes pinned on the upcoming Diwali and wedding season. Ratan Jaisinghani, a retailer, said, “We’re seeing good footfall over the weekends but the business hasn’t shown any promising signs as yet. Against pre-Covid levels, we’re still at 50% in terms of sales.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shopping-up-but-sales-still-muted/articleshow/78796903.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Penalty of Rs 1 crore slapped on 24 papermills for flouting norms||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Days after the visit of the UP pollution control board (UPPCB) chief Bhure Lal, 24 paper mills have been slapped with a fine of Rs 1 crore for flouting norms to prevent pollution. According to official sources, the chief had visited Jansath where most of the mills are concentrated. Heaps of waste was found in the area after which a report was sent to Lucknow. The officials claimed that the local department had already sent a report about 24 papermills before UPPCB chief’s visit to Muzaffarnagar. Regional officer of the UPPCB Ankit Singh said, “The board has taken action against 24 industries situated on Jansath, Bhopa and Joli roads. Twenty four papermills in Muzaffarnagar were slapped with a fine of Rs 1 crore.” While sources in the department said that heaps of waste like plastic was dumped in front of the mills. Despite multiple complaints by villagers, there was no respite. Two papermills were also found releasing contaminated water into the drains. Now, the administration has formed a special team which would give a daily report of the papermills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/penalty-of-rs-1-crore-slapped-on-24-papermills-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/78795419.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Farmers from Tirupur move Madras HC against Telegraph Act||CHENNAI: A group of farmers from Tirupur have moved the Madras high court challenging the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, stating that it is unconstitutional as lands of several farmers are being taken over by competent authorities to erect high tension electric mast towers without any consultation. The farmers cited that a power transmission project is being planned with overhead lines carrying power generated by giant towers installed on farmlands across Tirupur. They contended that the provisions of the Act cannot empower the district magistrate to exercise power and allow such towers to be set up as they cause permanent damage to arable land. According to V Lakshminarayanan, counsel for the petitioners, the towers occupy substantial area of land and in a manner that permanently deprives the landowner of usage of the space. “When the legislation was framed way back in 1885, even those framing the law wouldn’t have anticipated such huge towers being erected for electricity transmission now,” Lakshminarayanan stated. A division bench of chief justice A P Sahi and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy clubbed a similar plea made at the Madurai bench and adjourned the hearing on the plea to November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/farmers-from-tirupur-move-hc-against-telegraph-act/articleshow/78798221.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Post ‘good outcome’, Tamil Nadu docs to continue with plasma therapy||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu announced it will continue convalescent plasma therapy for patients admitted with Covid-19 symptoms at government hospitals across the state. The announcement came a day after the Centre announced that it will discontinue the therapy as a randomized trial failed to benefit patients. “Our doctors have seen good outcome after giving convalescent plasma to the right patients at the right time. Most doctors in state-run hospitals want us to continue with it,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan. ICMR had permitted use of plasma therapy as an experimental treatment in the national clinical management of Covid-19 protocol. On Tuesday, ICMR director-general Dr Balram Bhargava said it could be discontinued soon. The country has tested 464 patients across 39 hospitals and with more than 350 authors. The decision for deletion from the national guidelines will be made after discussions with the national task force, he said. Tamil Nadu, like many other states, set up plasma banks to match potential donors with recipients. Director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu said the state has offered the therapy to more than 400 patients. “More than 95% of patients recovered from the viral infection,” he said. It is not just recovery that impressed the team of doctors. Most patients who were given plasma therapy in the early stages of the disease did not return to hospitals with post-Covid complications, said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr Therani Rajan. “When we started the trial we lost a couple of patients. That was because we initiated this therapy too late. The choice of patients and time is extremely crucial in the outcome of this therapy, he said. “We carefully chose patients with moderate illness requiring oxygen therapy or those with co-morbidities. The plasma is transfused only to ensure the patient has not developed any antibody. We have seen oxygen requirements coming down and all other parameters improving,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/post-good-outcome-tn-docs-to-continue-with-plasma-therapy/articleshow/78796920.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gang cloning cards of hotel customers busted||AHMEDABAD: The city cyber cell busted a gang which would — with an accomplice at a high-end hotel in the city — skim data of debit and credit cards of customers while they were checking out. The data of these cards would then be sent to Delhi, where cloned cards were made. Money would be withdrawn from ATMs in Delhi using the cloned cards. On Tuesday, a complaint was lodged by the management of Four Points by Sheraton, in Ellisbridge, a unit of Samhi Hotels. Cyber cell officials said the credit and debit cards of two of their customers, Shaikh Amruddin who checked in on September 24 and checked out on September 27, and Nimish Nair, who checked in on September 23 and checked out on September 28, were cloned and money was later withdrawn from their accounts.  Based on the complaint received by the bank, when the hotel conducted an internal inquiry, they found that when both customers where checking out and were clearing their dues, Digvijaysinh Arunkumar was on duty. On checking CCTV footage, it was found that both customers had given their cards to Digvijaysinh to pay their hotel bills. “It was found that apart from the official swiping terminal, Digvijaysinh a skimming terminal of his own. He would first swipe the card on the official terminal and ask the customers to enter their PIN (personal identification number). He would then swipe the card on skimming terminal and again ask the customer to enter their PIN. He would give them the official receipt and their card data would be copied on the skimming terminal along with their PIN,” said a senior cyber cell official. According to sources, the copied data was then sent to Delhi. “There, a cloned card based on the data obtained from the skimming terminal would be made. The cloned card would be used to withdraw money from ATMs in Delhi. According to the FIR, Rs 40,000 was withdrawn from the account of Nimish Nair, in Delhi. A top cyber cell official said while Digvijaysinh has been taken into custody for interrogation, another person from Delhi has been detained on Wednesday and being brought to the city. “This seems to be a gang which could be operating at various high-end hotels across the country,” the cyber cell official added.  In an official statement regarding the incident, Four Points by Sheraton Ahmedabad, hotel manager, Vinayak Mhatre, said, “We have taken cognizance of the reported incident at the hotel. In line with our stringent policy of zero tolerance for such behaviour, all necessary and appropriate action has been taken in accordance with the law. We have extended complete cooperation to the authorities in the investigation of the incident. As an organization we stand committed to serving the best interests and safety of our guests and associates at all times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gang-cloning-cards-of-hotel-customers-busted/articleshow/78798229.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Don’t treat Covid based on CT scan alone, govt ask doctors||CHENNAI: The state health department has asked doctors not to treat patients for Covid-19 based on CT scan reports alone. Patients are being rushed to government hospitals with serious complications including septic shock because diagnosis and treatment is delayed, said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Several patients with symptoms such as fever, sore throat, cold and fatigue are treated for Covid-19 without undergoing RT-PCR test based on results of CT scan. Many patients refuse tests because they don’t want to be isolated as they think they could be ostracised by their neighbours. “Chances of missing diagnoses are higher when people are not tested,” he said. Senior doctors say when tests and treatment delayed, risk of complications and death increase. “Most deaths at our hospitals happened because tests were delayed. Many people, particularly the elderly, delayed tests as they were scared of being isolated,” said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr Therani Rajan. Complications and death in Covid-19 patients increase with age and among patients with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. “We have saved many patients with cancer, kidney and heart diseases as they came in early. We don’t treat patients based on just a scan report. Physical examination, patient history and lab reports all play a key role,” he said. National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur said CT scan exposes patients to radiation. “It is required in patients who need it. But most patients don’t know that needless exposure can increase risk of cancer,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-treat-covid-based-on-ct-scan-alone-govt-to-docs/articleshow/78796939.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Don’t treat Covid based on CT scan alone, govt ask doctors||CHENNAI: The state health department has asked doctors not to treat patients for Covid-19 based on CT scan reports alone. Patients are being rushed to government hospitals with serious complications including septic shock because diagnosis and treatment is delayed, said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Several patients with symptoms such as fever, sore throat, cold and fatigue are treated for Covid-19 without undergoing RT-PCR test based on results of CT scan. Many patients refuse tests because they don’t want to be isolated as they think they could be ostracised by their neighbours. “Chances of missing diagnoses are higher when people are not tested,” he said. Senior doctors say when tests and treatment delayed, risk of complications and death increase. “Most deaths at our hospitals happened because tests were delayed. Many people, particularly the elderly, delayed tests as they were scared of being isolated,” said Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital dean Dr Therani Rajan. Complications and death in Covid-19 patients increase with age and among patients with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. “We have saved many patients with cancer, kidney and heart diseases as they came in early. We don’t treat patients based on just a scan report. Physical examination, patient history and lab reports all play a key role,” he said. National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur said CT scan exposes patients to radiation. “It is required in patients who need it. But most patients don’t know that needless exposure can increase risk of cancer,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/dont-treat-covid-based-on-ct-scan-alone-govt-to-docs/articleshow/78806862.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||2nd orange kisan rail gets good response||NAGPUR: The second orange kisan rail between Nagpur and Delhi evoked overwhelming response with Nagpur division of Central Railway transporting 361 tonnes of fruit in it. “On Wednesday, we dispatched the consignment in 17 parcel vans with citrus fruits. Of this seven were loaded from Warud, six from Pandhurna, two from Katol, and one each from Kalmeshwar and Narkhed,” said senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil. Central Railway earned Rs 5 lakh directly from the consignors while an equal amount will be paid to it by the food processing ministry as incentive offered to farmers for taking to rail transport. The first kisan rail with 10 vans was flagged off on October 14 by the roads and highways minister Nitin Gadkari. “It is a good start and we will operate the kisan rail every Wednesday. This is a result of aggressive marketing by our officials,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2nd-orange-kisan-rail-gets-good-response/articleshow/78798225.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Give sops to cleaner power plants: CSE||NEW DELHI: With 65% of India’s coal-fired thermal power plants yet to make significant progress to meet environmental norms by the deadline of 2022, it has become imperative to review and restrategise to push the sector towards implementation. A new analysis by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has said that a new system of preferential treatment for cleaner plants and deterrence mechanisms for the laggards have to be brought into effect urgently to meet the deadline. During the webinar titled “Meeting emission norms: Working paper on penalty and incentive mechanisms for coal-based power plants”, four CSE reports were released on Wednesday. CSE reports state that this sector accounts for 80% of mercury, 45% of sulphur dioxide and 30% of nitrogen oxide emissions from all industries. “Its water use equals half of India’s total domestic water needs. The fly ash generation has jumped up 70% between 2009-10 and 2018-19. The sector also accounts for one-third of total greenhouse gas emissions.” Sunita Narain, director general, CSE said, “The best strategy in the current scenario will be preferential scheduling of electricity from cleaner power stations. We propose that along with renewable energy or ‘must-run’ plants, a new category of clean coal power plants should be included as ‘First-run’/’Priority-run’ plants.” The CSE report proposed that this new category could include all coal-based thermal power plants, which were headed towards meeting the new environmental norms by 2022. Nivit K Yadav, programme director, industrial pollution, CSE, said, “These first-run power stations should be ranked and power procured from them on priority. Fixed charges should also be reimbursed to them. This can serve as an incentive to motivate other power stations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-sops-to-cleaner-power-plants-cse/articleshow/78796948.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||STF to probe conspiracy angle in Hathras case||LUCKNOW: UP special task force (STF) will investigate the alleged conspiracy angle in the Hathras case and its aftermath. According to intelligence reports received by the Uttar Pradesh and Delhi police, there were attempts to push the state into caste conflict to tarnish the image of the Yogi Adityanath government after the alleged gang rape and murder of a dalit woman in the district. ‘STF to probe circulation of fake news’UP director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy confirmed to TOI that a part of the probe into Hathras case was being handed over to UP STF. A probe team has also been formed under an ASP-rank officer. Senior officials said that all 19 FIRs – six in Hathras and the remaining in Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Mathura, Shamli and Saharanpur – lodged in connection with unlawful protest and inciting hatred on social media would now be probed by the STF. An ATF official said the team would look into the reports of crowdfunding and conspiracies to discredit the government. “STF will also probe circulation of fake news and use of edited photographs to create disturbance,” he said. Police said some specific groups used social media platforms to spread hatred and incite people to indulge in caste conflict and unlawful gathering in times of Covid-19 pandemic. The claims that some groups offered Rs 50 lakh to the victim’s family to speak in their favour will also be investigated. Enforcement Directorate (ED) is already questioning the members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) who were arrested for trying to create disturbance in Hathras. On October 7, UP police had filed first FIR against four PFI members in Mathura who were allegedly going to Hathras to disrupt peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-to-probe-conspiracy-angle-in-hathras-case/articleshow/78798423.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Fodder eaters will engineer job scams: UP CM Yogi Adityanath attacks RJD||LUCKNOW: A week after Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and grand alliance’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Yadav made a poll promise of 10 lakh jobs if voted to power, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday urged people of Bihar to ask him how jobs were generated during RJD’s 15-year rule. “Nothing can be expected from them. Since 1990, they have been making hollow promises which never held ground,” Yogi said, while addressing people in Jamui assembly seat. He also addressed rallies at Tarari and Paliganj on Wednesday. Yogi’s remark came close on heels of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s comment that Tejashwi had no knowledge or experience in governance and “RJD may launch their own business in name of providing employment”. Reminding people of the fodder scam, Yogi said those who swallowed and digested animal feed should not be expected to give jobs. Yogi draws battle lines in Bihar, says Rahul & Owaisi in Pak bandwagonYogi’s remark came close on the heels of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s comment that Tejashwi had no knowledge or experience in governance and “RJD may launch their own business in name of providing employment”. Reminding people of the fodder scam, Yogi said those who swallowed and digested animal feed should not be expected to give jobs. The UP CM said some people cannot look beyond a family, unlike BJP for which the entire country is one family. Yogi said, even election posters of RJD give space to only four people from the family of Lalu Yadav. “There is no space for others,” Yogi remarked, adding the Opposition does not have any vision of development for Bihar or the country. He exhorted people of Bihar to galvanise their near and dear ones and ensure the state did not move towards ‘kushashan’ (bad governance) again. Terming Bihar as ‘maika of Sita’, Yogi said, during lockdown when migrants from Bihar went through Uttar Pradesh, we served them and they realised how relief measures were put in place, he said. Accusing Congress of engineering scams, Yogi said, it was RJD which supported the grand old party and was hand in glove in promoting corruption and poor governance. It was only after Modi came to power that people-centric schemes were launched without discriminating along caste or religious lines. Yogi launched a blistering attack on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and AIMIM chief Asaddudin Owaisi, accusing them of praising Pakistan for political dividend. “One needs to understand their agenda,” he said. “They (Congress and RJD) cannot think of welfare. It was only Rahul and Owaisi who felt pain when Article 370 was abrogated from Kashmir. Why providing citizenship to minorities of neighbouring countries was an anathema to the Opposition,” he asked. Speaking at a rally in Tarari, Yogi equated Naxalism with coronavirus. ” Naxalwaad ka sankraman bhi bahut tej failta hai… (infection of naxalism also spreads very fast),” he said, accusing the Opposition of making malicious attempts to bring Naxalism back in the region. “There should be no space for naxalism and anarchy in Bihar,” he said. In Paliganj (Patna), Yogi said, it was unfortunate Congress and RJD were supporting CPI(ML) which intended to break the country’s unity. “They (Congress and RJD) are again conspiring to spread terrorism in the country. But we won’t allow that to happen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fodder-eaters-will-engineer-job-scams-yogi-takes-bihar-by-storm/articleshow/78798455.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Hire more staff, speed up opening farm loan accounts, HC urges Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has asked the state government to submit a detailed report on whether the process of opening mirror bank account for farmers can be expedited by bringing in more manpower to collect applications from farmers. The court was hearing a petition that sought to expedite process of availing farm loans through Primary Agricultural Co-operative Society (PACS). The Centre, through NABARD, introduced a method for loan disbursement to farmers without the interference of middlemen and the farmers will be getting the entire loan amount directly from their accounts, called a ‘Mirror Account’. The petitioner P V Saravanan had moved the court stating that there is no sufficient infrastructure to open mirror account for farmers to avail the loan facility and therefore, there is an inordinate delay in getting the loan. This has put the farmers to untold hardship, he said. When the petition was heard a week ago, justice N Anand Venkatesh had directed the authorities to file a report on the steps taken by the authorities to open mirror accounts for farmers. After noting the steps taken by the registrar of co-operative societies, the Madras high court observed that the main concern expressed is that there are nearly 4,450 PACS in Tamil Nadu with nearly 90 lakh members and that the manpower available in PACS is disproportionate to this. Justice Anand Venkatesh, recording the submissions made by the state and Centre, ordered the registrar of co-operative societies to file a report to expedite the process of opening mirror accounts. The court also sought NABARD’s assistance to get details on the process in other states and adjourned the hearing to October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hire-more-staff-speed-up-opening-farm-loan-accounts-hc-urges-state/articleshow/78798245.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Rajkot||Dhoraji goldsmith robbed of jewellery, cash worth Rs 42 lakh||RAJKOT: A goldsmith was robbed of his gold jewellery and cash worth Rs 42 lakh at knife-point by two unidentified robbers at Nana Chowk in Jetpur of Rajkot district on Wednesday morning. Police said the incident occurred when Chiman Vekaria (40) arrived at Nana Chowk from Dhoraji to sell his jewellery. “Vekaria is a goldsmith who makes gold jewellery at his unit in Dhoraji. He comes to Jetpur often to sell his jewellery The robbers appeared to have been in the know of Vekaria’s movements and the valuables he used to carry,” said an official from Jetpur police station. The robbers caught Vekaria from behind. When he turned around, one of the robbers threw chilli powder in his eyes, while the other threatened him with a knife. “The accused then snatched the bag from Vekaria and fled. The bag contained gold jewellery worth Rs 40 lakh and Rs two lakh cash. The identities of the accused could not be ascertained, as one robber had worn a helmet, while the other had covered his face with a mask,” said the official. Meanwhile, the police have started investigation on the basis of the footages of the CCTV cameras installed along the route of the crime spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhoraji-goldsmith-robbed-of-jewellery-cash-worth-rs-42l/articleshow/78794943.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man blackmails girl using private video||AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old woman who is doing her postgraduation at a city college, lodged a complaint at Rakhial police station on Tuesday stating that one Faizal Pathan, of the Gujarat Housing Board colony in Rakhial, threatened her and her maternal grandfather saying if she didn’t marry him he would publish compromising pictures of her on social media and commit suicide. According to the complaint, the woman was in contact with the accused for about ten months on WhatsApp and Instagram and had met him near her college once or twice. The FIR states that in September 2020, the accused called her and told her to make a video call to him. He said if she didn’t he would slit his wrists and commit suicide. According to Rakhial police sources, the accused then made a Snapchat video call to the woman and asked her to expose herself. She exposed her upper body and then ended the call. The accused’s parents later came to the complainant’s house and asked them to have her marry him. The woman and her parents turned down the marriage proposal. According to the complaint, the accused then called the girl and said he had recorded the video call in which she had exposed herself and and if she refused to marry him he would publish the video on social media. The woman got scared and told her parents, who went to accused’s house to speak to him. The accused told them that he loved their daughter and if they don’t have her marry him he would kill her and commit suicide. “According to the complaint, the accused also sent the video in question to the woman’s maternal grandfather,” added a police official. Inspector K C Rathwa of Rakhial police station said that they have lodged a complaint against the accused and are hunting for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-blackmails-girl-using-private-video/articleshow/78798237.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC quashes rape FIR filed by wife against minor husband||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court quashed a complaint of rape filed by a 16-year-old against her minor husband, but imposed a penalty of Rs 30,000 on their parents for ruining their childhood, first by child marriage and then by using their minor status as a weapon to level serious charges of rape and offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Troubled at learning the facts of the case, Justice A S Supehia quoted Mahatma Gandhi, “There is no school equal to decent home and no teacher equal to virtuous parents,” and criticized the behaviour of the parents of the minors saying, “The facts of the present case shatter the thought of the father of our nation.” This case is from Sikka police station in Jamnagar district. In 2015, the girl was married at age 11. The bridegroom, who is the rape accused in this case, was 12 years old then. The child marriage was organized according to the traditions of the community, which still prevail in this region. After the criminal case, the government initiated action against the parents under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. In August, the wife slapped charges of rape and under the Pocso Act against her husband, who was still just 17. This came as a counter blast for another FIR lodged by the husband’s father, against the wife’s brother, who allegedly eloped with the husband’s minor sister earlier this year. As time passed, both families settled the dispute and the minor husband moved the HC for quashing of the FIR. The court quashed the FIR “in order to see that the relationship between the families does not further deteriorate and the life of both the petitioner (husband) and the prosecutrix (wife) is maintained smoothly and effortlessly”. However, the HC was furious with the behaviour of their parents and held them responsible for ruining the lives of the couple. “Both the parents have imprisoned the minors in marriage and forced them to develop a relationship of husband and wife which is a gross violation of their human rights...The childhood of both the petitioner and the prosecutrix is obliterated by their parents, on two counts, first by marrying them in tender age, and secondly, by involving them in the offence of rape. The facts are suggestive that the minors are used as weapons in order to satisfy their prejudices and egos,” the court said while imposing a fine of Rs 30,000 each on both sets of parents for misusing the criminal justice system. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-rape-fir-filed-by-wife-against-minor-husband/articleshow/78796940.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hubballi||Lightining strikes kill four in Belagavi, Haveri||BELAGAVI: Heavy downpour accompanied by thunder and lightning strikes has claimed two lives and left 45 sheeps dead late in Belagavi on Tuesday evening. Four women who were returning home from work had taken shelter from the rain under a tree near Chikka Ulligeri village of Soudatti taluk on Tuesday evening when lightning struck them. Two of them died on the spot while two others were injured and were shifted to the Soudatti taluk hospital. The deceased are Yallava Inchal, 30, and Bhagavva Kadakol, 50. Among the survivors, Renavva Malagi is said to have been severely injured. Soudatti police have registered a case. In another incident, 45 sheep belonging to shepherd Kariyappa of Hukkeri taluk, were killed in a lightning strike on the outskirts of Munavalli on Tuesday. Soudatti MLA and deputy speaker Anand Mamani visited the spot along with police and assured aid to the shepherd. Two killed in Ranebennur Two people were killed in a lightning strike in Ranebennur taluk on Tuesday. Dayanandgouda Patil, 58 and Parameshwappa Kalammanavar, 48, residents of Ranebennur were killed on the spot after they were struck by lightning at Hullatti cross of Ranebennur taluk. They were returning from Ranebennur to Honnatti village and had taken shelter under a tree during rain when the incident took place. Halageri police have registered a case. In a span of one and half hours, Haveri and Ranebennur taluks received 30mm rain along with strong wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lightining-strikes-kill-four-in-belagavi-haveri/articleshow/78795184.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Traffic cops pool in money to fill potholes on Mysuru roads||MYSURU: Even though Mysuru is celebrating Dasara, Mysuru City Corporation authorities have failed to fill potholes even in the central business district, marring its image as a tourist city. Now the city police have stepped in and filled huge craters near Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar Circle (Hardinge Circle) which had become a bane for motorists. Concerned about the safety of motorists, the Devaraja traffic police station police assistant sub-inspector Subramani along with constables Swamy and Sugu filled the craters which were around four feet wide near the circle on October 19. They took the help of autorickshaw drivers to bring cement and stones from a shop and mix the concrete before filling the potholes. The policemen pooled money from their pockets and arranged two bags of cement, seven bags of gravel stones, and four bags of M-Sand to fill the potholes. As Hardinge Circle is a major junction connecting Mysuru Palace, KSRTC bus stand, Dasara Exhibition Grounds, Bengaluru - Mysuru and Mysuru – Ooty highway and major commercial areas in the city, hundreds of vehicles including VIPs pass by it every day. Earlier, during the launch of Dasara festivities various organisations had protested against the poor condition of roads by planting banana saplings in potholes at the circle and demanded that MCC fill the potholes at the earliest. But civic officials escaped by blaming the recent rain for the damage and delay in taking up asphalting work. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde told TOI that as the government is having a simple Dasara this year, MCC has not received any grants for Dasara works. “So, we have not taken up any works for Dasara festivities. As the city is witnessing rainfall, the tenders to fill potholes will be called after the monsoon. It is good that police filled the potholes,” he said. Welcoming the gesture of cops, Shankregowda, a retired senior cop, suggested that the police department write to the civic agency asking them to repair roads. Police should hold the civic officers concerned responsible for any mishap due to bad roads or potholes, he added. “An FIR can be filed against the officers concerned through a road accident victim or the next of kin, if such accident has occurred due to bad road condition. Then the civic agency will wake up immediately to such a complaint. Police can’t continue doing the MCC’s work,” Shankregowda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/traffic-cops-pool-in-money-to-fill-potholes-on-mysuru-roads/articleshow/78794319.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 22, 2020||Vadodara||VMC elected wing’s secretarial office to shut down||VADODARA: The secretarial office of the elected wing of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will remain closed till Monday after a series of Covid-19 cases were reported amongst the staffers there since Tuesday. Since Tuesday, five cases were reported in the office. With three cases reported about a fortnight back, eight have so far tested positive in the office. The office maintains records of meetings of various committees of the elected wing and also the general board. Clerical staff of the functionaries of the elected wing like the mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairperson and the opposition leader are also provided by this office. The personal assistants of these functionaries are also from these staffers. Sources said that the situation in the branch was discussed with the mayor after which it was decided to close the office till Monday. The meetings of the standing committee are already being held over video conferencing and a meeting of the committee scheduled later this week will not be affected. It is for the first time that so many persons working in the same office of the VMC have tested positive. Sources added that the family members of some officials had also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-elected-wings-secretarial-office-to-shut-down/articleshow/78794734.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Varanasi||Covid-19 tally breaches 16,000-mark in Varanasi, cases decline||VARANASI: The total number of Covid-19 cases crossed the 16,000-mark in the district on Wednesday — in 214 days — since the first case was detected on March 22. However, a good number of 14,800 patients have been cured so far, and presently there are less than 1,000 active cases in the district. The rise in coronavirus cases in the district witnessed a very mixed pattern, with infection spreading slowly initially due to lockdown, then surging as curbs were eased, and now tapering again. While cases rose from one to 100 in 57 days in the beginning, 1,000 cases were added in just five days on several occasions in August and September. The medical bulletins issued by the chief medical officer (CMO) office show the first 100 cases were reported in 57 days from March 22 to May 18, and the daily count started rising rapidly from May 19. The infection graph shot up when 1,000 cases were reported in just five days twice, from August 3 to 7, and August 8 to 12. The upward trend continued in September, when 1,000 cases were reported in five days thrice, from September 2 to 6, September 13 to 17, and September 24 to 28. The situation improved from October 5 as the next 1,000 cases took eight days till October 12, and then nine days from October 13 to 21. CMO Dr V B Singh said all preventive measures are being taken besides spreading public awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-19-tally-breaches-16k-mark-cases-decline/articleshow/78795506.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Inebriated cop abuses people, thrashed by locals in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A constable with Sola police, blind drunk while in uniform, exposed the reality of ‘Dry Gujarat’, as a video of him being beaten with sticks by members of the public on Tuesday night in Chandlodia went viral on social media. The cop, later identified as Sunilsinh Chauhan, 33, a resident of Danilimda Police Lines who was posted at Sola police station in July 2019, was roaming about in Chandlodia when the incident took place. According to locals, at about 12.45am, Chauhan went to a paan shop to buy tobacco products where he threatened some persons to stay away from him and then began verbally abusing them. They got angry at the drunk cops’s abusive behaviour and began abusing him back. Chauhan then slapped one of the men, due to which others attacked him. As more people gathered, Chauhan tried to run away. Members of the public chased him down and thrashed him with sticks. In the viral video, Chauhan is seen lying on the road and people are punching and kicking him and hitting him with sticks. Some local residents then called the cops and a team of Sola police rushed there and rescued Chauhan. Sola police personnel tried to save their colleague from prohibition charges, but a doctor at Sola Civil Hospital where he was taken for treatment, called the police control room and complained about the drunk cop. Sola police later filed two FIRs, one against six persons including a minor for assaulting Chauhan, based on a complaint by Chauhan and another FIR was filed by a sub-inspector against Chauhan for prohibition offences. Police also invoked rioting charges against those who allegedly attacked Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/inebriated-cop-abuses-people-thrashed-by-locals/articleshow/78796957.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||New Delhi municipal council areas to get 9 more organic composters||NEW DELHI: After issuing notices to residents’ welfare associations and market associations for mandatory segregation of solid waste at source, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is now making arrangements for processing and treatment of the waste locally. It has planned to establish nine organic composters in nurseries nearby residential areas where the segregated solid waste will be converted into compost. “By this year-end, we have planned to put into use the nine composters with each having one tonne capacity. The segregate waste brought from residential areas or eateries will then be treated to generate manure in just five days,” said an NDMC official. At present, there are two composting plants operating in the NDMC area—one at a nursery near Gole Market and another at Madhu Limaye Marg. “After residents raised objection over foul smell emanating from the plant at Gole Market, we covered it with fibre sheets and later installed carbon filters and exhaust fans. But unlike these two plants where organic composting happens using conventional methods, at the upcoming nine plants, we will be using modern technology,” claimed the official. The civic agency has decided to either use the technology of drum composting, or to install the machines underground. The biodegradable waste will be kept in completely closed structures to avoid any risk of foul smell, added the official. “The idea of the project is to ensure 100% treatment and use of wet or biodegradable waste within the areas, which will automatically reduce the burden on landfills or waste-to-energy plants. Since the compost can be made in just five days, we will use it in our parks and nurseries. Later, we may offer manure to the general public as well,” said the official further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-areas-to-get-9-more-organic-composters/articleshow/78797007.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||SUK's FY exams to begin from Oct 27||Kolhapur: Shivaji University, Kolhapur, has once again postponed final-year exams of graduate and postgraduate courses for which around 74,000 students have registered. Earlier, the exams were expected to start from October 17; however, due to heavy rainfall in Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts, the exams were postponed. However, now the entire schedule has been changed again. As per the new schedule, all exams are expected to start from October 27. The schedule for papers will remain same for all courses. “After postponing exams, we found that some exam schedules were overlapping. Therefore, we have decided to postpone the schedule for all 50 courses. Also, there are competitive exams organised by state education directorate for which many of our students appear. The new schedule is going to start from October 27,” a senior SUK official said requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, the university has requested students to update information about courses, phone numbers, etc. so that they can appear for online exam without any hassle. Around 50,000 students have registered for appearing exams online while the rest are appearing offline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suks-fy-exams-to-begin-from-oct-27/articleshow/78798256.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Still long way to go: Over 20% samples in Nagpur testing +ve for Covid-19||Nagpur: Declining new cases of Covid-19, rising recoveries and reducing deaths in district over last few days may have brought smiles, but there’s still a long way to go.The data of month-wise Covid-19 tests in Nagpur district show that despite a lesser number of patients being reported, the average sample positivity rate (SPR) is still above 20%, which is ‘really very high’. The SPR has come down significantly from over 27% on September 20, to 15% on October 19, but the average is still higher than all 10 districts in Vidarbha.World Health Organization (WHO) had recommended in May that the SPR must remain below 5% for at least two weeks at a stretch before governments consider declaring Covid-19 has receded in country or state. In India, SPR in single digit (less than 10%) is considered as an ideal improvement. In Delhi, this has been achieved. In Vidarbha, barring Gadchiroli no district has SPR less than 10%.Increasing SPR indicates two situations: either number of positive tests is too high, or the number of total tests is too low. In Nagpur, the number of positive tests is reducing, especially in October. This means, the number of tests are less.Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said more testing should be done. “It also suggests that this is not a good time to relax, and we should not stop following restrictions aimed to reduce Covid-19. We must maintain the number of tests which we are not doing,” he said. During September, Nagpur district had conducted up to 9,000 tests a day for some days. But the number has gone down to less than 7,000 a day in October.“Not only authorities, but people are also not coming forward for tests these days. Currently, we are testing only those who have severe symptoms and have been in close contact of positive patients. This is the reason why more people are still testing positive,” said Dr Shinde.Doctors have suggested that while living in a city or district with high SPR, we must be very careful about wearing masks, washing hands, maintaining physical distance, and avoiding situations that may put us at risk.“With all festive activities in flow, a fresh wave might come soon. Already we are seeing a surge in flu-like illness,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/still-long-way-to-go-over-20-samples-in-nagpur-testing-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/78776623.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur registers 91 cases, Sangli adds 191 more||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 91 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday along with seven deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 47,478, of which, 1,607 have succumbed to the infection. The district has 1,973 active cases as of now while 43,912 patients have already been discharged from various facilities after successful recovery. Of the total number of cases reported on Wednesday, 61 were from the rural areas while 30 were from the city limits. Swabs of around 980 suspects were tested for Covid with most of them testing positive during the ongoing “My Family, My Responsibility” campaign. Sangli identifies 191 cases, 8 deaths As many as 191 Covid-19 cases were registered in Sangli district on Wednesday,taking the total number of confirmed patients to 43,427. Of these, 2,379 are currently undergoing treatment at various facilities in the district. The district also reported eight deaths on Wednesday. With this, the death toll stands at 1,597. The number of daily cases as well as death count has been constant since the last few days as against the declining trend expected, said district administration officials. On Wednesday, 244 patients were discharged in the district while 274 patients are currently on oxygen beds while four are on ventilator support, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-registers-91-cases-sangli-adds-191-more/articleshow/78798258.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||2,708 enrol for third round of engg, pharma intake||AHMEDABAD: In the third round of admissions for degree engineering and pharmaceuticals courses, 2,708 students have registered. The third round is for candidates who cleared the Class XII supplementary exams recently. In the case of engineering, 1,237 candidates have registered while in the case of pharmacy a total of 1,471 candidates have registered. A merit list will be drawn and announcement on the same will be made shortly, said sources in the admission committee. Candidates who have cleared the supplementary examination in their first attempt will be entitled to admission by joining the second round with regular students. At the end of the two rounds, 24,000 seats have been filled. The Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) has begun the admission process for only 50% of the seats for engineering courses this year. In all, about 24,000 candidates were allocated colleges in the first round out of which 16,700 students paid the fees and confirmed their admission. So, there were about 35,000 vacant seats after the first round of admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2708-enrol-for-third-round-of-engg-pharma-intake/articleshow/78797017.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Truck thief held in Lakdaganj, sent to MCR||NAGPUR: The notorious thief who was decamped with a confiscated truck parked in front of Lakdaganj police station, was arrested on Wednesday following the truck’s fuel tank going dry. Police produced the thief Sanjay Dhone (52, a resident of Zingabai Takli) in court, which remanded him to magisterial custody. On October 19, Dhone allegedly stole the truck parked in front of Lakdaganj police station and sped away towards Katol Road. However, after reaching Fetri, the truck’s fuel tank went dry. He also sold the materials of the truck for worth Rs7,500 and consumed liquor. Acting on a tip-off, the Lakadganj police team reached there and spotted the stolen truck. The cops also arrested Dhone and produced him before the court, which sent him to Central Jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/truck-thief-held-sent-to-mcr/articleshow/78798684.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad reports 156 fresh cases||Aurangabad: Aurangabad district registered as many as 156 fresh Covid-19 cases along with six deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,802. The district has so far reported 36,845 confirmed patients, of which, 1,042 have succumbed to the infection. Of the recent casualties, three people died at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) while three others succumbed to Covid at private hospitals. According to district administration, of the recent patients, 74 tested positive during the antigen testing carried out by mobile swab collection teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-reports-156-fresh-cases/articleshow/78798263.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Don’t blame Centre, send memorandum: Fadnavis||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Wednesday that the state government should stop blaming the Centre and prepare a detailed memorandum seeking assistance to compensate the farmers who have suffered losses due to heavy rainfall. He said that merely writing letters would not serve the purpose and a detailed memorandum has to be sent. The Centre will assess the situation by sending its team and would immediate do the needful, he added. Fadnavis, who toured nine districts that are badly affected by the heavy rainfall, said the situation is equally bad everywhere and farmers and horticulturalists have lost almost the entire crop. “At many places, the soil has been washed away and the farmers were bringing soil to level their land. Also, stagnant water in farms is causing further damage to the crop,” he said. Fadnavis said that during his tour he found that no government assistance has reached the affected farmers though the chief minister has been claiming that 80% to 90% of the panchanamas of the crop losses have been completed. “Just making statements and accusing the Centre for the GST dues would not work,” Fadnavis said in the presence of Union minister state for civil supplies Raosaheb Danve. Fadnavis said that the state government should ensure that the farmers get crop cover from the insurance companies and also extend some financial assistance to all the farmers. He pointed out that Marathwada farmers, who cultivate soyabean, had sown seeds thrice this season and the excess rain had inflicted huge damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dont-blame-centre-send-memorandum-fadnavis/articleshow/78798267.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Firemen conduct awareness rally||COIMBATORE: Fire and rescue service personnel took out a bike rally to spread awareness on Covid-19 prevention measures here on Wednesday. As festival shoppers are thronging the commercial hubs across the city, health authorities are taking various efforts to create awareness and prevent shopping hotspots from becoming superspreaders of the virus. Joining the efforts, fire and rescue services personnel took out the rally, holding placards with messages on Covid prevention. The placards had messages on the need for social distancing and wearing masks. The personnel made brief halts and asked people to follow all Covid rules and avoid unnecessary crowding to prevent the virus from spreading during the festive season. The personnel, on as many as 24 bikes, accompanied by four fire engines, started the rally from the central fire service station. The rally, flagged off by district fire officer R Jegadheesh, progressed through city police commissioner’s office and returned to the fire station. Jegadheesh said that fire and rescue services personnel were actively involved in Covid prevention measures. Besides spreading awareness, the department is supporting local bodies by deputing fire engines for spraying disinfectants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/firemen-conduct-awareness-rally/articleshow/78797053.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Erring on Covid-19 norms this festive season will land you in big trouble||Coimbatore: The district recorded 314 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 40,690, even as the state prepares to keep the virus spread in check during the festive season. The number of active cases, meanwhile, dropped to 3,752 with 394 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. A total of 36,411 patients have so far recovered from Covid-19 in the district, where the recovery rate has touched a new high of 89.4%. The toll went up by one to 527 on the day. The deceased was a 71-year-old man, who was hospitalized on October 5 with fever, cough and breathlessness, a day after he tested positive for the virus. He died of pneumonia that was caused by the infection on Tuesday. With the festive season in full swing, the district administration has decided to clamp down on Covid-19 regulation violators to ensure the district doesn’t go the way of neighbouring Kerala, where cases soared after the harvest festival of Onam. On Sunday, a textile showroom at Town Hall was fined Rs5,000 after it failed to ensure social distancing norms. In Chennai, the showroom of Kumaran Silks was sealed the same day for the same offence. Local bodies are expected to take more stringent measures in the coming days, as they don’t want the festive season to arrest the current downward curve of Covid-19 cases. S Raja, city health officer, said, “We will hold meetings with traders’ associations and remind them of the guidelines they have to follow to protect their staff and customers from Covid-19.” With the Navratri festival already underway and Diwali around the corner, shopping hubs such as Gandhipuram and Town Hall are expected to see a spike in crowd every weekend from this Saturday. The city corporation has decided to introduce flying squads and publicise their contact numbers at prominent places in the city to help public report violations, if they come across any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/erring-on-covid-norms-this-festive-season-will-land-you-in-big-trouble/articleshow/78797052.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||CS assault: Delhi HC allows CM plea for witness statement||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday allowed the plea of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia to get a statement of one of the witnesses in a case related to alleged assault of then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. Setting aside a sessions court order rejecting their plea to provide the statement of the witness, justice Suresh Kait said police cannot pick and choose what evidence would be placed on record and directed the trial court to consider the statement recorded on February 21, 2018 at the time of passing the order on charge. The court stressed that the “prime duty” of an investigating agency was to conduct a free and fair probe and bring to the notice of court all the evidence collected. “The investigating agency has no power to appreciate the evidence, it rests with the court... consequently, the trial court is directed to consider the statement dated February 21, 2018 of V K Jain (witness), which is part of ‘case diary’ and placed on record by the accused, at the time of passing the order on charge,” it noted. The two AAP functionaries had in their plea alleged that the prosecution withheld Jain’s statement recorded on February 21, 2018 as it did not suit the prosecution case. They sought a copy of the statement. Jain’s statement under Section 161 CrPC was recorded only on February 22, 2018 and May 9, 2018, according to the prosecution. It had also claimed the reference in Jain’s statement of May 9, 2018 with regard to recording of statements under Section 161 CrPC and Section 164 CrPC was a “typographical error” and maintained that both statements of Jain, were recorded on February 22, 2018. It further argued that under the CrPC, “what is to be supplied to an accused are the specified documents and no more. It is what the prosecution proposes to rely upon what can be supplied and the accused cannot seek supply of a document, which they have produced and which the prosecution does not choose to rely upon.” But the high court rejected the argument and said the sessions court’s order itself revealed that Jain was examined in the police station on February 21, 2018 in depth and a report was prepared. “Thus, the stand of prosecution cannot be accepted, which is contrary to their own record,” it added, terming as “perverse” the trial court’s opinion that since oral examination of Jain was recorded on February 21, 2018, as per case diary, it cannot be provided to the accused as it was not recorded under Section 161 CrPC. The criminal case relates to alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal’s official residence on February 19, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cs-assault-hc-allows-cm-plea-for-witness-statement/articleshow/78797062.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist registers 271 cases, 8 Covid-19 deaths||Kolhapur: As many as 271 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered till late night on Tuesday, taking the total number of patients to 44,136. Of these, 37,405 have been discharged after successful recovery. At present, the district has 5,273 active cases. The district also witnessed eight Covid-related casualties, taking the death toll to 1,458. Meanwhile, a few talukas in the district have shown considerable decline in identifying new Covid-19 cases. Talukas such as Khandala, Mahabaleshwar, Wai, Patan, Karad and Maan have witnessed less number of fresh cases. Satara taluka, on the other hand, reported 77 cases, of which, 38 were from the town. Khandala and Mahabaleshwar identified two and three new cases respectively. Patan had registered 14 cases while Wai had added 12 more to its list. Karad, which once had the highest number of patients in the district, registered just 20 cases with seven of them being from the town. Phaltan registered 36 cases while Khatav taluka found 27. Waduj and Pusegaon added five cases each. In Maan taluka, 12 cases were traced out while four each were reported in Dashiwadi and Mhaswad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-registers-271-cases-8-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/78798269.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat panel awaits clarity from Centre on medical admissions||AHMEDABAD: The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate Medical Courses will be in a position to make an official announcement on commencement of admission process for medical, dental, ayurveda and homeopathy courses in the state only after the Centre decides on the seat allocation for all India quota based on the NEET entrance exam results, said sources in the committee. So far there is no clarification in this regard from the Centre, said sources. The admission committee recently announced that it will soon start PIN sales and registration for medical, dental, ayurveda and homeopathy courses in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-panel-awaits-clarity-from-centre-on-medical-admissions/articleshow/78797047.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Only eight Tamil Nadu govt, aided school students may get medical seats||CHENNAI: Going by the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) cut-off in 2019-20, only eight students from government and government-aided schools in Tamil Nadu are in with a chance for MBBS admissions this year. This is despite 89 students scoring above 300 marks. In 2019-20, 32 students from government and government-aided schools got above 300 and two students got MBBS seats. This year, four students from government-aided schools who trained in the state-sponsored coaching programme scored above 500 marks. Two BC category students, with 497 and 495 marks, and two differently-abled candidates are likely to get MBB seats. The remaining 82 students, including the topper among government school students with 423 marks, do not seem to have a chance. In 2019, cut-off in government medical colleges went up by nearly 100 marks in most categories due to the surge in top scorers in NEET after the first phase of counselling. Last year, the cut-off for OC category was 520 marks and for BC it was 470 marks. The cut-off for BCM and MBC was 458 marks and SC category it was 360 marks. For SCA it was 301 and ST 267 marks. “The state government has revamped the syllabus. But, the teachers were not trained and they may need 3-4 years. We have to give government school students a separate quota for at least three or four years,” said Dr Prasad Mane, secretary, Kilpauk Medical College Alumni Association. “Giving a separate quota to govt school students also will strengthen the primary healthcare centres in rural areas,” he added. “In 2017, a student with 470 or 480 marks got all India rank 2000. In 2020, students with the same mark get all India rank 20,000. That's why fewer students are getting MBBS seats despite the better performance,” Mane said. Dr G R Ravindranath, general secretary of Doctors’ Association for Social Equality, said the government needs to increase the standard of its NEET coaching. “Despite the pandemic and only online coaching, students performed better than last year. Of 6,692 students 1615 have qualified. If the state government implements the 7.5% quota this year, around 370 students from government schools would get MBBS seats. All political parties should meet and urge the governor to implement this 7.5% reservation," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/only-8-tn-govt-aided-school-students-may-get-med-seats/articleshow/78798281.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural adds 121 cases||Kolhapur: Solapur rural registered as many as 121 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally of confirmed patients to 29,248, of which, 3,312 are currently active. The rural areas also reported 10 Covid-related deaths, including nine men and one woman. Four of ten deceased were senior citizens. Madha, Malshiras, Madha, South Solapur and North Solapur recorded two deaths each. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported just 19 new cases while 45 patients were discharged from various Covid facilities. The city also recorded three deaths. The deceased are from Bhavani Peth, Basweshwarnagar and Gaibipir Nagar. The city has so far reported 9,325 cases, of which, 595 are currently active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-adds-121-cases/articleshow/78798272.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur: Sanitary workers demand September salary||TIRUPUR: Sanitary workers of Tirupur corporation staged a protest on Wednesday alleging that they were yet to get salaries for September. Around 100 sanitary workers sat inside the corporation office in Tirupur pressing their demands. The workers demanded that they wanted the salaries to be paid before the tenth of every month. Now that Diwali was approaching they sought Diwali bonus as well. These sanitary workers were roped in on a contract basis. It was not the first time that their pay was being delayed, a sanitary worker said. In June too, they staged a protest as their wages for the months of April and May were not paid. Most of these workers were women, who are the breadwinners of the family. The workers said that they were working hard for the past six months despite the threat of contracting the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sanitary-workers-demand-sept-salary/articleshow/78797065.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Police pay homage to martyrs on commemoration day||Coimbatore: Policemen who laid down their lives in the line of duty were remembered here on Wednesday, the National Police Commemoration Day.Senior police officers, including west zone IG K Periaiah, Coimbatore range DIG Narendran Nair, city commissioner Sumit Sharan and SP Arul Arasu paid floral tributes to the deceased policemen at the Police Recruit School grounds. Retired police officers also visited the place and placed wreaths.A memorial pillar was decked up with flowers for the occasion. Several rounds of gun shots were fired in the air as a mark of respect to the cops, who laid down their lives.October 21 is observed as the National Police Commemoration Day to mark the day in 1959 when Indian soldiers were martyred in battle with Chinese troops.On the orders of the commissioner, the cops also visited the house of a police constable, who was murdered by a rowdy in 1985 at Singanallur and paid homage. Constable Rajarathinam, attached to the Singanallur police station, was fatally attacked by history-sheeter Babu. Inspector Rajkumar and sub-inspector Arjun Kumar visited his house and offered condolences to the family members of Rajarathinam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-pay-homage-to-martyrs-on-commemoration-day/articleshow/78797061.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Man gets 20-year RI for raping minor||KOLHAPUR: Additional district sessions judge (Sangli) DS Hatrote recently convicted a 24-year-old man for raping a minor girl and sentenced him to 20-year rigorous imprisonment. The convict — Toufiq alias Amanulla Salim Mulla, a resident of Vita tehsil — has also been imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 by the court. The incident came to light in February 2019 after the survivor got pregnant. The girl was taken to the civil hospital where the doctors came to know about the sexual abuse and informed the police. During investigation, the girl had informed police that the convict had raped her on several occasions and threatened to kill her if she spoke to anyone about it. As many as 12 witnesses appeared during the hearing of the case, including the parents of the girl, medical officers, forensic experts and police officers. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-gets-20-year-ri-for-raping-minor/articleshow/78798275.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||More rain to lash Coimbatore district in next 48 hours: Met department||COIMBATORE: While northeast monsoon is yet to set in, the district has been receiving light to moderate rain since the beginning of this month. As per the data available with the regional meteorological department, the district has received 50% more rainfall than normal in the first two weeks, when it recorded 56.2mm rain against the usual 37.4mm. With isolated showers predicted for the next 48 hours, pre-monsoon showers too may be in excess. Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist, Skymet Weather Services, said, “There is a weather trough extending right from the Bay of Bengal to the Arabian Sea. It is bringing isolated and patchy rainfall to many parts of interior Tamil Nadu, and interior and southern Karnataka, among other places. It is likely to continue for another 48 hours.” As per the meteorological department’s rain gauge, which is located at the airport, the district had recorded 3.9mm rainfall on Tuesday, when the showers lasted for almost an hour. Meanwhile, the district administration’s rain gauge, which is located at the south taluk office, recorded 29mm rainfall. Many parts of the city, including Race Course, Uppilipalayam, Poosaripalayam and Sowripalayam received heavy rain, inundating pavements and underpasses. Officials said the northeast monsoon was likely to set in anytime between October 30 and November 2. “We are monitoring the monsoon wind, which is expected to hit the district by next weekend,” said S Balachandran, deputy director, Indian Meteorological Department. Farmers feel more secure about sowing slightly riskier crops on more acres of land after the rain. “The rain is definitely an encouraging sign for our turmeric crop and vegetables,” said K Chinnadurai, a farmer from Theethipalayam. The agriculture department has, meanwhile, predicted an increase in groundnut cultivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-rain-to-lash-dist-in-next-48-hours-met-dept/articleshow/78797063.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Tickets sold out as Delhi looks at history to unwind in present tense||NEW DELHI: Recently, Avi Kathpalia visited Qutub Minar with his parents. This was their first outing since the lockdown began in March. However, the family was surprised to find hundreds of people at the monument’s gate trying their luck at booking an entry ticket. Despite many attempts, most of them were sent away by the security staff as the tickets had been exhausted. Ever since the heritage monuments opened in July, they have had a steady stream of visitors. In the past three months, 14,282 people visited Humayun’s Tomb, while Qutub Minar had 23,632 visitors. The jump was significant in August when 8,648 people went to Humayun’s Tomb compared with 3,297 in July. Similarly, Jantar Mantar had 1,297 visitors in August compared with 501 in July. However, regular visitors have been complaining about online tickets getting exhausted early, especially on weekends. With the onset of winter, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is expecting a jump in the number of visitors and is thinking about increasing the daily limit of tickets. Kathpalia, who had booked a ticket several hours before his visit, said, “It was sad to see so many people being turned away as they couldn’t procure tickets. Now that things are getting back to normal, more people would want to visit these historical sites. The ticket limit should be increased.” Currently, the tickets are divided between the forenoon and afternoon and can only be procured on asi.payumoney.com. For monuments like Humayun’s Tomb, the limit is 1,000 tickets from morning to noon and another thousand from noon to the evening. Similarly, Red Fort has a ticket limit of 1,500 each for forenoon and afternoon timings. Surekha Rastogi, who couldn’t get a ticket at Humayun’s Tomb on Sunday, said, “ASI should remove the limit or increase it for monuments that have a high footfall so that people don’t have to return disappointed.” ASI said Humayun’s Tomb earlier used to see over 10,000 visitors on the weekends. “Monuments like Qutub Minar and Safdarjung’s Tomb are lit up at dusk and many people like to see them. But many are denied entry if the tickets get over by the afternoon,” Kathpalia said. An ASI official told TOI, “We are aware of the high footfall at the monuments and many people being turned back due to lack of tickets. We are discussing the issue of the daily ticketing limit. The monuments have more visitors in theafternoon compared with mornings. We expect more people to turn up during the winter months.” “The jump in the number of visitors in August was because of many national holidays, which allowed people to step out,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tickets-sold-out-as-delhi-looks-at-history-to-unwind-in-present-tense/articleshow/78797085.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli kids get home delivery of books through teachers||NAGPUR: The words ‘armed’ and ‘revolution’ can conjure up extreme images, especially when it’s mentioned in context of Naxal-infested Gadchiroli district. But in the district’s remotest Bhamragarh taluka, zilla parishad schoolteachers have started an education revolution by arming themselves with textbooks. Since July, these teachers have fanned out to over 70 villages located in tough terrain, and distributed free textbooks to their students. This enabled them to push forward their ‘home study’ initiative, which is basically an alternative to the urban ‘online classes’. Ashwini Sonawane, block education officer of Bhamragarh said, “Online education was never an option here. Tribal children don’t have access to smartphones or computers at home.” Also donating smartphones to some too would have failed to achieve the desired results. “There are many villages where network coverage is either extremely poor, or it’s non-existent,” said Sonawane. Hence Sonawane’s team of dozens of teachers took it upon themselves to start home visits and conduct group studies. So teachers visit every village once or twice a week and take regular classes. Homework is given and evaluated during teacher’s next visit. But with children moving on to next academic class, access to textbooks was important. Sonawane said, “They would collect it from school, had it been a normal year. But with that option ruled out, teachers piled books on their two-wheelers and rode out to every single student.” Considering that there are over 2,000 students in the taluka, spread over 70 villages, it was no mean task. A few of these villages can be accessed only by foot, which means the teacher hauls the entire set of books, after parking the bike at the nearest motorable road. Wading through shallow puddles, hiking steep dirt tracks, these teachers made sure that every ZP school student received their free textbooks allotted by the state government. Sonawane said, “As I have always said, the process of education cannot stop in this area. If there is too long a gap, then these kids will drop out of formal education system and it will be impossible to bring them back later. Even though our village visit and home study pattern is offline, at least the student remains connected to the education grid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-kids-get-home-delivery-of-books-through-teachers/articleshow/78798692.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant found dead in Gudalur||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A male elephant was found dead below a cliff in the Needle Rock reserve forest in Gudalur division on Tuesday. Forest department field staff and special task force personnel had found the carcass during a routine patrol on Tuesday evening. Postmortem was held on Wednesday. “As the carcass was decomposed, we could not assess the age of the animal. It might be less than 20 years old. The tusks were intact,” district forest officer Sumesh Soman said. “Provisional diagnosis indicated that the animal must have died after falling on a rock.” Samples could not be retrieved for lab test as the carcass was decomposed. The carcass was left at the place for natural decay. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-found-dead/articleshow/78797057.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 230 cases||Kolhapur: Satara and Koregaon tehsils in Satara district continue to record fresh Covid-19 patients even as the district is showing a decline in daily cases. The district has reported 230 new patients and nine deaths since Tuesday late night. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil reported 45 cases, which includes 13 from the town, while Koregaon tehsil added 32 cases. Officials said 19 people from Karad tehsil tested positive and Phaltan added 28 new cases. Khatav tehsil recorded 32 patients, Mahabaleshwar tehsil traced three cases, which included two from Panchgani. while Khandal tehsil added 19 cases among others. Of the deceased, which includes six men and three women, nine are elderly. Three deaths each were reported from Karad and Koregaon tehsils . Satara and Maan tehsils recorded two and one death respectively. The district has 45,790 Covid patients, of which 40,217 have recovered, 1,518 people have succumbed to the infection and 4,055 cases are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-230-cases/articleshow/78917575.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sabarmati was red for deadCovid gave it blue blood||AHMEDABAD: Before the lockdown, the Sabarmati flashed the colours of its doom: red, deep yellow, and green. Then the river turned blue — indicating that life had trickled back into it, with urban poison called pollution diminishing in its system thanks to the Covid shutdown. A team of geographic information system (GIS) experts from three universities examined LANDSAT satellite images from US Geological Survey to measure the turbidity levels of the Sabarmati, which meanders through the heart of Ahmedabad. Turbidity is a way to gauge water’s cloudiness. The experts found that pollution levels dropped by 36% during the lockdown. Maps were acquired for a five-year period: 2015 to 2020. The maps clearly show that the river stretch within the city normally appears deep yellow, red, and green: the signs of heavy pollution. The river turned blue, reflecting the hue of resurrection, during the corona closure. The LANDSAT maps contained colour coded reflectance data. They showed turbidity levels, which result from industrial and domestic sewage discharges, improving by more than 36% in the April-May period this year. Turbidity levels had gone up as high as 19.39 milligram per litre (mg/l) by February this year. In May, they dropped to just 5 mg/l. The river stretch near Sardar Patel Bridge has the highest amount of metal contamination when compared to upstream suggesting high anthropogenic activities, the research paper says. ‘Anthropogenic’ denotes origin in human activities. The paper was published in the reputable journal of Remote Sensing Applications: Society and Environment published by Elsevier. “We noticed that the average suspended particulate matter (SPM) in Sabarmati river water has significantly decreased by about 36.48% when compared with the pre-lockdown period,” the paper says. “And a drop of 16.79% was observed from the previous year’s average SPM.” The authors of the paper are Mohammad Adil Aman of the department of remote sensing and GIS applications at Aligarh Muslim University; Mohammed Salman of the department of geography at Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi; and Ali Yunus of National Institute for Environmental Studies, Tsukuba, Japan. The study states that the water quality of the Sabarmati is usually graded moderate to poor as the river’s self-purification capabilities over the years have degraded drastically. “Excessive anthropogenic activities, discharge of industrial wastage, illegal sewage release, and exposed river sites are some of the main causes of the deterioration of the Sabarmati water quality,” the paper says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sabarmati-was-red-for-deadcovid-gave-it-blue-blood/articleshow/78798297.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: ATM burglaries, seven men convicted||COIMBATORE: The judicial magistrate court here has convicted seven people for stealing Rs 30.05 lakh from two ATMs and an attempt to burgle another ATM at Peelamedu in the city in December 2017. The convicts are Mubarak, 30, Mousam Khan, 34, Zulfiqar, 25, Amithkumar, 25, Zubair, 32, Zuber, 19 and Ameen, 35. Magistrate N Gnanasambandam passed the order on Monday. On December 9, 2017, the accused had burgled Rs 3.35 lakh from an ATM on Avinashi Road and Rs 26.70 lakh from an ATM at Thaneerpandal in the city. Within four days, the Coimbatore police, along with Namakkal and Salem police, arrested eight people – five from the Keerambur check post in Namakkal and three from the Seelanaickenpatti check post in Salem. The burglary mastermind was arrested in Rajasthan in 2018. Police seized Rs 6.88 lakh, two cars, a truck, a gun, bullets, cellphone, gas cutter and weapons from them. The court awarded nine years imprisonment and a fine of Rs 30,000 to the seven people for burgling two ATMs. They were awarded six years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 3,000 for attempting to burgle the third ATM. In addition to the above punishments, Zuber was awarded two years of imprisonment and Rs 5,000 as fine for possessing a weapon in the two burglaries and two years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1,000 for the same offence in the burglary attempt. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/atm-burglaries-7-men-convicted/articleshow/78797081.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Headmistress, husband held for sexual harassment of minor girl||COIMBATORE: Police on Wednesday arrested the headmistress of a government middle school in Pollachi and her husband after registering a case in connection with the sexual harassment of a minor girl on the school premises. The accused were identified as Ayyammal, 55 and her husband, Thangavelu, 56, a retired employee of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC). “The survivor, a 10-year-old student, has been refusing to attend online classes and demanding her parents to admit her to a new school. When her parents visited the school to get the transfer certificate, Ayyammal advised them to let their daughter continue her education there. When her parents asked her the reason for her reluctance to attend classes, the girl told them that she was subjected to sexual harassment,” a police officer said. “Till the lockdown was imposed, Thangavelu used to pick up and drop Ayyammal at the school. In March, Thangavelu took the girl to an isolated place on the school premises and sexually harassed her. He also threatened her with dire consequences if she discloses the matter to anyone. When the girl told her about the incident, Ayyammal scolded her and also warned her not to discuss the matter to anyone else,” the officer added. Based on the complaint of the girl’s parents, the Pollachi All Women Police Station (AWPS) arrested the accused. While Thangavelu was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 342 (wrongful confinement) of IPC, Ayyammal was booked under the Pocso Act and Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (I) (criminal intimidation) of IPC. They were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hm-husband-held-for-sexual-harassment-of-minor-girl/articleshow/78797070.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Salem||Man drowns trying to rescue cow near Attur||SALEM: A 58-year-old man drowned in a river near Attur here on Wednesday while trying to rescue his cow that entered the river. Fire and rescue services personnel have retrieved the man’s body. The Attur police identified the deceased as K Arumugam, of Appamasamudram village. He was a farmer. “He had tied the cow to a tree near the Vasishta river. The cow somehow managed to escape and entered the river. On seeing this, Arumugam jumped into the river to rescue the cow. However, he was caught in the strong water current and drowned,” said C Manickam, a villager who witnessed the incident The villagers entered the river to rescue Arumugam, but in vain. When alerted, the Attur police and fire and rescue services personnel rescued the cow and retrieved Arumugam’s body. The Attur police have registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/man-drowns-trying-to-rescue-cow/articleshow/78797091.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vadodara||Man booked for suicide abetment||VADODARA: An insurance agent from Godhra was booked on Tuesday for abetting suicide of a 21-year-old woman colleague from Desar taluka of Vadodara district. The woman had ended life last month allegedly because the insurance agent used to molest her. The woman, who used to work with Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India, was being harassed by the accused Dharmendrasinh Mehra, an insurance agent of LIC of India, at the workplace and outside the office too. The woman’s brother alleged that his sister underwent harassment for five months. As she was tired of the harassment, she jumped in Kuni River, a tributary of Mahisagar river near their home in Udalpur village on September 26. Her body was found on September 28 from the check dam over the river. “We had registered a case of accidental death initially, but as the family had made allegations against the accused, we investigated into it,” said a police official. “As evidence was found against the accused, an offence of abatement of suicide was registered,” he added. On September 26, the family of the woman was unaware of her whereabouts so they assumed that Mehra must have abducted her. Police said that since the woman had mentioned about Mehra’s harassment, they suspected him. Ten members of the family had gone to Mehra’s house at Gothda village in Panchmahal on the same night and had beat up his father and created a ruckus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-booked-for-suicide-abetment/articleshow/78794755.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||DK, Udupi beaches to be developed on lines of Blue Flag beach||MANGALURU: With the Union government hoping for Blue Flag certification for nearly 100 beaches on India’s coastline in the next five years, the tourism departments of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada have decided to develop beaches in a phased manner, on the lines of Padubidri beach, that was recently certified Blue Flag beach. Across the coast, the weekend recorded recorded a huge rise in footfall in many beaches. Somashekar BK, assistant director, tourism department, Dakshina Kannada, told TOI, “The district tourism development committee has decided to develop the beaches on the lines of Blue Flag beach. Seven beaches have been identified for development and maintenance on a public-private partnership model. The aim is to develop beaches on international standards,” he said. With Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project handing over the reins of management of the beach back to the district administration, Somashekar said, tenders will be invited by the end of this year. Local fishermen will continue as lifeguards and Coast Guard and the police will keep a watch over the beach to prevent any untoward incident. Chandrashekar Naik, assistant director, tourism department, Udupi, said 17 beaches including smaller beaches have been identified. While for smaller beaches the focus will be on beach-front development including providing basic amenities, the bigger beaches will be developed in phases on the lines of Padubidri’s Blue Flag beach, he said. Beach safety As the Beach Rejuvenation Army with around 100 volunteers led by Damodar Hegde and Ganesh Mulky Nayak cleaned the Tannirbavi beach, Partha Varanashi, director, Surf Lifesaving, India (affiliated to Rashtriya Life Saving Society) and coach Niroop GR went around asking volunteers if they were interested in knowing about beach safety. “Soon, we had a small gathering of 50 volunteers and we demonstrated CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation), what to do in case of a drowning incident, information on different currents in the sea including rip and various life-saving techniques. We hope to make this a weekly affair at the beach,” said Niroop. The programme was conducted in association with Yojaka Private Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-udupi-beaches-to-be-developed-on-lines-of-blue-flag-beach/articleshow/78794193.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 22, 2020||Surat||Habitual thief targets another millionnaire employer’s house||SURAT: A habitual thief stole once again targeted the house of a millionaire businessman, barely two weeks after he was hired at his house as a domestic help. Jayanti alias Kamlesh Khenmal Oswal, a native of Dechu village near Jodhpur in Rajasthan, committed the theft at the house of a textile dyeing mill owner, Radheshyam Garg, in the City Light area’s Sangam Society. Oswal, who has been arrested several times by the city police in the past, is suspected to have fled to Maharashtra after the theft on Tuesday. Police traced his location in the night and it is believed that he even hired a cab to flee. Oswal was hired as domestic help by the Garg family who got his reference from a known person on October 8. He was provided accommodation on the ground floor of the house and tasked with cleaning the bungalow. On Tuesday, Garg’s wife was in the ground floor shop and there was no one else at home. Later, when the family members checked, they realised that Rs six lakh cash was missing. Oswal somehow found the keys of the locker and stole the cash. However, family did not report any theft of any jewellery. “Oswal had carried out multiple thefts in the past in the Umra police station area limit. Our teams are working to nab him,” said a police officer in Umra. Oswal took to thefts in his teens as he was earlier in 2009, 2011, 2016 and 2019 in Umra police station. One offence each was registered in Mahidharpura and Khatodara police stations too in 2011 and 2018 respectively. Smallest booty, highest time Twelve days was the highest time that Oswal took to commit a theft though the amount was smallest compared to his earlier booties. In all thefts in the past, he had stolen cash and jewellery worth at least Rs 50 lakh. Targeted houses that employed him Oswal would get a job as domestic help from his Rajasthan acquaintances and steal the valuables from the owner’s house within a few hours. In all the earlier thefts, he had stolen cash and valuables within a few hours of getting employed and the amounts were also large. Took advantage of social functions In the majority of the past crimes, Oswal carried out the thefts when the families were busy in some social or religious function in the houses. In 2016, he had stolen valuables worth Rs 50 lakh from a builder’s residence. Later, he was nabbed near the Nepal border and brought to the city by air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/habitual-thief-targets-another-millionnaire-employers-house/articleshow/78795450.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 27-year-old moneylender killed in group clash||COIMBATORE: A man was murdered and three others were injured following a clash between two groups at Peelamedu in the city on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as S Gowtham, 27, a resident of Thottipalayam and a moneylender. According to police, C Michael Antony, 24, a resident of Cheran Managar and an auto driver, had obtained Rs 30,000 from Gowtham after pledging his vehicle some months ago. On Wednesday morning, Michael gave him Rs 5,000 and demanded the RC book of the vehicle. “An argument broke out after Gowtham refused to do so. Michael and his friends, a man and five transgenders, visited Gowtham’s house and attacked him. They also attacked his friends. Gowtham was stabbed to death, while his friends Elangovan, Arun Kumar and Kirubakaran sustained injuries,” a police officer said. The Peelamedu police have registered a murder case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/27-year-old-moneylender-killed-in-group-clash/articleshow/78797069.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Pay fee dues by November, else no online education: Unaided schools in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Citing severe financial crisis, private unaided schools in the city have asked parents to clear the dues by November or face removal of their wards from online classes. Schools affiliated to Unaided Schools Welfare Association Nagpur (USWAN) are sending a common letter, on the institute’s letterhead, to parents explaining the financial condition and also debunking rumours related to fee waiver floating on social media. The four-page letter also lists details of court cases related to school fee and the current status. The letter, which seems to have been drafted in consultation with a lawyer, goes a step further and quotes verbatim orders issued by the court regarding fee-related disputes. The letter goes on to say, “There is currently no directive either by the state or central government, nor is there any order by the high court or Supreme Court to reduce fee or discontinue it.” This point seems to be targeted specifically on a fake message floating around in various parents association groups, which claims that Supreme Court has asked schools to reduce fee after eight states had approached the top court. Till date, none of the parents’ organizations from Nagpur have approached the courts. Many of the schools claim no complaint was received through the aggrieved parents’ forum as defined under the Regulation of Fee Act. The letter also alleges that activists with ‘vested interests and political ambitions’ are ‘poisoning’ the minds of parents by instigating them ‘to not pay the fee’. “It is sad to see that even those with the means to pay are not doing so,” said trustee of a USWAN member school. Some schools are now giving a deadline of November first week to parents to pay the fee, else online classes will be stopped. However, deputy director of education Anil Pardhi has warned schools not to deprive students of online education. In the same letter, schools say they are willing to help parents facing financial distress. For this, parents have to approach the school with IT returns of the last three years and a written application detailing the financial crisis being faced by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-fee-dues-by-nov-else-no-online-edu-unaided-schools/articleshow/78798700.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 22, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Illegal soil mining rampant in CM’s constituency, says DMK||SALEM: Salem west DMK secretary and former MP TM Selvaganapathy said illegal mining was rampant in the assembly segment of Edappadi, which the chief minister represents. After visiting Pakkanadu union near Edappadi on Tuesday, Selvaganapathy said illegal mining had been taking place there since 2016. “Miners are taking red soil to brick kilns from here.” He said they were using the mining order that was issued to them in 2016 by making changes to the date and vehicle numbers. “All the illegal miners are using the same order copy and they are smuggling 500 truckloads of red soil.” Talking to TOI, he said the mining department officials and the ruling party functionaries were involved in the illegal mining activity. “They are causing huge financial loss to the state government. I will take up the issue with the district collector and if he fails to take action, I will move the Madras high court.” Selvaganapathy later petitioned collector S A Raman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/illegal-soil-mining-rampant-in-cms-constituency-says-dmk/articleshow/78797105.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Transwoman entrepreneur found murdered in her house||COIMBATORE: A 60-year-old transwoman, who was running a restaurant, was found murdered in her house on NSR Road at Saibaba Colony in the city on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Sangeetha, president of the Coimbatore Transgenders Association. She had opened Covai Trans Kitchen at RS Puram a month ago. The eatery employed 12 transgender people. According to police, her colleagues had visited her one-bedroom house after they failed to reach her over the phone from Monday. “They found the house locked. Houseowner Sathish Kumar noticed a foul smell emanating from the house and alerted the Saibaba police. A police team reached the place to find Sangeetha’s body in a plastic drum filled with salt,” a police officer said. “The victim had suffered a deep injury on the throat. We believe the killing took place on Sunday night. The drum was filled with salt to prevent foul odour,” the officer added. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Police have registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. Forensic experts lifted fingerprints from the house. Police are checking CCTV footage from the locality. Two special teams have been formed to crack the case. Meanwhile, transwomen from across the city gathered in front of the house. Sangeetha’s friend Shilpa requested her family, who are staying at Sengalipalayam in the city, to pay last homage to her. “She did a lot of help to the transgender community even during the lockdown period. Her kitchen gave jobs to several unemployed people. Her death is a great loss to us all,” she said. Trans rights activist Grace Banu took to her Facebook page to condemn the murder. “Sangeetha was striving to earn respect in the society. It is heartbreaking to see that she was murdered brutally. The Coimbatore collector and police commissioner should intervene and ensure that the murderers are punished,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/transwoman-entrepreneur-found-murdered-in-her-house/articleshow/78797092.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||96 Nepalese pensioners of Indian Army cross border to collect pension||PITHORAGARH: On Wednesday, the first of the three days that the India-Nepal border is being opened to enable Nepalese pensioners of the Indian Army to cross over to India to collect their pension, 96 Nepalese pensioners were reported to have come to Dharchula and Jauljibi on the Indian side to collect their pensions. HS Garbyal, branch manager of the State Bank of India at Dharchula told TOI, “A total of Rs 15 lakh was withdrawn from our branch by 46 Nepalese pensioners. All Covid-related protocols were followed while disseminating the cash.” Dheeraj Kumar, branch manager of SBI, Jauljibi, said that Rs 20 lakh was withdrawn by 50 pensioners at his branch. As reported by TOI earlier, many Nepalese Gorkha soldiers have served in the Indian Army and after retirement are settled in their native places in Nepal. Due to the India-Nepal border being closed since March 23, they were having difficulty in collecting their pensions from banks situated across the border in India. After they voiced their concerns, the border was opened for them in July and after almost three months, it has again been opened this month to facilitate their movement. The border will stay open till October 23, said AK Shukla, SDM, Dharchula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/96-nepalese-pensioners-of-indian-army-cross-border-to-collect-pension/articleshow/78794361.cms||Prem Punetha
October 22, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar rakes up Lalu’s bahu issue at poll rally||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday raked up the issue of alleged misbehaviour with Aishwarya Rai, the estranged wife of RJD president Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. “Those who misbehaved with her would see how dangerous can be the consequence of ill-treating a woman,” Nitish said at an election meeting in favour of Aishwarya’s father Chandrika Rai in Saran’s Parsa assembly constituency. Nitish not only made an oblique attack on Lalu family but also asked the audience, “Look, what kind of ill treatment was meted out with an educated girl.” Aishwarya, the granddaughter of former Bihar CM Daroga Prasad Rai, was married to Tej Pratap, who filed a divorce petition in a Patna court. The matter is still pending in the court. When Nitish reached the dais, Aishwarya touched his feet and took his blessings. In her short speech, Aishwarya sought votes for her father so that Nitish could become the CM again. She also gave enough hints about entering active politics in the days to come. While pointing towards Aishwarya, Nitish further said, “She is an educated woman but what happened to her was not liked by anyone. I, too, had attended her marriage ceremony, but whatever happened later made us all feel very ashamed. Such incidents should not happen with any woman,” Nitish said. Chandrika is seeking re-election from Parsa for the seventh time. He represented the seat in the assembly six times since 1985. Earlier, his father had won the seat on a Congress ticket for seven times since 1952. Chandrika had won the 2015 polls on RJD symbol and also became a minister in the grand alliance government from the RJD quota. After his daughter’s relation with Lalu family went sour, Chandrika left RJD and joined JD(U) led by Nitish. Terming Chandrika as his “friend”, Nitish said when he became an MLA for the first time in 1985, Chandrika was a Congress MLA. “One day I was so impressed with Chandrika’s speech in the assembly that I went up to him and congratulated him,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-rakes-up-lalus-bahu-issue-at-poll-rally/articleshow/78800094.cms||Madan Kumar
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Fatalities at four-month low||LUDHIANA: Indicating further improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Ludhiana, the number of deaths recorded in the last seven days in the district is at its lowest since mid-July. This also pulls Ludhiana down to number two position in the list of districts of the state with maximum fatalities. According to the media bulletin released by the state’s health department on Tuesday evening, Ludhiana district witnessed second-highest deaths in seven days at 15, whereas SAS Nagar was at number one with 26 fatalities. Amritsar and Jalandhar districts, also reporting 15 deaths each, shared the second spot with Ludhiana. Moga with no deaths in the last seven days was at the bottom of the table. The fatality data since July 15 shows that the number of deaths in Ludhiana in the preceding seven days was just five, which rose to 15 during July 16-22 period. The district witnessed 30 deaths in the seven days between July 23 and 29 and the number went up to 52 between July 30 and August 5. Ludhiana saw a jump in fatalities and recorded 71 deaths during August 6-12 period and then reached 97 between August 27 and September 2, but dropped to 91 in the next seven days. There was a further decline in fatalities towards the end of the month and in the last seven days of September, it dipped to 53, and to 24 between October 7 and 13 before reaching current value. The health department officials said decline in the death count confirms that the Covid peak is already over in Ludhiana. A senior health official said they expect the numbers of both cases and deaths to decline further in the days ahead, but cautioned that people should not lower the guard and keep following the safety norms. Dr Sunil Katyal, Ludhiana president of the Indian Medical Association, said “There are always chances of a second surge, so we need to be vigilant and take precautions like maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fatalities-at-four-month-low/articleshow/78795642.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Man found murdered in Moti Nagar||LUDHIANA: Unidentified accused brutally murdered a man and dumped his body at a tea stall near RK Road in Moti Nagar on Tuesday night. Police said the accused disfigured the face of the victim, who is yet to be identified, to conceal his identity. An area resident sounded the police on noticing the body on Wednesday morning. Raj Kumar of Balmiki Ashram, Industrial Area-A, said, “I was going to a temple around 6.45am when I saw the body of a man, who appeared to be around 50-year-old, at a tea stall.” Moti Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Simarjit Kaur said, “It is suspected that the accused dumped the body here after murdering the man somewhere else. The murder, it seems, was committed over an old rivalry. The accused disfigured the face of the man to make it difficult to establish his identity.” A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. The body will be kept for 72 hours to establish its identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-in-moti-nagar/articleshow/78795634.cms||---
October 22, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar rakes up Lalu’s bahu issue at poll rally||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday raked up the issue of alleged misbehaviour with Aishwarya Rai, the estranged wife of RJD president Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. “Those who misbehaved with her would see how dangerous can be the consequence of ill-treating a woman,” Nitish said at an election meeting in favour of Aishwarya’s father Chandrika Rai in Saran’s Parsa assembly constituency. Nitish not only made an oblique attack on Lalu family but also asked the audience, “Look, what kind of ill treatment was meted out with an educated girl.” Aishwarya, the granddaughter of former Bihar CM Daroga Prasad Rai, was married to Tej Pratap, who filed a divorce petition in a Patna court. The matter is still pending in the court. When Nitish reached the dais, Aishwarya touched his feet and took his blessings. In her short speech, Aishwarya sought votes for her father so that Nitish could become the CM again. She also gave enough hints about entering active politics in the days to come. While pointing towards Aishwarya, Nitish further said, “She is an educated woman but what happened to her was not liked by anyone. I, too, had attended her marriage ceremony, but whatever happened later made us all feel very ashamed. Such incidents should not happen with any woman,” Nitish said. Chandrika is seeking re-election from Parsa for the seventh time. He represented the seat in the assembly six times since 1985. Earlier, his father had won the seat on a Congress ticket for seven times since 1952. Chandrika had won the 2015 polls on RJD symbol and also became a minister in the grand alliance government from the RJD quota. After his daughter’s relation with Lalu family went sour, Chandrika left RJD and joined JD(U) led by Nitish. Terming Chandrika as his “friend”, Nitish said when he became an MLA for the first time in 1985, Chandrika was a Congress MLA. “One day I was so impressed with Chandrika’s speech in the assembly that I went up to him and congratulated him,” Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-rakes-up-lalus-bahu-issue-at-poll-rally/articleshow/78797106.cms||Madan Kumar
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Friends kill labourer during booze party||LUDHIANA: Two men killed their 30-year-old friend in Ishwar Colony, Dhandari, on Wednesday evening. The incident took place when Ginni Sharma, a labourer, was having drinks with his friends — Nand Ram and Lovlesh Kumar — at his house. Focal Point police station SHO inspector Mohammad Jamil said, “Ginni had strained relations with his wife. He lived alone in the house and his wife in another rented accommodation in the same locality. In the evening, Ginni, Nand and Lovlesh were having drinks when they started arguing. As tempers frayed, the duo attacked Ginni on head with a blunt weapon. Ginni died on the spot and the two escaped.” When a neighbour saw Ginni dead, he called his family and sounded the police. A murder case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/friends-kill-labourer-during-booze-party/articleshow/78795621.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases dip to 441 in Nilgiris as 68 recover||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district logged 30 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, when the number of active cases came down to 441 with 68 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. Of the 6,210 Covid-19 cases that the hill district reported so far, 5,733 have recovered. Except for five cases with travel history, all the new cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. A health official said the containment zones in the district were being monitored closely. Of the 441 active cases, 14 patients are admitted to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, 60 in home quarantine and the remaining are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and Covid care centres in the hill retreat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-dip-to-441-in-nilgiris-as-68-recover/articleshow/78797104.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Two held for cheating job seekers||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city crime branch (CCB) on Wednesday arrested two people, including a man who posed as an advocate, for cheating a 36-year-old man and his wife by assuring to arrange government jobs. Police identified them as M Shanmugam, 46 and K G Radhakrishnan, 55, residents of Karuvampalayam. They were arrested based on a complaint lodged by R Sanjay Kumar during the grievance day meeting on Tuesday. “In November 2018, Shanmugam approached Kumar, claiming that there is a vacancy in the Tirupur corporation office and asked him to meet Radhakrishnan to get the job. Shanmugam introduced Radhakrishnan as an advocate and said that he had helped many people get government jobs. Kumar paid Rs 5 lakh for government posts for him and his wife. Shanmugam and Radhakrishnan promised him that the couple would be hired within a month,” a police officer said. Kumar grew suspicious after he failed to get job offer even after three months. “He came to know that Radhakrishnan had not even completed his school studies and was working as a writer to an advocate. Along with Shanmugam, he had cheated several people of Rs 18.73 lakh,” the officer added. CCB arrested the accused under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 109 (abetment) of IPC. They were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-held-for-cheating-job-seekers/articleshow/78797096.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Drunk factory worker kills wife, forgets about it in morning||LUDHIANA: A factory worker allegedly killed his wife in an inebriated condition at their house in Paramjit Colony, Focal Point, on Tuesday night. Neighbours said Pradeep Kumar, 34, was so drunk at night that in the morning he could not remember that his wife, Kamla Devi, 33, was dead and went out to get medicines for her. Police said the couple had strained relations as Pradeep suspected his wife of having an extra-marital affair. Kamla had tied the knot with Pradeep 15 years ago. The couple had a 14-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son. While the daughter had gone to their hometown in Uttar Pradesh, the son was with his parents at the labour quarters in the city. Amit Kumar, a neighbour, said, “Late on Tuesday night, I heard Kamla and Pradeep fighting. On hearing the couple’s son crying on Wednesday morning, I went upstairs and saw Kamla lying dead. Her son was sitting by her side. When I asked him where his father was, he said he had gone out to get medicines for his mother as she was not waking up.” Amit raised the alarm and neighbours gathered there. When the landlord learned about it, he caught Pradeep from the locality. Amit said, “Pradeep was sloshed at the time and he forgot the next day that he had killed Kamla. We called up the police and handed him over to them.” Focal Point police station SHO inspector Mohammad Jameel said, “Kamla and Pradeep worked in the same factory. Pradeep suspected Kamla of having an affair with another worker of the factory. They used to often fight over the issue. On Tuesday night, too, a drunk Pradeep wrangled with Kamla. He then hit Kamla on head with a stick, which led to her death. The accused has been detained and a murder case is being registered against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drunk-factory-worker-kills-wife-forgets-about-it-in-morning/articleshow/78795649.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: AIDWA members in district protest onion price hike, blame govts||COIMBATORE: Members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) in the district on Wednesday protested the increase in onion price and condemned both the state and the Union government for not doing anything to curtail the price hike. In a novel protest, they gathered in front of the CPM office at Park Gate on Nanjappa Road with a garlanded carboard with onions stuck to it, symbolically announcing the departure of the staple food from the kitchens as it was too pricy to buy. D Sudha, state committee member, AIDWA, said the big onion was a staple vegetable in South India. “We use it in almost every dish, be it sambar, chutneys and pickles, to name a few. In fact, poor people take onion mixed with salt and chilli powder along with rice. It cannot be easily substituted.” Another protestor said both the Union and state governments should never have allowed the onion prices to soar through the roof, adding more woes to millions of households that were already under financial stress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The big onion price, which was anywhere between Rs 30 and Rs 35 per kg from June to August, rose to Rs 58 and upwards during September-mid-October. The price hit an all-time high of Rs 105 per kg on the weekend. The price hike is attributed to shortage of supply from Karnataka and Maharashtra because of the heavy rain in those regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aidwa-members-in-dist-protest-onion-price-hike-blame-govts/articleshow/78797113.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Court frames charges against two BJP MLAs in 2012 case||DEHRADUN: The chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court has framed charges against two BJP MLAs — Ganesh Joshi and Sahdev Pundir — in an eight-year-old case. Both the MLAs have been charged under sections 452 (house trespassing), 352 (causing grievous hurt), 354 (outraging woman's modesty), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapons), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 427 (mischief causing damage), 504 (intentionally insults), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The case dates back to October 11, 2012, when both Ganesh Joshi — currently the Mussoorie MLA — and Sahdev Pundir — who represents the Sahaspur seat — accompanied by their supporters allegedly broke inside a house constructed on land belonging to an institution. According to the complaint, they entered into a scuffle with people there, damaged property, and also misbehaved with women present there. The trial in the case is likely to start very soon, according to the prosecution lawyer. Notably, in 2016, the then Harish Rawat-led government had ordered the then district magistrate (DM) of Dehradun to take back the case. An application was also filed by the district administration in the court but the request was quashed. Meanwhile, the hearing in the ongoing case related to the death of police horse Shaktiman — in which Ganesh Joshi is an accused — was also held on Tuesday. Joshi appeared before the court and recorded his statement in the matter. To recall, in the matter which grabbed national headlines, Joshi was booked by Dehradun police for attacking Shaktiman, a police horse, and breaking his leg during a protest near the state assembly in March 2016. The hind leg of the horse had to be amputated. Shaktiman eventually died on April 20, 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/court-frames-charges-against-2-bjp-mlas-in-2012-case/articleshow/78794371.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 22, 2020||Salem||Flood alert sounded in 5 dists as KRP dam fills up||Krishnagiri collector V Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy on Wednesday sounded flood alert to the people living along the Thenpennai river pathway in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore districts with the water level in the Krishnagiri Reservoir Project (KRP) dam nearing its full capacity of 50ft following the heavy rain in its catchment areas.The surplus water would be released into the river once the water level in the dam reaches 50ft.“The flood alert has been issued throughout the river pathway from the Karnataka border to the state,” the collector said.Public Works Department (PWD) officials at the dam site said the water level was recorded at 48ft on Monday evening. It rose to 48.5ft on Wednesday. The water level is expected to touch the dam’s full capacity in a day or two, thanks to the incessant rainfall and copious inflow.Krishnagiri collector has appealed the people, especially those living on the banks of the Thenpennai river and low-lying area, to move to safer places. “We have also advised people not to bathe in the river as the water current is strong” he said.A PWD official said the dam’s actual water storage capacity was 52ft. “One of the shutters breached on November 29, 2017 and it was replaced in 2018. After that, the state government ordered us to replace all the seven shutters and that was done this year. While we could store 52ft water, we have decided to reduce it to 50ft, considering the safety of shutters.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/flood-alert-sounded-in-5-dists-as-krp-dam-fills-up/articleshow/78797122.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Up to 800 persons being challaned daily in city for ignoring mask rule||LUDHIANA: With Covid-19 cases and fatalities on the decline, people have started taking the pandemic guidelines lightly. The police are issuing about 500 to 800 challans daily in the city to those not wearing a mask. The festival season is making the task challenging for the administration as crowds of people jampack markets, with many ignoring mask as well as social distancing rules. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “People have become lenient. Either they are seen without masks or wear them incorrectly. The fall in Covid-19 cases does not mean that the pandemic has ended. Residents should be cautious.”  “At present, the Ludhiana Police is issuing 500 to 800 challans daily to those not wearing a mask. With festival season here, people are thronging markets, so it becomes all the more important to adhere to rules,” he added. “In these seven months of the coronavirus outbreak, there was enough awareness about the precautions. It is an individual battle and people have to follow the norms for their and their family’s safety. As far as enforcement is concerned, police will remain on roads during all festivals and challan violators,” he said. The police along with Dayanand Medical College and Hospital had recently launched a survey to identify the reasons for people not wearing a mask. After the survey, the police will chalk out their course of action to ensure mask compliance. Overloading in auto-rickshaws is another concern for the administration. “Since the government has removed restrictions on sitting capacity in public transport, the traffic police are not issuing challans to any auto-rickshaw for ferrying more than three passengers. But, traffic cops do challan them for not wearing a mask,” said assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Randhir Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/up-to-800-persons-being-challaned-daily-in-city-for-ignoring-mask-rule/articleshow/78795655.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Soon, 568-bed super speciality IGGMCH-run hospital at Indora||NAGPUR: Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) has moved a proposal to build a state-of-the-art 568-bed super speciality hospital on 8-acre land of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and Research Centre (BAHRC) at Indora. Said to be a dream project of North Nagpur MLA and guardian minister Nitin Raut, the proposed hospital is planned at a cost of Rs1,021 crore. Affiliated to IGGMCH, the BAHRC has been running only outpatient departments (OPDs) since its start in 2014. Earlier, a Rs250 crore Sickle Cell Centre of Excellence too was proposed on the premises, but the project has been abandoned. As per the proposal, a nursing college offering BSc and MSc courses with an intake of 50 students too would be attached to the new hospital. Land for the college campus has been identified on Kamptee Ring Road, about 2km from BAHRC. However, no medical college is proposed there as the city already has three — GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. BAHRC too will get a makeover and the project is likely to commence soon after budgetary allocation by the state government. IGGMCH medical superintendent Dr Ravi Chauhan has been named officer on special duty (OSD) for the project. Dr Chauhan is also an administrator of the BAHRC. Dr Chauhan said Raut has been pursuing the project since 1998. The new hospital’s capacity can be augmented up to 900-beds, he said. “We have realized from Covid-19 experience that the existing infrastructure is not enough. Hence, the new hospital’s capacity can be enhanced to 900-beds,” he said. The superspeciality hospital proposal also came up for discussion before the NIT board on Wednesday. NMC standing committee chief Vijay Zalke, who is an NIT trustee, said the civic agency has approved its share of 25% for boosting health infrastructure at existing medical colleges and the new hospital at Indora. The development comes as a major respite for BAHRC which has been in a shambles. Defecation, dumping of debris and movement of anti-social elements are rampant on the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soon-568-bed-superspeciality-iggmch-run-hospital-at-indora/articleshow/78798702.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 22, 2020||Coimbatore||Flood alert sounded in 5 dists as KRP dam fills up||Krishnagiri collector V Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy on Wednesday sounded flood alert to the people living along the Thenpennai river pathway in Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Cuddalore districts with the water level in the Krishnagiri Reservoir Project (KRP) dam nearing its full capacity of 50ft following the heavy rain in its catchment areas.The surplus water would be released into the river once the water level in the dam reaches 50ft.“The flood alert has been issued throughout the river pathway from the Karnataka border to the state,” the collector said.Public Works Department (PWD) officials at the dam site said the water level was recorded at 48ft on Monday evening. It rose to 48.5ft on Wednesday. The water level is expected to touch the dam’s full capacity in a day or two, thanks to the incessant rainfall and copious inflow.Krishnagiri collector has appealed the people, especially those living on the banks of the Thenpennai river and low-lying area, to move to safer places. “We have also advised people not to bathe in the river as the water current is strong” he said.A PWD official said the dam’s actual water storage capacity was 52ft. “One of the shutters breached on November 29, 2017 and it was replaced in 2018. After that, the state government ordered us to replace all the seven shutters and that was done this year. While we could store 52ft water, we have decided to reduce it to 50ft, considering the safety of shutters.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flood-alert-sounded-in-5-dists-as-krp-dam-fills-up/articleshow/78797118.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Biz will come on track as farmers allow goods trains till Nov 5||LUDHIANA: City businessmen facing problems due to the rail roko andolan can heave a sigh of relief as the farmers, on Wednesday evening, decided to allow the passage of goods train till November 5. The industry that was waiting for delivery of raw material and supply of finished goods will have to wait a little more as it will take some time for the train operations to resume completely. Exporters and importers will, however, not benefit immediately as the special cargo trains, which run till the dry ports, will take time till Saturday to resume operation as there are several types of clearances needed from the customs department. According to estimates provided by industry sources, goods and raw material worth Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 13,000 crore meant for export and import were currently stuck at Ludhiana dry port or outside Punjab. On the other hand, raw material worth about Rs 500 crore-Rs 1,000 crore meant for factories in Ludhiana remains undelivered till now. Garment industry is happy over the announcement and is of the view that rather than giving a time limit, the farmers should allow passage of goods trains unconditionally. Rajesh Verma, president of Ludhiana Customs House Agents’ Association, says, “This is a great relief for the Ludhiana industry, especially exporters and importers, as it has been almost a month since the trains were not running. Goods and raw material estimated at over Rs 12,000 crore meant for import or export to and from Ludhiana dry port have remained undelivered. There will not be an immediate resumption of cargo trains as clearances and standard operating procedures have to be followed. I think the operations will start by Saturday and resume fully by Monday or Tuesday.” Jagbeer Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, says, “We are thankful to our farmer brothers for understanding the crisis factory owners were facing. At present, raw material worth about Rs 1,000 crore meant for sewing machine, cycle, engineering and other sectors is stuck either outside Punjab or has not left the manufacturing plants. However, there is confusion as we do not have clarity on when the trains stranded in Ambala will leave for Ludhiana. But we are hopeful that railways will swing into action and ensure that trains reach Ludhiana by Thursday.” Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, says, “This has come as a relief for the garment industry, which was facing a two-fold problem. One, paying high freight to transporters due to non-availability of trains for delivery of the finished goods. And second, suffering double delivery time to far-off states as the rail route is quicker. We appeal to the farmers to lift the condition of allowing the goods trains till November 5.” Railways to resume operations by tomorrow Welcoming the farmers’ decision, Rajesh Aggarwal, divisional railway manager, Ferozepur division, says, “First, we will run safety check at all the spots on tracks where farmers sat in protest. After that, engines from our depots and crew guards will be dispatched to the stations where goods trains are presently located. From there, trains will be sent for their respective destinations. Similar will be the procedure where empty trains are required. Though we have already started work, the situation will return to normalcy by Thursday.” Export, import affected According to estimates given by the Custom House Agents’ Association, Ludhiana is among the biggest dry ports in north India and several other states also depend on it for export and import. They say goods and raw material worth over Rs 7,000 crore meant for import to Ludhiana dry port have been unable to reach here and goods of different types, including bicycle, tractor and auto parts, garments, food products, among others, worth over Rs 4,000 crore, which are meant for export, have not been dispatched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/biz-will-come-on-track-as-farmers-allow-goods-trains-till-nov-5/articleshow/78795663.cms||Mohit Behl
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||4 aides of notorious snatcher in police net||LUDHIANA: The Division 3 police have arrested four accomplices of notorious snatcher Lovedeep Singh and recovered 20 cellphones, two motorcycles and two sharp-edged weapons from their possession. The Ludhiana Police recently had announced a cash reward for information leading to Lovedeep, who is on the run. The accused, on October 9, had robbed a sports bike worth Rs 1.5 lakh at gunpoint in Salem Tabri.  Those arrested have been identified as Raman Kumar of Peeru Banda, Salem Tabri, Ashish Kumar Sethi of Aman Nagar, Narinder Singh of Bakipur village of Tarn Taran and Amit Gupta of Aman Nagar. Police said the accused were involved in at least 20 snatching incidents. Division 3 police station SHO inspector Satish Kumar said, “The accused have been involved in several snatchings. It is suspected that the gang was also involved in an attempt to rob the office of a moneychanger near Kashmir Nagar on October 5. They will be questioned about it. Raman and Narinder are already facing trial in 15 cases of snatching, burglary and drug peddling. We are on the lookout for Lovedeep.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-aides-of-notorious-snatcher-in-police-net/articleshow/78795667.cms||---
October 22, 2020||---||LJP believes in PM Modi’s development model||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan released the party’s election manifesto christened ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document on Wednesday. He reiterated that there will be ‘double-engine’ government of BJP and LJP in Bihar and categorically ruled out any post-poll alliance with RJD. Chirag said he believes in the development model of PM Narendra Modi and his party’s manifesto is aimed at youths’ uplift and improvement in education, healthcare, law and order and employment sectors. The Jamui MP alleged that ‘afsarsahi’ is rampant in Bihar and he would seek legal probe into the alleged corruption in the Seven Resolves programmes of the Nitish Kumar government. “Houses will be provided to people from all sections of the society under ‘Bangla’ scheme (bungalow is LJP poll symbol). There will be equal pay for equal work and all contractual teachers and other employees will be regularized. Also, all vacant posts in government departments will be filled to provide employment to youths. Community mobilizer Jeevika and Asha workers will be given salaries in place of commission. Besides, a migrant department will be set up in state to look into the issues of migrant workers,” he promised. The LJP manifesto also promises a grand temple of Goddess Sita in Sitamarhi on the lines of Ram Temple at Ayodhya and implementation of 10% free healthcare services to economically weaker people in private hospitals, establishment of youth commission and coaching cities with hostels. Chirag also promised medical colleges in every two districts. Speaking about industrial development, Chirag said his party envisages development of food parks, single window clearance, fresh allotment of land for setting up industrial units and easy loan facility for new units. He also said rivers will be linked through canals to avert frequent floods if his party comes to power. When asked about BJP’s ‘votekatwa’ jibe, Chirag said the saffron party leaders were saying it under pressure from Nitish. He also accused Nitish of doing caste politics and plunging Bihar into further under-development. Reiterating his newly coined poll slogan ‘Asambhav Nitish’, Chirag said other states in the country ushered in modern era of development, but the Bihar CM still seeks votes in the name of basic amenities like roads, electricity and water. Chirag also accused Nitish of being ‘anti-youth’, alleging that the Bihar CM considers youth ‘inexperienced’ and did nothing significantly for their education and employment, which led to migration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-believes-in-modis-development-model/articleshow/78797134.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 22, 2020||Patna||LJP believes in PM Modi’s development model||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan released the party’s election manifesto christened ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document on Wednesday. He reiterated that there will be ‘double-engine’ government of BJP and LJP in Bihar and categorically ruled out any post-poll alliance with RJD. Chirag said he believes in the development model of PM Narendra Modi and his party’s manifesto is aimed at youths’ uplift and improvement in education, healthcare, law and order and employment sectors. The Jamui MP alleged that ‘afsarsahi’ is rampant in Bihar and he would seek legal probe into the alleged corruption in the Seven Resolves programmes of the Nitish Kumar government. “Houses will be provided to people from all sections of the society under ‘Bangla’ scheme (bungalow is LJP poll symbol). There will be equal pay for equal work and all contractual teachers and other employees will be regularized. Also, all vacant posts in government departments will be filled to provide employment to youths. Community mobilizer Jeevika and Asha workers will be given salaries in place of commission. Besides, a migrant department will be set up in state to look into the issues of migrant workers,” he promised. The LJP manifesto also promises a grand temple of Goddess Sita in Sitamarhi on the lines of Ram Temple at Ayodhya and implementation of 10% free healthcare services to economically weaker people in private hospitals, establishment of youth commission and coaching cities with hostels. Chirag also promised medical colleges in every two districts. Speaking about industrial development, Chirag said his party envisages development of food parks, single window clearance, fresh allotment of land for setting up industrial units and easy loan facility for new units. He also said rivers will be linked through canals to avert frequent floods if his party comes to power. When asked about BJP’s ‘votekatwa’ jibe, Chirag said the saffron party leaders were saying it under pressure from Nitish. He also accused Nitish of doing caste politics and plunging Bihar into further under-development. Reiterating his newly coined poll slogan ‘Asambhav Nitish’, Chirag said other states in the country ushered in modern era of development, but the Bihar CM still seeks votes in the name of basic amenities like roads, electricity and water. Chirag also accused Nitish of being ‘anti-youth’, alleging that the Bihar CM considers youth ‘inexperienced’ and did nothing significantly for their education and employment, which led to migration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-believes-in-modis-development-model/articleshow/78800015.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 4 lives, dist toll mounts to 825||LUDHIANA: Four residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 47 tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 51-year-old woman of Alamgir village, who had diabetes; a 53-year-old woman of Basant Avenue; a 56-year-old man of Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, who had diabetes and hypertension; and an 85-year-old man of Boothgarh village, Khanna. The day also saw two outsiders succumbing to the virus and 15 testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has mounted to 825 and that of outsiders to 301. To date, 3,61,917 persons have been tested. Of the 47 positive cases, nine were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), three were positive cases’ contacts, 26 from OPD, eight through tracing process and one domestic / international traveller. Local health department officials said the district case count stood at 19,794 and that of outsiders at 2,640. So far, 18,691 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.42% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-4-lives-dist-toll-mounts-to-825/articleshow/78795679.cms||---
October 22, 2020||India||After 3 years, Bimal Gurung surfaces in Kolkata, snaps BJP ties||KOLKATA/DARJEELING: Dodging a red-corner notice for three years since the violent 2017 Darjeeling statehood agitation, fugitive Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) functionary Bimal Gurung on Wednesday dramatically resurfaced in Kolkata to announce he was severing all ties with BJP and would support “Mamata Banerjee as the chief minister of Bengal” in next year’s assembly election. Gurung, who is wanted in 156 criminal cases that includes a police officer’s murder, was first spotted in an SUV bearing a Jharkhand licence plate a little after 4pm. A group of TV journalists chased him for 10km before he stopped at a hotel to address an impromptu presser. “We were promised a permanent political solution for the Gorkhaland issue,” Gurung said. “We were part of the NDA and made several pleas to the central government to hasten the process. In the past six years, neither PM Narendra Modi nor home minister Amit Shah kept their commitment. They have not even granted tribal status to the 11 communities in the hills despite the state government giving its nod.... We will now work hard to help Mamata Banerjee win the 2021 state assembly polls. That will be a befitting reply to BJP.” On being a proclaimed offender with a red-corner notice against him, Gurung said, “I am neither a criminal nor a terrorist. I am a politician, and Ihave come here with courage and conviction. Even if I am arrested, I will go happily”. Gurung said he had sought a “political settlement” in all “political cases” against him. Gurungsaid he was in the capital until at least August. “For the past month-and-a-half, I was in Jharkhand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-3-years-bimal-gurung-surfaces-in-kolkata-snaps-bjp-ties/articleshow/78799087.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kozhikode||1.3kg of gold seized by Customs||Kozhikode: Customs officials seized 1.3kg of gold worth Rs 70 lakh in three separate seizures at Calicut International Airport on Tuesday. Customs preventive division officials seized 1.6kg of gold compound of which 1.2kg was recovered from the bathroom situated near the arrival hall on Oct 20. The gold was concealed inside a flush tank button board. In the second seizure by the preventive division, 481g of gold compound was seized from a passenger who arrived from Dubai by AIE flight IX-1346. The gold compound was concealed in the rectum of the passenger in four capsule shaped objects. The passenger was identified as P Majeed (31) from Peruvayal in Kozhikode. As much as 1.1kg of gold (24 carat) was recovered from two gold compound seizures. Meanwhile, air intelligence unit of Customs seized a gold chain weighing 194g (24 ct) worth Rs 8.8 lakh from a passenger who arrived on flight No IX-1346 from Dubai on Tuesday. The gold chain was concealed in the passenger’s underwear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/1-3kg-of-gold-seized-by-customs/articleshow/78795690.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: When play turns to misdeeds for young||CHENNAI: For some teens, say researchers of criminology, the internet is dangerously seductive like a swamp – compelling, appealing to enter, but difficult to exit. And more so in these past few months of the pandemic, where there is little else but the virtual world to occupy their minds. In September, a 12-year-old from Madurai spent Rs 90,000 on his mother’s ATM card to fund his online gaming sessions, while a 17-year-old from Rajasthan siphoned off `15 lakh from his 80-year-old grandfather’s account over the course of the lockdown (March to August). Read the story on TOI+ When online play turns into your teen’s ‘crime’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-play-turns-to-misdeeds-for-young/articleshow/78798883.cms||Kamini Mathai
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Improvement Trust to hold lottery for PMAY houses again||NAGPUR: Civic agency Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) has decided to hold lottery for its tenements built under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) as many applicants could not get bank loan during Covid lockdown. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, NIT trustees Bhushan Shingane and Vijay Zalke said out of 4,479 PMAY tenements, only 1,200 had been allotted. “Many people could not get loans, so we want to give them another chance. These houses are located in Wathoda, Tarodi and Wanjri,” they said. When pointed out that the very objective of the scheme was defeated if banks were not giving loans to poor for buying PMAY houses, the two BJP leaders said, “It is a central government scheme being executed by NIT. Banks are independent bodies. We can’t influence them.” “Banks should give loans to applicants as the house is the collateral,” said Zalke. Other decisions taken in the board meeting include handing over four sewage treatment plants (STPs) in Jaitala area to Nagpur Municipal Corporation, allotting vacant pre-fabricated houses in Nandanvan to needy people, okaying NIT’s 12.5% share for upgrading Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), maintenance of NIT gardens etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nit-to-hold-lottery-for-pmay-houses-again/articleshow/78798704.cms||Ashish Roy
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Onion price in Kolkata shoots up to Rs 80/kg||KOLKATA: Onion price touched Rs75-80 a kg on Wednesday, bringing back the fear of an unnatural spike last year when it was sold for Rs 150-160 a kg, forcing the government to sell it at subsidized Rs 55 a kg through its network of fair price shops. Traders feared the onion price may rise further till the new crop arrives in January. The early-kharif onion crop in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, which is usually supplied to Bengal in the July-September period, has been badly damaged due to floods in farmlands in the wake of incessant rains, according to traders. Heavy rains in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh — the other major onion producing regions — also hit the quality of onions stored from the bumper rabi harvest earlier this year. The wholesale onion price that was Rs 2,200 per 40 kg bag last Wednesday, rose to Rs 2,600 a bag this Monday and Rs 2,800 a bag on Wednesday, pushing the retail price beyond Rs75 a kg, said a Anup Sadhukhan, a wholesaler at Posta, the biggest wholesale hub in eastern India. Buyers expressed their unhappiness over this uncontrolled spiralling of onion price that had plateaued at Rs 50 a kg for nearly a month and then the transport strike affected the supplies, leading to further rise in the price. Retired BSF officer, Suhrid Chandra Paul said,“I am a retired person, how will I afford to buy onions at Rs 80? I have asked my wife to stop using onions altogether.”  At Gariahat, Lake Market and Manicktala Market, onions were being sold for Rs 75 and Rs 80 a kg. “The onions priced at Rs 70 at Palbazar are of extremely poor quality,” said Soma Bose, a resident of Jadavpur who has been unable to serve onion salad to her family ever since the transport strike started. Former head of the economics department at Manindra Chandra College, Soumyendra Bagchi, said “We are in a neither free nor controlled economy and the time has come to control the market, which the governments should do by forgetting populist approaches.” The pandemic might otherwise be followed by a situation that will remind us of the Great Depression, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/onion-price-in-city-shoots-up-to-rs-80/kg/articleshow/78797138.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Crimes against dalits hushed up, say Tamil Nadu activists||CHENNAI: On March 6, a 13-year-old girl was raped by three men in Vaniyambadi in Tirupathur. On July 1, a seven-year-old girl was raped and murdered by a local flower seller in the town of Aranthangi in Pudukottai district. On July 5, the body of a 40-year-old woman was found tied to a tree. The common thread tying these cases together is that the victims were dalits. Most stories are not reported or don’t reach the courthouse. Only a lucky few end in convictions. The recently released NCRB data shows the conviction rate in offences under the SC/ST Atrocities Act was just 32% nationally and the pendency rate of cases an alarming 94%. The wounds of Hathras may still be fresh, just weeks after the UP police put on a public show of its culpability in denying justice to victims of caste-based sexual crimes by hastily cremating the body of the rape victim, but for activists in Tamil Nadu, this has been a customary battle. For victims and their families, their biggest obstruction to justice is at the police station, where officers, mostly dominant caste members, are determined to hush up the incident. "This law and order system is a monster created by the deep-seated social and cultural hierarchy that bestows all political and economic powers on people from dominant castes, and police personnel are no exception," says general secretary of Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front, Samuel Raj. "One of the ways this power is misused is through a smear campaign about the girl’s character," he says. "Or they will intimidate the victim’s family warning them. There are so many times where they have been told that the village would get over the incident if they dropped the case, but pursuing it would ruin their daughter’s future," he says. Also common is manipulating the family to lodge false FIRs with lighter IPC and other sections rather than Prevention of Atrocities against SC/ST Act, which is more stringent and calls for fast-tracking of cases. Sivaranjini, sister of Nandhini, the dalit girl who was gangraped and murdered in Ariyalur in 2016, recalls the harrowing experience of begging the police to take action for almost 15 days before the family came to know she was dead. "They made us run back and forth to lodge a complaint. When they did lodge one, it was for kidnapping. The police officials were Vanniyar, the same caste as the accused," she says. It is for this reason, says Madurai-based activist and advocate Nirmala Rani, that in an atrocity-prone district, the social composition of the police force must include adequate personnel from the SC/ST communities. "There is a provision in the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act that calls for such an arrangement to ensure that caste crimes are investigated impartially. But the government hardly pays attention to this and not many know such a clause exists," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crimes-against-dalits-hushed-up-say-tn-activists/articleshow/78798892.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
October 22, 2020||Hubballi||Police ensure we can sleep in peace, says UAS VC||DHARWAD: Rich tributes were paid to the police martyrs who laid down their lives fighting against anti-social elements during the Police Martyrs' Day programme held at the District Armed Reserve (DAR) grounds here on Wednesday. UAS vice-chancellor M B Chetti and retired police officials laid a wreath to the police martyr’s tomb in the DAR grounds and recalled the valour and sacrifices of policemen. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Chetti said that police duty is considered one of the toughest as they have to toil hard to ensure peace and harmony insociety. It is because the policeman is on vigil, that society can live in peace. Police duty not only reflects their dedication and valour but also sacrifice, he said. Policemen sacrificing their family life work day and night to maintain law and order. They are putting a brave effort to make the society crime-free, he hailed. Referring to Covid-19 pandemic, Prof Chetti said that even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the policemen hit the streets creating awareness among people on face masks and maintaining physical distance. Reading out the names of policemen who laid down their lives fighting against anti-social elements this year SP Varthika Katiyar said that 259 policemen have died on duty this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-ensure-we-can-sleep-in-peace-says-uas-vc/articleshow/78795310.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State to notify support price for 14 vegetables||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State cabinet on Wednesday decided to introduce 10% economic reservation in government jobs for candidates from economically weaker sections in the general community. Earlier, the government had announced the policy to implement economic reservation and introduced the same in devaswom board recruitments. The cabinet also decided to notify support price for 14 vegetables commonly cultivated in the state. The support price will come into effect from November 1. It was decided to support the crisis-ridden farmers in the state. To implement 10% economic reservation in government jobs, the cabinet decided to bring in amendments in the Kerala State and Subordinate Service Rules. The amendment will come into existence from the date of notification. The government had appointed a commission headed by Justice K Sasidharan Nair to suggest the guidelines and rules for providing the reservation for the economically poor from the forward community. Even though the government had decided to implement the reservation, the necessary amendment was not made in the rules. This reservation will be implemented without affecting the existing reservation quota. The support price scheme for vegetables will cover tapioca, plantain, pineapple, ash gourd, cucumber, bitter gourd, snake gourd, long bean, tomato, ladies finger, cabbage, carrot, potato, bean, beetroot and garlic. The support price will be determined based on the production cost. The agriculture department will be implementing this scheme with the support of local bodies. Vegetables will be procured by vegetable and fruit promotion council and Horticrop from the primary cooperative societies. It has been planned to set up at least one such procuring units in each panchayats. In the first phase, 250 such units will be set up in the state. To review the progress of the scheme and for revising the support price according to the changing situation it has been decided to set up a state-level committee headed by an additional chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-notify-supportprice-for-14-vegetables/articleshow/78795723.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vadodara||CA student held for Rs 50 crore GST fraud||VADODARA: A 25-year-old student of chartered accountancy (CA) was arrested by the goods and services tax (GST) officials for committing fraud to the tune of Rs 50.24 crore through input tax credit (ITC) facility. Prince Manish Kumar Khatri, a resident of Ahmedabad, was arrested by the CGST-II, Vadodara after it learnt about his fraud during data analysis of the suspicious taxpayers. GST officials said that Khatri had floated more than 115 fake firms for executing the fraud. He made fake invoices to generate ITC amounting to Rs 50.24 crore. The illegal and fake credit was eventually passed on in chains to other fake firms without any actual supply of goods and services. Khatri told GST officials that he used identity cards of villagers from Dahod and Ahmedabad to create the fake firms. He had promised the villagers a monthly payment of cash. Khatri used to work for a firm and dealt with several companies. “Khatri admitted that he made a web of fake firms to benefit some existing and real companies. ,” a GST official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ca-student-held-for-rs-50cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/78794802.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||No Dasara facelift for Mysuru roads, motorists upset||MYSURU: All major roads in the city are riddled with potholes following heavy rainfall for the last few days. All these years, city roads were getting a makeover before Dasara. However, this year, there is no clarity on which roads will be repaired or how many such works will be taken up. According to two-wheeler riders, for the last few days negotiating potholes has become a very big headache. Even after repeated complaints to Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), no action is being taken, they allege, adding that poor streetlights add to their misery. Rashee Aiyyappan, a techie from Hebbal, said riding on JLB road has become challenging due to its poor condition. “Roads are crying for repair even at major junctions. Roads like Narayanashastri road which were dug up to lay cables have not been repaired properly. It is sad that MCC is not bothered about our problems,” he said. For the last few days, streetlights on many roads have not been functioning properly. “Even in the heart of the city, many streetlights are malfunctioning. After dusk, it becomes very scary to ride. If potholes are filled with mud water, it is also dangerous in the rain,” said Suchitra, a marketing executive working in a cloth showroom on Sayyaji Rao Road. Service roads also need fixing In Hebbal and Bogadi, the service road next to the ring road is also not in a good shape. Neither MCC, MUDA nor the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) are working on filling potholes. The locals allege that miscreants are dumping garbage on both sides of the service road. “Negotiating garbage, stray pigs and dogs and potholes makes the life of two-wheel riders miserable,” said Shashi Kumar, who is working in an industrial cotton unit in Metagalli industrial area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-dasara-facelift-for-mysuru-roads-motorists-upset/articleshow/78794285.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 22, 2020||Rajkot||Doctor swirls for ‘safe’ garba in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Garba enthusiasts itching to swirl to dandiya beats were an enthused lot on Wednesday after a video of young doctor performing raas in Covid care centre in Rajkot went viral. Dr Gaurav Gohil, a 2015 pass-out dentist, uploaded the video on his Facebook and Instagram, while playing dandiya raas in the open space of the centre. Dr Gohil joined RMC’s health department few months ago and is deputed in the care centre for the past for 15 days where the patients with mild symptoms are kept. “I play garba in traditional dress every year. But here I had worn a PPE kit to give out a message that people should not take any risk due to Covid this year,” he told TOI.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/doctor-swirls-for-safe-garba/articleshow/78796185.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kids draw attention to climate crisis||KOLKATA: Child advocates led the TEDxPratyek countdown event drawing in the wisdom of global speakers ranging from Pope Francis, Prince William, Severn Cullis, former US vice-president Albert Arnold Gore Jr and the UN seretary-general Antonio Guterres. The event drew in a virtual community of over 5,000 participants from schools and organisations across India. The event telecast on Zoom and Twitch was translated into Marathi, Bengali, Kannada, Assamese and sign language. The session was held from 10.10 am to 8.20pm. The countdown began with Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, speaking about human transition and how it has impacted the climate. The UN secretary general stressed on “acting now” and the Pope insisted on focussing on climate change before it is too late. Steve Rocha, the executive director of Pratyek said, “The countdown provided young people with the much-needed impetus towards creating re-evolutionary movement of earth Pro activists advocating for a radical way of living- simple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kids-draw-attention-to-climate-crisis/articleshow/78797189.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Safaris on but wildlife resorts business still gloomy||NAGPUR: Though jungle safaris have now resumed in both Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, resort owners say room sales have still not picked up. While room occupancy levels varies greatly from property to property, almost everyone agrees it’s not what ‘they were expecting’. Sandeep Singh, executive member of the Pench Jungle Lodges Federation, says things are still gloomy. “For some properties sales are down 50%. A majority of our business happens between March and June, but this year that was nil. The second financial traction comes from October to December, but it’s still not at the level we expected,” he said. Singh added that sanitization costs, overheads and a skewed demand-supply ratio are making matters worse. “In Pench we have an abundance of rooms. In times like these, this demand-supply divergence stands out. Maharashtra side of Pench is hurting more because of ban on safari for those below 10 years and above 65 years of age. Who will leave their child at home and come for safari,” he asked. While things are slightly better at Tadoba, one of the prime destinations for tiger lovers, they are still nowhere close to the footfall the region sees in this season. Hrishikesh Wachasundar has a resort at Tadoba and says it will take at least three months for business to come back on track. “Our property is just a year old, so we don’t have much to compare with. But our room occupany is almost reaching last year’s level. Of course, our projection was for a much higher number but I don’t see that happening immediately. While crowds are coming in from Hyderabad and Pune, ones from Delhi are still holding back,” said Wachasundar, whose luxury hotel relies on clients from metros. Himanshu Bagde, a wildlife tourism consultant, says things won’t get better till inbound tourism increases. “You need bigger groups and families to come, without which business will continue to suffer. So far only stags and photographers are coming for safari. The biggest indicator of how bad things are is that safari slots are still available, though usually by this time everything’s gone,” said Bagde. Pench resort owner Gaurav Choukasey is one of the few lucky ones for whom business has been booming. “Both my resorts have been seeing excellent occupancy levels. In fact, it is around 15% more than last October. I have observed that mid level and budget hotels will continue to do well as these can be serviced by people from adjoining districts. Luxury five star properties need metro crowd to survive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/safaris-on-but-wildlife-resorts-biz-still-gloomy/articleshow/78798714.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||NSA slapped on two men accused of gang-rape and murder of Dalit girl in Kheri||BAREILLY: Uttar Pradesh Police has invoked the National Security Act (NSA) against two men accused of gang rape and brutal murder of a 13-year-old Dalit girl in Lakhimpur Kheri district. After the crime on August 14, both the accused were booked under the sections of murder, gang rape and the SC/ST Act and were sent to jail on August 16. Earlier, CM Yogi Adityanath had also given directions to slap the NSA in the cases where girls were raped and killed in Kheri district. Three such incidents have been reported in Kheri. Accused Santosh Yadav and Sanjay had applied for bail in the court of district judge but on the day of bail hearing on Tuesday, their lawyer was informed that NSA has been slapped on both of them. Lakhimpur Kheri senior superintendent of police Vijay Dhull said, “We have invoked NSA against two persons accused of gang rape and murder of a minor girl. The girl was brutally killed after the assault and it was a heinous crime. We are invoking NSA in cases where the accused is booked for committing a heinous crime.” Kalvinder Singh, a senior lawyer in Kheri, told TOI, “The intention of police is to ensure that the criminals who have committed heinous crimes are considered a threat to the country's national security or deemed extremely dangerous for society. Police are trying to ensure that such criminals should stay behind the bars for a longer period. Bail in such cases is often difficult.” In two other cases, where an 18-year-old Dalit girl was raped and murdered in Neemgaon on August 26 and a 3-year-old girl was raped and murdered in Mathiya village in Singahi block on September 2, NSA was invoked against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nsa-slapped-on-two-men-accused-of-gang-rape-and-murder-of-dalit-girl-in-kheri/articleshow/78793536.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Started 10 months ago, owner plans to exit Kingsway Hospital||NAGPUR: The Sancheti family has started the process to pull out of the city’s biggest private tertiary healthcare institution — Kingsway Hospital. The family blames government regulations and change in mindset of community towards private hospitals for withdrawing from the state-of-the-art hospital operational since December last year. SPANV Medisearch Lifesciences Private Ltd, which developed the 300-bed tertiary hospital near Kasturchand Park in West Nagpur, has circulated investment memorandum in a limited circle. The value of one share has been fixed at Rs500, with 75 lakh shares available for transfer for a total value of Rs375 crore. As per investment memorandum, project’s CAPEX cost was Rs317.60 crore. Sancheti family has 55% shares while remaining 45% are with some doctors. Confirming the development, chairman of SPANV Medisearch Lifesciences Private Ltd Anand Sancheti told TOI, “We have decided to sell our 55% shares. It is a non-listed company so we will give preference to any qualified individual or firm but priority to doctors or well established company in medical field.” Asked the reason, Sancheti said, “Government has come up with various regulations on private hospitals and also some other business sectors. The government is not giving land or financial assistance to firms. Government should take over and operate private hospitals if it has to control them.” He said it was unjust to regulate and cap rates. Facilities, investment and services of all hospitals differ from each other. How can government fix same rate for all hospitals, he asked. Sancheti also said, “We were part of the project with all enthusiasm. We would love to continue in the project. Apart from regulations, the mindset of entire community towards private hospitals has changed. Even media is blaming private hospitals. All this is not healthy for any business especially private hospitals.” He denied the move was a result of financial implications of Covid-19 as the hospital came into operation three months before commencement of the pandemic. Private hospitals had witnessed fall in patients in full lockdown and started to get business since August only after approval from the government to give Covid-19 services. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) had condemned and blamed government regulations for causing financial loss to hospitals. VHA had also raised objections on actions and adverse publicity to hospitals by authorities. Apart from capping rates, the government had come up with protocols for admission, discharge, treatment, display of rates, status of beds, regular monitoring, action etc. Though investment memorandum of Kingsway Hospital has no limitation on shares, Sancheti denied any dilution of shares by doctors also. “I can’t comment on their plans,” he said. As per the memorandum, Sancheti family had invested Rs82 crore in the project and their SMS Group gave unsecured loan of Rs12.3 crore. The doctors owing 45% shares roped in Rs68 crore. Secured loans are Rs53.4 crore and unsecured loans are Rs90 crore. However, Sancheti denied any link of SMS Group with Kingsway Hospital. As per investment memorandum, Sancheti family and some doctors had conceptualized the project in February 2014 and got possession of land in February 2015. The construction was started in May 2017 and hospital has been operation since December 2019. Sancheti family owes SMS Group, which is into various sectors, and Kingsway Hospital was probably it’s first venture in healthcare sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/started-10-months-ago-owner-plans-to-exit-kingsway-hospital/articleshow/78797241.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||8 new names on Madhyamik top 10 list||KOLKATA: The scrutiny of Madhyamik examination results brought about a change in the merit list published on Wednesday. Eight new students have made it to the top 10 spots of the merit list. There is no change among the top three positions this year, unlike last time. The changes in the ranks have pushed the total candidates in the merit list up to 91. The new students have found positions after scrutiny in the ranks six, eight, nine and 10. “This year 2,694 students had applied to the PPR while the score of 615 candidates altered. While in PPS 26,218 students applied, change in score was reported for 6,225 candidates” said an official of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education. All the students whose marks have changed will be able to get their results from their schools. “The individual schools will have to collect the results of their students from the respective regional offices of the Board from November 3,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/8-new-names-on-madhyamik-top-10-list/articleshow/78797230.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Congress promises farm loan waiver & free education to girls||PATNA: Congress on Wednesday launched its ‘Badlav Patra-2020’ (Bihar election manifesto) with the promise to give Rs1,500 financial help per month to unemployed youths, farm loan waivers and free education to girls in state. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said, stress has been given on the farmers’ welfare. “Their loan will be waived off, registration fee for tractors will not be charged and farmers will get 50% subsidy on electricity bills,” he said. While trying to woo the youth, Congress promised Rs1500/month till the unemployed get jobs. Releasing the manifesto on the birth anniversary of Bihar’s first CM Shri Krishna Sinha, Congress Rajya Sabha member Raj Babbar said, “Those who are making fun of the 10 lakh jobs promised by the Mahagatbandhan would be made fun of by the state youths in the assembly election. Congress has also promised free education to girls from KG up to PG and a scooty for those who score above 90% in their Class XII board exams. It promised 35% reservation for girls in higher educational institutes of medical, engineering, management, law, arts, commerce and science. To promote sports, the manifesto proposes a scheme, ‘Padak lao, pad pao’ (win medal at international level and get a job). The Congress manifesto promises an increase in expenditure on health up to 10% of the state’s GDP. A legislation in Right to Health and establishment of new medical and dental colleges and mobile hospitals in far off places, a ‘Nursing Home’ law to control the exorbitant fees charged by private institutes are some of the other salient features of the Congress manifesto, which also promises one 100-litre water tank with a tap and land to landless Dalits and Mahadalits for construction of home. Under its social security scheme, it promises Rs800 to senior citizens and Rs1,000 to those above 80 years of age per month. Widows and single women above 60 years will be given Rs1000 per month, if the Congress comes to power in state. It has also mentioned promotion of tourism sector with special focus on religious tourism through proposed Bihar Devalaya Yatra Yojana, Siyaram Tirthatan Yojana, Sufi Vikas Yojana, Bodh Adhyatan Evam Paryatan Yojana and Jain Shakti Kendra Yojana. Surjewala hit out at the Nitish government for not tapping this sector which, he said, could have given jobs to lakh of youths. He lashed out at the government over prohibition and said a parallel economy was being run in Bihar. Those present during the manifesto launch included Congress national general secretary Tariq Anwar, former governor Nikhil Kumar, party’s Bihar incharge and Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil, Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Singh, state working president Kaukab Qadri, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra and campaign committee chairman Anand Madhab and Jaya Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/cong-promises-farm-loan-waiver-free-edu-to-girls/articleshow/78797228.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 22, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Congress promises farm loan waiver & free education to girls||PATNA: Congress on Wednesday launched its ‘Badlav Patra-2020’ (Bihar election manifesto) with the promise to give Rs1,500 financial help per month to unemployed youths, farm loan waivers and free education to girls in state. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said, stress has been given on the farmers’ welfare. “Their loan will be waived off, registration fee for tractors will not be charged and farmers will get 50% subsidy on electricity bills,” he said. While trying to woo the youth, Congress promised Rs1500/month till the unemployed get jobs. Releasing the manifesto on the birth anniversary of Bihar’s first CM Shri Krishna Sinha, Congress Rajya Sabha member Raj Babbar said, “Those who are making fun of the 10 lakh jobs promised by the Mahagatbandhan would be made fun of by the state youths in the assembly election. Congress has also promised free education to girls from KG up to PG and a scooty for those who score above 90% in their Class XII board exams. It promised 35% reservation for girls in higher educational institutes of medical, engineering, management, law, arts, commerce and science. To promote sports, the manifesto proposes a scheme, ‘Padak lao, pad pao’ (win medal at international level and get a job). The Congress manifesto promises an increase in expenditure on health up to 10% of the state’s GDP. A legislation in Right to Health and establishment of new medical and dental colleges and mobile hospitals in far off places, a ‘Nursing Home’ law to control the exorbitant fees charged by private institutes are some of the other salient features of the Congress manifesto, which also promises one 100-litre water tank with a tap and land to landless Dalits and Mahadalits for construction of home. Under its social security scheme, it promises Rs800 to senior citizens and Rs1,000 to those above 80 years of age per month. Widows and single women above 60 years will be given Rs1000 per month, if the Congress comes to power in state. It has also mentioned promotion of tourism sector with special focus on religious tourism through proposed Bihar Devalaya Yatra Yojana, Siyaram Tirthatan Yojana, Sufi Vikas Yojana, Bodh Adhyatan Evam Paryatan Yojana and Jain Shakti Kendra Yojana. Surjewala hit out at the Nitish government for not tapping this sector which, he said, could have given jobs to lakh of youths. He lashed out at the government over prohibition and said a parallel economy was being run in Bihar. Those present during the manifesto launch included Congress national general secretary Tariq Anwar, former governor Nikhil Kumar, party’s Bihar incharge and Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil, Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Singh, state working president Kaukab Qadri, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra and campaign committee chairman Anand Madhab and Jaya Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-promises-farm-loan-waiver-free-edu-to-girls/articleshow/78799960.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||2 killed, 19 injured as bus fall into gorge near Pusad||Yavatmal: Two persons were killed and 19 others injured when a luxury bus they were travelling in fell into a gorge in Khandala Ghat section near Yeldara diversion under Pusad police jurisdiction on Wednesday morning. The bus (MH 29-AK- 8222), belonging to Mahalaxmi Travels, was on way to the city from Pune via Pusad when at around 9am the driver lost control over the steering and the vehicle skidded off the road and fell into the gorge. One of the passengers, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, died on the spot. The bus driver fled from the spot after the accident. Traffic police from Pusad rural led by Sheikh Masood rushed to spot and shifted the injured to sub-district hospital at Pusad. One Vivek Jadhav (13), a resident of Rahati village in Digras tehsil, succumbed to the injuries while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-killed-19-injured-as-bus-fall-into-gorge-near-pusad/articleshow/78798716.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Business||Edtech platform AhaGuru raises Series A funding led by Anand Mahindra’s family office||Chennai: Edtech platform AhaGuru has raised an undisclosed amount of funding in a Series A round led by an investment firm managed by Anand Mahindra's family office. The funds will be used to recruit additional teaching staff, develop new technology features and online courses for high school students. It also aims to increase its student base across the country as well as in the Middle East. Chairman of Mahindra Group Anand Mahindra said, “AhaGuru stands for making learning easier and understandable by deploying well researched techniques. Their sharp focus on enhancing the quality of teaching Science and Math can help students grasp fundamentals more effectively. I am hopeful that AhaGuru will help Indian students build curiosity and a scientific temper." “This funding will enable us to launch new courses to help students with their school and board exams. We are investing in Artificial Intelligence to personalize the learning experience for each student. Our predictive learning model, identifies student learning patterns and suggests enhancements that improves success rate of students”, says its co-founder Balaji Sampath. ENDS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edtech-platform-ahaguru-raises-series-a-funding-led-by-anand-mahindras-family-office/articleshow/78794544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt drops itssecond salarychallenge plans||Thiruvananthapuram: Following stiff opposition from government employees and teachers, state government has decided to drop call for another round of salary challenge proposed to ease down state’s severe financial crisis. The state cabinet here on Wednesday decided not to go ahead with the salary deferment proposal and resolved to merge the already deferred portion of salary with provident fund. Cutting across party lines, a large section of employees and teachers had resisted the government move to defer their five day’s salary for a period six months, for the second time in a row. As there was difference of opinion even among the pro-left unions towards an extended salary deferment, the CPM state secretariat too had advised the government against inviting the wrath of employees when the state is about to face local body elections. Accusing the opposition for thwarting the government move, finance minister Thomas Isaac said the opposition has politically used the proposal. Though opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala himself had initially proposed much severe restrictions, he reacted to the government proposal by inaugurating a protest dharna of pro-Congress union in front of secretariat, he said. “Since certain employee organisations are not ready to accept the salary deferment proposal, we are not going ahead with the same. As per the ordinance on salary deferment, government is supposed to specify when the differed portion of salary would be given back to employees. As per the cabinet decision, the portion of salary deferred from April 2020 to August would be merged in PF on April 1, 2021,” Isaac said. “The money merged in PF may be withdrawn after June 1, 2021. Pensioners and others having no PF account would be given back their money in equal instalments from June 1, 2021,” Isaac said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-drops-itssecond-salarychallenge-plans/articleshow/78795780.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Locals kill python after it swallows baby goat||Vijayawada: Panic struck residents after a rock python attacked and devoured a baby goat at Tirumalagiri hill under Jaggaiahpet mandal in Krishna district on Wednesday. The incident follows recent sightings of rock pythons in Krishna district. District forest officials said they received a call about a python swallowing a baby goat, but the python was dead by the time they reached the spot. Villagers had slit open the python’s stomach in an attempt to rescue the baby goat, officials said, but both animals died on the spot. The python was around 10-feet-long and the baby belonged to a local herdsman, officials said. The villagers who spotted the snake had feared for their lives and first killed it by decapitating its head and later slit open its stomach to try and save the baby goat, officials explained. Officials said they had recently received at least nine calls on the spotting of rock pythons in the district. Sources said incessant rains and floods might have transported the constrictors from upstream of the Krishna river and many places adjacent to the riverbank have turned out to be a major breeding ground for these reptiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/locals-kill-python-after-it-swallows-baby-goat/articleshow/78795777.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Bombay HC cites SC order, asks top cop to swear there’s no hawking near shrines, markets||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has directed the commissioner of police (CP) and Sitabuldi inspector (PI) to file an affidavit that they’re following the Supreme Court’s directive not to permit any hawking activities within 100 meters of places of worship, holy shrines, educational institutions and hospitals, or within 150 meters of any municipal or other markets or railway station. “We’ve no doubt in our mind that CP and PI must be implementing in letter and spirit the apex court’s directives and in present case also they are doing so,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said. “We would, therefore, only expect them to file an affidavit stating that there is no occasion for anybody to even doubt that SC orders aren’t being implemented and authorities aren’t ensuring their compliance,” the bench added before adjourning the hearing till November 2. The directives came while hearing a plea by 10 Sitabuldi shopkeepers through counsel Firdos Mirza, praying for quashing of an FIR lodged against them by Sitabuldi police. The case is the latest development in a long battle between shopkeepers and hawkers at Sitabuldi. While quoting the apex court’s directives in a PIL in 2009 (Ekta judgment), Mirza had earlier pointed out that no hawking should be permitted on footbridges and over-bridges, or near religious places, schools, colleges and hospitals along with markets and railway stations. “However, these directions are being flouted with impunity at Sitabuldi and authorities have turned Nelson’s eye to these requirements of law,” he said. Praying for interim directives to CP and PI to deploy sufficient police force on Sitabuldi main road, Mirza said they should ensure that there are no encroachers on the footpath. “No unauthorized vendors are permitted to cause any obstruction to free flow of traffic by placing goods and merchandize on roads,” he argued. According to petitioners Vijay Agrawal and others, the hawkers had allegedly tried to take illegal possession of busy Sitabuldi main road by placing their merchandize in front of their shops on September 23. Some of the anti-social elements among hawkers tried to intimidate shopkeepers after which they called up Sitabuldi police. However, instead of acting against such elements, the cops lodged FIR against petitioners under provisions of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, Maharashtra Police Act and Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-cites-sc-order-asks-top-cop-to-swear-theres-no-hawking-near-shrines-markets/articleshow/78798717.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly Police trash ‘love jihad’ theory, book over 200 for ‘rioting & vandalising’ thana after girl elopes with youth||BAREILLY: Police in UP’s Bareilly district on Wednesday booked over 200 people, including some VHP workers, for vandalizing a police station and rejected the “love jihad” theory floated by them after a girl eloped with a school friend from the minority community. A 200-strong crowd reached Quila police station on Tuesday and held a massive protest demanding arrest of the youth and “recovery” of the girl, who they claimed was a minor. But, in a video message, the girl is purportedly seen claiming that she is an adult and went away with the youth on her own. She also asked the police to protect the youth’s family members and “don’t harass them”. Amid allegations of use of force against the youth’s family members, district police also suspended a sub-inspector and a constable and transferred the station house officer. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “An FIR has been registered against six identified and 200 unidentified people for rioting and damaging public property.” “Our priority is to maintain law and order, which is why the FIR was registered. The girl’s location has now been traced to Delhi and teams are searching for her. She will be produced before a magistrate once recovered. If the girl is an adult, she has every right to take her decisions. Police will provide security.” Her family, however, has claimed that she is a minor. The girl went missing on October 17 and an FIR was registered against the youth belonging to a different faith on the basis of a complaint filed by her family members. She was pursuing graduation while the youth is a school dropout and runs his family business. They used to study in the same school, sources said. Soon after the girl’s video surfaced, members of the saffron outfits claimed that she was forced to give the statement. On Tuesday night, they staged a protest inside the police station. A few of them allegedly misbehaved with policemen and vandalized the station. Additional director general (ADG) of Bareilly zone Avinash Chandra, DIG Rajesh Pandey and SSP Sajwan rushed to the spot with additional force and controlled the situation. Mild force was used to disperse the crowd. ADG Chandra has said, “There is no ‘love jihad’ here. We will recover the girl. A few anti-social elements among the protesters tried to disturb the communal harmony, but we controlled the situation.” SSP Sajwan said, “Multiple teams are trying to find the girl. We are expecting a breakthrough soon. We are also trying to ensure that anti-social elements don’t disturb the communal harmony. We have checked the videos of vandalism at the police station and have booked BJP youth wing leader Vishnu Sharma, Yogesh Gupta from VHP, Harsh Bhardwaj from Hindu Shakti Dal and two others. And 200 unidentified people were also booked. The accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-police-trash-love-jihad-theory-book-over-200-for-rioting-vandalising-thana-after-girl-elopes-with-youth/articleshow/78793559.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sister Abhaya's death not suicide, says ex-probe officer||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CBI’s former DSP A K Ohri told CBI special court on Wednesday that the cause of death of sister Abhaya was neither suicide nor accident. He was deposing as a prosecution witness in the sister Abhaya murder case trial which was resumed on Tuesday. Ohri, who was the investigation officer of the first CBI team that probed the case, said his team found the unnatural death as a murder. He told the court that though the cause was found murder, the probe team couldn’t identify the culprits. On December 6, 1996, Ohri submitted a referral report in CBI special court, Kochi, saying that the team couldn’t find the murderers and hence the probe needed to be wound up. The court didn’t accept the report and ordered further inquiry. Another former DSP of CBI K V Harivalsan was also examined on Wednesday. On Tuesday, former DSP Varghese P Thomas told the court about his findings that hinted at the possibility of murder. Varghese Thomas later quit CBI in 1993 after complaining that there was tremendous pressure on him to conclude the case as a suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sr-abhayas-death-not-suicide-or-accident-ex-probe-officer/articleshow/78795804.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Resume Nagpur service, demand industrial workers||NAGPUR: Nirmala Bhaisware, an employee in land development office in Wardhaman Nagar, spends almost 50% of her salary on commuting beween office and her home in west Nagpur. Samir Narayan, an employee from MIDC Hingna, is struggling with reduced salary to manage his transport and household expenses. “My monthly expenditure on commute between my office and house in Indora has increased by almost Rs1,500 per month. Earlier, I used to spend almost Rs1,000 a month on that,” he claimed. These two were part of two delegations of industrial workers that met the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B demanding resumption of city operations at the earliest. The delegations were led by Congress and NCP corporators. NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe and party leader Prashant Pawar threatened to launch an agitation against the NMC if it failed to resume the city bus operation within 48 hours. In an ultimatum to the civic body, Pawar pointed out that most of the people commuting in city buses are from poor or middle class families. Covid-19 pandemic has already reduced the income of most such people. “Non-operation of city buses has added to their woes,” said senior Congress corporator Sandip Sahare who along with corporators Manoj Sangole, Satish Holey, Darshani Dhawad, Sanjay Mahakalkar also led a delegation. Ferrying over 1.5 lakh people a day, Aapli Buses are lifeline of the city’s mass transport system. Resuming of regular service will benefit middle class people, especially women, pointed out Dhawad. City buses should have been resumed as they are cheapest mode of public transport for employees working in industrial areas like Hingna, Butibori, Khapri, Pardi, Kalmeshwar etc., he said. The lockdown has already caused significant losses to three red and one electric bus operators and it is feared demand may not return to pre-lockdown levels due to the norms of physical distancing and perceived risk of commuting even when operations resume. “3,000-odd employees including drivers, conductors and mechanics associated with Aapli Bus service have also lost their jobs due to ban on city bus operations,” Sahare stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/resume-city-service-demand-industrial-workers/articleshow/78798718.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two in cop net with illegal weapons||KOLKATA: Two youths, Noor Mohammad alias Raqib (24) and Md Arshad alias Rahul (19), both residents of Garden Reach, were nabbed near Taratala during a special anti-crime drive on Monday night and illegal weapons were seized from their possession. Cops stopped the car, in which the duo was travelling. Though they tried to flee, cops apprehended them and recovered two country-made firearms and four rounds of live cartridges. The seizure came hours after the special task force of Kolkata Police busted a gang supplying illegal weapons to the city. Interrogation revealed that the miscreants, who had hired the vehicle from Budge Budge, entered the city to create disturbance during the Puja. A specific case was registered at Taratala police station under the various sections of the Arms Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-in-cop-net-with-illegal-weapons/articleshow/78797246.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Treat all Covid patients in GMCs only, demand private hospitals||NAGPUR: Frequent harassment by relatives and political outfits over high Covid-19 treatment charges, private hospitals feel the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) must now go back to original plan of treating all coronavirus patients at medical colleges only. Asked about this, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “People should opt for government facilities now.” The civic chief, however, ruled out shifting of existing patients from private hospitals to government ones as it will cause inconvenience to the people. But, he said, hospitals are free to file police complaints in case of law and order situation. “I will request commissioner of police to assist hospitals in handling people who indulge in such activities,” said Radhakrishnan. On Wednesday, Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) wrote a letter to mayor and forwarded copies to the HC-appointed Covid Coordination Committee, divisional commissioner, collector beside civic chief highlighting their plight. The private hospitals were roped in after surge in Covid cases and lack of sufficient beds at GMC, IGGMCH and AIIMS. With steep decline in cases now, number of Covid patients requiring hospitalization too has dipped and many beds are now available in medical colleges. VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat said since many beds are vacant at GMCH and IGGMCH, Covid patients should get free treatment at these facilities. “Let the private hospitals treat non-Covid patients. NMC should direct these Covid patients to government set-ups,” he said. Dr Pradeep Arora, who is petitioner in price cap case, said there is need to file a petition on the hospital bill audit issue as well. “There are many things which need to be carefully evaluated by a medical professional. Executives going by a rate list, even when a patient has gone home fully satisfied, is unjustified. It is state-sponsored vigilantism. Then there are miscreants and goons, who for a commission, help unscrupulous complainants in extorting money from hospitals. The bill amount may be high.” On Wednesday, TOI had reported about private hospitals seeking NMC help in rising cases of refund and harassment by relatives of Covid patients. In its letter, the VHA said, “It is noted that discharged patients are now under misconception that if they call helpline, they will get refund of the total hospital payment. VHA has sought confirmation from Nagpur mayor under which law has this practice been commenced.” “Presuming that bill gets checked by bill dispute counter and is noted that there is no hanky-panky, in such case will action be taken against false complainants? The goodwill of hospitals is being murdered without any trial by the executive and media. News should be sent to media only after allegations are confirmed,” the letter reads. The development comes in the wake of political outfits releasing social media message asking people to contact their helpline in case they find the bills very high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/treat-all-covid-patients-in-gmcs-only-demand-private-hospitals/articleshow/78797283.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid crisis to impact next year’s Puja plans, fear organizers||KOLKATA: Even as the treasurers of various Puja committees worked on the deficit in this year’s Puja budget following the court order prohibiting visitors from pandals, several Durga Puja organizers said the real impact of the financial crisis that most Puja organizers face will be felt during next year’s Durga Puja. “We are facing a deficit of around Rs 15 lakh and have decided not to conduct theme Pujas for at least two years. Had the restrictions been decided early, we would have planned accordingly and avoided the expenditure that has turned out to be wasteful. The corporates that had offered sponsorship despite their own hardship may not pay anymore,” said Samaj Sebi secretary Arijit Maitra. Behala Nutan Dal, too, said their ability to organize a Durga Puja that would wow visitors will be severely impacted by this year’s setback in finances. “As per the contract with advertisers, corporates make small advance payments. The bulk comes in after the Puja is over. The payment is based on footfall pandals generate. We send photos and videos to justify the footfall. They, too, conduct surveys during the festival to check if their ads are grabbing attention. But with no footfall this year, a few may pay some money based on goodwill and past reputation, but we fear a majority of them will not make payments,” said Puja committee member Sandipan Banerjee. Suruchi Sangha that had reduced the budget from Rs 75- Rs 80 lakh last year to Rs 35-40 lakh this year, says it may manage to meet its payment obligations despite the setback, but several other Pujas committees would flounder. “In any Durga Puja, much of the activity happens in good faith. There are promises made for payments that happen subsequently. Till the Puja is over, money flows out. It is only after that the payments flow in from corporates as they agree to advertise in the belief that the particular Puja drew crowds. The money garnered is then used to not just meet the obligations of that year’s Puja, but also as the advance to the artist for next year. This year, many organizers will not have the means to book an artist. Others will not be in a position to risk a large investment,” said Suruchi Sangha general secretary Kingshuk Maitra. At Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha, Puja organizers held a meeting after the court order to discuss ways to return the advance fee they had taken for setting up food stalls. In Kolkata though, most Pujas had not invited food stalls this year to avoid crowding. Santosh Mitra Square — that had decided to close its gates even before the court verdict — has started refunding advances made by the fair organizer and food kiosk operators. At Sealdah Railway Athletics Club, the organizers had set up large gates, but they have not yet been able to attract any advertisements yet. “We were negotiating with a few companies for ads but after the court order, they have stopped communicating,” said committee assistant secretary Srijit Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-crisis-to-impact-next-years-puja-plans-fear-organizers/articleshow/78797243.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Man gets 12 years in jail, Rs 55,000 fine for abduction and rape of minor girl||BAREILLY: Additional district and sessions judge here handed down 12 years of rigorous imprisonment to a 31-year-old convict for abducting and raping a minor daughter of his landlord in 2015 and also slapped a fine of Rs 55,000 on him. Delivering the judgment, ADJ Anil Kumar Seth ordered payment of Rs 40,000 to the girl’s family as compensation from the money paid by the convict. It was the fifth judgement delivered by a Bareilly court in cases registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act since October 15. Divulging details, district government counsel Suneet Kumar Pathak told TOI, “The incident was reported in 2015 when Sonu — then 24 years — had abducted the 15-year-old daughter of his landlord from Izzatnagar area of Bareilly district. The accused threatened the girl with the lives of her parents and kept her confined to a hotel room in Delhi, where he raped her repeatedly for nine days. “Police found the girl at Izzatnagar railway station. Later, her medical examination confirmed the sexual assault on her. Recording her statement before the magistrate, the girl narrated her ordeal, following which IPC section 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the Pocso Act were added to the existing FIR.” “During the trial,” said Pathak, “Additional DGC Harendra Singh Rathore ensured that sufficient evidence and statements were produced before the court. After hearing arguments, the ADJ convicted Sonu for IPC sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping or inducing woman to compel her marriage) and 376 (rape) and the Pocso Act.” Reacting to the judgement, deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Bareilly Range, Rajesh Pandey told TOI, “All pending Pocso cases are being followed up in monthly meetings of a district monitoring committee, and directions are passed to the SHOs concerned to ensure complete coordination with the government counsels in cases registered under the Pocso Act on a priority basis.” On October 23, a Pocso court in Bareilly had handed down life imprisonment to a man for raping a five-year-old girl in Aonla area and also slapped a fine of Rs 50,000 on him. On October 22, additional district and sessions judge Anil Kumar Seth had sentenced a man for life imprisonment and slapped on him a fine of Rs 60,000 for raping a six-year-old girl in Fatehganj (West) area. On October 17, a 65-year-old man was sentenced for seven years of imprisonment for attempting to rape a three-year-old girl of his neighbour. On October 15, a man was sentenced for 10 years in jail and a fine of Rs 20,000 for raping a minor girl in CB Ganj area. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-gets-12-years-in-jail-rs-55k-fine-for-abduction-and-rape-of-minor-girl/articleshow/78918768.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Man ends life, alleging harassment by paramour||VIJAYAWADA: A 38-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself at his residence in Maddirala town of Chilakaluripet mandal in Guntur district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Nampalli Mastanaiah (38), a tailor. According to Chilakaluripet police, Mastanaiah had entered into an extramarital relationship and abandoned his wife and children to be with his paramour. However, when he reached his paramour’s house, he found her with another man. After confronting her, Mastanaiah regretted his decision and chose to return to his wife and children. Police said his paramour then demanded Mastanaiah pay her money, accusing him of cheating her. The two held a panchayat with village elders where she demanded Rs 5 lakh, while he tried to bargain, arguing he could only afford Rs 50,000. Unable to reach an agreement, the woman allegedly harassed Mastanaiah. Police said Mastanaiah recorded and sent a selfie video to his wife and other family members, accusing his paramour and her relatives of being behind the suicide. Police said they have registered an abetment to suicide case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-ends-life-alleging-harassment-by-paramour/articleshow/78795790.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Restaurants in NCR trolled for giving food to Rohingya refugees||NEW DELHI: At a time when the hospitality industry is going through its worst crisis, some restaurateurs in Delhi-NCR are giving back to society during the festivities. With Navaratra going on, restaurants like The Marketplace, Josh-The High Energy Bar and Swagath Restro & Bar on Tuesday distributed free food to refugees from the Rohingya community at a slum in Jasola, news agency ANI reported. The restaurant owners said that festivals were just another reason to spread cheer among the less fortunate and distributing food and other items among the needy was a part of Indian culture. When the story appeared online, it created a sharp division among netizens with the restaurants first getting heavily trolled, but later also getting appreciated on social media. A Twitter user posted photographs and names of the restaurants giving food to Rohingyas, which was retweeted almost 1,000 times. Apart from getting “likes”, it also triggered a fierce debate. Many people tweeted that there were other poor in Delhi, including Hindus refugees from Pakistan, and the restaurants should have chosen them for charity. However, an equal number of voices supported the initiative of the restaurateurs. When a user tweeted: “Let’s make them famous. We have to ensure that from now onward, their customers are only Rohingyas”, it was met with reactions like: “Thanks. One of them is a bit far, but I’ll make sure to visit all three. Post more if you know.” Another person responded: “Thanks for sharing. Next time I am in Delhi, will pay one of them a visit and donate something too.” The trolling was not just limited to social media. Some users asked others to give the restaurants poor ratings and “flood negative reviews” on platforms of online food aggregators. Within a few hours, the websites reflected a large number of fresh reviews rating the restaurants 1 out of 5 with most not spelling out the reason for the negative rating. Shivam Sehgal, who owns both the restaurants, told TOI, “We have done this in a very positive way. If anyone is taking it in the wrong manner, it’s their own personal concern. The restaurant’s concern is about giving to people who are a part of society. While 70% of people are appreciating it, 30% are criticising it. That’s their own mindset and it is nothing related to what we have done.” “I do this a few times a year. I have been in the hospitality industry for almost five years,” Varun Ahuja, founder of Swagath Restro & Bar told ANI. TOI couldn’t get in touch with him, but a restaurant manager said the gesture was only to help the needy during the festive season. Mohammad Shirajullah, a Rohingya refugee, said, “Amid the novel coronavirus pandemic, people have been helping us with food, oil, soap and shampoo since the lockdown began.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restaurants-trolled-for-giving-food-to-rohingya-refugees/articleshow/78797303.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA speeds up master plan preparation, draft likely by yr-end||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has expedited the preparation of the VMRDA master plan-2041 after the Covid-19 outbreak hit its progress in the last six months. The private agency that was entrusted with the responsibility of the plan has submitted its preliminary draft to the VMRDA and the development body is scrutinising the plan. The changes suggested by the VMRDA will be incorporated into the preliminary draft. The master plan outlines a development vision of the VMRDA and its planning framework for the future. Speaking to TOI, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said they want to complete the draft master plan by the year-end. “The draft master plan will be placed in the public domain for two months to seek opinions and suggestions of the public. The final master plan will be readied by next April. The horizon year for the master plan and zonal developmental plans is 2041. The master plan is aimed at transforming the region into a vibrant and economic hub. The focus would be on improving quality of life in an inclusive manner along with smart and sustainable green and clean infrastructure and resilient environment,” said Koteswara Rao. As part of preparing the master plan, the VMRDA conducted surveys, including land use and traffic surveys, workplace study, heritage survey and home interview survey. The VMRDA also chaired several forms of consultations with key stakeholders of the region in the last few years, including fishing and revenue village consultations, online consultations, focus group discussions and urban consultations to develop an idea of their aspirations for the region. Meanwhile, the VMRDA is also preparing the perspective plan with a horizon year of 2051. The perspective plan will establish a vision for the development area and provide a policy framework, directions for growth and identify thrust areas for development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-speeds-up-master-plan-preparation-draft-likely-by-yr-end/articleshow/78795826.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 22, 2020||Surat||Surat: Rape survivor delivers baby, both test HIV+||SURAT: A 22-year-old textile unit worker was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl multiple times for nearly two years following which she became pregnant and also delivered a child couple of days ago. Tests conducted on the survivor and the child revealed that they both were HIV positive. Police arrested Golu Santosh Gupta, who is friend of the the survivor’s uncle (father’s brother). The accused lived in the same locality near the girl’s residence. The rape complaint was lodged by the girl’s father with Udhna police station on Tuesday. Few months before the lockdown, the survivor’s mother went to stay in their native village in Uttar Pradesh with her two daughters. While the survivor, eldest of three sisters, stayed back with her father, an autorickshaw driver. The girl was employed at a physiotherapy centre. Police suspect that the minor was sexually exploited at the centre as well. “Since the girl’s mother was not around, her father could not make out the pregnancy earlier. It was only a month ago, the father realised that she could be pregnant but did not report it to police earlier,” said a police officer in Udhna police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rape-survivor-delivers-hiv-baby/articleshow/78795516.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vadodara||98 new cases detected, 103 discharged||VADODARA: With the number of discharged Covid-19 patients remaining more than the new cases identified during the 24 hours ending on Wednesday evening, the number of patients under treatment went down marginally in the city and district. Against 98 new cases detected from the testing of 3,566 samples, 103 persons were discharged. A majority of discharged persons were under home isolation as 76 such patients were discharged. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases went up to 14,107. Against this, 12,306 persons were discharged, 209 died and 1,592 were under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/98-new-cases-detected-103-discharged/articleshow/78794822.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Citizens’ groups come together to spread Puja cheer among needy||KOLKATA: In a bid to ring in the festive spirit in the lives of the families of the unorganized sectors’ workers that were hit by the lockdown and Amphan, citizens’ groups in the city have come together to gift new clothes to the women and kids. An initiative — ‘One new cotton saree’ — launched last month by Humans of Patuli, an organization that works for communal harmony, has already distributed 950 cotton saris and 450 clothes among the women and kids of the neighbourhood. During the pandemic-induce lockdown, they had supported these families with dry rations and medicines. Most of these women and kids are from slums. The men in the families are rickshawpullers, masons, out-of-work daily wage earners with uncertain futures. “Working class neighbourhoods have been the worst sufferers as they lack savings as well as employment opportunities,” Dwaipayan Banerjee of Humans of Patuli. Another member and coordinator of the campaign Syed Mohammad Shabbir said that the response to the initiative has been very encouraging. Meanwhile, two citizens’ groups — Sahomon and Sangjog — distributed new saris to the sex workers of Munshigunj, who have been suffering during the pandemic. They also provided new clothes to the children of the area. Sumaan Sengupto of Sahomon said, “Every festival teaches us to embrace everyone irrespective of their class, caste, gender and religion.” Purono Kolkata’r Golpo (PKG), which has been supporting the victims of Amphan in Sunderbans, distributed 75 new saris in Piyali, 100 new saris, blankets in Satjelia and 75 saris in Hingalganj. “We have been able to generate alternative occupations for the needy, underprivileged women of Piyali and Satjelia,” said Swarnali Chattopadhay. The kids at Voice of World (VOW) were overjoyed to get new clothes. But what made these new clothes special were the makers, who were trained by PKG. Vice-president Saibal Guha of VOW feels that this initiative benefited both the kids and the women, whose lives were shattered due to Amphan. Getting new clothes made by them was very emotional and added to the spirit of the festival in such sombre times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-groups-come-together-to-spread-puja-cheer-among-needy/articleshow/78797287.cms||Dipawali Mitra
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Supply crunch pushes onion prices to Rs 110/kg in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Shortage in supply due to incessant rains has pushed onions prices in the city up, with the cost of the vegetable touching Rs 110 per kg. Two weeks ago, onions were being sold for Rs 50 to Rs 60 in the retail market. Official data shows that the Malakpet onion marketyard in Hyderabad received 2.42 lakh quintal of onions in October last year. This October, the figure has sharply dropped to touch to 1.11 lakh quintal. The cost of onions, which usually crosses the Rs 100-mark by November-end, has seen a jump much earlier, officials added. “While the first high quality onions were exported, the remaining were damaged in districts such as Mahabubnagar and Kurnool,” said V Srinivas, Hyderabad joint director, Telangana agricultural marketing department, adding that supply from Maharashtra has also dropped due to transport issues. “It is difficult to get onion supply from Rythu Bazaar. Stock available is not just expensive but also poor quality,” said Sesikumar, a vegetable vendor who set up his shop at a weekly bazaar at Neredmet crossroads on Wednesday. Many consumers are buying onions in smaller quantity hoping that price will drop soon. “Onion is more expensive than one dozen eggs and half kg of chicken,” said Vinay Kumar, a consumer. Officials fear there might not be any relief soon, as they predict prices to shoot up further by November-end. “Produce stored by farmers has also been damaged. Due to this, no new crop is expected to come until November-end. Prices will shoot further by Rs 10 to Rs 20 and consumers will have to wait until new crop arrives either from Maharashtra or other districts,” said Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/supply-crunch-pushes-onion-prices-to-rs-110/kg/articleshow/78797329.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||7,433 Covid-19 positive cases added to Nagpur's July-September tally||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 positive cases was underreported by 7,433 between July and September in the district due to brazen violations by a private laboratory. Now, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has updated the cases on its portal, which will increase the district’s cumulative cases and also change the city’s statistics like positivity rate (TPR), case fatality rate (CFR) etc. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B in a press release issued on Wednesday said, “A private laboratory did not upload testing data on ICMR’s portal. NMC learnt about it and now ICMR has uploaded 22,258 test results on the portal. Of these, 7,433 are positive tests. Therefore, city’s cumulative cases will increase. There is nothing to worry as these cases are not active and of the past.” The name of the private laboratory that violated rules was not mentioned in the press release. NMC had levied fine of Rs5 lakh on Dhruv Laboratory for lapses in uploading data, and also suspended its permission for testing for some period. NMC collected data which was not uploaded by the laboratory on ICMR portal and sent it to the state government to be forwarded to ICMR for updation. NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said, “These cases are from July till September 15, when the violations were exposed by NMC. All cases have been uploaded on ICMR portal but they will reflect in NMC’s releases for press and social media on Thursday.” Failure of the laboratory to upload 7,433 positive cases on ICMR portal in that time means NMC had no idea about these patients. So, the civic body did not trace close contacts of so many patients and also could not ensure measures to prevent spread of the disease. This laboratory was the first private establishment from Vidarbha to get permission for testing for Covid-19 in first week of May. Admitting that the laboratory’s fault resulted in non-tracing of close contacts at that time, Sharma said, “NMC exposed this and also ensured updation in city’s tally. It is not the case that Dhruv Laboratory did not upload all cases. The laboratory used to upload cases but not all due to various reasons. Now, all private laboratories are regularly uploading cases on ICMR portal.” As per press release of District Civil Surgeon (CS), there were 91,988 in the district as on Wednesday. The tally should be more as ICMR has updated the cases on its portal. This was reflected to a great extent in the press release issued by the state’s public health department. The cases in the district were 98,099 as per this release. Updation of cases now on ICMR portal will also mean the number and statistics like TPR, CFR etc of July to September 15 were not proper. On Wednesday, the district registered 21 deaths taking the toll to 3,000. The district is fourth among 35 in the state after Mumbai (9,912), Pune (6,581) and Thane (5,238) to register 3,000 fatalities. If population is considered, the district stands at fifth position. Nashik is at fourth position and has less cases and deaths compared to the district. Among the 3,000 deceased, 2,092 were residents of the city, 535 of rural parts of the district, and 373 from other districts who tested positive and died here. Actually, the fatalities were more than 3,000 as on Wednesday since the data of CS and NMC differs to a great extent. CS had reconciled positive cases to match with the data of NMC but is yet to consider difference in number of deaths. The span between each 100 deaths in the district has increased with decline in number of fatalities from beginning of October. During peak of Covid-19 in last two weeks of August and entire September month, 100 deaths were registered in a span of 1-3 days. The latest span between 2,900 and 3,000 deaths took five days. MONTH-WISE DEATHS Month — Cases — Progressive March — 0-------------0 April----- 2-------------2 May----- 9-------------11 June----- 14-----------25 July------ 101----------126 August---919--------1,045 Sept-----1,465-------2,510 Oct--------490--------3,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7433-covid-19-ve-cases-added-to-dists-july-sept-tally/articleshow/78798730.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt faces flak for withdrawing cases against SFI activists||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government’s move to withdraw several agitation cases against SFI activists, including Nazeem and Sivarenjith, who were involved in serious crimes such as PSC exam fraud and attempt to murder of their collegemate has kicked up a new political controversy. In the past two weeks, the prosecution has filed withdrawal petitions before courts here in numerous cases in which SFI and DYFI activists were involved. Ironically, some of those cases also involve charges under Prevention of Destruction of Public Property Act. Barely a month ago, the chief judicial magistrate, while considering withdrawal petition of LDF MLAs who were involved in the pandemonium inside state legislative assembly, held that withdrawing cases involving PDPP Act would send a bad message to the society . According to sources, one of the cases the prosecution has sought withdrawal pertains to vandalism of a police vehicle during a political agitation in 2015 in which Naseem, a former office-bearer of SFI unit in University College, is an accused. Another case pertains to a political violence reported on University College campus in which another SFI leader Sivarenjith is an accused. Both are prime accused in the attempt to murder case of their collegemate Akhil Chandran as well as in the PSC exam fraud case. District government pleader Vembaym A Hakkim said filing of withdrawal petitions is a normal phenomenon. “Normally, the accused would approach government with a plea and government would forward it to the prosecutor concerned. The prosecutor would then discuss it with police and if latter do not have any evidence against them, then they would file withdrawal petition,” he said. BJP state president K Surendran said this was proof that the violence unleashed by SFI activists across the state had the backing of senior CPM leaders and government itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-withdrawalpetitions-on-sfiactivists-draws-flak/articleshow/78795903.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Plasma therapy saved lives of over 2,000 Covid patients in Delhi, says Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday batted for continuing the convalescent plasma therapy for Covid treatment, pointing out that over 2,000 patients had benefitted from it in Delhi. Indian Medical Research Organistaion (ICMR) chief Dr Balram Bhargava on Tuesday said the therapy was likely to be off the standard treatment protocol for management of Covid-19 as it had been ineffective in reducing mortality among severe patients. The health minister, however, said, “No breakthrough has been made in the ICMR-AIIMS study. We have been doing plasma therapy trials with their due permissions. More than 2,000 people have been given plasma in Delhi and it has saved their life. I am myself an example, it helped save my life,” said Jain, who was administered the therapy in June. “You should ask family members of those patients who were given the plasma therapy.” Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha said that in a situation where no definitive therapy existed, it was a perfunctory act to remove the convalescent plasma therapy from the clinical management protocol based on a single study in which even antibody titers of plasma were not taken into account. Delhi government opened its first plasma bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in the first week of July, followed by another bank at Lok Nayak Hospital. Many patients have also got convalescent plasma directly from donors, said Jain. Chadha tweeted, “World’s largest observational study on convalescent plasma therapy, conducted on 35,322 Covid patients by Mayo Clinic (in US), reported favourable outcomes with lower mortality in patients who received the therapy early in the course of disease with higher levels of antibodies.” In April, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the plasma therapy tried on four serious Covid patients at Lok Nayak Hospital had yielded encouraging results. It prompted Delhi government to seek permission from the Centre to use the therapy on all serious patients. Jain said the capital’s positivity rate was 6.32% on Tuesday and the death rate 1.13%. The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is stable, he stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plasma-therapy-saved-lives-of-over-2k-covid-patients-in-delhi-says-jain/articleshow/78797321.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra blocks CBI from probing cases in state without its nod||MUMBAI: A day after the CBI responded with speed to a request from UP police and orders from the Centre to take over a ‘TRP scam’ probe in Lucknow, the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government on Wednesday blocked the federal agency from investigating any case in Maharashtra without the prior consent of the state or the permission of the higher judiciary. The Sena-NCP-Congress government’s order represents a clear escalation of tensions with the BJP-led government in New Delhi and is based, according to the state’s public works minister Ashok Chavan, on an apprehension—as reported by this paper on Tuesday—that the CBI might seek to wade into the Mumbai police’s investigation of alleged manipulation of viewership ratings by Republic TV and four other channels. Few state governments have chosen to exercise the power to withdraw “general consent” to the CBI to investigate cases within their geographical jurisdiction. Maharashtra is the fourth, besides WB, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh—all opposition ruled. The CBI is governed by the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, which makes consent of a state government mandatory for conducting investigation in that state. Maharashtra has withdrawn the consent it had given on February 22, 1989. The decision to block the CBI was taken at a meeting of CM Thackeray with the public works minister, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, principal advisor to the chief minister Ajoy Mehta and the CM’s additional chief secretary Ashish Kumar Singh. Mumbai: A day after the CBI responded with speed to a request from UP police and orders from the Centre to take over a ‘TRP scam’ probe in Lucknow, the Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government on Wednesday blocked the federal agency from investigating any case in Maharashtra without the prior consent of the state or the permission of the higher judiciary. The Sena-NCP-Congress government’s order represents a clear escalation of tensions with the BJP-led government in New Delhi and is based, according to the state’s public works minister Ashok Chavan, on an apprehension—as reported by this paper on Tuesday—that the CBI might seek to wade into the Mumbai police’s investigation of alleged manipulation of viewership ratings by Republic TV and four other channels. Few state governments have chosen to exercise the power to withdraw “general consent” to the CBI to investigate cases within their geographical jurisdiction. Maharashtra is the fourth, besides WB, Rajasthan, and Chhattisgarh—all opposition ruled. The CBI is governed by the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, which makes consent of a state government mandatory for conducting investigation in that state. Maharashtra has withdrawn the consent it had given on February 22, 1989. The decision to block the CBI was taken at a meeting of CM Thackeray with the public works minister, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, principal advisor to the chief minister Ajoy Mehta and the CM’s additional chief secretary Ashish Kumar Singh. Chavan told TOI that after deliberations, it was decided that the consent granted to CBI should be withdrawn with immediate effect in the larger interests of the state. “We did discuss the ongoing probe into the TRP scam. Fears were expressed that CBI may take over the probe, therefore it was felt that consent granted to CBI in 1989 should be withdrawn. I am told Maharashtra is among the few states that have withdrawn consent,’’ Chavan said. As a result, CBI will not be able to unilaterally step in to inquire into the TRP scam, a senior government official said. TOI in its edition of Tuesday had reported police officials in Mumbai saying “they would not be surprised if CBI attempted to take over their case on grounds that the alleged TRP scam cuts across state boundaries”. “They said they would resist such a move. The coalition government has been at odds with the BJP-led government at the Centre over a number of issues, and this could become the latest flashpoint,” the report had added. In a petition before Bombay high court on Monday, Republic TV had sought the transfer of the Mumbai police case to CBI. Chavan alleged that in the recent past, it had been seen that the NDA government was “interfering too much in the day-to-day affairs of state governments, particularly the non-BJP-ruled states”. “It’s not an acceptable situation, we are a democratically elected government and it is wrong to interfere,” he said. The minister said it appeared to be the “political agenda” of the NDA government to “create trouble for non-BJP ruled state governments.” “When Mumbai police are doing the finest job not only in the TRP but in all cases, why we should entrust the probe to CBI? It is blatantly wrong to undermine the professional competence of the Mumbai police. I am sure the probe into the TRP scam will be taken to its logical end,” Chavan noted, adding, “Of course, we have no objection if the probe is entrusted to the CBI following the directives of the high court or Supreme Court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-blocks-cbi-from-probing-cases-in-state-without-its-nod/articleshow/78798727.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman flees hospital after positive test; husband missing too||NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old woman who tested positive for the novel coronavirus at AIIMS on Sunday went missing from the hospital after she was told that she would be sent to a dedicated Covid centre for treatment. Two days later, her husband, a suspected Covid patient, also went missing. Police are searching for the couple. Her husband had on Monday also lodged a missing complaint for his wife at the Greater Kailash police station. Police, however, suspected he was aware of her whereabouts. The couple lived at a rented house in south Delhi’s Zamrudpur village. While the man works as a housekeeper at a restaurant in Greater Kailash, his wife is a homemaker. On Sunday, the couple went to AIIMS to get their Covid tests done. While the woman tested positive, test result of her husband was still awaited. After she was told by the doctors that she would be sent to a dedicated facility, she fled the hospital. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that her husband was informed and he pretended that his wife had gone missing. “Our initial probe suggests that while she was being searched at the hospital, she reached her rented house in Zamrudpur from where she went to Muraina, her maternal house,” he added. A day after, the woman’s husband had approached police and got a missing complaint lodged. However, on Wednesday, it was found that the man also could not be located. Police suspect that he has also left for Muraina. Teams have been formed to arrest the woman and trace her husband. Investigating officers said that the couple’s family members’ contacts were obtained and during questioning, they confirmed that she was on her way to Muraina. A case under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) has been registered against her. A police officer said it was being probed if the husband helped her escape. “If found involved, he will also face legal action,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-flees-hosp-after-ve-test-husband-missing-too/articleshow/78797351.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||WBPCB will try out new immersion model this year to stem river pollution||KOLKATA: West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) has developed a model for idol immersion by taking over two large water bodies in north and east Kolkata. The water bodies — Debi Ghat in Lake Gardens and No. 4 tank at Dum Dum Parkhave — been fenced. Systems to retrieve idols immediately after the immersion and round the clock monitoring of vital environmental parameters of the water, air and soil have been put in place. The model paves the way for a complete halt of idol immersion in the Hooghly and other rivers. “If the model is successful, we will replicate it across the state for all idol immersions,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. The move is to comply with the order of the National Mission for Clean Ganga, which has prohibited immersion in the Ganga and its tributaries. In 2019, the state had sought exemption from the blanket ban citing the 2018 Bengal environment department notification to minimize the damage to the Ganga and its tributaries during immersion. “All urban local bodies (ULBs) were asked to follow the 2018 notification. They will follow the KMC model of immersion, where the idol structures were retrieved immediately after the immersion,” said Rudra. “The model is to improve the system further,” said WBPCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar.  “There will be a removable synthetic liner at the spot of immersion to remove all residues. The toxicity of the residue will also be examined, said an officer. All these findings will help us to work out the details of SOPs for idol immersion,” an officer said. “To sustain the clean air that we achieved during the lockdown, we shall resume the use of mobile sprinklers on streets from November,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wbpcb-will-try-out-new-immersion-model-this-yr-to-stem-river-pollution/articleshow/78797328.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||River that ran through Thar desert 1,72,000 years ago found||NEW DELHI: An international team of researchers has found a“lost” river that ran through the central Thar desert, near Bikaner, 1,72,000 years ago. The river was likely a lifeline for Stone Age populations, helping them thrive in what is now an arid region, while also serving as an important corridor for human migration, according to the research which represents the oldest directly dated phase of river activity in the Thar region. The new findings — published online in the ‘Quaternary Science Reviews’ journal ahead of its print publication — push back the previous evidence for river activity in Thar by up to 80,000 years. Researchers from Germany’s Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History (MPI-SHH), Anna University (Chennai) and Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER) in Kolkata studied deposits of river sands and gravels exposed by quarrying activity near Nal village, outsideBikaner, in 2014 and 2019. “The key method we used is luminescence dating that enables us to calculate the age at which grains of quartz in river sands were last exposed to light,” James Blinkhorn at the MPI-SHH told TOI. Flat desert around the study site. (Photo credit: James Blinkhorn)“The previously oldest, well dated evidence for river activity in the Thar comes from the Luni Valley, which was active 80,00090,000 years ago, with comparable evidence from further south in the Mahi, Sabarmati and Orsang valleys, where similar evidence for fluvial activity stretches back to 100 thousand years ago,” said Blinkhorn. According to Hema Achyuthan, professor at Institute for Ocean Management, Anna University: “Thar may be a desert now but there are several paleo channels — where rivers would have once flown — in the region that are buried by sand dunes. In certain places, such as Nal, the gravel deposits are exposed and that helped us directly date one such river system for the first time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/river-that-ran-through-thar-desert-172000-years-ago-found/articleshow/78799119.cms||Ruchika Uniyal
October 22, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi municipal corporation for privatisation of core obligatory services||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation is now considering the privatisation of some of its core obligatory services — sweeping, desilting of drains and cleaning of toilets. The civic body proposes to outsource these to private companies as a pilot in the Kakrola ward. After SDMC handed over the transportation of garbage in most of its zones to private concessionaires in the last decade, its department of environment management services, which manages sanitation services, has listed the expenses and benefits of the one-year pilot project in the ward, which falls in the Najafgarh zone. The Kakrola ward comprises areas such as Hari Vihar, Suraj Vihar, Tara Nagar, Patel Garden, parts of Dwarka Sector 14 and 16, and some settlement and transit camps. The proposal is to outsource sweeping, cleaning of toilets and desilting of drains. It has been estimated that the project will cost at least Rs 12.1 crore for a year and will cover 1.1 crore square feet of sweeping area, 5.7 lakh running feet of drains less than 4 ft in width and maintenance of 112 toilet seats in public or community toilet complexes in the ward. The SDMC commissioner has admitted that the “required level of satisfaction of work with respect to quality has generally not been achieved” in maintenance work, a grouse often repeated by the public and opposition leaders alike in the House. To make the private agency accountable, some penalties, such Rs 440 per toilet seat per day unattended, have been proposed. “The SDMC Standing Committee will consider the proposal and if it clears it, then then we will issue tenders,” said an official. Sanjay Gahlot, head of Delhi Commission for Safai Karamcharis, expressed opposition to the privatisation of sanitation work because it was an essential service and couldn’t be privatised as per Supreme Court guidelines. “Municipal bodies are taking steps to privatise the work done by safai karamcharis. At the same time, thousands working for SDMC for over 20 years aren’t being regularised,” accused Gahlot, adding that the panel will request the lieutenant governor to take action if its summons to the commissioners of the three civic body is ignored. Anamika Singh, mayor of SDMC, said NGOs and private agencies meeting the terms and conditions for the project will take over the specified services, but no step will be taken that is against the interest of the existing sanitation workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pointer-to-future-a-private-ward/articleshow/78797371.cms||Paras Singh
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Most rainwater harvesting pits dysfunctional||Hyderabad: Multiple attempts by the government to ensure rain water harvesting pits in houses and parks has been unsuccessful. Most of the rain water harvesting pits in apartments and houses are dysfunctional. As rain water harvesting pits is mandatory for obtaining occupancy certificate, builders show an area marked for it, but pits are not maintained thereafter by apartment associations. In several apartments, reinforced concrete and coarse mesh which are used in RWH pit construction are not replaced. In several housing societies and apartment complexes pipes connecting the terrace and harvesting pits are broken and debris and silt have collected in the pipes over the years. Water from the terrace is not even flowing to the ground. “Onus of maintaining pits lies with apartment association and residents. GHMC checks for pits while issuing occupancy certificates,” said GHMC Commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-rainwater-harvesting-pits-dysfunctional/articleshow/78797364.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Three hurt after boulders roll down Indrakeeladri hill||Vijayawada: Three people were injured after huge boulders loosened and fell down the Indrakeeladri hill on Wednesday following heavy rains in the past one week.  The tragedy could have been a major one had the police not cleared the area for security reasons ahead of the visit of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Kanaka Durga temple. Only a handful of people were at the spot when the landslide occurred. The chief minister later offered silk clothes to the presiding deity. The injured were admitted to hospital. Later, the chief minister visited the spot of the landslide and inspected the damage. The incident occurred at 2.59 pm when authorities were waiting to welcome the chief minister. Huge boulders fell near the shed erected beside the media point. A part of the shed caved in. Fire, police and disaster response forces rushed to the spot to clear the boulders and the caved-in shed. Three of the temple workers suffered minor injuries. “We are fortunate that the landslide happened when there was no crowding of people. Usually hundreds of devotees gather at the place beside the media point to take the prasadam. But police didn’t permit anyone today due to security restrictions in view of the chief minister’s visit. This has saved many lives. Fire and police had to struggle to clear boulders as they are quite large,” said temple trust board chairman Paula Somi Naidu. After the ghat road was cleared of the debris, the convoy of the chief minister was allowed. Once the chief minister left the temple, officials began removing the boulders. Temple authorities said there was no loss of life. District collector A Md Imtiaz said the operation will continue till Thursday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-hurt-after-boulders-roll-down-indrakeeladri-hill/articleshow/78795916.cms||Venu Lanka
October 22, 2020||Kochi||Gandhi peace award for Kila ex-director Balan||Thrissur: Prof P P Balan, former director of Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA), has been selected for the prestigious Mahatma Gandhi international award for reconciliation and peace. The award was instituted jointly by the Gandhi Development Trust (South Africa), M K Gandhi Institute for Nonviolence (Memphis, USA) and Mahatma Gandhi Foundation (India). The award is given since 2003, which was 100th year of the launch of “Indian Opinion” — the first newspaper started by Mahatma Gandhi. The past winners of the award include Nelson Mandela, Thabo Mbeki, Kenneth Kaunda, Aung San Suu Kyi, Dalai Lama and Enuga Sreenivasulu Reddy. Prof Balan, who was the director of KILA for 11 years, is a senior consultant in the Union ministry of panchayat raj. He was also the director of the centre for research in rural and industrial development. “He has been actively involved for the last 25 years in developing Indian villages, and the villages in Bhutan and Sri Lanka,’’ said a statement from the Gandhi Development Trust. The award will be symbolically presented to him at a webinar organised by the trust on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gandhi-peace-award-for-kila-ex-director-balan/articleshow/78795926.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Delhi||How home chefs in Delhi are satiating pujo craving||NEW DELHI: Durga Puja is not just a time to worship the goddess. It is an occasion for Bengalis to sate their craze for their community cuisine. The Covid pandemic may have led to the cancellation of traditional food stalls at pujo grounds, but home chefs across Delhi have smartly stepped in to fill the vacuum, ferrying speciality Bengali dishes to the expectant families. Within days of sending their ‘Pujo Special’ menus in social media groups, each of these cooks had to send sold out’ messages, so stupendous has the demand been. Sanhita Dasgupta, a lawyer-turned-home chef, was never busier even when she was handling her court briefs. Surveying the demand list for her Saptami, Ashtami and Navami menus, Dasgupta revealed that within 30 minutes of posting her menus, the 20 daily slots were sold out, leaving a waiting list of 47 people craving her vegetarian Bengali dishes, all home-cooked and not served in commercial establishments. The rush for Bengali food surprised all, included Mrinalini Mazumdar. She didn’t realise there would be so many takers for it when she convinced her father, Dipayan Mazumdar, to turn his hobby of turning out Bengali dishes into a pujo-time profit prospect. Having got husband Amit to use his knowledge in hospitality industry to profit a family venture, Mrinalini said, “Like most Bengalis, we are missing the bhog and the pandals. That’s why we floated the ‘Pandal Hopper’s Menu’ and ‘Khichuri Menu’ and the orders haven’t stopped.” Named Babo’s Home Kitchen, for Dipayan, called so fondly at home, the trio is working overtime to meet the weekend craving for chanar dalna, keema ghugni, luchi, special khichuri and bhaja platter. The mother-daughter duo of Leena and Antara Daniels weren’t sure if their style of Bengali cuisine would be accepted in the city. But so far, their Park Street Khana food delivery in Saket has been appreciated by all customers. From kosha mangsho and shorshe maach to pork vindaloo and tenderloin pot roast, the menu, Antara explained, reflected the food scene on the eponymous street in Kolkata. The popular locality of Kolkata’s Tangra too has found a culinary representative in Sharmistha Mukherjee-Cheema. She started Tangra-The Chinese Kitchen in July, knowing that many Bengalis accept the spicy deep-fried Chinese food as their own, evidenced in the staple offering of biryani and Kolkata-style Chinese dishes at every pujo food stall. Cheema says her weekend is booked with incessant orders for Manchurian dishes, noodles and chilli chicken from her Green Park kitchen. Architect and interior designer Sonali Chatterji, who started her home delivery Paanch Phoran five years ago in Gurgaon, is well set to meet the average weekend demand of 100 meals a day. With no pujo or pandals to satisfy the craving for eastern morsels, everyone from housing societies to food lovers searched for options, and left home chefs like her scurrying to meet the mega orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-home-chefs-are-satiating-pujo-craving/articleshow/78797397.cms||Amin Ali
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC stays arrest of Mukhtar’s sons in land grabbing case||LUCKNOW: In a major relief to sons of jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari, a Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Wednesday stayed their arrest in the alleged Dalibagh land grabbing case. It, however, directed the duo, Abbas and Umar, to cooperate in the investigation. A bench of Justice DK Upadhyay and Justice Saroj Yadav earlier termed the argument of advocate general Raghvendra Singh as fallacious and said that the petitioners were able to make out a case for interim relief. Challenging an FIR lodged with the Hazartganj police, Ansaris had engaged a battery of top lawyers, including senior advocates JN Mathur, HGS Parihar and Arun Sinha, who argued that the FIR did not disclose commission of cognizance offence as Ansaris were not even born when the alleged offences were said to have been committed. “The FIR was lodged due to malafide reasons,” stressed Mathur. Opposing the plea, the AG argued that the petition was not maintainable and that Ansaris had not come to court with clean hands. The FIR was lodged with Hazratganj police on August 27, 2020, stating that the petitioners had committed cheating and forgery with regard to a land in posh Dalibagh area and got a map sanctioned by LDA in fraudulent manner for the purpose of raising construction on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-stays-arrest-of-mukhtars-sons-in-land-grabbing-case/articleshow/78798317.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||First time in October: More Covid cases, less recoveries in a day||NAGPUR: The number of new Covid-19 patients was higher than those who recovered in Vidarbha on Wednesday. This happened for the first time in October. The region reported 1,325 new cases while 1,076 patients recovered from 11 districts on Wednesday. Overall, Vidarbha’s total count reached 1,81,102, with 1,60,091 of them recovered. The death toll, which had gone down for a day on Wednesday, jumped with 10 of the 11 districts reporting 39 deaths. Now, Vidarbha’s death toll has gone up to 4,918. Despite less number of patients recovering during the day, the recovery rate continued to be above 88% which is more than the state average and almost equal to the national average. The case fatality rate remained at 2.71% which is higher than both state and national averages. Death rate is not reducing in Vidarbha which is worrisome. Except Akola, all districts reported deaths. Nagpur reported 21 deaths taking the toll of the district to 3,000. It was followed by Bhandara (4), Buldhana (3), Gadchiroli (2), Amravati (2), Yavatmal (2), Washim (2), Wardha (1), Gondia (1), and Chandrapur (1). Gadchiroli: On Wednesday, two deaths and 105 new cases were reported while 67 patients were discharged. The district now has 840 active cases, while the caseload has reached 4,865. The deceased included a 66-year-old woman and a 46-year-old man. So far, 41 have succumbed to the disease while 3,984 defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: The day’s tally rose by 19 while 28 recovered from Covid-19. The death too jumped to 119 after two more fatalities were reported. The new cases took the tally to 5470 while the discharged rose total count to 4,702. There are 648 actives cases here. Buldhana: Three patients died while 75 persons tested positive through RT-PCRT at labs and rapid antigen test (RAT) kits. A meagre 27 recovered and were discharged on Wednesday. According to official data, the district now has 8,695 cases, 8034 recoveries, 117 deaths and 544 active cases. Bhandara: At 93, recoveries here surpassed new cases which were 73. But four deaths were reported too taking the toll to 197. The district has 977 active cases. The total caseload is 7,675 cases while the number of discharged patients is 6,501. Gondia: One death and 149 new cases were reported while 65 were discharged on Wednesday. The new positive patients took the tally to 8,968 and death toll to 113. The recoveries are 7,766 while 1,089 are active cases. Akola: This remained the only district in Vidarbha to not report any Covid death on Wednesday. At the same time, just 23 new cases were detected and 19 recoveries were reported. The case tally climbed to 8,145. So far, 266 people have died here of Covid. With 19 discharged, the tally touched 7,416. There are 463 active patients in the district. Amravati: The fact that 1,099 of the total 1,470 beds available in the district for Covid patients are lying vacant augurs well for the district. Total 86 new cases were reported on Wednesday to take the case load to 15,685. The civil surgeon’s office report recorded two deaths to take the toll to 354. As many as 73 were discharged after recovery taking the total to 14,232 and recovery rate to 90.74%. There are 1,093 active cases here, including 527 in home isolation. Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 deaths including those of 45 and 63-year-old women from the city. In the last 24 hours, 653 test reports have been received of which 121 were found positive. Total 496 are active patients in the district. The caseload of the district is 9,692 of which 8,636 have been discharged. On Wednesday, 37 positive patients were discharged. The death toll has reached 312. Wardha: The caseload of the district reached 5,929 with 45 new cases. A 70-year-old man from Hinganghat too died due to coronavirus taking the toll to 191. There are 675 patients here under treatment. The new cases were from Wardha (17), Hinganghat (16), Selu (4), Deoli and Arvi (3 each) and Karanja (2). Meanwhile, 50 patients were discharged after recovery. So far, 5,063 have defeated Covid in the district. Chandrapur: Wednesday turned out to be a day of mixed outcome in terms of Covid-19. While there were 183 new cases in the district, 160 got discharged while one person succumbed to the disease. The caseload has now reached 13,990. Total recoveries now stand ar 10,861. The death toll has climbed to 209 while 2,920 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-time-in-october-more-cases-less-recoveries-in-a-day/articleshow/78797434.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Housing societies in Hyderabad tap rainwater for summer||HYDERABAD: The recent rains have caused havoc across the city and surrounding areas, but some people are trying to salvage at least something from the tragedy. This, courtesy in-house rain water harvesting pits – a mandatory feature ignored by many while building homes. Residents of these properties said that the water stored during the rains is enough to help them sail through the next summer. “Our housing society consists of 40 flats and the roof top has the capacity to divert more than 14 lakh litres of water. During this week, over one lakh litre of water has been saved. The water has already been diverted to the sump and rain water harvesting pits. This summer we will not need to procure even one tanker,” said G Aditya member from SLV Pride, Ameenpur where residents usually need to buy 30 tankers per month, during summer, at the cost of Rs 25,000. The cost of constructing the pit, Aditya said, was Rs 80,000. Incidentally, while this building managed to use the rain water to their advantage, many homes in the same locality saw the recent rain water gush into their cellars and leave vehicles damaged. In Financial District, residents of My Home Vihanga managed to conserve water. “Three months ago we decided to save more water than previous years. We built an additional pit near a bore. Now we are certain that dependency on tankers in coming months and summer will drop drastically, because of this,” said Praveen Rao, secretary of the community Serene County, Gachibowli is also one of the housing societies which ensures rain water is not wastesd. “Our society was lauded by burecarats for rain water harvesting and usage of surplus rain water. I request all the housing socities to invest in recycling and water conservation,” said Rama Raju president of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/housing-societies-in-city-tap-rainwater-for-summer/articleshow/78797415.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Appoint legal advisers for education department to avoid wrong orders: Madras HC||MADURAI: The Madras high court has suggestedt o the state government to consider appointing legal advisors for the school education department in all districts, to obtain proper legal advice before the authorities pass any orders. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that it is an admitted fact that in cases filed before the principal seat as well as the Madurai bench, a majority are related to the education department. Because of lack of proper legal advice, many times, wrong orders are being passed due to which the interest of the department is affected. Therefore, it is appropriate to have a legal advisor. The judges also suo motu impleaded the secretary of the school education department as a respondent and directed to take a decision in this regard and file a report before the court on October 28. The court was hearing a petition filed by the school education department to condone the delay of 543 days in filing a writ appeal with regard to surplus teachers challenging a single judge’s order, which was passed in 2018. The judges observed that though the petition before the single judge was filed in 2018 itself, the authorities had filed the appeal along with the condone delay petition only in 2019. “This shows the lethargic attitude of the education department and the petitioners cannot put the department as well as the state’s interest in jeopardy. The officials are supposed to act swiftly, especially, when it affects the state’s interest and because of the red tapism, belatedly, the appeals are filed,” observed the judges. Though no proper explanation was given for filing the appeal after a huge delay, taking into consideration the issue of surplus teachers, the court feels that the matter must be dealt with immediately, the judges said and added that it was brought to the notice of the court that around 6,000 secondary grade teachers, 1,750 BT assistants and 100 PG assistants are found to be surplus. The government has to spend nearly Rs 444 crore every year and people’s money is being wasted for payment of salary to the surplus teachers. Therefore, their services should be utilized properly, said the judges. Observing that some kind of responsibility should be fixed on the officials, the judges said that in many cases, fearing action under contempt of court, the authorities have approached the court by way of appeals, which would cause loss to the government exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/appoint-legal-advisers-for-edu-dept-to-avoid-wrong-orders-hc/articleshow/78797413.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Devasthanam Board case: Confident of winning in Supreme Court, says Subramanian Swamy||DEHRADUN: Senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy who has approached the Supreme Court against the constitution of the Devasthanam Board in Uttarakhand after losing the case in the Uttarakhand high court in July, told TOI on Wednesday that he was confident that the apex court ruling will be in his favour. The matter has been scheduled for hearing on November 6. Swamy said that the fact that Chief Justice (CJ) SA Bobde will hear the case gives him the confidence of winning, adding that the CJ had given judgement in an almost similar case of Nataraja Temple in 2014. Pointing out that the bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justice BS Chauhan in 2014 had set aside the order of the Madras High Court which had transferred the administration of the Natraja Temple to the government in 2009, Swamy said, “The two-judge bench in 2014 maintained that managing the temple is not the work of the government. In case a government finds out that some financial fraud has taken place, it can make a committee to study the case, take recommendations of the priests, and even take over things for a temporary period to clear up all the financial irregularities and then handover it back to the temple. Now, when justice SA Bobde is the chief justice in the apex court, how can I imagine losing the case now?” he added. Incidentally, while hearing the case related to Jagannath Temple in Puri in April 2019, the SC had questioned the government authorities taking over administration of religious places. Swamy added that even in the Uttarakhand HC, the main plea was dismissed but an important part that how come the chief minister was made the owner of the temple properties wasn’t addressed properly. “But before I could ask for a review by the same judge, he retired,” said Swamy who in his plea in the apex court has said that acts like Devasthanam Board are “in violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of India.” Meanwhile, Devasthanam Board CEO Ravinath Raman said that “it is incorrect to say that the constitution of the board will impact the rights and livelihoods of priests.” “A proposal is being prepared which will have elaborate instructions on how disputes between the body and the priests can be resolved and what priests’ rights are. This is nothing new that we are doing as this was already planned that after the formation of the board, clear guidelines will be formulated on the rights of the priests and government in the temple management. The board will ensure that the rights of the priests and other stakeholders in the temple committees are protected and this will also be put up before the state cabinet soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/devasthanam-board-case-confident-of-winning-in-supreme-court-says-swamy/articleshow/78794634.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC orders DVAC raids on all paddy procurement centres||MADURAI: Taking into account the allegations involved in the process of procuring paddy from the farmers, the Madras high court has directed the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) to conduct raids on all the paddy procurement centres in the state. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate A P Suryaprakasam, a resident of Chennai, who sought for a direction to the state government to establish sufficient procurement centres without any delay. The judges observed that subsequent to the orders of this court, DVAC officials conducted raids in a procurement centre at Mayiladuthurai and seized Rs 90,000. Taking cognizance of the submission, the judges directed the DVAC to conduct raids in all centres. During the previous hearing, the court put forth a series of queries: Number of paddy procurement centres established across the state; whether temporary shelters are put up to safeguard the paddy during the rainy season and number of paddy bags which are damaged due to rainfall. The court also sought details as to whether the authorities are demanding bribe from the farmers and whether paddy is procured from private traders instead of farmers. The state government informed that a detailed report was ready but sought time to submit it. The case was adjourned to October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-dvac-raids-on-all-paddy-procurement-centres/articleshow/78797436.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Central team to tour flood-hit areas from today||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday said a central team will tour Telangana on Thursday and Friday to assess the damage in the floods and heavy rains. Talking to reporters, he said officials of agriculture, finance, home, roads and buildings and jal shakti ministries would be part of the team, which would also tour Hyderabad. Stating that the state government has sent a report on the flood damage to the Centre, he said families of the deceased during the floods would get Rs 4 lakh each as decided in the national disaster management rules of 2015. The rules have been clearly laid down for paying compensation in different categories, including loss of household items and clothes, he added. There is an emergency fund for disaster management purposes maintained by both central and state governments. “The central government contributes 75% share, while the rest provided by the state can be utilised immediately,” he said. Criticising minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav for saying that the Centre has not done anything, Kishan Reddy said: “The TRS ministers are making baseless allegations. Rains are continuing and damage can be estimated only after the rains stop. On my request, the central team is coming down to the state immediately despite the incessant rains.” He asked the TRS government to act tough against encroachments along Musi river and improve stormwater drainage network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-to-tour-flood-hit-areas-from-today/articleshow/78797431.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||No deadline for property data upload on Dharani, T tells HC||HYDERABAD: The state on Wednesday informed the high court there was no deadline for citizens to upload their non-agricultural property particulars on Dharani portal. Advocate general BS Prasad told a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that it is a continuous process and there was no urgency to rush. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by advocate Gopal Sharma questioning the state’s latest initiative aimed at streamlining the system. His counsel Sriram Polali said the state was resorting to the exercise without enacting any law and it went against a nine-judge bench judgement of Supreme Court and runs contrary to the provisions of the Article 300-A of the Constitution. “The state is seeking private details of persons like caste, Aadhaar number etc and all of them are uploaded on to a public domain,” he said, expressing doubts over the protection available to individuals in the new exercise. Appearing for the petitioner, counsel D Prakash Reddy said the state has not intimated the citizens about the scheme. “The details of caste, etc., cannot be asked,” he said, citing an SC judgment. The bench sought to know from him as to what was wrong if the state insists on furnishing details like caste and Aadhaar to identify a person when, in any case, the same were given out to various officials right from kindergarten. Prakash Reddy said the state did not bring out any law to implement Dharani. Not even an executive instruction to support its action. The senior counsel also alleged the state had given 15-day time to the people to upload details of their properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-deadline-for-property-data-upload-on-dharani-t-tells-hc/articleshow/78797428.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 22, 2020||Goa||No compromises on aviation safety around Goa airport, says Navy||PANAJI: Aviation safety around Goa International Airport, which serves as a front-line naval air base, is of paramount concern and will not be compromised, said the Indian Navy as it refuted allegations that it is “restricting development” in Goa. In an official statement, the Navy said that issuing clearance for construction around the aerodrome is driven by international safety standards, and allegations of hindering development are unfounded and uncalled for. The navy’s statement comes several weeks after the Mormugao planning & development authority accused it of restricting development. MPDA chairman Clafasio Dias said that they would appeal to the Supreme Court against the ministry of civil aviation (height restrictions for safeguarding of aircraft operations) rules, 2015, which restrict the height of buildings around airports. The rules require builders to obtain NOCs from airport operating authorities for construction in the vicinity of airfields, which in Goa’s case is the Indian Navy. “The Indian Navy has simplified the process of obtaining NOCs to the extent possible by processing all NOCs through MPDA or respective panchayats,” the Navy statement said. “MPDA and concerned panchayats have been provided all details and documentation specimens for applying for NOC, including colour-coded zoning map prepared in accordance with ministry of civil aviation (MOCA) guidelines.” The navy also said that safety standards cannot be relaxed based on the nature or purpose of a building. It added that it completely understands the necessity of constructing a storm shelter in Zuarinagar, but added that the design has to be in accordance with the colour-coded zoning map due to its location near the airport. “An acceptable design has now been received by the navy, and is being processed on fast track. For the record, all naval and government constructions in the vicinity of the airport are strictly guided by the MOCA restrictions,” the statement said. Provisions mandating issue of NOCs are beyond the scope of amendment by the Indian Navy and would continue to be in force unless international civil aviation safety norms are amended, or the navy is directed by a higher authority to relax the regulations in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-compromises-on-aviation-safety-around-goa-airport-says-navy/articleshow/78798329.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Bengaluru||ECMO therapy shows no benefits; 4/15 patients critical, rest have died in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Some private hospitals have put Covid-19 patients with severe breathing difficulties — who do not improve on ventilator — on ECMO, but the results have been less than encouraging. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) therapy uses a machine to pump and oxygenate blood outside the patient’s body, replacing functions of the lungs and heart. It is usually a last-ditch measure for patients whose lungs cannot function normally. The therapy came into the limelight when late playback singer SP Balasubrahmanyam was put on the machine. While no government hospital has the facility, a handful of private corporate hospitals have used it on Covid patients. Data from these private hospitals in Bengaluru show 15 Covid patients were put on ECMO. While three are still undergoing treatment and one patient was airlifted to a hospital in Hyderabad, the others did not survive. Of the three still on ECMO, one, at Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, was put on the machine 23 days ago. An artificial support of the highest nature, ECMO is used only when ventilators cannot support a failing lung. Some hospitals have decided not to try ECMO on Covid-19 patients since there is no evidence of its benefits. Two branches of Apollo Hospitals put a total 10 patients on ECMO and eight of them died. “ECMO is fraught with risks as it requires high expertise, advanced infrastructure and high cost,” said Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology at Apollo Hospitals. “Putting Covid patients on ECMOs is riskier than putting non-Covid patients on the machine due to many issues. The value addition to the already high mortality of Covid acute respiratory distress syndrome has been small. Done in time, it has a slightly greater value, but usually due to the high cost and stakes, it is used when everything else has failed.” Dr Mehta revealed the therapy is only offered to relatively younger people where all possible efforts are justified. However, hospitals like Narayana Health, Vikram, Sagar, Sakra World and Fortis have not treated any Covid patient with ECMO so far, despite being capable. “It’s a conscious decision as there are no guidelines on using it on Covid patients plus there is no high degree of success,” Dr Murali Chakravarthy, chairman, Central Infection Prevention and Control Committee, Fortis hospitals, said. “Covid has not been understood completely by doctors so far. What is peculiar about Covid is ‘Happy Hypoxia’, when oxygen levels plummet in patients without any complaints.” Dr Chakravarthy said the number of healthcare workers needed to care for a patient on ECMO is three times more than that required in ICU management. “There is a higher chance of healthcare workers catching the infection,” he said.  Sparsh Hospitals has two ECMO machines for Covid patients, but neither has been used. “Depending on the patient’s condition at the time of initiation, the cost varies,” said Dr Sharan S Patil, chairman, Sparsh Hospitals. “It costs anywhere between Rs 2.5 -Rs 3 lakh, for the initiation. The first four days, it costs Rs 50,000-75,000 per day. Then it drops to Rs 35,000-Rs 45,000 per day. The cost is high because of tests, investigations and consumables used. Among Covid patients, the outcome is not great. We have used it successfully in other cases. To use ECMO, the patient must be young and have no comorbidities. We have not seen such a case so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ecmo-therapy-shows-no-benefits-4/15-patients-critical-rest-have-died/articleshow/78795937.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 22, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: For 1st time, Mumbai’s doubling rate slows to over 100 days||MUMBAI: In one of the gladdest tidings for Mumbai—once the Covid hotspot in India —the doubling rate of the virus in the city has, for the first time, crossed 100 days. Doubling time refers to the period in which cases will multiply to twice the original number. On October 20, Mumbai’s doubling rate rose to 102 days, nearly two-fold from what it was in mid-September, and daily growth rate fell to 0.7%. Incidentally, Maharashtra’s doubling rate too, reached 100 days on October 15. Dr Shashank Joshi, a state Covid-19 task force member, said while this is good, the key to ending a pandemic is the positivity rate. Positivity rate in Mumbai on October 20 was 17.5%. The WHO says positivity rate should be below 5%. R0 consistently under 1 for a few weeks in the cityThis means for every 100 people being tested in Mumbai, over 17 are testing positive. This is still a cause for concern,’’ said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The doubling rate is increasing and daily growth rate of the virus is coming down. These are good signs.’’ He added that BMC would not let its guard down and remain in a state of preparedness as far as quarantine and hospital beds are concerned – more so because more services and facilities are scheduled to open up in the coming few days and educational institutions, too, may reopen shortly. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said the reproductive rate of the virus has consistently been less than 1 for a few weeks in Mumbai. Reproduction number or R0, pronounced ‘R naught’, indicates how contagious the infectious disease is. If R0 is less than one, it means an average of less than one person will be infected by a person with the disease; as the R0 keeps dropping, the pandemic will flatten out, dip and eventually die out. Reproduction rate dropped below 1 in August as well. The doubling rate, too, had then improved to 96 days. However, the mingling of people during the Ganpati festival led to a surge in cases; the doubling rate dropped to 54 days on September 14 from 93 on August 25. During September, number of daily cases in Mumbai continued to increase, with the highest single-day tally of 2,823 recorded on October 8. Daily average climbed to over 2,000 before it dropped to 1,090 on October 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-1st-time-citys-doubling-rate-slows-to-over-100-days/articleshow/78798731.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses plea against cutting trees||MADURAI: The Madras high court has dismissed a plea which sought the Tuticorin Ccrporation not to cut down trees under the guise of infrastructure development, after it was informed that Miyawaki forests are being set up at two places in Tuticorin and 10 saplings are planted for cutting down of every single tree. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K Selva Kumar who sought not to cut the standing trees at the roadsides of Tuticorin town. According to the petitioner, the corporation had cut down nearly 300 trees while they had obtained permission to cut only 64 trees. Corporation commissioner V P Jeyaseelan, who appeared before the court through video-conferencing submitted that they had obtained permission for cutting 260 trees, which are located in three different places. He further submitted that they are uprooting the trees and replanting the same, wherever possible as the success rate of the replanted trees is only 30%. The commissioner also submitted that they are setting up Miyawaki forests in two different places and the project is being carried out under his direct supervision. He also undertook that for cutting one tree, 10 saplings would be planted and they would be maintained properly. Taking cognizance of the fact that the corporation had obtained permission to cut down the trees and following the conditions imposed, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the allegations levelled in the petition are not substantiated. Recording the undertaking given by the commissioner, the judges dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-against-cutting-trees/articleshow/78797441.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Health department readies Covid plan for school restart||AMARAVATI: The state government has asked the education department to take full care in handling children after reopening of the schools. The government directed all district collectors and district educational officers (DEOs) to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are strictly followed in schools. After containing Covid-19 spread across the state, the government does not want the situation to slip out of its hands. Keeping in view of the apprehensions expressed by experts, the government has decided to reopen the schools with full-preparation to keep the virus spread under check. “Since we can’t keep educational institutions completely shut, we are gearing up for the slow and phased manner reopening. We are taking all precautions in such a way that no child or teacher suffer,” said education minister Dr Adimulapu Suresh. The health department has readied a plan to handle reopening of schools. It has asked the education department to ensure that all headmasters followed the Standards Operating Procedure (SOP) to be adopted in all the schools after reopening. “HMs as head of institutions should be more alert and simply follow the guidelines issued as part of SOP to avoid unnecessary troubles,” said Anil Kumar Singhal, principal secretary, health.  Schools will have to put up ‘no mask, no entry’ signs at their entrance while within the premises, posters on use of masks, hand sanitisation and maintaining social distance will be displayed. Schools have been told to sensitise students on appropriate behaviour during assemblies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/health-department-readies-covid-plan-for-school-restart/articleshow/78795651.cms||Samdani MN
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||NBFCs up recovery pressure on auto drivers across Nagpur hit by Covid||NAGPUR: Autorickshaw driver Kamlesh Sahu, who took to street vending after business was down due to Covid, finally gave up his vehicle to bank’s recovery agents a couple of days ago. He was not in a position to pay the EMIs for the last six months. Sahu gave a written undertaking saying he was surrendering the vehicle as he could not repay the loan. “They asked me write down and I agreed because there is a little hope the business may come back to usual soon,” he said Autorickshaw drivers at every parking stand across the city had stories of being hounded by the banks or finance companies’ recovery agents to tell. The major share of autorickshaw finance business is with the non-banking finance companies (NBFCs). “They call and pressure us for repayment every day. The recovery agents also reach our homes and threaten to take away the vehicle. We plead saying it’s difficult to even make two ends meet these days,” says Brijlal at a stand near LIC Square. “Around eight autos plying on this road have been seized,” said another driver. Recently, a meeting was held by district collectorate inviting leaders of autorickshaw drivers’ unions and representatives of finance companies. The latter were asked not to be harsh for recovery. The drivers in turn were also requested to cooperate and start repayment at the earliest. NBFCs executives say they are under pressure to prevent loan accounts turning into non-performing assets (NPAs). “We mainly depend on financing autorickshaws. Large-scale default will leave a hole in the overall balance sheet,” said regional head of a NBFC. NBFCs had extended the moratorium on recovery till August. As the cycle began from September, repayments have been rather low. If loans continue to be defaulted till November, the accounts will become NPA, said a source. “Defaults beyond 90 days have to be treated as NPAs. So there is a pressure to avoid default for three months in a row. This is reason we are running after auto drivers asking them to repay as much as they can,” said a NBFC source. “We are desperately trying to break the default cycle before November,” the source added. Even as NBFCs denied having seized any vehicle, sources in the organization also accepted some drivers were voluntarily surrendering the vehicles. The surrender undertaking keeps the finance companies on the safer side, say the drivers. With this, they can say the vehicle was not forcibly taken away. Dealers said most companies had stopped fresh finance considering the market situation. The three passenger norm has kept the drivers’ earnings low. “In Nagpur, the drivers get decent money if they take in more passengers which is being strictly prohibited these days,” said source in a dealership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nbfcs-up-recovery-pressure-on-auto-drivers-hit-by-covid/articleshow/78797486.cms||Shishir Arya
October 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 a battle that can go on post initial recovery: Docs||Visakhapatnam: Recovery from Covid-19 is a tough challenge but not one that cannot be won, according to doctors. They explained that around 50% of patients are battling mid-to-long-term effects of the infection weeks after their discharge from hospitals. According to doctors, post-recovery effects include neurological and thromboembolic complications. Apart from acute occurrences such as strokes and heart attacks, chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension may also be seen post-recovery. Many sudden deaths among recovered patients have been attributed to acute cardiac events. Interventional neuroradiologist at Medicover Hospitals, Dr Siba Sankar Dalai pointed out that Covid-19 is not only dangerous in its acute phase but can cause severe morbidities and affect mortality even after cure. “Many Covid-19 patients, after two to four weeks of complete cure, have landed up with thromboembolic complications. They are generally present with gangrene of leg, hand and brain stroke,” Dr Dalai said. “Covid-19 attacks not just the lungs but impacts almost all vital organs and leaves behind lingering health issues. Long-term problems are more common among patients who have been hospitalised. Some effects can be severe and disabling in nature. Over 50 % of Covid-19 patients suffer from problems that include breathlessness, chest pain or heart issues, joint pains, vision problems and memory loss months after contracting the virus,” said Apollo Hospitals chief operating officer, Dr S Sami. “Keeping in mind the need for special care for recovered patients, we are starting post-Covid recovery clinics to address the rising number of patients with lingering side-effects. These clinics will be manned by a team of specialists including neurologists and immunologists to help patients deal with the aftermath of Covid-19 and restore them to health,” added Dr Sami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-a-battle-that-can-go-on-post-initial-recovery-docs/articleshow/78795685.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Sankey Tank overflows, 6 lakes full in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With heavy rain lashing the city for the past few days, at least seven lakes are full, spreading cheer among stakeholders. While Sankey Tank overflowed on Tuesday night, Hulimavu, Halagevaderahalli, Ullal, Arekere, Rachenahalli and Sarakki lakes were brimming. Mohan Krishna, chief engineer (lakes), BBMP, said most of the other water bodies are also filled to 90% capacity. “There are no incidents like last year. All lakes are filled with fresh water, which will recharge the groundwater table. It’s been over five years since something like this has happened at Sankey Tank,” he added. Lake activists are pleased at the sight of verdant lakes drawing more than their usual share of avian guests. Annapurna S Kamath, lake activist and founder of Bengaluru Jalaposhan Trust, said, “Jakkur Lake is always full, but rain brings out its real charm. It is like an orchestrated system — the flora and fauna come alive, making it look magnificent.” The 200-year-old lake spread over 160 acres has been a model for Integrated Urban Water Management System — reuse of the city’s wastewater for the ecosystem and groundwater recharge. “With good showers, the lake network is revived. Waterbodies downstream get filled and muck in stormwater drains is washed away,” Kamath said. Mithan Subbaiah, Hulimavu lake activist and member of Hulimavu Kere Trust, said the overall landscape is beautiful. “The cacophony of insects and frogs has become a song for us.” “Cranes and kingfishers are hovering over Halagevaderahalli lake,” said Srikanth R, a resident of Rajarajeshwari Nagar and environmental activist. Freshly de-weeded Agara and Sarakki lakes are a pleasant sight, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sankey-tank-overflows-6-lakes-full/articleshow/78795923.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 22, 2020||Hubballi||In a first, Ballari varsity launches online admission portal||BALLARI: In a bid to help students take virtual admission, Vijayanagar Sri Krishnadevaraya University, Ballari (VSKUB) has launched an online portal for PG admissions. Now, students living in distant places can easily log in to the portal and apply for their choice of PG course without coming to the college. They will also be given detailed information of seats available in different streams and other details. Vice chancellor Siddu P Alagur told TOI, “We have launched the online admission portal to ensure the safety of students during the pandemic. Ours is the first university in the state to offer online admission and the process has begun.” “The online admission is open for all 26 PG courses. Interested students need to register their names in the portal. Once registered, they are allowed to fill an online application of their choice of course. This portal is very user-friendly. Students who have completed their degrees in our university’s affiliated colleges need not worry about uploading their marks cards as we have stored their data. Students from other universities have to upload their marks card and other details while filing the application,” he added. “The last date to fill the application is October 23. We will announce a merit list on October 26 after doing a mock drill of allotment of seats and the final first list of merit students will be announced on October 28. The process of online payment begins after students accept the seat allotted to them,” said Alagur. This portal has been designed on the lines of sites developed to allot engineering and medical seats across the state. Alagur said more than 1,500 students have registered for admission in the last four days. “We are also planning to introduce a similar system for admission in our affiliated degree colleges,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-a-first-ballari-varsity-launches-online-admission-portal/articleshow/78795220.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Worried over breaches, government to fortify Hyderabad lakes||HYDERABAD: With several lakes and tanks breaching during the heavy rains, Telangana government has constituted 15 special teams to inspect all the lakes in Hyderabad, take up repairs like strengthening of the bund to prevent untoward incidents and arrest breaches to the water bodies. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday spoke to principal secretary of water resources department Rajat Kumar over phone and asked the officials to be on high alert to ensure that tanks and lakes do not suffer breaches in the rains and floods. “Hyderabad has received unprecedented rainfall which has not been seen in the last 100 years. Besides the floodwater, water from the tanks in surrounding areas has also entered the city. All the tanks are overflowing now. The Met department forecast says there are chances of heavy rains. Against this backdrop, the entire official machinery should be on a high alert,” KCR said. He said the tanks have reached the full tank level (FTL) at several places and there is every likelihood of these tanks getting breached and causing more damage. KCR said the teams should examine every tank and lake in the city. “Identify the tanks that may breach and take precautionary measures. Whenever tanks breach, repair them. Alert people in the low-lying areas and those residing in vulnerable places. Shift them to safer places immediately,” the CM instructed the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worried-over-breaches-govt-to-fortify-city-lakes/articleshow/78797438.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||HC dismisses former Tullur tahsildar plea||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday dismissed the petition moved by former tahsildar of Tullur, Anne Sudheer, and one Brahmananda Reddy, seeking the quashing of an FIR registered against them by the state crime investigation department (CID). Both are facing allegations of cheating by fraudulently purchasing assigned land in the capital city area from SC and ST farmers. After CID registered a case against them, Sudheer and Reddy moved the high court seeking to quash the case, claiming it was registered without prima facie evidence and based on false allegations. The high court had earlier issued an interim order stalling further proceedings against them. The government then moved Supreme Court challenging the high court order. The apex court, after hearing the matter, observed that stalling further proceedings may not be the correct decision and suggested the high court to complete hearing on the petition expeditiously. Justice C Praveen Kumar, after considering the arguments of the petitioners and the CID, dismissed the petition moved by Sudheer which will now pave the way for the CID to proceed with its investigation into the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-dismisses-former-tullur-tahsildar-plea/articleshow/78795797.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Overnight rain pummels 30 wards in west Bengaluru, turns roads slushy||BENGALURU: Nearly 30 wards in west Bengaluru bore the brunt of heavy rain (over 75mm) on Tuesday night, which left several areas waterlogged, reduced scores of roads to slush tracks, uprooted 45 trees and brought down branches at over 50 places. At least five localities — Kengeri, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Lakkasandra, VV Puram and Gottigere — received more than 100mm of rainfall. The occasionally sunny Tuesday tuned dark around 5pm and the overcast sky opened up a few hours later, causing rainfall across the city. The showers continued till the wee hours in several areas. Vrishabhavathi Valley was overflowing well before midnight and inundated a marriage hall in RR Nagar. Meenakshi Kalyana Mantapa was at the receiving end with water flowing back from the brimming stormwater drain. “The water didn’t enter homes in the locality, but there was flooding in the choultry as a channel dug for easy flow of water flowed back,” said senior official. Residents of Gurudutta Layout near Hosakerehalli spent a sleepless night after the retaining wall of an SWD next to their neighbourhood collapsed. “The drain is being repaired. Officials have been told to provide support to residents,” BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad said after visiting the locality. Prasad asked BWSSB officials to expedite the underground sanitary pipe work and drainage work. “Such heavy rain was unexpected; officials are taking measures to control flooding,” he added. Officegoers had a tough time as several roads were inundated for most of Wednesday morning. “Every other road has turned into a dirt pool; there is waterlogging every where. I had to literally stand on the bike while trying to ride though the water,” said Suresh Jagirdhar, a resident of Jayanagar. “The wind speed was not high but heavy rain did cause damage to trees. Luckily, there was no major collateral damage,” said a senior official from the BBMP control room. Bellandur residents caught in flood of misery Roads in Bellandur have turned into dirt tracks, thanks to the heavy rain over the last few days, prompting many residents to describe the area as ‘Hell-andur’. BWSSB’s water pipeline and sewerage networks have resulted in many streets being dug up for months in several pockets. “We didn’t have roads before Covid-19 or during Covid-19. Things have not changed. BBMP pays no heed to our complaints, irrespective of a pandemic. We have been reduced to third-class citizens though we pay taxes promptly,” many residents of Bellandur lamented. Some took to social media to vent their anger. Save Bellandur, a forum of citizen activists from the area, tweeted: “@kdevforum: Thanks to @BBMPCOMM @chairmanbwssb for the great roads in #Bellandur. People don’t need lockdown due to #coronavirus, our municipality ensures we are locked down in homes! Muduliar layout, KPC/Tulasi/CSB Layout, Owners Court all in a mess.” “We have raised numerous complaints but BBMP officials seem to be deaf. We are constantly fighting for roads here,” said Prashant Kumar, a resident of Bellandur, said, adding that often it becomes difficult for ambulances to ply and they are forced to hire private vehicles to transport patients till the ambulances. Shilpa R, a resident of Jayanagar, said she was worried about her parents who live on Tulasi Theatre Road in Bellandur. “If my mother calls me during an emergency, I might take 30 minutes to cover the 14km distance between Jayanagar and Bellandur. But to reach my parents’ house on Tulasi Theatre Road, it would take close to an hour to cover the 2km distance.” BBMP officials blame poor weather conditions for the delay in work. “We have undertaken projects across 110 villages and Bellandur is among them. Once BWSSB finishes the sanitary pipeline work, we will start relaying the roads,” said a senior BBMP official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/overnight-rain-pummels-30-wards-in-west-bluru-turns-roads-slushy/articleshow/78795893.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Trainee police constable bags four gold medals in BA economics||MYSURU: A trainee woman police constable from Chamarajanagar who joined the department two months ago with the idea of financially supporting her family, secured four gold medals and seven cash prizes in her BA degree in the 100th convocation of the University of Mysore (UoM) held on Monday. She now aspires to become a police officer, and planning to write the KPSC examination. Kaveri B secured all these gold medals and cash prizes, for scoring the highest marks in economics in her BA. She secured 909/1,000 in economics in six semesters of her BA studies, which is the highest in the university. “Since my childhood I have dreamed of joining the police force. So I joined the department now. I will write examinations for senior posts and the KPSC gazetted probationers examination,” she told TOI. “I joined the job immediately after graduation, as there was a need to financially support my family,” said Kaver,i who is presently serving in the superintendent of police’s office of Chamarajanagar. Hailing from Kudlapura village in Nanjangud, Kaveri pursued her BA from Government First Grade College, Nanjangud. Her father Bella Shetty is a farmer while mother Mallligamma is a homemaker. She is the first person from her family to get a government job. Chamarajanagar superintendent of police Divya Sara Thomas felicitated Kaveri for her exceptional performance. “We advised her to pursue her higher education and career by writing various examinations. She is a very intelligent student,” Divya told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/trainee-police-constable-bags-four-gold-medals-in-ba-economics/articleshow/78794562.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Six monkeys die of suspected poisoning||MANGALURU: Six out of 12 monkeys (bonnet macaque), suspected to have been poisoned by miscreants, died on Tuesday. Ashwith Gatty, deputy range forest officer, Moodabidri, told TOI, the department received information around 7 pm that miscreants had arrived in a car and dumped monkeys on the Baradi Beedu Kambala road in Karkala taluk. “We rushed to the spot to find some of the monkeys were still conscious. We reached out to a veterinarian and based on his advice administered first aid. Two monkeys recovered quickly and returned to the wild. The other monkeys were shifted to Moodabidri range office and Dr Thejaswi from Mangaluru arrived and treated them. Out of the nine monkeys, six died. The three monkeys that recovered were released to the wild on Wednesday,” he said. A case has been registered. Officials investigating the case suspect that rice laced with poison was offered to the monkeys as they vomited rice. The motive was probably to get rid of them as they are known to damage crops especially, areca and coconut. Monkey menace is one of the major problems haunting farmers of the coastal belt. They have been demanding compensation from the government for crop damage. In September, carcasses of about 14 monkeys, including six adults and eight juveniles, were found on the Hebri- Nadpalu road of Kundapur division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/six-monkeys-die-of-suspected-poisoning/articleshow/78795070.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Surat||Western Railway betting on textile industry to increase parcel traffic||SURAT: The Western Railway (WR) is betting big on Surat’s textile sector to increase parcel traffic of the textile goods from the Surat and Udhaa railway stations respectively with the announcement of five routes from Surat to various destinations in the eastern, western and southern states of the country. “Surat’s textile industry is our target market for the rail parcel traffic. At present, the textile goods consist of less than 0.2% of the parcel traffic from Surat, which we want to take it to 50% in the next few months,” said GVL Satya Kumar, divisional railway manager (DRM), Mumbai division of WR. “To start with, we intend to operate single General Seating (GS) coach passenger train on a dedicated route every day from Surat, to exclusively cater to the textile industry. Compared to the road transportation, trains will be 100% cost effective and will reduce 50% of the transit time,” added Kumar. The WR is considering to enter into the partnership with the postal department for the collection of the parcels from the textile markets in the city. The five routes to be operated by WR for Surat’s textile sector are: Surat-Jalgaon-Jabalpur, Surat-Kolkata, Surat-Jalgaon-Secunderabad, Surat-Chennai-Bangalore and Surat-Bangalore-Tirupur-Erode. The WR will allow the unloading at the intermediate stations along the routes. According to Kumar, a team of 25 commercial inspectors was deployed for carrying out the survey at the textile markets, powerloom units and textile processing units in the first week of October. The survey covered transport providers, manufacturers, brokers, traders etc. at prominent textile markets and transport nagar area. About 2,500 stakeholders from the textile industry were surveyed. Everyday, about 500 trucks move out of the city to various destinations across the country. The major destinations included Varanasi, Muzaffarpur, Kolkata, Chennai, Kanpur, Jabalpur, Raipur, Vijayawada etc. “The Indian railways have decided to grant 8% discount on base freight for indented parcel train. From Surat, we intend to run passenger coach train having 15 coaches, which can accommodate 150 metric tonnes of parcel” said Kumar  “Trains are the convienient mode of transporation for the textile parcels to various parts of the country. The SGCCI is working closely with the WR to ensure that the parcels are sent through railways. said Dinesh Navadiya, president of the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/western-railway-betting-on-textile-industry-to-increase-parcel-traffic/articleshow/78795279.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Agra||78-year-old Covid-19 positive patient dead, district tally at 6,859||AGRA: At least one death of Covid-19 positive patients was reported in Agra district on Wednesday. A 78-year-old man died during treatment at the SN Medical College in Agra. The Sikandra locality resident was suffering from diabetes, pneumonia and respiratory ailment. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to comorbid conditions. So far, 139 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. At least 39 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 6,859. These also included two staffers of the SN Medical College. Meanwhile, 63 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Out of the 6,859 cases reported in the district, 6,260 (91.27%) have been declared cured and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district decreased from 485 on Tuesday to 460 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/78-year-old-covid-19-positive-patient-dead-district-tally-at-6859/articleshow/78795931.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Amaravati||Health department readies Covid plan for school restart||AMARAVATI: The state government has asked the education department to take full care in handling children after reopening of the schools. The government directed all district collectors and district educational officers (DEOs) to ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are strictly followed in schools. After containing Covid-19 spread across the state, the government does not want the situation to slip out of its hands. Keeping in view of the apprehensions expressed by experts, the government has decided to reopen the schools with full-preparation to keep the virus spread under check. “Since we can’t keep educational institutions completely shut, we are gearing up for the slow and phased manner reopening. We are taking all precautions in such a way that no child or teacher suffer,” said education minister Dr Adimulapu Suresh. The health department has readied a plan to handle reopening of schools. It has asked the education department to ensure that all headmasters followed the Standards Operating Procedure (SOP) to be adopted in all the schools after reopening. “HMs as head of institutions should be more alert and simply follow the guidelines issued as part of SOP to avoid unnecessary troubles,” said Anil Kumar Singhal, principal secretary, health.  Schools will have to put up ‘no mask, no entry’ signs at their entrance while within the premises, posters on use of masks, hand sanitisation and maintaining social distance will be displayed. Schools have been told to sensitise students on appropriate behaviour during assemblies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/health-department-readies-covid-plan-for-school-restart/articleshow/78805667.cms||Samdani MN
October 22, 2020||Hubballi||Siddaramaiah wants party workers to approach all registered voters||HUBBALLI: Emphasising the need for the Congress cadre to step up efforts in the upcoming elections to the four council seats, former chief minister and leader of opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said, “We cannot approach these elections the way we did last year. If we work seriously, approach all the registered voters and convince them of our government’s achievements, we are sure to win.” The former CM, who was in Hubballi canvassing for the party’s candidate for the West Graduates’ constituency, called on all workers and leaders of the Congress to reach out to every registered voter in the segment and remind them of the opportunities they had had during his government and the drying up of the same in the wake of the BJP coming to power. “The Congress government generated employment for graduates whereas they are losing their job now,” he said. ‘BSY must meet people in flood-hit areas’ Criticising the BJP for failing the people on all fronts, Siddaramaiah said that the economy of the state had collapsed. He questioned the failure of the government to disburse funds to those affected by the people. “CM BS Yediyurappa ought to be meeting the people on the ground to understand the extent of the damage instead of an aerial survey. Officer cite figures without ever visiting the flood-affected areas. It is only the people in the affected areas who can provide accurate information on the damage they have suffered,” Siddaramaiah said. The former CM said that he would meet victims of the floods in VIjayapura, Kalaburagi and other districts on October 25 and 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/siddaramaiah-wants-party-workers-to-approach-all-registered-voters/articleshow/78794088.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt not releasing requisite funds to SEC: Nimmagadda||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Wednesday said it is the responsibility of the government to extend full cooperation to ensure smooth functioning of constitutional institutions. The court, after hearing a petition moved by state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar stating that the state government was not releasing requisite funds to conduct elections to local bodies, said the action of the government is indicative of how it is behaving with constitutional institutions, including the judges. When the government counsel took objection to the observation, saying it was not judicious, Justice Battu Devanand said he is ready to tell how the government is behaving with judges from there itself and asked whether he was ready to hear the same. The high court also asked the state election commission to file an additional affidavit, explaining where and how the state government is not extending cooperation in performing its duties. Justice Devanand said they will pass the orders after examining the additional affidavit. Ramesh Kumar moved the HC alleging that the government is not cooperating with SEC to conduct local body elections. Senior counsel DV Sitharam Murthy and advocate N Ashwani Kumar argued on his behalf. They said the government had issued a GO in January, sanctioning Rs 40 lakh for local body elections following a request by the state election commission. However, due to the pandemic, the polls got postponed. Though the GO was issued sanctioning the requested amount, the money was not credited to the election commission. Despite repeated requests and apprising the governor on the issue, the funds are yet to be released, Ramesh Kumar stated in the petition. Government pleader C Suman told the court that the government has been cooperating with the election commission and funds have been released as requested. He said while asking for the funds, the election commission has to state when it is planning to conduct elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-not-releasing-requisite-funds-to-sec-nimmagadda/articleshow/78795762.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 22, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK cadre, cops scuffle over hoisting party flag||TUTICORIN: Tense moments prevailed at Vilathikulam town in Tuticorin district for a few hours till late on Wednesday as there was a mild scuffle between police and the AIADMK cadre. Police were trying to stop ruling party cadres led by Vilathikulam MLA P Chinnappan from hoisting the party flag without police permission. Former Vilathikulam MLA G V Markandayan who joined the DMK last week had sought permission from the police three days ago to hoist the DMK party flag near the Vilathikulam bus stand. The AIADMK cadres led by the MLA also sought permission to hoist their party flag at the same place at the same time – between 5 and 6 in the evening, which was denied. Nearly 150 police personnel led by an additional superintendent of police and three deputy superintendents of police were deployed on the spot. In the evening, Markandayan and DMK’s Tuticorin north district secretary P Geetha Jeevan were preparing to hoist the party flag with more than 100 cadres. The AIADMK cadres led by the MLA tried to take out a procession to the Vilathikulam bus stand. There was a minor scuffle between police and AIADMK cadres around 5.40 pm and the party workers threw away the police barricades. The police resorted to mild lathi charge to chase away the crowd. A few cadres and a couple of police personnel were injured in the scuffle. Meanwhile the DMK workers left the place after hoisting the flag and AIADMK cadres led by Chinnappan staged a road blockade near the Vilathikulam bus stand. Deputy inspector general of police, Tirunelveli range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu arrived at the place and held talks with the MLA, AIADMK functionaries and cadres. The protest came to an end around 6.15 pm and the MLA left the place after hoisting the party flag. “It was a minor issue and has been set right,” he told TOI. Police said that a case will be registered on both parties for violation of lockdown restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-cadre-cops-scuffle-over-hoisting-party-flag/articleshow/78797459.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||HC suspends government order limiting seats in private junior colleges||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday suspended the government order (GO)issued by the education department limiting the number of seats in private junior colleges. The HC, which heard several petitions moved by various private college managements challenging the order, asked the government to file a counter affidavit within four weeks. The court had, on Tuesday, summoned the principal secretary of school education and the secretary of intermediate board to appear in person. Both officials appeared before the court on Wednesday. Justice D Ramesh told them they were summoned because of the mistakes made by government pleaders. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior counsel B Adinarayana Rao said there used to be 88 students per section and nine sections per college. But in the latest GO, the number of seats per section was reduced to 40. He said if any college is not having necessary infrastructure to accommodate students, action should be taken against only those colleges. Rao further stated that the government did not consult colleges before taking the decision. “Even the high court had earlier decided the number of students per section, but the government took the decision without apprising the court. While reducing number of seats in private colleges, it did not do the same with respect to government colleges, which is nothing but discrimination,” he argued. Additional advocate-general Ponnavolu Sudhakar Reddy said many colleges are running without proper infrastructure. Even student-teacher ratio is not being maintained in most of the colleges. He said the permission of the high court is not necessary in this case as the court has not decided on the number of seats. He requested the court to allow the admission process to continue. The HC, however, said once the admission process starts it would be difficult to restart the process and passed an interim order suspending the GO till further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-suspends-go-limiting-seats-in-pvt-junior-colleges/articleshow/78795911.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Trivendra Singh Rawat in Delhi, cabinet expansion & Rajya Sabha nomination to be discussed||DEHRADUN: Amidst murmurs of a cabinet expansion soon, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat reached Delhi on Wednesday where he is expected to meet several senior leaders. Sources said the CM’s Delhi visit may soon lift the curtains on the suspense that has hung over the issue of cabinet expansion for a long time. A consensus may also be reached on the candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat from Uttarakhand which is falling vacant next month. As per sources, the frontrunners for the cabinet berths include Bishan Singh Chuphal, Pushkar Dhami, Swami Yatishwaranand, Munna Singh Chauhan and Mahendra Bhatt. The name of Prakash Pant’s wife Chandra is also doing the rounds. Also, it is being speculated that ministers of state Dhan Singh Rawat and Rekha Arya are likely to be elevated as cabinet ministers, and that a portfolio reshuffle is also on the cards. For the Rajya Sabha berth, names of some senior party members, including former national vice-president Shyam Jaju, who is currently in charge of the party’s Uttarakhand unit, former CM Vijay Bahuguna, who had joined BJP along with nine legislators in 2016, senior leader Mahendra Pandey, state vice-president Anil Goyal and NSA Ajit Doval’s son Shaurya, are doing the rounds. The Himalayan state has three Rajya Sabha seats in total. The seat occupied by Raj Babbar of Congress since March 14, 2015, is up for re-election. The other two seats are represented by Anil Baluni of BJP and Pradeep Tamta of Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-in-delhi-cabinet-expansion-rs-nomination-to-be-discussed/articleshow/78794649.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Rituals commence at Sulwadi temple ahead of reopening ceremony||MYSURU: Days ahead of the official reopening of the Sulwadi Kichchugatti Maramma temple in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar nine agamiks from the muzrai department arrived at the temple on Wednesday evenings and started rituals and pujas. The shrine grabbed national headlines following the death of 17 devotees after they ate poisoned prasadam in December 2018. The rituals and pujas will continue at the shrine till the shrine is officially reopened to the public on Saturday. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi, MLA R Narendra will be among those in attendance at the ceremony to mark the reopening of the shrine. On December 14, 2018, 17 devotees became victims of a conspiracy hatched by a few people involved in the administration of the temple to usurp control of the shrine. Kollegal assistant commissioner Girish Badolli said that the temple had undergone a renovation, a project that cost Rs 35 lakh. “A new guest house has been built, mass feeding halls constructed and closed-circuit television cameras installed at key locations,” Badolli told TOI. In its recent order, the government reappointed all the nine priests who had been serving at the temple before. The reopening ceremony on Sunday, however, will not be a grand affair since precautionary measures have been put in place in view of the Covid-19 crisis. “The number of people allowed to enter the temple will be restricted. All devotees will have to wear masks, and they will all be scanned in accordance with the instructions issued by the government. We have also prohibited temporarily feeding of the devotees, overnight camping and accommodation at the temple guest house. Devotees can visit the temple and seek darshan between 10am and 6pm,” Badolli added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rituals-commence-at-sulwadi-temple-ahead-of-reopening-ceremony/articleshow/78794131.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Lift pumphouse submergence: Cong workers stage protests||Hyderabad: Congress workers staged protests in erstwhile Mahbubnagar district on Wednesday alleging negligence by the state government in the maintenance of Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP). Congress workers were taken into custody by police when they squatted on the roads and raised slogans against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. A few days ago, a pumphouse at KLIP was submerged on account of heavy rains and floods. Drinking water supply through Mission Bhagiratha was affected because of the flooding of the pumphouse. Congress leaders, including TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and working president A Revanth Reddy, alleged negligence on the part of the government causing flooding of KLIP. Meanwhile, Smita Sabharwal, secretary to the CM and in-charge of Mission Bhagiratha, visited the KLIP. She visited the submerged first pumphouse and held a meeting with collectors, irrigation engineers and Mission Bhagiratha engineering officials of Mahbubnagar, Wanaparthy and Nagarkurnool at the Yelluru Mission Bhagiratha main pumphouse. Smita Sabharwal said alternate arrangements have already been made for supply of drinking water in villages following the KLIP pumphouse flooding. She asked the collectors to monitor the supply of safe drinking water in all the villages until supply is restored through Mission Bhagiratha. Mahbubnagar collector S Venkat Rao and Wanaparthy and Nagarkurnool collector Yasmeen Bhasha explained the measures taken to supply safe drinking water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lift-pumphouse-submergence-cong-workers-stage-protests/articleshow/78797440.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Mild tremors felt in Tolichowki||Hyderabad: Tolichowki remained tense on Tuesday night after residents felt tremors in the area. People in Teja, Diamond Hills and Samatha colonies rushed out of their homes on feeling vibrations and hearing sounds.  More than 100 people gathered outside their buildings in Tolichowki.  The panic-stricken people called the police control room, upon which a team of Golconda police reached the spot. "Since our area is affected by rains, the tremors have further increased worries," said Mohammed Asif a resident of Teja Colony. The residents spent most of the night outside their houses. Locals TOI spoke to said the tremors were intense and had a “blasting” sound.  Recently, similar panic was reported at Borabanda area in SR Nagar and at Suleman Nagar in Rajendra Nagar after the public witnessed tremors during the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mild-tremors-felt-in-tolichowki/articleshow/78797450.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Autos to be fitted with electric batteries||AMARAVATI: The government is mulling replacing existing internal combustion (IC) engines in auto-rickshaws with electric batteries in a move aimed at lowering air pollution levels in major cities. To encourage auto-rickshaw owners to switch to the new technology, the government plans to set up battery swapping stations and a number of charging stations. “According to studies, 37% of the air pollution is generated by the vehicles. We need to act fast to move to electric vehicles (EVs) as ambient air quality is not up to the mark in many cities including Vijayawada, Rajahmundry and Visakhapatnam,” New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation (NREDC) MD S Ramana Reddy told TOI. A majority of the nearly one crore vehicles plying the roads in the state are either two- or three-wheelers, Ramana Reddy said. Given the growing auto-rickshaw fleet, the state plans to swap batteries in autos with electric retrofit kits, Ramana Reddy said, adding the corporation has sought the support of AP Pollution Control Board and GMR Foundation. “Providing electric retrofit kits with swappable batteries for three-wheeler high speed passenger autos in place of IC engine will be the first-of-its-kind in the country,” said Ramana Reddy. The corporation has also submitted a proposal to the International Centre for Automotive Technologies (ICAT), Manesar for developing human resources and imparting skills in Electric Vehicles Technologies (EVT) to a young workforce. The government, meanwhile, has decided to provide village and ward volunteers with electric two-wheelers, a significant step, as volunteers bring 541 citizen services to the people at their doorstep. After negotiating with manufacturers, the government has also decided to take up a real time performance study (RTS) of electric two-wheelers on pilot basis. Hero Electric Private Limited has spared four electric two-wheelers which were handed over to the ward secretariat staff at Pulivendula Municipal Corporation for an RTS, said Ramana Reddy, adding they have entered into an memorandum of understanding with NTPC and RIEL for setting up charging stations across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/autos-to-be-fitted-with-electric-batteries/articleshow/78795940.cms||Samdani MN
October 22, 2020||Kozhikode||Family seeks Rahul’s help in getting Kappan released||Kozhikode: Family of Siddique Kappan, the Malayali journalist who was arrested by UP police on his way to Hathras, met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad on Wednesday and presented a memorandum seeking his intervention for the release of the scribe. Kappan’s wife Raihanath, children and Kappan’s brother met Wayanad MP at Kalpetta guest house. Addressing the media after the meeting, Raihanath said she was hopeful that Rahul will intervene. “We want justice. My husband has not done anything wrong,” she said. Raihanath added that Rahul told them that he has already received a memorandum in this regard from Malappuram and promised to do the needful. She said the family has not been able to contact Kappan since his arrest and even the lawyer has not been able to meet him. Kappan, a Delhi-based reporter of an online portal, was picked up by the police with three others on October 5 when they going to Hathras to report the developments related to the rape of a dalit girl. He has been charged for sedition and also under UAPA. Police also made him an accused in the case related to ‘inciting communal violence.’ Raihanath had staged a protest in front of Malappuram collectorate on Sunday demanding the intervention of CM Pinarayi Vijayan. Rahul returns after 3-day visit to Wayanad  Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi wrapped up his three-day visit to the constituency on Wednesday. The final day of the visit saw him inaugurating the new medical facilities set up at the district hospital at Mananthavady, visiting the paddy fields of Thrissilery to interact with traditional rice farmers and visiting a heronry at Panamaram. Inaugurating the new arthroscopic surgery unit and ICU ventilator unit set up at a cost of Rs 37 lakh at the district hospital, Rahul said that he was very happy to see the spirit with which Kerala is taking on the challenge posed by Covid-19 and thanked the healthcare workers, doctors and nurses for their contributions to the fight. Earlier in the day, Rahul visited the paddy fields at Thrissilery and interacted with traditional farmers who have been undertaking cultivation of indigenous rice varieties including Cheruvayal Raman who has been preserving over 40 rice varieties native to Wayanad. Rahul had begun the day by visiting the heronry at Panamaram at 6.30 am which is facing threat. He also attended the district committee meeting of UDF at the Kalpetta government guest house and had meeting with representatives of a host of organisations who had come to submit memorandums on various issues. Rahul returned to New Delhi via Kannur airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/family-seeks-rahuls-help-in-getting-kappan-released/articleshow/78796008.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Karupaiahpuram folk yearn for street lights, potable water||MADURAI: Residents of Karupaiahpuram Extension locality have sought the attention of the civic body to fix various issues plaguing their locality including no street lights, water problem and bad roads. Residents say that Sastha Nagar, Annamalai Nagar, V K Nagar, Varamangala Nagar and Meenakshi Street, which comes under ward number 3 of Madurai corporation, are yet to see any civic amenities. They were earlier under Anaiyur municipality and were brought under the Madurai corporation when the city was expanded in 2011. Even villages nearby which come under panchayats are better placed but these localities have not got any facilities despite being part of the corporation. K Sakthivel, a resident of Mariamman Kovil Street said that there is no street light in the main road and the cross roads in his area. Lamp posts were erected a few months ago, but electrical fittings and bulbs were not installed. We had approached concerned officials many times, but there has not been any improvement so far. “Movement of people is restricted to 7 pm due to the fear of anti-social elements in the area. Criminals take advantage of the dark and commit robberies,” he said. V Selvam, a resident said that whenever they approach the officials, they promise to look into the issue at the earliest, but there is no real intention of solving the issues. Drinking water lines were laid but no connection has been given so far. “We are receiving a step-motherly treatment from Madurai corporation. We would have enjoyed better civic amenities had our area was not annexed with Madurai corporation,” he said. When contacted an official from Madurai corporation said that they have started providing amenities like underground drainage system for added areas. A project to provide all the houses with piped drinking water connection is underway. Adequate water will be provided to them through trucks. Another official said that he will look into the street light issue and take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/karupaiahpuram-folk-yearn-for-street-lights-potable-water/articleshow/78797497.cms||V Devanathan
October 22, 2020||Agra||Situation better, universities & colleges in UP toreopen after Dussehra, says deputy CM Sharma||AGRA: Close on the heels of reopening of schools in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday announced the opening of all universities and colleges after Dussehra. “Universities and colleges will be reopened after Dussehra in November,” said deputy chief minister and minister for secondary and higher education Dinesh Sharma, citing the downward trend of Covid-19 cases in the state. “The students will, however, have an option of choosing either physical classes or through the online mode." Interacting with reporters here, Sharma said, “The government will soon issue guidelines for the higher educational institutions to operate regular classes. Students will have a choice to attend the classes physically or continue with the online medium. All universities and colleges will have to ensure live streaming of the classes.” Speaking on the reopening of the schools for classes IX to XII after seven months on October 19, Sharma said, “As of now, the attendance in schools is low. On the first day, around 15-20% of students attended classes. The attendance will increase in the coming days, but we have directed the schools to ensure no more than 50% of students are called in one shift.” Stressing on the compliance of the Covid-19 protocols at the educational institutions, Sharma said, “There is, of course, increased awareness among parents and students about the Covid-19 prevention. But, I have directed the district administrations and secondary education department officials to conduct frequent checking at schools to ensure compliance with the Covid-19 protocols,” he added. The deputy CM has, meanwhile, directed the district administration to ensure social distancing norms are not violated during the festive season. After reviewing the Covid-19 situation in Agra district, Sharma questioned the officials over 138 deaths in the district and directed them to improve the medical facilities for the treatment of critical patients. In the afternoon, the deputy CM visited Firozabad district and addressed a meeting of BJP workers ahead of the Tundla by-election. He also reviewed arrangements for the visit of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The CM will address a public meeting in Tundla, seeking votes for BJP candidate Prempal Singh Dhangar on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/situation-better-universities-colleges-in-up-toreopen-after-dussehra-says-deputy-cm-sharma/articleshow/78795967.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Online classes: One size doesn’t fit all, say schools and parents||Bengaluru: The state government’s decision to implement an expert committee’s recommendations on online classes has elicited mixed response from stakeholders. The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) has welcomed the decision. “It’s unfortunate that the government sat on the scientifically prepared report for three months. We are glad that it is finally being implemented. We need a judicious mix that balances both the child’s health and education,” said D Sashi Kumar, general secretary, KAMS. Mansoor Ali Khan, general secretary, Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association, said they too welcome the decision. “The specified hours are largely practical,” Mansoor said. “Schools are cautious of the well-being of children and most of us are already following the system. But, in some cases, we would appreciate if some leniency in timing is allowed so as to fit into the system.” However, there are some who are against restrictions on methodology and timing. Deepu Chandran, one of 20 parents who challenged the government’s decision to ban online classes in the high court, said: “This is again an attempt to subvert the HC order which asked the government to work on providing education for all rather than denying it.” He added: “The timing prescribed by the committee report is extremely restrictive and doesn’t address learning needs of kids. If the government is serious about well-being of kids, it should actually work on the various methods suggested by the committee to impart education to schools under its control rather than attempting to thwart what’s working.” Nooraine Fazal, founder-director, Inventure Academy said any classes were better than none at all, but had reservations on the guidelines. “We need to understand that one-size-fits-all does not work,” Fazal said. “The time-limit will not allow us to provide differentiated learning or use project-based multi-disciplinary learning which enables children to learn life skills, understand and apply concepts across subjects and with wider world connections.” Fazal said Inventure has completed one term with a high level of satisfaction across stakeholders. “Our school has settled well to the new norm. While the guidelines will be good for schools that haven’t yet figured out an effective model - approach, philosophy, balance of sync or asynchronous classes, this should remain as guidelines and not be mandated,” she said. Inventure Academy was also among the petitioners who had approached the HC against a blanket ban on online classes.  Meanwhile, a group of 18 educationists, activists and health experts have written to the government to reconsider its decision to shut schools completely. The team has asked the government to decentralise the decision to taluk/ward levels instead of a one-size-fits-all solution. Apart from the phased and gradual reopening of schools, they have also sought revival of Vidyagama. It pointed to the learning gap, loss of midday meals and risks of child labour and child marriage as reasons. Educationists including Rishikesh, Azim Premji University; Niranjanaradhya VP, Centre for Child and Law; BT Venkatesh, human rights activist and Dr Sylvia Karpagam, doctor and researcher are among other signatories to the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/online-classes-one-size-doesnt-fit-all-say-schools-and-parents/articleshow/78796019.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||Dudhwa to open on November 1, barring kids below 10 & people above 65||BAREILLY: The Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) is all set to open on November 1, which is 15 days ahead of its schedule. However, this time, the elephant safaris have been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Tourists would be made to go through thermal scanning and those younger than 10 and older than 65 have been barred from entering the reserve. Also, jeep rides have been made expensive due to reduced seating capacity, officials said. There will be a fine of Rs 500 for those not wearing a mask and tourists would have to carry a personal sanitizer. The authorities have also ensured proper sanitization of the cottages where tourists would stay. Taking precautions against the possibility of Covid-19 transmitting from humans to animals, the DTR has prohibited tourists to step down from their vehicles while touring the reserve forest area. Officials said only four tourists will be allowed in every safari jeep other than the driver and forest guide. There would be limited food items in the canteen and different timetables would be given to tourists for entering the canteen to ensure social distancing. Only two tourists per cottage would be permitted to stay overnight. “The eco-tourism season will begin from November 1 and we have to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines laid by the central and state governments. Though we are not making Covid-19 negative report mandatory, any tourists exhibiting the symptoms of during inspection at the gate will not be allowed to enter. Elephant safari will not be available and a fine would be imposed for not wearing a mask. The new season has brought a ray of hope for the families of several guides and other support staff who are dependent upon the tourist footfall,” field director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, Sanjay Pathak said. In 2018-19, Dudhwa used to earn Rs 46.50 lakh revenues, but it was reduced to around Rs 25.65 lakh in 2019/20 as the reserve was closed in March due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dudhwa-to-open-on-november-1-barring-kids-below-10-people-above-65/articleshow/78793645.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC takes up TOI report on lakes’ FTL, turns it into PIL||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday converted into PIL a TOI report which brought to light how a survey of around 3,500 lakes in seven districts was moving slowly even six years after it was started. The October 21 report said that not even 10% of the job had been completed as revenue and irrigation were at loggerheads over the full tank level (FTL) of these water bodies, leading to their encroachment and subsequent floods. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also directed the court’s registry to take all petitions on lakes before single judges, tag them to the latest PIL and transfer them to this bench. The judges directed the state government to restore all the 3,500 lakes and not hesitate to demolish all illegal structures blocking lakes, tanks, the waterways. The bench said it would monitor the case on a regular basis and sought a survey and action report from the state government by December 10. The judges also directed the DGP to support the cleansing exercise. Asking officials to hasten the survey, the bench directed Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), revenue and irrigation officials to act swiftly and added that the current deluge would make it easy for them to identify FTL of each lake. The bench also directed the state to take up a similar exercise in the rest of the state. District collectors should survey water sources and form lake protection committees in each district, the judges said and added that district SPs must be part of these committees. Reminding everyone about the deluge witnessed by Hyderabad in 2000, the bench said that had there been a serious effort at that time, the current situation would not have recurred. “If we do not wake up now, there is no guarantee that this danger would not visit us again immediately,” the judges observed. The bench exhorted the people to extend their cooperation to the effort because the authorities would not be able to complete the task without their support. “Our ecology and our people are in danger now and we have to take fresh decisions in tune with the fresh threats,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-takes-up-toi-report-on-lakes-ftl-turns-it-into-pil/articleshow/78798349.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSEB’s expenses to rise threefold||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Inter-state transmission charges paid by Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) to Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd (PGCIL) is set to increase threefold in a year or two. As a result, annual charges to be paid by KSEB to the central PSU would rise from Rs 550 crore to Rs 1,500 crore in a couple of years. The sudden spike in interstate power transmission charges would have the same pernicious effect on most of the state power utilities in the country. The reason for the jump is connected to the way PGCIL was forced to effect a paradigm shift in the way it calculates the transmission charges. After the Comptroller and Auditor General submitted a report on PGCIL’s predatory pricing in Parliament, the central electricity regulatory authority decided to put an end to the practice of dividing the transmission corridor charges from among those who hold ‘long-term access right’ of the respective corridors. As per the new regime, line usage would have only a minor effect on pricing. Instead, the charges would be largely collected by way of fixed cost from all power utilities that use transmission lines anywhere in the country. This, claims central agencies, would offset the unjustifiable burden on a few select generators when the charges are shared between a small number of users of a particular line.  Statistics show that a large number of transmission lines remain unused or underutilised in different corners of the country. “It was part of a gamble, which at least for the time being, has failed. These lines were constructed based on demand by various private power generators with an eye on huge profit margins. But the power demand did not pick up as estimated. Obviously, what followed was predatory charges by PGCIL and subsequent relinquishment of ‘right to long-term access’ by private generators and the resultant slump in the PGCIL revenues,” said an official. “There was nothing wrong in adopting new principles to calculate the transmission line cost for national interest. But the PGCL did not seek the opinion of Kerala or any other state while setting up transmission lines on the basis of ‘the right to access’ demands raised by private generators. Preliminary estimates show that the board’s transmission bill would rise to Rs 1,000 crore with immediate effect and to Rs 1,500 crore within a couple of years from now,” a top official in the board said. As the transmission cost increases, it would certainly reflect in the power tariff in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksebs-expenses-to-rise-threefold/articleshow/78796044.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 22, 2020||Agra||‘Seniors were dictating answers to MBBS students caught cheatng with hi-tech gears’||AGRA: In a case where 10 MBBS final year students, including one woman, were caught using unfair means in their ophthalmology exam on Khandari campus of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University on Tuesday, it has now been found that senior students were assisting them from a remote location. These students of a private medical college were caught by the university officials and police with a micro Bluetooth in their ears and amulets with SIM cards inserted into them around their neck. Additional superintendent of police Saurav Dixit said, “We are retrieving call details of the SIM cards inserted in the amulets of the students caught cheating. At least three seniors were dictating them answers from outside the examination centre. We are gathering evidence against them and trying to find out their location. The role of the private college is also being investigated.” New Agra station house officer Umesh Chand Tripathi said, “On basis of the complaint received from the university administration, the 10 students were booked under the Uttar Pradesh Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act and section 66 of the Information Technology Act. They have been granted bail by the court. Role of any professional gang has not surfaced in the entire matter. A detailed investigation is on.” According to the university officials, an invigilator in one of the classrooms heard a few students murmuring half an hour after the commencement of the exam. On observing one of the students for a few minutes, the invigilator found that the examinee was pressing an object on the chest, inside the shirt, repeatedly. On suspicion, the invigilator went close to the student and asked him to show the object. The student rudely refused, claiming that it is an amulet related to his religious belief and cannot be shown to anyone else. The invigilator backed off and informed the senior officials about the matter. Later, police were called in and they frisked them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/seniors-were-dictating-answers-to-mbbs-students-caught-cheatng-with-hi-tech-gears/articleshow/78796013.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||HC junks plea on mode of rain relief||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC on Wednesday refused to take up a petition that questioned the mode of distribution of financial assistance to the victims of flood and deluge in Hyderabad. State government, had directed officials to extend Rs 10,000 financial assistance to each family affected by floods. Advocate Sasi Kiran made a mention before bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy urging it to take up PIL against mode of distribution. “We want money to be transferred into accounts of people instead,” he said. “They are reaching out to people in the affected areas. Let the civil administration continue its job,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-junks-plea-on-mode-of-rain-relief/articleshow/78797534.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||Owner of UCO bank branch premises booked for theft of blank FDR leaf, making fake FD for Rs 18 lakh||Pilibhit: The landlord of the premises of United Commercial Bank’s Court Road branch here, along with his son, was booked for allegedly stealing a blank leaf of fixed deposit receipt, making a fake FDR for Rs 18 lakh in his name and forcing bank officials for its payment while issuing threats to them. Following the order of the chief judicial magistrate, a case was registered at the Pilibhit kotwali on Tuesday evening against Abid Ali and his son Ubaiz under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468(forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said SHO Shrikant Dwivedi. Vivek Kumar Negi, the branch manager, UCO bank, said the landlord had even deposited a fake FDR at the PWD office to obtain a contract. Negi in his complaint stated that the accused, Abid Ali (70) and his son Ubaiz Ali (35) of Khudaganj locality in Pilibhit city, would regularly visit the bank situated near Naktadana Crossing on the Court Road for inspection and maintenance. “After the blank leaf was stolen by the duo, the bank auditor marked a missing report in the bank’s records. Meanwhile, the fake FD bearing January 31, 2015, as the date of issuance, and which had no valid entry in the bank’s branch, was produced for payment by Ubaiz on June 18, 2018, said Negi. “The duo threatened bank officials with kidnapping for several times, forcing them to make a payment on the fake FD. We approached the court as the police station concerned and the SP declined to take action in the matter,” added Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/owner-of-uco-bank-branch-premises-booked-for-theft-of-blank-fdr-leaf-making-fake-fd-for-rs-18-lakh/articleshow/78793664.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong releases engineer’s letter alerting about blasts at KLIS||Hyderabad: Congress working president A Revanth Reddy has released a document of internal communication in the irrigation department that revealed how a superintending engineer alerted about a series of blasts in the Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme. However, the irrigation department said this was not the cause of the incident.  K Anjaiah,SE of Pebbair in Wanaparthy, in his letter on September 10 to Nagarkurnool SE, stated, “MGKLIS stage 1 pumping station works at Yelluru were entrusted to Patel Engineering limited. The executive engineer informed that a series of blasts are taking place daily. Suitable measures to avoid any hazardous incident to protect existing pump house complex shall be taken up.” - U Sudhakarreddy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-releases-engineers-letter-alerting-about-blasts-at-klis/articleshow/78797557.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||T records spike as 1,500 turn +ve, five deaths||Hyderabad: After dropping below 1000 cases briefly, Telangana on Wednesday recorded a fresh jump with 1,579 new Covid-19 positive cases and five deaths, even as authorities warned of a spike in numbers if social distancing is not maintained during this festival week. While the total number of cases stands at 2,26,124 and 1,287 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in the state till date, authorities have stepped up checks at flood relief camps and other places to contain the virus. So far, 2,04,388 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection and 20,449 active cases remain in hospitals. On Wednesday, a total of 41,475 samples were analysed, taking the total count of Covid-19 tests done so far to 39.4 lakh. Samples tested per million population has now crossed 1.05,865 in the state. The share of younger women among the Covid-19 patients is continuously on the rise, increasing from nearly 8 percent two months ago to over 9 percent now. The increase is particularly in the 21-30 years category, which now accounts for 9.02 percent of patients (the highest among female patients). According to latest numbers, 39 percent of the total patients are women while 61 percent are males. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded a total of 256 new cases on Wednesday, Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 135 cases, Khammam 106 cases, Ranga Reddy 102 cases, Nalgonda 90 cases and Bhadadri Kothagudem 87 cases. All other districts in the state recorded new cases as well. Narayapet district recorded the lowest number of cases with just four new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-spike-as-1500-turn-ve-five-deaths/articleshow/78797540.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Collector inspects coconut auction||MADURAI: Madurai district collector, Dr T G Vinay, on Wednesday inspected the auction of coconuts, initiated by the agriculture marketing committee, held at Vadipatti. The secretary of the agriculture marketing committee, V Mercy Jeyarani, said the auction of their produce through the six regulated markets for agricultural products in Madurai is bringing good returns to farmers. The auctions are held in the six markets in Madurai, Usilampatti, Vadipatti, Thirumangalam, Melur and T Kallupatti on a rotational basis on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Coconut is cultivated on 26,000 acres in Madurai district. In the auction held at Vadipatti on Wednesday, 10 traders from the region brought a total of 10,454 coconuts. The coconuts were graded based on size and quality and kept in thirteen piles. While the first grade coconuts fetched Rs 14.20 each, the second rade ones sold for Rs 13.30 each and the rest sold for Rs 7.20 each. As many as 10 farmers who sold their produce received a direct payment of Rs 1.31 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/collector-inspects-coconut-auction/articleshow/78797519.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Sheep, goat prices skyrocket on back of Dasara demand||VISAKHAPATNAM: With Dasara just around the corner, prices of sheep, goat, and country chicken have started to rise. Sheep, goat and roosters, in particular, are in high demand as sacrificial animals during the Ayudha puja on Dasara. Prices of sheep and goats weighing in at between 10 to 12 kilos have already gone up to Rs 16,000 per animal, up from Rs 10,000 during other times. On Dasara, prices are expected to touch Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 per sheep, depending on demand. Prices of roosters, too, have risen to between Rs 1,800 and Rs 2,000 per bird. Animal sacrifice is a routine affair during Dasara. Several vehicle owners and owners of machinery units in the north Andhra districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam carry on with the tradition of animal sacrifice on Dasara and present the offering to Goddess Durga as part of the Ayudha puja, “leading to increased demand for sheep, goats and roosters,” said Rafie, a meat trader in Vizag city. “Last year, we purchased a sheep for Rs 10,000 but this year we had to shell out Rs 14,000 for one sheep and Rs 16,000 for one goat. The prices of the goat and sheep will further increase on Friday and Saturday and this high price is already causing worry among others,” said N Deepak Kumar, a lorry owner in Vizag. Meanwhile, traders have been making visits to neighbouring Odisha to purchase goats and sheep to meet the increased demand in the region. Poultry traders have raised chicken prices, with a kilo of dressed country chicken touching Rs 750 in major markets in the city on Wednesday, up from Rs 600. Mutton price touched Rs 800 per kilo and is expected to further soar. “Dasara is a festival for foodies in Andhra. But the prices of the meat have gone up much before Dasara and meat traders are cutting our pockets citing that the demand and supply gap has doubled during the festival,” said K Prabhakar, a resident of MVP Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sheep-goat-prices-skyrocket-on-back-of-dasara-demand/articleshow/78796021.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Day 2: Q-paper on WhatsApp; Amravati University finally puts off all exams||NAGPUR/AMRAVATI: Foxed by failure of online exams failure, Amravati University on Tuesday evening asked all its affiliated colleges and departments to WhatsApp the question paper and OMR sheets to students who would fill them up and send back to concerned exam centre incharge. This led to alleged leak of the question paper for the scheduled summer exam, which late on Wednesday evening was put off indefinitely. The move was third blunder on a day of repeated failures as the situation went from bad to worse on Day One of exams. The notification, a copy of which is with TOI, created a flutter among teachers as well as colleges who raised doubts over confidentiality of the entire exams. As Nagpur-based Promarc’s server failed in morning shift itself, the university exam section issued a letter asking all students to appear in offline mode at nearby colleges. At short notice, the colleges made arrangements by afternoon but badly fell short of OMR sheets and question papers as students turned up in large numbers. Later, another letter stated students from all shifts can appear till 5pm at the exam centres. Yet again, the exam centres were unable to make seating arrangement as per students streams. Finally, the university sent a third letter asking colleges to WhatsApp the question paper. “There is absolutely no confidentiality in this exam. The paper was already outed when university asked students to appear in any shift. So a paper scheduled in morning was held again in evening, though it didn’t succeed,” some principals said. Vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar and director of exam Hemant Deshmukh didn’t respond to calls and messages. TOI spoke to several affiliated colleges who said they refused to follow the instruction on sending question paper on WhatsApp. The notification is ambiguous with no instruction regarding timing to be followed and how use of unfair means can be avoided. “By issuing such a letter to the principal/centre incharge of exams, the university on its own has violated the confidentiality. Sending university examination question papers through WhatsApp is nothing but a mockery of the examination system. University is supposed to conduct examination by following the rules and procedures meant for it,” said AU senate member Vivek S Deshmukh. Deshmukh and the principals said the entire fiasco had caused huge harassment to teachers and students. “Utimately, if exams were to be held offline, why didn’t the university plan for this mode? It would have saved the students and officials a lot of trauma,” they said. After crisis on Tuesday, AU issued two circulars on Wednesday too. The earlier one stated exam would commence from October 22 while in the evening all exams stood cancelled. The university stated the software issues persisted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-2-q-paper-on-whatsapp-au-finally-puts-off-all-exams/articleshow/78797563.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Three arrested for kidnapping||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police arrested three persons for kidnapping a call centre worker and extorting money from his family. The victim, Sk Raheem (21), has been rescued. Raheem, an employee at ICCS call centre in Kukatpally, was kidnapped by daily wage workers L Rajputh, Vijay Mallik and Sk Nadeem. “The accused demanded Rs 3 lakh ransom,” Madhapur DCP M Venkateswarulu said. After Raheem’s kin lodged a plaint with police, police intercepted the accused near a mall in Kukatpally and rescued the victim. Police recovered a knife, a bag and the debit card of the victim from the possession of the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-arrested-for-kidnapping/articleshow/78797548.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||15-year-old girl gang-raped by two construction workers||BAREILLY: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gangraped by two construction workers deployed at her house in a village under Kemri police station limits in UP’s Rampur district. The girl’s father alleged that his daughter was alone at home when the duo — Rizwan (Guddu) and Aalam, both residents of Bhatpura Taran under Kemri police station — abducted her and took her to a nearby field, where they raped her. Rampur additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh said, “The accused, who were deputed for a construction job at the house of the girl, tricked her and took her to a deserted field in the village, and raped the girl. They also threatened to kill the girl if she disclosed the matter to anyone.” “The accused were arrested and booked under sections 376 D (gang-rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses (Pocso) Act. Further investigation is underway,” added the ASP. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-year-old-girl-gangraped-by-two-construction-workers/articleshow/78793671.cms||Maria Khan
October 22, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pandemic keeps annual Durga Puja celebration on hold this year||PANAJI: In light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Bengali Cultural Association has decided against organising the annual Durga Puja in Panaji this year. The association’s executive committee met with Shrinivas Dempo, president of the Durga Puja festival committee, before taking the decision. “Though it is a tough decision, the Bengali Cultural Association felt that they cannot risk the health and safety of their members and thousands of devotees who visit the venue every day,” president of the association A K Banerjee said. The cancellation of the puja has affected the livelihood of the artisan, priests and the drummers, who come from West Bengal to participate in the rituals. The association has decided to provide monetary support to the artisans and musicians along with Rs 50,000 towards the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-keeps-annual-durga-puja-celebration-on-hold-this-year/articleshow/78798355.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: NIA seeks time, says yet to find objective of racket’s operation||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case on Wednesday told a special court that the agency is yet to identify the ‘objective of the smuggling operation’. The agency, which was strenuously arguing that the gold smuggling was aimed at destabilising the economy and for financing terrorism, made the submission while opposing the bail petition of two among the accused. Assistant solicitor general (ASG) P Vijayakumar who appeared for the agency to oppose the bail petitions filed by Hamsath Abdul Salam and Samju TM, said the agency cannot enter into any guesswork. He said it has to find evidence so that the case can be proved in court. He said once critical electronic data are accessed from C-DAC, the agency is sure to get to the bottom of the case. The ASG said data from only 22 out of the 99 digital gadgets seized from the accused have been analyzed by C-DAC till date. He submitted that the two accused seeking bail have undergone custody of only fewer than 90 days and their links have established a deep-rooted conspiracy. Their antecedents are shady and their claims cannot be taken on face value, he said. He added that the larger interest of the security of the country requires that the investigation agency should be given free hand for an extended period of 180 days so that it will be able to come clean with all available details. Counsel for the petitioners argued that the agency has failed to produce any proof to substantiate the charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and hence the accused should be granted bail. He said the petitioners have admitted that they received smuggled gold but their intention was to make profit and not to fund terrorism. The court will give an order in the bail petition on Friday. Earlier in the day, the court had granted custody of Sarith PS, Ramees KT and Jalal AM, three others accused in the case, to the investigation team till Friday. NIA prosecutor Arjun Ambalapatta submitted before the court that the agency needs to confront them with the confession statement given by Sandeep Nair, the fourth accused, under Section 164 CrPC, and some other accused in the case. NIA also submitted that it needs to further probe the Tanzanian connection of Ramees. Meanwhile, the additional chief judicial magistrate court, Ernakulam (Economic Offences) granted permission for Customs to record the arrest of Sarith PS and Swapna Suresh in a case registered by the agency relating to the illegal export of currency out of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-seeks-time-says-yet-to-find-objective-of-rackets-op/articleshow/78806102.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: NIA seeks time, says yet to find objective of racket’s operation||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case on Wednesday told a special court that the agency is yet to identify the ‘objective of the smuggling operation’. The agency, which was strenuously arguing that the gold smuggling was aimed at destabilising the economy and for financing terrorism, made the submission while opposing the bail petition of two among the accused. Assistant solicitor general (ASG) P Vijayakumar who appeared for the agency to oppose the bail petitions filed by Hamsath Abdul Salam and Samju TM, said the agency cannot enter into any guesswork. He said it has to find evidence so that the case can be proved in court. He said once critical electronic data are accessed from C-DAC, the agency is sure to get to the bottom of the case. The ASG said data from only 22 out of the 99 digital gadgets seized from the accused have been analyzed by C-DAC till date. He submitted that the two accused seeking bail have undergone custody of only fewer than 90 days and their links have established a deep-rooted conspiracy. Their antecedents are shady and their claims cannot be taken on face value, he said. He added that the larger interest of the security of the country requires that the investigation agency should be given free hand for an extended period of 180 days so that it will be able to come clean with all available details. Counsel for the petitioners argued that the agency has failed to produce any proof to substantiate the charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and hence the accused should be granted bail. He said the petitioners have admitted that they received smuggled gold but their intention was to make profit and not to fund terrorism. The court will give an order in the bail petition on Friday. Earlier in the day, the court had granted custody of Sarith PS, Ramees KT and Jalal AM, three others accused in the case, to the investigation team till Friday. NIA prosecutor Arjun Ambalapatta submitted before the court that the agency needs to confront them with the confession statement given by Sandeep Nair, the fourth accused, under Section 164 CrPC, and some other accused in the case. NIA also submitted that it needs to further probe the Tanzanian connection of Ramees. Meanwhile, the additional chief judicial magistrate court, Ernakulam (Economic Offences) granted permission for Customs to record the arrest of Sarith PS and Swapna Suresh in a case registered by the agency relating to the illegal export of currency out of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-seeks-time-says-yet-to-find-objective-of-rackets-op/articleshow/78796039.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Goa||Sanguem MLA withdraws support to government||PANAJI: Sanguem Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar submitted a letter to the governor on Wednesday withdrawing his support to the state BJP government. While announcing his decision, Gaonkar said that the current state government lacks former CM Manohar Parrikar’s “positive vision” for Goa. The move comes two days after chief minister Pramod Sawant alleged that Gaonkar was “interested in land dealings” and is therefore pushing for the IIT project to come up in Sanguem. With this development, the ruling coalition’s current strength in the 40-member house is 28. This includes 27 MLAs of BJP and one Independent MLA Govind Gaude who is a minister in the Sawant-headed government. Gaonkar said that Sawant’s ‘land dealing’ comments are irresponsible, condemnable and inappropriate for someone holding high office. The MLA said that the government should set up an inquiry against him to probe if he had carried out any land dealings on the sly. “Manohar bhai had a certain vision for Goa and we were standing with his government hoping to move in a positive direction. But all policymaking in BJP has completely collapsed today. People are coming out onto the streets today because they realised that Goa is not being steered in the right direction today,” Gaonkar said. Gaonkar said he will now head to Melaulim in Sattari to support the tribals and other locals opposing the IIT project on forest land. “On my first birthday after being elected MLA, Manohar Parrikar promised to bring IIT project to Sanguem in the presence of hundreds of my constituents. Manohar bhai said it will help all-round development of the taluka. His soul must be restless today. A project initiated by him with a certain vision in mind is going today in some other direction,” the MLA said. Countering Sawant’s claim that Gaonkar could not offer a parcel of undisputed land for the IIT project in Sanguem, the independent MLA said he had offered the CM three options in Sanguem taluka – in Cotarli, Rivona and Ugem. Gaonkar said all three land parcels are either owned by the government or are barren, unlike the forested area in Melaulim. He said that project would have materialised if Sawant’s government had the will for it. “If I had any selfish interest in the IIT project, it was that it will at least help at some from Sanguem get jobs and that the perception of looking at Sanguem would change,” Gaonkar said. What must have angered the chief minister and the BJP functionaries was Gaonkar’s statement that what was promised by Parrikar for Sanguem was snatched away by the Sawant government and taken to Sattari, according to a political observer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanguem-mla-withdraws-support-says-govt-lacks-parrikars-vision/articleshow/78798350.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Goa||IIT in Goa among four to get high performance computing centre||PANAJI: Researchers, students and faculty members in institutes across Goa will now be able to get an introduction, or hone their existing skills in high-performance computing and artificial intelligence (AI) within the state itself. The Union ministry of electronics and IT has chosen the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, among only four IITs, on whose campus a nodal centre on ‘high performance computing and AI’ will be set up. The centre will offer both on and off campus programmes, giving even remote access to the high-performance computing facility across the state. The other centres will come up at IITs in Madras, Kharagpur and Palakkad. “It is a great opportunity for students and faculty members in Goan educational institutions. It is also a big gift to IIT-Goa, considering that it is relatively a new IIT,” the institute’s director, BK Mishra said. Mishra signed the MoU last week to facilitate establishment of the centre with the Center for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC). CDAC is coordinating the central government’s National Supercomputing Mission. IIT-Goa, which is currently operating from its temporary campus in Farmagudi, is in the process of finalising the setup of a centralised high-performance computing facility within its space constraints, Mishra said. “There are plans to establish a bigger facility once more space becomes available.” To kickstart the centres, the four chosen IITs have offered a joint online programme. This is after the minister of state for education and electronics and IT, Sanjay Dhotre, inaugurated the four National Supercomputing Mission nodal centres in an online ceremony on October 12. “To train as many students, faculty members as possible, the nodal center at IIT Goa has planned a series of online and offline events in the coming year. The first joint online course will cover the basics of high performance computing for students and others and the course will begin on November 9. Talks by industry experts are also planned as part of this course,” said Sharad Sinha, a faculty member in Computer Science and Engineering at IIT Goa, who will coordinate the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-one-of-four-iits-to-get-centres-high-performance-computing-centre/articleshow/78798354.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||ED attaches assets of aqua unit directors for diverting loan||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate attached 27 immovable properties (worth Rs 11 crore) owned by directors of Venus Aqua Foods Ltd (VAFL) in a money laundering case. The accused directors used bank loans taken for fish tanks to finance a Telugu film starring actor Navdeep. The ED attached properties of Nimmagadda Ramakrishna, Nimmagadda Venugopal, VVNK Viswanath, their family members and associates. The properties are located in and around Hyderabad and Vijayawada. The ED began the probe under PMLA based on an FIR registered by CBI’s banking securities and fraud cell against Venus Aqua Foods. Ramakrishna, MD, and other directors of the firm defrauded Union Bank of India and erstwhile Andhra Bank Gudivada branch in AP to the tune of Rs 37 crore. The accused had obtained a loan of Rs 19 crore to build fish tanks by furnishing fabricated lease documents of 470 acres of fish farms. “The loans were diverted and not repaid, causing a loss of Rs 37 crore. The investigation has further revealed that the accused also availed loans in the name of 54 individuals, including their family members, friends, relatives and associates to the tune of Rs 22 crore,” the ED said. These loans were taken under the pretext of doing pisciculture, but instead the money was siphoned off and diverted to the main accused who, in turn, used this money to introduce share capital in VAFL to help the company borrow more. “Part of the loans was used to acquire immovable properties in names of accused and projected as untainted properties. An amount of Rs 1.7 crore was diverted for the movie in 2011,” the ED said. It said all the loans have become NPAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-attaches-assets-of-aqua-unit-directors-for-diverting-loan/articleshow/78797556.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 22, 2020||Agra||CBI questions Hathras victim’s grandmother, visits Aligarh jail to unlock phone of accused||AGRA: A CBI team on Wednesday visited the house of the Hathras victim and two others went to the Aligarh district jail where the accused are incarcerated. “They came to question my grandmother and then asked me a few questions,” the victim’s elder brother said. The CBI officials wanted to know where she was when the alleged gang-rape occurred and where her elder grandson was when a local came to inform them about the girl’s condition that day. In the evening, two CBI teams visited the Aligarh district jail. One questioned the main accused for almost two hours. The other team met the minor accused to unlock his password-protected phone and interrogated him for an hour. Sources, meanwhile, said two local journalists who had recorded the victim’s statement when she was taken to the district hospital in Hathras have been asked to provide the original footage to the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-questions-hathras-victims-grandmother-visits-aligarh-jail-to-unlock-phone-of-accused/articleshow/78796028.cms||---
October 22, 2020||India||‘Bobde flight no protocol violation’||NEW DELHI: Responding to a fresh controversy over CJI S A Bobde using a Madhya Pradesh government chopper to travel to Nagpur from Kanha National Park, Supreme Court sources on Wednesday said CJIs and SC judges were always treated as state guests and provided facilities for accommodation, travel and security. “State governments providing choppers for quick travel of CJI is routine. A few months back, the CJI had travelled from Shirdi to Shani Shingnapur and then back to his hometown Nagpur on a Maharashtra government chopper. So, availing the MP government chopper to trav el from Kanha to Nagpur breaches no propriety,” an official source told TOI. SC sources were responding to a social media post accusing the CJI of availing the chopper when a petition seeking disqualification of rebel Congress MLAs led by Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose defection brought down the Kamal Nath government and the return of a BJP government, is pending before him. CJI Bobde has been provided with Z+ security after the Ayodhya verdict and recent threats for declining to permit the Rath Yatra, which was later allowed after the Odisha government agreed to make arrangements for a safe festival. Sources said so many matters relating to Maharashtra were heard by the CJI-led bench at the time he was provided with the chopper to travel from Shani Shingnapur to Nagpur. “This cannot mean that the CJI, who heads benches and hears myriad matters relating to many states, should not accept the protocol of being treated as a state guest in those states,” they said. “It would have been more expensive for the CJI to have taken the road route as it would have involved a motorcade with ambulance and security on the entire route. Whenever a CJI or an SC judge goes to any state, they are accorded state guest status and provided hospitality, including security and modes of travel,” they said. “A car is a vehicle, so is a chopper. A boat is also a vehicle when one travels from one island to another while on a visit to the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Should a CJI not avail the boat or motorcade provided by the state governments as part of the protocol and security measures?” they asked.“Some people insist on creating some controversy over everything,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bobde-flight-no-protocol-violation/articleshow/78799148.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 22, 2020||Agra||CMO, resident docs’ body urge VC to bring back AMU docs who had questioned Hathras report||AGRA: A day after two doctors at AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College who had questioned the forensic report on the alleged Hathras gang-rape case were asked to leave, chief medical officer Dr SAH Zaidi and the hospital's resident doctors' association wrote to the vice-chancellor requesting him to reconsider the decision. The two temporary casualty medical officers, Dr Mohammad Azimuddin Malik and Dr Obaid Imtiazul Haque, had received letters on Tuesday informing them that their appointment “is rejected with immediate effect” and were “requested not to perform any further duties.” Malik had been appointed at the hospital’s trauma centre on August 9 and Haque on August 4. After a month, their service was extended. The second extension ended on October 4 for Haque and October 9 for Mailk. But they continued to work because the hospital needed them to. “I have requested the vice-chancellor to reconsider their appointment on the grounds that they were involved in the examination of several medico-legal cases, including the alleged Hathras gang-rape, as many doctors are on leave,” Zaidi told TOI. Spokesperson of the university Shafey Kidwai confirmed that the recommendation had been received. VC Tariq Mansoor told TOI he would take a call after “examining the matter.” The Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) also wrote to the VC. "If the order is not revoked in 24 hours, the RDA will convene a general body meeting and utilise its democratoc right to safeguard the interests of the doctors' fraternity ... The decision against the doctors was influenced by vendetta politics — aimed at suppressing independent voices," the letter said. “I had given my opinion on the forensic science lab report as a doctor but never knew this could happen,” Malik told TOI. Haque, a gold medalist who recently completed a fellowship at the Royal College of Surgeons in Edinburgh, said he was disappointed with the “rejection” letter. “I worked there on humanitarian grounds. The hospital did not have enough doctors and I filled in on my guide’s request,” he added. The forensic report of the Hathras victim had found no trace of semen but samples had been collected 11 days late which, Malik had told the media, “had no value.” Haque’s name had come up when a news site said he had attested the medico-legal report of the dead Dalit girl. The hospital denied this was the reason they were asked not to continue. “I never stopped anyone from sharing their opinion,” Mansoor said, adding that he was “not aware” of their statements before the media. Malik was present when the Hathras victim was admitted to the hospital on September 14 and when she gave her dying declaration on September 22. He was also present when her medico-legal examination was done. It was attested by Haque. “About 20-30 medico-legal reports are prepared at the centre every day. A casualty medical officer on duty can be called by the court to justify a report they have prepared,” a senior doctor at the hospital said. A day before they were asked to leave, Zaidi had written to the principal of the medical college recommending that their services continue. The October 19 letter for “appointment against leave vacancy of medical officers” had said two doctors at the centre were on leave and a third would go on leave from October 22, which would leave the trauma centre short-staffed. A source said the vice chancellor turned down that request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cmo-resident-docs-body-urge-vc-to-bring-back-amu-docs-who-had-questioned-hathras-report/articleshow/78796042.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Fresh flood threat looms as Osmansagar ready to spill||HYDERABAD: A fresh threat of widespread inundation looms over areas in the vicinity of Osmansagar as authorities gear up to open the floodgates if the reservoir reaches full tank level (FTL). Thousands of families staying at Bandlaguda, Rajendranagar, Attapur, Langar Houz and adjacent low-lying areas along the Musi are in danger. Authorities said nearly one lakh population would face inundation once the floodgates are opened. Bandlaguda was among the most affected areas during the rains that has lashed city in the last few days. On October 18, Bandlaguda recorded the highest rainfall of 11 cms. At Ghousenagar in Bandlaguda, eight persons died when a granite boundary wall collapsed on two asbestos-roofed houses. Already, residents along Musi are reeling from widespread flooding after authorities opened the gates at Himayathsagar a week ago. “Just a three-feet gap remains before we reach 1,790ft, the reservoir’s FTL. Since morning the flood water has steadily increased in the reservoir and reached 1,786ft. If the same inflow continues, there is no other option but to to open the reservoir’s floodgates,” Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) general manager and in-charge of Osmansagar, S Hari Shankar, told TOI. From early morning, police vans were seen in many areas with loudspeakers warning people to move out of their homes. Employees of Bandlaguda jagir municipal corporation also visited residential localities to shift people to safer places. Officials at HMWS&SB said that both Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy district government machinery have been alerted a couple of days ago to evacuate families from the affected areas, Shankar added. The floodgates of Osmansagar was last opened in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fresh-flood-threat-looms-as-osmansagar-ready-to-spill/articleshow/78798363.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 22, 2020||Goa||Goa council clips syllabus from Class I to VIII by 30%||PANAJI: The state council for educational research and training (SCERT) has curtailed the syllabus from Class I to VIII by 30% for the academic year 2020-21 due to the pandemic. The council has also told schools to encourage self-study of topics which have been curtailed. The state government is yet to take a call on allowing students back on campus as per the Centre’s Unlock guidelines, as many parents remain averse to the idea due to the pandemic. TOI had reported in July that the SCERT has begun the work of identifying topics to be curtailed from the syllabus for the current academic year. “There is no curtailment of any portion of grammar and language skills in all language subjects at the upper primary level,” SCERT has told schools. “As far as possible, teachers may encourage students to self-study the portion which is curtailed and assist them in solving difficulties.” SCERT also said that approval for truncation of the syllabus has been taken from the directorate of education. The curtailed portion should not be included in the term-end examination, the SCERT has told schools. SCERT has said in its circular that it had constituted a board of studies from Class I to VIII to identify the topics in the syllabus to curtail, and based on their recommendation, it decided the topics to be kept out. At the primary school level, the topics curtailed are mainly in language subjects of English, Konkani, Marathi and Urdu, and in environmental studies. From Class V to VIII, the topics marked for self-study range across languages, to mathematics, science and social science. In Class VIII, in the science subject, sub-topics have been curtailed from the chapters on synthetic fibres and plastics, coal and petroleum, combustion and flame, conservation of plants and animals, and reproduction in animals, among others. In July this year, the Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education had already announced curtailment of syllabus from Class IX to XII from 28-30% in select subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-cuts-syllabus-for-class-i-viii-by-30/articleshow/78798356.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Life sentence for 2 drivers for killing shepherd||HYDERABAD: A local court awarded life sentence to two drivers for killing a shepherd while attempting to steal his sheep at Shamshabad in 2013. The convicts were Mohammed Aizaz (24) and Mohammed Hasmath (24), both from Mailardevpally. On March 31, 2013, the duo along with their associates went to the sheep pen of M Mallaiah located in front of his house in Ramanjapur village of Shamshabad. The accused broke the lock of sheep pen and stole four sheep. When they were about to escape with the sheep in an Innova, Mallaiah and his son Vijay Kumar woke up and raised an alarm. Mallaiah tried to prevent the accused from escaping from the village by holding the SUV’s steering wheel. However, the accused drove the vehicle forward and when Mallaiah fell on the road, they ran the vehicle over him, police said. After the trial, court convicted Aizaz and Hasmath, sentencing them to life imprisonment. The convicts also have to pay Rs 1,000 fine each. Hasmath was previously involved in other cases and an NBW was pending against him. Two other accused in the case have been acquitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/life-for-2-drivers-for-killing-shepherd/articleshow/78797566.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||RR admin cracks the whip, wants criminal action against lake squatters||Hyderabad: Police have started primary investigations against those who have encroached land of at least two lakes in Rangareddy. The probe started after district officials gave a complaint asking for criminal action against the illegal construction. According to a complaint, encroachers on Palle Cheruvu in Mailardevpally and Appa Chervu in Shamshabad have damaged the lake bunds. In the two recent incidents of lake breaches here, 10 people got swept away in floods apart from leaving thousands without food, water and power. In the past couple of years, houses have been built on 15 acres of Palle Cheruvu’s full tank level (FTL) and buffer zone. The land is between Katedan and Chandrayangutta. Officials told TOI that several colonies got inundated in the surrounding areas simply because the lake reclaimed lost ground in the heavy downpour. Documents with TOI show that Rangareddy revenue authorities and irrigation department had jointly inspected the lakes on July 30, following a public interest litigation in the Telangana high court, filed by an NGO. The plea alleged that debris had been dumped here to develop layouts. A part of Palle Cheruvu falls (survey number 95 and 120 of Mailardevpally) in Rangareddy district and the rest in Hyderabad (Bandlaguda mandal). The inspection concluded that the lake bund, both FTL and buffer zone, has been encroached upon in Bandlaguda. District collector Amoy Kumar wrote a letter to his Hyderabad counterpart on August 5 on the issue. “We have no idea whether the Hyderabad district administration acted upon on the findings or not,” Rangareddy collector Amoy Kumar told TOI on Wednesday. Hyderabad district officials did not take calls or respond to messages. “Due to heavy rains, the flood water, which entered from Jalpally and Umda Sagar and due to reduction of holding capacity of the tank, exerted pressure on the earthen bund, causing it to breach. Colonies like Ali Nagar got inundated,” the deputy executive engineer of irrigation, north tank division, informed the government. Rangareddy district authorities have lodged separate complaints with Mailardevpally and RGI Shamshabad police stations directing police to investigate and take criminal against those who encroached upon the lakes and damaged the lake bund. The bund of Appa Cheruvu got damaged on October 14 and there were complaints that some residents had deliberately damaged it to avoid inundation of their colonies by releasing water from the lake. The irrigation department said some commercial buildings were raised in Appa Cheruvu lake bed area and lake course was also grabbed. “After lodging complaints we got the reports from irrigation department and panchanama reports by revenue staff,” revenue divisional officer, Rajendranagar, K Chandrakala, who lodged the complaints, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rr-admin-cracks-the-whip-wants-criminal-action-against-lake-squatters/articleshow/78797576.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Give proof of remark: Asad to UP CM||Hyderabad: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday hit back at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his remark that the Hyderabad MP is a Pakistan sympathiser. Owaisi challeged the UP CM to come up with proof to back his statement. “I challenge Yogi Adityanath to show proof in 24 hours if he is a true yogi. This shows his frustration. Doesn't he know that I went to Pakistan and talked about Indian democracy?” Owaisi questioned. The AIMIM chief’s reaction came a day after Yogi Adityanath’s statament. Addressing a public meeting in Bihar, the UP CM had said that only two people praise Pakistan, them being Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Asaduddin Owaisi. Speaking about the upcoming Bihar assembly polls, Owaisi said that neither the Congress nor the Rashtriya Janta Dal (RJD) have the power to win. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-proof-of-remark-asad-to-up-cm/articleshow/78797568.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Bengaluru||Personnel who succumbed to virus are martyrs, says top cop||BENGALURU: An exhibition of portraits of 85 police personnel who died of Covid-19, which they caught while performing their duties, and 17 others who died in the line of duty will be put up at Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath on Thursday to mark Police Martyrs Day. The names of the 17 police personnel from Karnataka, who had died while performing their duties between 2019 and 2020 were announced at Police Commemoration Ceremony held at Martyr’s Garden, City Armed Reserve headquarters, Mysuru Road on Wednesday. Praveen Sood, director general and inspector general of police, told TOI that he and the rest of force considers the 85 personnel who died of Covid-19 as martyrs. “These 85 police officials died while carrying out their duties and they are nothing but martyrs,” Sood said. “Though their names were not included in the martyrs list, which comprised 254 names from across the country, we consider them as martyrs. To mark their sacrifice, we will exhibit their photos along with 17 others at Chitrakala Parishath on Thursday.” Due to Covid-19, Commemoration Day ceremony at CAR grounds was a low-key affair. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa inaugurated the ceremony, but unlike previous years, retired police officials and kin of martyrs from the city were not invited. Till date, a total of 85 police personnel from different parts of Karnataka have died due to Covid-19. As many as 9,209 tested positive and while 7,107 have recovered and been discharged from hospital, 2,107 are still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/personnel-who-succumbed-to-virus-are-martyrs-says-top-cop/articleshow/78796046.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||5,511 died in Madurai govt hospitals in seven months: RTI info||MADURAI: As many as 5,511 people died in government hospitals in Madurai from March to September this year out of which only 436 fell victim to Covid-19, the health department has stated in response to an RTI petition. The deaths peaked at 1,202 in August and 1,088 in July, when there were more Covid-19 deaths in the district. Petitioner A Brammanayagam has raised doubts over the cause of the 5,075 non Covid-19 deaths since these were the months when the lockdown was stringent. “The number of road accidents and related deaths were way lesser than normal times. Only critical cases and surgeries were taken up during that period,” he told TOI adding that he has gone for an appeal for the unanswered questions pertaining to Covid deaths in Madurai. He had sent individual RTI petitions to collectors of 30 districts in the second week of September seeking information on deaths at government medical college hospital, district headquarters and taluk level hospitals. District-level reply came from Madurai while some government hospitals like the ones at Palladam and Dharapuram in Tirupur sent data for their respective hospitals. “I took the effort to shed light on the actual statistics on Covid-19 deaths so that people who are misinformed by government will be more careful,” he said. The reply from deputy director of health services in Madurai shows that out of the nine government hospitals where the 5,511 deaths were reported, 5,365 were at the medical college hospital. Of the 436 Covid-19 deaths in the district government hospital, as many as 245 were from Madurai while the others were from other districts. Queries that were not answered include dates on which the Covid-19 death audits were conducted by the district collector and copies of the death audit. “We have gone for an appeal asking for those replies and for the other unanswered questions,” Brammanayagam said. Government Rajaji Hospital dean J Sangumani told TOI that the hospital saw lesser deaths during the lockdown and that there was a rise when relaxations were announced. “In any hospital, deaths will always be reported. Even during lockdown, we had cases of emergency surgeries, trauma cases etc,” he said and added that the mortalities were however less compared to the same period last year. “It must be noted that GRH also treats many patients with various chronic illnesses like cancer, thalassemia and other severe ailments,” he said. Citing hectic schedule, the hospital authorities could not provide deaths during the corresponding period last year for a comparison. (with inputs from Sukshma Ramakrishnan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5511-died-in-madurai-govt-hosps-in-7-months-rti-info/articleshow/78797561.cms||M K Ananth
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH students stall work||Hyderabad: University of Hyderabad (UoH) students held a protest after a prime land came under land grab threat by residents of a housing society that tried to construct a road within the campus on Wednesday. “The housing society brought in earthmovers and started construction of road at the backside of the campus where we have a security check post. We held a protest at the spot and stalled the construction of the road,” said Sree Charan, acting president, UoH students union. There are issues of encroachment in east campus. “ The varsity is in touch with the central and state governments to resolve the issue ,” said Vinod Pavarala, UoH spokesperson. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-stall-work/articleshow/78797560.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Several schools defy govt order, hold exams||HYDERABAD: Despite state government postponing all exams till Dasara, several schools in the city and the state held exams on Wednesday. Parents said that their wards took online examinations and added that exams are scheduled at least for the next two days. “My son gave his social and general knowledge exam today. On Wednesday, he has English and computer’s exams,” said a parent, whose son is studying in Class 5 at a private school in Secunderabad. Parents said that exams are conducted in online mode in morning and afternoon sessions. Parents questioned the need to conduct examinations during the pandemic, especially when the education minister postponed them till Dasara due to incessant rains. “Majority of students are unable to understand online classes. A substantial number of students are unable to access them due to lack of facilities. In these circumstances, what is the need to have any kind of assessment for children,” said Venkat Sainath, joint secretary, Hyderabad Schools Parents Association. They also pointed out that the state is yet to reduce syllabus following Centre’s orders. Some also complained that schools scheduled exams right after Dasara leaving no time for children to enjoy the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-schools-defy-govt-order-hold-exams/articleshow/78797564.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old girl raped by local youth in Sambhal, arrested||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a local youth in a locality under kotwali jurisdiction in UP’s Sambhal on Tuesday. In a complaint lodged to police, the girl’s family alleged that the accused took the girl, who was playing outside her house, along with him to a field and raped her. The accused even threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anybody, alleged the family. Sambhal kotwali SHO Amit Kumar told TOI, “A local youth, a labourer, tricked the girl and raped her. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offenses (Pocso) Act. The accused has been arrested and an inquiry is underway. The girl’s medical examination report is awaited.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-girl-raped-by-local-youth-in-sambhal-arrested/articleshow/78793688.cms||Maria Khan
October 22, 2020||Kochi||Malayali nurse in Yemen jail running out of time||Kochi: For the past six weeks, the International Action Council formed in early September had been intensely lobbying to highlight the plight of a 30-year-old nurse from Palakkad, currently a death row prisoner in Sana’a in Yemen. Negotiators based in Yemen, engaged by the council, have established contacts with tribal leaders and close relatives of Mahdi, the Yemen national, whom the Keralite nurse allegedly murdered. Unofficial negotiations are being held to persuade the victim’s relatives to pardon the woman, a victim of sexual assault and torture, by offering diya or blood money. The council with several Loka Kerala Sabha members, human rights and social activists as members, have succeeded in garnering support and commitments for a potential crowd-fund but are currently facing a dilemma over modalities of transferring money to strife-torn Yemen. The main concern is that the nature of tribal negotiations would necessitate unreceipted transactions prior to and during the final settlement. But neither the Union ministry of external affairs nor Norka, the nodal agency for welfare of non-resident Keralites, have responded to their request for directives and guidance to get past the predicament. “We were informed by Yemeni sources that at least $70,000 need to be raised. It would not be impossible but we are wary of legal complications in transferring such a huge amount,” said Ashik Mohammed Nazar, joint convener of the council. Dr K Ellangovan, industries secretary in charge of Norka, said they would not involve themselves in collection or transfer of money. “Blood money is to be paid in court and any individual or organization can do it. But I don’t think it’s the government’s domain,” he said. The prison where the woman is lodged is under the control of Houthi rebels. There is no clarity on how long the stay on execution of the verdict is valid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-nurse-in-yemen-jail-running-out-of-time/articleshow/78796098.cms||Binu Karunakaran
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru mayor, MP lock horns over christening a circle||MYSURU: The matter of naming a circle has run into a controversy after the Congress mayor and BJP MP locked horns over it. Mayor Tasneem said on Wednesday that Mysuru MP Pratap Simha was harbouring a grudge against the MCC for naming a circle near Lalitha Mahal after a corporator. The MP wanted the circle to be named after a doctor, she added. Tasneem claimed that in a letter, the MP had asked the MCC commissioner to drop the proposal to name a circle after a corporator claiming it was illegal. “He said MCC cannot name junctions and roads that are under the National Highways Authority of India and suggested to seek public opinion on this score. The MCC took a decision to name the circle after the corporator in the council,” she said. “Why did the MP come to the council and request MCC to change its decision, when the civic body, according to him, doesn’t have power to name an intersection? If the MP has anything against MCC, let him sort out the matter with us instead creating a debate,” said Tasneem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-mayor-mp-lock-horns-over-christening-a-circle/articleshow/78794508.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Mission Shakti help desks soon in all blocks, tehsils||LUCKNOW: To monitor the various initiatives being taken up by the government under Mission Shakti, chief secretary RK Tiwari has given directions to set up help desks across all block and tehsil offices. These include the ongoing special programmes during Navratra and the subsequent campaigns that will mark the next six months. Mission Shakti is a state-wide programme to create awareness about women’s security, dignity and empowerment. These help desks will provide information about schemes and programmes that are being implemented by the government and link beneficiaries with them. Tiwari said that all departments should initiate programmes under Mission Shakti across all 75 districts. These should become a medium for the government to reach out to the maximum number of women and girls in the state. The desks will not just help identify beneficiaries of these schemes but also register them for it. To ensure that information about this reaches the maximum number of people, help desks will be set up in all district development offices and tehsil development offices. “These desks will maintain a register for women to record their names in. They will fill up forms on the spot for necessary documentation,” added Tiwari. The CS said that a committee under him will monitor the implementation of the programme. It will have as its members principal secretaries, additional chief secretaries and secretaries of various departments. To ensure the success of Mission Shakti, ACS (home) and ACS (women and child welfare) have been appointed as convenor and co-convenor respectively. Committees will also be set up at the district level, headed by DMs, to roll out the various programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-shakti-help-desks-soon-in-all-blocks-tehsils/articleshow/78798359.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Fresh cases fall to 259 in south Tamil Nadu, 280 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: After four months, the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the southern region of the state dipped below 300 on Wednesday as the 10 districts reported 259 cases. In the central region also the fresh cases slipped below 300. The eight central districts, including Trichy recorded 280 cases taking the tally to 62,885, which include 2,953 active cases. On June 21, the number of daily cases in the south TN was 212 and the tally was 3,413, which has now climbed to 1,21,536. South’s share of fresh cases in the state was 8.4% on Wednesday. Madurai (62) was the only southern district that reported more than 50 fresh cases on Wednesday. The nine other districts had less than 50 cases. Kanyakumari (48) recorded the second highest number, followed by Tirunelveli (39) and Theni (25). Tenkasi (7) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases in the region and recorded fresh cases in single digits for the second straight day. Six districts including Tenkasi reported less than 20 fresh cases – Ramanathapuram (13), Sivagangai (15), Dindigul (16), Virudhunagar (17) and Tuticorin (17). The six deaths recorded in the region on Wednesday included two in Madurai and one each in Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli. Trichy recorded 70 cases pushing the tally to 12,045, making it the second district in the region to cross the 12,000-mark after Thanjavur, which has more than 14,000 cases. Thanjavur recorded 64 cases, a new low, taking its tally to 14,715, the highest in the region. Ariyalur district also recorded eight cases pushing the tally to 4,295. The region also recorded three deaths taking the toll to 827 one death each in Nagappattinam, Thanjavur and Trichy districts. All of them had diabetes in common, while they had systemic hypertension, coronary artery disease, and post-coronary artery bypass grafting and acute kidney failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-cases-fall-to-259-in-south-tn-280-in-central-dists/articleshow/78797574.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire breaks out at building||Hyderabad: Fire broke out at an under-construction apartment in Moosapet on Wednesday night. Two fire tenders were pressed into service. No casualties were reported. According to assistant district fire officer, Kukatpally, KV Satish Kumar, fire broke out on the ground-floor of a multi-storeyed apartment ‘Rainbow Vistas’ . “Fire officials are still trying to douse the flames. Material to set up the elevator that was kept at the ground floor caused the fire. As of now, there are no casualties,” Satish Kumar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-at-building/articleshow/78797567.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Path lab should pay compensation to couple for misdiagnosis by its radiologist, Child rights panel||DEHRADUN: The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), in a letter to registrar of Uttarakhand Medical Council, has asked the council to direct Dr Ahuja’s Pathology & Imaging Centre, whose radiologist had recently been barred from practising for three months for reported misdiagnosis, to provide monetary compensation to a couple who lost their one-year old child allegedly due to misdiagnosis by the radiologist. “The baby was born with lips and the palate was severed. Even the child’s heart was displaced. The baby's parents had approached doctors at several top medical institutes for almost a year, but the experts failed to save the child. The Uttarakhand Medical Council has taken the action of suspending the radiologist for three months, but this is not enough," SCPR chairperson Usha Negi wrote in the letter. The medical council has been asked by the commission to take appropriate action and also share the report with the commission in a month’s time. As reported by TOI, the complainant Pramod Pathak and his wife had consulted radiologist Dr (Lieutenant Colonel) Malay Joshi between April and June 2018 at the pathology lab and imaging centre for doing pregnancy-related ultrasound. As per the complainant, the radiologist kept telling them that the baby was fine, but their child was born with multiple deformities. A three-member expert committee of AIIMS Rishikesh had held that the radiologist was at fault in the case. Responding to the allegations, Dr Malay Joshi, in a statement, said that he felt he has been wronged by the verdict, terming it “incorrect on legal as well as scientific basis.” “A doctor is liable for punishment only if there has been damage caused to the patient as a result of his act of omission or commission. Firstly, there has been no omission in this case. Secondly, the congenital defect is an act of nature, not caused by me. Prenatal detection of cleft does not allow correction before birth, neither is termination considered as a result of facial cleft. It only allows planning for correction after the child is born,” Dr Joshi said. "The foetal cardiac evaluation was not done by me and was advised to be carried out as given in my report. The same has been endorsed by experts earlier and again now. Hence, I am not liable to be punished for the same," he added. “It is, therefore, scientifically, ethically and legally wrong to punish a doctor merely because things went wrong as a result of limitations of medical science. I am going to challenge this decision using all available avenues, and truth shall prevail,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/path-lab-should-pay-compensation-to-couple-for-misdiagnosis-by-its-radiologist-child-rights-panel/articleshow/78794796.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 22, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid-19 cases drop to 3,098, recoveries surpass new infections||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active Covid-19 cases dropped marginally to 3,098 on Wednesday with recoveries exceeding new cases. Recoveries for the day were 408 and 308 more people tested positive. However, the positivity rate has been 21%, two points more than a day earlier. The Covid-19 death count went up to 558 with two deaths reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Two men—an 87-year-old from Pomburpa and a 59-year-old from Ambelim—having comorbid conditions succumbed to the virus. Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals in the state, said the trend needs to be closely watched over the next 10 to 15 days. The cases have shown a downward trend but this being the festive season, the movement of people has increased. Also the lack of restrictions on entry into the state has lead to a rise in the arrival of domestic tourists. “People are moving and mixing without following protocols,” he said. On Wednesday, Panaji reported 10 more cases and its tally stood at 163. The case tally of Sakhali community health centre has declined after the constant rise it witnessed in the last two months. After crossing the 400-mark, in September, it’s count has dropped to 122 while that of Bicholim to 90. In North Goa, Porvorim continues to be at the top with 242 active cases. In South Goa, Margao has the highest number of cases, though it has witnessed a moderate drop in cases which has been matched by new cases found either in equal or more numbers. Vasco and Ponda have been reporting new infections with regularity but their tally is below 200. On Wednesday, 45 patients were hospitalised and 174 opted for home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-cases-drop-to-3098-recoveries-surpass-new-infections/articleshow/78798375.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Protect water bodies: Bathukamma message||HYDERABAD: On the note of ‘Intinti Bathukamma’ (Bathukamma in every house), women are gathering in small groups to take part in the flower festival. Keeping their spirits up, many city dwellers are celebrating the festival amidst flowers and family. Newly-married Vaishnavi Gone, a resident of Banjara Hills, was excited to attend the first major festival since her wedding. “With Covid-19 taking over our lives, festive celebrations have become very intimate. As opposed to every year, this year we’re celebrating Bathukamma at home with a small group of people. And our new face accessories are sure to add some glamour to the night!” Seeing the beauty in the midst of the torrential rain was Swathi Reddy, a resident of Gachiblowli. “Bathukamma is a festival that is closely linked to earth and water. The flower-laden Bathukamma is immersed in a pond. This time, the rains have filled our water bodies. This is a blessing and a call for all of us to respect nature.” Gauramma, a symbolic representation of Goddess Gowri as a small mound of turmeric, is placed on top of the flowers before immersion. Women across households were seen making Bathukamma comprising layers of different flowers in the shape of a temple’s gopuram. Swirling around in circles, they danced around the seven-tiered flower arrangement to traditional songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protect-water-bodies-bathukamma-message/articleshow/78797609.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Online trans magazine to break stereotyping of community||MADURAI: A free online magazine promoting the cause of the transsexual community will be launched in Madurai on November . Priya Babu, editor of the magazine, ‘Trans News’, said that the magazine will have all sections of an ordinary magazine but would cater to the needs of the transgender community. It would also have sections on health and hygiene. The fashion section will have exclusive transgender models displaying new designer creations. Shooting for the magazine would be done predominantly in Madurai. The photographers are also from the community. It will have stories based on the community, including mythological stories. Three reporters, R Jeeva, Padmini Prakash and Viji, from the community would be contributing to the magazine on a regular basis. The magazine would focus on achievements by members of the community, and break the stereotyping that they are sex workers as showcased in films and some media, she said. Crimes against the community were also not given much importance in the mainstream media, and the magazine will focus on such aspects, she said. “There is a lot to be told about the struggles of the community, which is given less focus in the mainstream media,” she said.  The magazine is bilingual (Tamil and English), and later will be expanded into other languages. The magazine will have exclusive section to help members of the community showcase and sell their products, like in any other e-commerce website, said Priya Babu. Later, they also want to start a matrimonial column for the community in the magazine. Except for the technical team, all the other members working for the magazine are from the community, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-trans-magazine-to-break-stereotyping-of-community/articleshow/78797621.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: BJP, Cong go all out to tap young voters||Hyderabad: BJP and Congress are going all out to win the hearts of the youth in Dubbak by highlighting the failures of the TRS government in filling up over two lakh job vacancies in the government sector. Both the opposition parties have focused on wooing the voters aged between 18 and 38 years, whose numbers are over 90,000 in the constituency. The BJP and Congress have deployed their youth brigades to strike a rapport with the youth and explain to them on how the ruling TRS had failed to dole out the promised Rs 3,016 per month unemployment allowance to jobless youngsters. Over 1,000 members drawn from Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, BJP Yuva Morcha, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal are getting in touch with the youth. “The TRS has promised a job per house (‘intiko udyogam’). The government has not only failed to fulfil this promise but also went back on its word on the unemployment allowance,” said BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao. Young leaders from National Students Union of India, Youth Congress, Seva Dal and Mahila Congress are also trying to impress the youth to bring about a change both at the state and the Centre. Youth Congress state president Anil Kumar Yadav said there are a large number of youth who have completed their education, but do not have jobs. “Some of the educated youth are into farming. Vacancies in the government sector have increased from one lakh to over two lakh in the last six years. Youngsters in towns and villages say this when we approach them,” he said. Meanwhile, TRS leaders are countering the opposition campaign by stating both Congress and BJP are lying and that TRS has never promised a job for every house. “Despite the BJP and Congress going to court against the recruitment notifications, the KCR government has filled up over a lakh vacancies till date,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-bypoll-bjp-cong-go-all-out-to-tap-young-voters/articleshow/78797618.cms||Roushan Ali
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: More exam centres likely for recruitment, CRPF tells Su Venkatesan||MADURAI: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) may allocate more examination centres for the forthcoming recruitment drive, if required, deputy inspector general (DIG) for recruitment, Manoj Dhyani, said in response to Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, who had written to the DGP seeking more centres. The CRPF had earlier announced that written examination to fill up 789 posts of Group B and C non-ministerial, non- gazetted, combatised paramedical posts will be held at nine centres across India on December 20. Five of the centres are in the northern states, two in the south and one each in the western and eastern parts of the country. There was no centre in Tamil Nadu. The MP on October 10 sought more examination centres pan India, including one each in Chennai and Puducherry in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhyani stated that the designated (nine) centres have been selected at region level on the basis of previous recruitment and anticipated receipt of applications. “Scrutiny of applications received in connection with recruitment of paramedical staff-2020 is under process and after completion of process, more centres may be designated,” the reply said. Welcoming it, Venkatesan, however, said that there has not been any response with regard to extending the last date for applying for the exam. The MP added that he will make a representation to CRPF officials in person at Delhi next week when he attends the standing committee meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-exam-centres-likely-for-recruitment-crpf-tells-mp/articleshow/78797608.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||40% dip in number of people returning to AP for Dasara||Hyderabad: The festive rush towards various districts in the state and neighbouring AP is subdued this year as the number of people travelling to their native places has come down by about 40-45 per cent. According to bus operators, many dropped their travel plans for Dasara due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the recent spell of heavy rainfall, that has left large parts of Hyderabad marooned. Meanwhile, festival special trains to Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Guntur and other parts of the country are running with almost full capacity. However, with the social distancing norms and less number of reserved seats on offer, passengers travelling on these trains are much less compared to previous years. Overall 900 special trains will be running for about a month in view of the festive season. “The trains are running almost full. The majority of the people travelling from Hyderabad are going towards Vishakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Mumbai, West Bengal and even Assam,” said a senior official from the South Central Railway (SCR), adding that the railway stations, do not have rush as Covid-19 precautions limit the number of travellers. With no end in sight for the dispute on the interstate agreement between the TSRTC (Telangana State Road Transport Corporation) and the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), government buses are not operating between the two states. “Within Telangana, majority of the travel is towards district headquarters. Dasara being a very important festival in Telangana, it is usually a time when people travel to districts but now we are not even seeing 50 per cent of the festive rush. Currently, people are travelling to Karimangar, Adialbad and Nizamabad while some rush is expected towards Nalgonda and Mahabubnagar over the weekend,” said Venkateshwarlu, executive director (GHMC zone) TSRTC. Unlike previous years, the exorbitantly priced tickets by private operators is not seen this year. “This year the rush is hardly there. While only a few have planned their travel due to the pandemic, with the latest flooding in the city, many have cancelled their plans as they want to be around their houses and attend to the exigencies at home,” said the manager of one of the private bus operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-dip-in-number-of-people-returning-to-ap-for-dasara/articleshow/78797594.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 22, 2020||Kozhikode||CPM leader M Bhaskaran passes away at 80||Kozhikode: Former Kozhikode mayor and CPM district committee member M Bhaskaran died here on Wednesday. He was 80. He was under treatment for liver-related ailments for the past few months. Bhakaran was the president of District Co-Operative Hospital, Calicut Town Co-Operative Bank and vice-chairman of Rubco. He also worked with Deshabhimani daily for a long time and was the district secretariat member and secretary of CPM Kozhikode North area committee. As mayor from 2005 to 2010, The city witnessed various development works, including the Nayanar flyover construction, during Bhaskaran’s tenure. He is survived by wife P N Sumathi, daughter Sindhu and son Varun Bhaskar. CM Pinarayi Vijayan, ministers T P Ramakrishnan, A K Saseendran and others expressed condolences. Cremation will be at the crematorium on Mavoor Road at 9am on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-leader-m-bhaskaran-passes-away-at-80/articleshow/78796125.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||LEDs to replace streetlights in panchayats||Hyderabad: Telangana government has decided to replace the conventional streetlights with LEDs in all the 12,751 gram panchayats. Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), a government of India undertaking, will implement the project. Gram panchayats have to pass a resolution giving permission to EESL to implement the project in their respective jurisdictions. Panchayat raj department officials said several panchayats have already passed resolutions and sent it to the government for installation of LED streetlights. Others may follow soon. In phase I, the total estimated number of LED streetlights to be installed in all the gram panchayats are over 14.30 lakh. The estimated energy being consumed by conventional lights presently is 396.34 million units per annum and the LED streetlights project is expected to save a considerable per cent of power consumption. As on date, EESL has already installed over 11.81 lakh number of LED streetlights in 140 urban local bodies of Telangana, including GHMC. EESL is implementing LED streetlighting projects in gram panchayats on the same service model as the streetlighting national programme for municipalities. EESL initiated this programme from Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leds-to-replace-streetlights-in-panchayats/articleshow/78797657.cms||Roushan Ali
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH docs perform rare surgery||Hyderabad: In what may be a boon for patients from poor economic backgrounds, the state-run Osmania General Hospital (OGH) conducted a rare surgery on a 30-year-old patient from Kamareddy district. The woman was brought to the hospital with acute pain and breathlessness about 12 days ago, briefly after surgeries were resumed at the OGH. The patient was operated upon for diaphragmatic hernia with gastric volvulus 10 days ago and was discharged after complete recovery on Wednesday. “We get 2-3 such cases in a year. A five-member team of surgeons performed the surgery,” said Dr B Nagender, hospital superintendent. Meanwhile, general surgeries have resumed since a month now at OGH after being stopped for months. Scores of patients, especially from districts, waiting for elective surgeries and on medications, can now breathe a sigh of relief. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-docs-perform-rare-surgery/articleshow/78797646.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||CM, UP BJP chief to kick-start bypoll campaign today||LUCKNOW: After carrying out micro-management, the BJP will kick-start its campaign for byelections in seven assembly seats. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh will launch the election campaign from Naugaon Sadat in Amroha and Bulandshahr, respectively, on Thursday. The two seats had fallen vacant after the death of Chetan Chauhan (Naugaon Sadat) and Virendra Sirohi (Bulandshahr). BJP has fielded Sangeet Chauhan and Usha Sirohi, widows of the MLAs. Yogi and Singh will also address rallies in Tundla which fell vacant after MLA SP Singh Baghel got elected to Lok Sabha. BJP has named Prempal Dhanghar as its candidate in Tundla. UP BJP general secretary JPS Rathore said deputy CMs Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma will campaign. Sharma will address a rally in Bulandshahr on October 24 while Maurya will campaign in Malhani, Deoria, Naugaon Sadat, Tundla and Ghatampur. “Yogi and Singh will also campaign in Ghatampur and Bangarmau on October 27,” Rathore said. BJP has fielded Upendra Paswan from Ghatampur where byelections got necessitated due to the death Kamla Rani Varun. The party has fielded its Unnao district president Srikant Katiyar from Bangarmau after Kuldeep Singh Sengar was disqualified after conviction in a rape case. Yogi and Singh will also address election rallies in Malhani and Deoria from where party has fielded Manoj Singh, a former Allahabad University Student Union leader and Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi, a lecturer of political science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-up-bjp-chief-to-kick-start-bypoll-campaign-today/articleshow/78798377.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||NHRC orders protection, promotion of Eram Raktatirtha||Bhubaneswar: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has expressed displeasure over the ‘lackadaisical’ attitude of the Bhadrak district administration in submitting report before the commission regarding protection and promotion of Raktatirtha at Eram in the district. This place is considered as the second Jallianwala Bagh where 29 people were killed by the British forces on September 28, 1942. Petitioner Radhakanta Tripathy has also requested NHRC to help the descendants of martyrs of Raktatirtha. After hearing the petition on October 16, the rights panel has warned of coercive action against the Bhadrak district collector if he does not submit report in this case within four weeks. Next hearing will be conducted on November 23. Tripathy had filed this petition on March 31, 2014, for protection and promotion of Raktatirtha, Eram. He has also sought benefits under different social welfare schemes to the eligible members of the family of the martyrs and freedom fighters of Raktatirtha. Though the NHRC had asked the state government to submit action taken report in this case much before, nothing has materialised yet,” he added. On June 24 last year, the commission had issued a reminder to the Bhadrak collector for submission of the report latest by August 31 last year. No report was received from the collector. Keeping this attitude in mind, the NHRC warned of coercive action against the collector. Bhadrak MP Manjulata Mandal has recently raised this issue in Parliament and demanded national tourist spot tag to Eram. “The successive governments could not bring any development to the area. After the NHRC case, the state government had decided to open a martyrs gallery in the State Museum and also declared the place as a state tourist spot in 2015. Even after five years of this announcement, nothing has been done to develop the place,” said the petitioner. District administration sources said the fund allotted by the state government for the place has been utilized for construction of a memorial. Due to Covid-19 situation, the work could not be completed, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/nhrc-orders-protection-promotion-of-eram-raktatirtha/articleshow/78796111.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Be ready for all challenges: Army chief to ranks||Hyderabad: Chief of the Army Staff, General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday exhorted all ranks to continue training hard with zeal and be prepared for any future operational challenges. At the Bison division in Secunderabad, the Army chief was briefed by Major General Alok Joshi, General Officer Commanding, Bison Division on the security and operational preparedness of the formation in the presence of Lieutenant General CP Mohanty, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Southern Command. The Army chief, while commending the formation for their high level of operational preparedness, was appreciative of the flood relief operations. Gen Naravane visited the Simulator Development Division, Secunderabad and the TATA Boeing Aerospace Limited at Hyderabad, a joint venture facility of Boeing and Tata Advanced Systems established for co-production of Apache Helicopters-64. He lauded the ‘Make in India’ initiatives and reinvigorated efforts towards indigenisation of technologies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-ready-for-all-challenges-army-chief-to-ranks/articleshow/78797639.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||26,000 cops to be recruited in AP over the next 4 years: CM||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday announced that 25,000 police personnel would be recruited in the state over the next four years. The CM, speaking on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day at the IGMC stadium in Vijayawada, said around 6,500 police personnel would be recruited every year for the next four years. “This government gives the highest priority to safety of women. We have a woman home minister (Mekathoti Sucharita) to take the vision forward. Maintenance of law and order and women’s safety is our government’s topmost priority,” Jagan said, while adding that the state needs to look at other countries like Finland, Norway and Switzerland where crime rate is low. The chief minister said he has taken cognizance of the problems faced by the police while performing duties during the Covid-19 lockdown, and also in controlling smuggling of liquor and sand mining in the state. “We have set up 18 Disha police stations in the state. We are hopeful the Centre will pass the Disha bill. Once that happens, the Act will provide speedy justice to victims in a span of 21 days,” he said. DGP D Gautam Sawang said the police department will be at the forefront in any situation. He also thanked the chief minister introducing the weekly-off system in the department. Police Commemoration Day was also observed in other parts of the state. In Visakhapatnam, a commemoration parade was held near the police martyrs’ memorial on beach road. Vizag police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha, while commending the bravery of those working on the frontline since the outbreak of Covid-19, said the sacrifices of police personnel will not go in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/26000-cops-to-be-recruited-in-ap-over-the-next-4-years-cm/articleshow/78796121.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Slain Bikru don’s wife quizzed by ED for 7 hours, deflects questions on assets||LUCKNOW: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s wife, Richa, who was let off after questioning immediately after the Bikru bloodbath faced her biggest brush with law enforcement agencies on Wednesday when she was grilled for seven hours at Enforcement Directorate’s zonal office in Lucknow on the don’s assets. Though Richa skirted the media in the morning, she later told reporters while boarding her lawyer’s car — “I don’t even have money to pay tuition fees of my children”. Richa, who arrived at the ED office with her lawyer, Brahmendra Maurya, and two sons, Akash and Shantanu, deflected questions on her husband’s ill-gotten wealth, including money transactions, hawala deals, spread of properties and his links to financier Jaikant Bajpai and proximity to a FMCG washing powder manufacturing contractor. “Several questions were tossed at Richa, but she denied having any information,” said top ED sources. She was served summons by the agency in first week of October, a month after ED registered a case under Prevention of Money Laundering Act against Dubey’s associates, including jailed financier Jaikant Bajpai whose wife Shweta too has been called for questioning on Thursday. Kanpur Nagar police had booked Bajpai under Gangster’s Act and attached his properties. On July 6, ED sent a letter to iIG, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal, seeking details on Dubey and his associates. ED has been mandated to check movable and immovable assets amassed by the don and his aides over past 20 years. ED named his associates Shivam Dubey, Sanjay, Shyamu Bajpai, Amar Dubey and Jaikant Bajpai among others. Gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides shot dead eight policemen in Bikru village near Kanpur on night of July 3 when the police team had gone to the village to arrest Dubey for attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/slain-bikru-dons-wife-quizzed-by-ed-for-7-hrs-deflects-questions-on-assets/articleshow/78798379.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Maoists kill villager in Swabhimaan Anchal||KORAPUT: After lying low for the past several months, the Maoists registered their presence in the Swabhimaan Anchal or cut-off area in Malkangiri district by killing a tribal villager on charges of being a police informer late on Tuesday night. The deceased villager has been identified as Dasa Khemundu of Khagurguda village under Jodamba police station limits. According to sources, around 10 to 15 armed Maoists came to the house of Khemundu around Tuesday midnight and dragged him out. They assaulted Khemundu and took him to the outskirts of the village and slit his throat with a sharp-edged weapon. The Maoists reportedly assaulted two villagers for helping police in counter-insurgency operations and warned people not to help police. DIG (south-western range) Shafeen Ahmed K has brushed aside the Maoist allegations. “The deceased was not our informer. We have never ever received any information from him about the Maoists. We have our own intelligence network and the Maoists have labelled the deceased as an informer to gain public sympathy,” he said. The Maoists might have killed him for some other reason which could be ascertained once we wrap up our investigation, he added. According to the DIG, as the Maoists are on the backfoot in the Swabhimaan Anchal in past few months due to intensive combing operations and execution of large number of development projects, the rebels are gradually losing their tribal support base and committed the offensive out of frustration. “We have intensified our operations in the area and are on task to track down the attackers,” the DIG said. On Monday, BSF personnel recovered and defused seven IEDs in the Swabhimaan Anchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/maoists-kill-villager-in-swabhimaan-anchal/articleshow/78796119.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
October 22, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Tender process for Tara Tarini infra project gets over||BERHAMPUR: Work on the Rs 10-crore project for development of infrastructure at the Tara Tarini Temple is expected to start soon with tender process for the first phase of the work getting over on Wednesday. The famous Shakti shrine is located on the banks of river Rushikulya near Purushottampur in Ganjam district. For the project, Rs 5 crore each has been sanctioned to the tourism and planning departments. “An interpretation centre, bhog mandap, diya house, yajna mandap and meditation centre will be constructed near the temple located on the hilltop with funds from the tourism department, said district tourist officer A K Sethi. Similarly, a toilet complex and hill view and snan mandap would be developed near the temple with funds from the planning department. “All these works will be executed by the public works department and are likely to be completed in the next nine months,” said executive engineer, Berhampur division-11, Tapan Kumar Panigrahy. Besides, the construction of a Rs 23-crore gabion wall of around 60 metre height with new technology is under construction. Apart from protecting the temple from landslides, the gabion wall would also beautify the site, as the stones are packed on the wall in a unique way, said superintendent engineer, rural development (works) Ram Krushna Moharana. The wall is expected to be completed by March, he said. The design aims at making it one of the most attractive religious tourist sites of the country, as announced by the chief minister Naveen Patnaik, said secretary, the Tara Tarini Development Board (TTDB) Pramod Kumar Panda. District collector Vijay Amruta Kulange reviewed the progress of different works at the shrine and asked the engineers to expedite the works. Tara Tarini, the twin goddess, are considered the presiding deity of Ganjam and thousands of people visit the temple every Tuesday, particularly in month of Chaitra, and on sankrantis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/tender-process-for-tara-tarini-infra-project-gets-over/articleshow/78796131.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Keltron’s ‘Clean Room’ to aid space missions||Thiruvananthapuram: Keltron that has been manufacturing various components for space missions of VSSC and Isro has upgraded itself by commissioning a Clean Room, a facility for fabrication of electronic modules, and an artificial intelligence camera assembling facility at their Manvila campus in the city. Both projects have been completed at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore. Industries minister E P Jayarjan inaugurated both facilities at a virtual ceremony held on Tuesday. Clean Room is a sealed room with a filtration system. It is used in manufacture of materials that require high levels of cleanliness and sterility. The works related to manufacture of electronic modules of satellites and their fabrication will henceforth be carried out here. The facility is equipped with features to reduce dust and micro germs in the environment to the minimum. It can also control the temperature, moisture and pressure inside. It also is equipped with ioniser devices to prevent electrostatic discharge. The staff, who will be working in the Clean Room, were given special training at Isro’s unit in Bangalore. The Clean Room at Manvila meets latest industry standards with a certification equivalent of Class 100000 Classification. Keltron authorities said that they have already bagged the contract for manufacturing electronic modules for satellites from U R Rao Satellite Centre, an agency under Isro, and those works will be done in the new Clean Room. The artificial intelligence camera assembling facility is for assembling AI-enabled cameras to be used in traffic enforcement. The works of camera systems such as AI camera enforcement system and automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) camera will be carried out here. This is the first and only such facility of its kind in the country. Presently, various law enforcement agencies in the country are importing cameras. With the AI camera assembling facility becoming functional here, indigenous production of cameras that can click registration number plates of vehicles at high speeds of up to 300km per hour will soon be a reality here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keltrons-clean-room-to-aid-space-missions/articleshow/78796153.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Mask correctly or risk infection: Doctors||HYDERABAD: Masks have become indispensible with the spread of coronavirus, but most people are not wearing them effectively, say experts. The repeated use of cloth masks without being washed properly, and touching and adjusting of face masks often can be dangerous, say health workers. According to Dr Vishvanath, a pulmonologist, touching the insides of a mask with unclean hands and repeated use of disposable masks can be dangerous. "Pushing the mask down below the nose and mouth while speaking is dangerous as the outer surface of the mask traps the virus and if used repeatedly without washing, can be infective," he said Dr Kiran Madala, who did his pandemic certification with World Health Organization has a piece of advice for office goers and people who work long hours. "The nose and mouth should be considered private parts and need to be covered properly. One should always carry a clean and dry mask before stepping out of the house," he said. A spare mask can be carried and used when the first mask turns dirty. Masks become so after five hours of use. Dr Sridhar, a consultant doctor with Apollo Hospital says masks must be removed without being touched in the front. "It should be removed by only touching the ear loops or the fastening straps. It is important to thoroughly wash hands with soap and water after removing the mask," he said. However, it is not advisable for children below two years to wear masks, doctors say. Their face can be covered with cloth in emergency situations. Dr Subodh Kanthamuthan, who works with Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) said "There is no study on effect of dirty masks. Such studies are required."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mask-correctly-or-risk-infection-docs/articleshow/78797656.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 22, 2020||Goa||Stickers on houses of patients in isolation in Mapusa||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has commenced the process of pasting stickers on houses of Covid-19 patients who have opted for home isolation. The civic body has also begun sanitising these houses. The municipal authorities said that pasting of stickers will help identify residences of those in home isolation, which will help to follow-up on the health of patients and also render help if required. “The municipality has also started separately lifting bio-medical waste and garbage from houses of Covid positive patients. We do not mix this waste with garbage picked up from other areas,” MMC councillor Tushar Tople said. A large number of cases were reported in Khorlim, Ansabhat, Feira Alta, Karaswada and Cunchelim and most patients from these areas have applied for home isolation. Sources at the MMC said that 781 people have opted for home isolation, and that Mapusa has so far witnessed 18 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stickers-on-houses-of-patients-in-isolation-in-mapusa/articleshow/78798421.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Delhi||26-year-old goes home after hip replacement surgery in 9 hours at Delhi's AIIMS||NEW DELHI: Recently, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) conducted India’s first outpatient hip replacement surgery on a 26-year-old man suffering from hip damage due to arthritis. The patient was discharged nine hours after the surgery, which involved removing the damaged bone and cartilage of the hip and replacing it with prosthetic components. Normally, a patient undergoing hip replacement surgery is required to be admitted for 2-10 days for post-operative care, which not only adds to the cost of treatment but also increases the risk of hospital-acquired infection. TimesViewThere’s always a huge queue for any treatment at AIIMS. It is one of the few hospitals in India where even the neediest gets quality treatment.Discharging a patient on the same day — one assumes no short cuts are being adopted – after hip transplant will certainly help shorten the waitlists. The doctors must be congratulated for their efforts.Dr Rajesh Malhotra, chief of orthopaedic services at AIIMS, told TOI that the patient, Sumir Orow, came to the hospital at 7am on Monday and surgery started at 8.45am. “By 11.30am, the patient was out of the post-operative room. Between 1pm and 2pm, we trained him to walk and climb the stairs and at 4pm, he was discharged from the hospital. This is the first time in India that a patient has gone home after hip replacement surgery this quickly,” he added. “We had been training hard for the past few years to bring down the duration of stay of patients undergoing hip replacement surgery,” Malhotra said. Conventionally, most surgeons conduct hip replacement surgery through posterior approach, by approaching the joint from the back of the hip. This causes significant loss of blood as layers of muscle have to be cut to reach the joint. Healing takes time. Malhotra and his team adopted a newer method referred to as direct anterior approach. In this case, the patient was asked to lie down in a supine position — lying horizontally with the face and torso facing up — and an incision was made on the front of the hip instead of the back. “The direct anterior approach allows the joint to be replaced by moving muscles aside along their natural tissue planes. Therefore, there is less pain, blood loss is lesser and, more importantly, the risk of dislocation of the hip also reduces because the structures at the back of the joint are left intact,” the AIIMS doctor said. Select surgeons abroad and just a few in India use this method because it requires a vast experience. Also, preoperative planning and selection of patients has to be done carefully. “The daycare procedure can be performed in relatively younger patients with no comorbidities. The patient should be well-motivated to follow a fast-track method of mobilisation following surgery,” said Malhotra. AIIMS is planning to start a daycare knee replacement surgery soon. “We have been discharging patients within 36 hours of surgery already and the target is to discharge them within 12 hours,” the orthopaedician said. Due to the pandemic, many patients suffering from debilitating pain in the joints have been postponing surgeries. The AIIMS doctor said daycare operation would reduce the risk of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-first-hip-replacement-patient-sent-home-9-hrs-after-surgery-at-aiims/articleshow/78797704.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Big pujas grapple with distance rule, not much worry for small ones||KOLKATA: It would have been unrealistic to expect Durga Puja to be held the same way it was last year, Forum for Durgotsav secretary Saswata Bose said hours after the Calcutta High Court revised its order to offer some relaxation on allowing organising committee members into pandals at major pujas. “Restrictions were expected. In anticipation, the forum had issued an SOP. Not all of them have been accepted by the court. But we are glad at least people involved in organising the Puja can be part of the festivity,” Bose said, urging all puja organisers to accept the court order in spirit. With the court rejecting the plea to allow revellers into pandals, organisers of pujas located in narrow alleys got in touch with local police to chalk out ways for visitors so that they did not create a bottleneck in front of pandals. “In our original plan, visitors would have entered the pandal in batches and exited through the far end. But now that they can’t enter, they will have to come in a single file, see the idol and pandal, take a u-turn and return the same way. We are dividing the lane into two halves, one towards the pandal and the other leading out,” said Hatibagan Nabin Pally Durgotsav secretary Amitava Ray. A few pujas, like Dum Dum Park Tarun Sangha, Suruchi Sangha, College Square and Natun Dal, where the idols can’t be viewed from outside, have shut down access to visitors and left it to the local police to find a way out. “After the court order, the Puja is as good as over for us. There is no point keeping the gates open,” said College Square Durgotsav executive committee member Subhankar Das. Suruchi Sangha general secretary Kingshuk Maitra was dejected as well. “We can do nothing at this stage. Let’s see what the police do,” he said. While cops may yet find a way to salvage the two pujas, there is no such hope for Natun Dal, situated in a narrow alley off a lane. Ballygunge Cultural has also cordoned off the pandal at either end and set up two large screens for visitors to view the decoration and idols. So did Mudiali. But most other puja organisers moved ahead with preparations. “It’s time for puja committees to make a compromise and innovate so that visitors get to view the idol from afar,” said Partho Ghosh, general secretary of Sib Mandir Durga Puja and founder of the forum. Though small para pujas did not get any relief from the court, they weren’t unduly perturbed either. “For us, 15 people are more than enough to help in the preparations,” said Tarun Shaw, secretary of Hindustan Boys’ Sporting Club in Taltala. With the pandal, facing S N Banerjee Road, wide enough to cover the idols from rain, they don’t see a problem in maintaining the 5m distance. At Rajballabh Para Durga Puja, organised by an all-woman’s team, adhering to the court-subscribed minimum distance will be a problem due to the narrow lane. Puja committee treasurer Sreerupa Bonerjee said it would have helped had the order been issued earlier. “But for a para puja like ours, there is no compulsion to draw crowds and pressure of sponsorship,” she said. (Inputs from Subhajyoti Kanjilal and Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/big-pujas-grapple-with-distance-rule-not-much-worry-for-small-ones/articleshow/78797671.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt launches YSR Bima for white card holding families||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday launched YSR Bima insurance scheme to benefit 1.41 crore families across the state. This would cost Rs 510 crore to the state exchequer every year. Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said that the state government will pay the annual insurance premium. Terming the loss of primary bread earner as the worst nightmare for any family, the chief minister stated that the government will stand by such families in their hard times by providing financial assistance through insurance cover. The chief minister said that the primary bread winner of the families holding white ration cards are eligible to register their names for the scheme. He asked them to register their names when the village/ward volunteers visit them. Once the registration is done, the list of eligible families would be on display at the village and ward secretariats for public scrutiny, the chief minister said. The chief minister said that despite the state facing financial hardship due to Covid-19 lockdown, he had decided to extend the benefit to the people as promised. “As a committed government, we are implementing every scheme without betraying the people like the previous dispensation. We stand by what we say to the people,” Jagan Mohan Reddy said. The insurance coverage is one of the promises that Jagan Mohan Reddy had made during his marathon walk – Padayatra – before the 2019 general elections. Deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishnadas, ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Gummanuru Jayaram, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and other officials along with bankers were present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-launches-ysr-bima-for-white-card-holding-families/articleshow/78796145.cms||Gopi Dara
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||No help for Beedi workers from Centre, says T Harish Rao||HYDERABAD: Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao on Wednesday took potshots at Congress and BJP by saying that the two national parties are depending on outsiders since they do not have local leaders. Addressing a TRS rally with women in Dubbak, he said TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha would win the November 3 election easily. He challenged BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay to prove that the Centre was granting Rs 1,600 pension to beedi workers. “The Centre is not giving a single paisa to the beedi workers,” he said. The minister sought to know if any BJP-ruled states were implementing schemes like Kalyana Lakshmi, Rythu Bandhu, etc. “Like an elder son in the family, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is giving sarees to poor women to celebrate Bathukamma,” he said. He said if people start believing Congress or BJP, they would be cheated. Medak MP Kotha Prabhakar Reddy said KCR understood the problems of women in fetching drinking water and ensured that every household gets drinking water supply. “In Dubbak, every acre will get Godavari water,” he said. Sujatha said that her late husband Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy spent his entire life to serve the people of the constituency. “The CM blessed me and sent me to you to serve you,” she told the gathering at a small rally. Meanwhile, Harish Rao unveiled a pamphlet on the developmental works undertaken by the TRS government in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-help-for-beedi-workers-from-centre-says-harish/articleshow/78797666.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Cuttack||Renovation of Taladanda canal to start in Nov||Cuttack: The renovation of the century-old Taladanda canal will start by mid-November to turn it into a major source of irrigation for places connected to it. The Rs 30-crore work is expected to be over in March 2021. German technology will be used for the purpose. This technology reduces the construction times from one-and-half years to three months. Initially, a 1.5-km stretch covering the banks of the Mahanadi, Jobra to Ranihat will be built. “Water from the canal will recede in November. Rest of the water will be drained out before start of the construction work,” said principal secretary, water resources, Anu Garg. The construction of the embankment road of Taladanda canal and its illumination is over. Through the new technology, a complete concrete canvas will be used to cover the entire canal surface just above the sand lining. Then water will be flown into the canal and it will strengthen the concrete. “This takes less time and is more durable,” said a water resources department official. The cleaning of Taladanda canal will be taken up and its start point near Jobra in front of the Mahanadi The cleaning of Taladanda canal will be taken up and its start point near Jobra in front of the Mahanadi will be developed. “We have already informed the industries that draw water from Taladanda canal to make alternative arrangements for atleast four months. We have identified a place near Paradip from where they can pump the water as required,” Garg said. Taladanda canal were dug in 1862 by the East India Company for irrigation purposes as well as to serve as a waterway. It was later taken over by the British government, which completed it in 1869.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/renovation-of-taladanda-canal-to-start-in-nov/articleshow/78796152.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Vijayawada||RGUKT to hold entrance exam for IIIT courses||Vijayawada: Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge and Technology (RGUKT) has decided to conduct an entrance examination for admission into IIIT courses. The higher education department has issued orders (Government Order No 152) directing the RGUKT management to conduct the entrance examination at the earliest. The university usually allocates seats to students based upon their performance in the SSC examination. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the SSC exam was cancelled and all students were declared passed, due to which it became difficult for RGUKT to identify students based on merit for admissions. The entrance examination with the SSC syllabus would be conducted to select students for admission into IIIT engineering courses. All students who have passed the SSC examination are eligible for admission into courses on merit basis. The government order has directed the management of RGUKT to conduct the entrance exam and complete the admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rgukt-to-hold-entrance-exam-for-iiit-courses/articleshow/78796161.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Beach management entity at Panambur move on after 12 years||MANGALURU: Panambur Beach Tourism Development Project (PBTDP), the first private beach management entity in this part of the world, on Friday bid adieu to the management of the picturesque Panambur Beach. Managed by Jyothi Advertisers, the lease holders, PBTBP with entrepreneur IsaacVaz and former banker Yathish Baikampady as initiators, made safety and cleanliness of the beach as its unique selling proposition for stakeholders, for a total of 12 years. With the department of tourism shooting off a letter to the joint initiators that their 10-year lease that ended in 2018 and extended twice for a period of one-year each had ended, PBTDP brass decided to move on. Keeping future plans close to his chest, Yathish told TOI that it had been a good run in managing the beach on a PPP mode for so long without any blemish. This saw other states such as Maharashtra, AP and Goa too try out this model, Yathish said. “If saving lives of 350 plus people in this period is an achievement that the staff at PBTDP is proud of, we did have our moments of anguish in not being able to save seven,” he admitted. The lifeguards bowed out on a high by saving the life of a youth from Ballari on Saturday, even though they were legally not obligated to do so. Incidentally, the lifeguards were at the beach, packing up their equipment when the rescue opportunity presented itself. Admitting that the endeavour was challenging from day one, he said, “We have the satisfaction of not only making the beach active, but brought about the entire attitudinal change towards upkeep, maintenance and safety, and cleanliness of the beaches in India. Even before the ‘Blue Flag’ concept for beaches was heard off, PBTDP have been able to change the face of the beach with our native resources, and without hurting the sentiments of locals.” The beach in the past 12 years has been a hub of national and international events, including international kite festivals, national level kabbadi matches, beach utsav organised as part of Karavali Utsav of the district administration, surfing events, and yoga events, among others. The project created a number of jobs in terms of lifeguards, boating, jet ski, event management and other beach-related activities, including training for lifeguards, Yathish surmised. With trainers from Surf Life Australia in the forefront of training, over a period, they saved more than 350 lives. The lifeguards were also in the forefront of lifesaving activities during natural floods and accidents involving drowning. “This one achievement will always bring us the most satisfaction, given that around 20 people, especially youths, were drowning at the Panambur beach annually prior to that,” he said. This onus is now on the local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/beach-management-entity-at-panambur-move-on-after-12-yrs/articleshow/78794242.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman jumps into quarry with 1-yr-old||Hyderabad: Unable to put up with the harassment of her husband, a 20-year-old house wife along with her one year old daughter, jumped into an abandoned quarry at Kothur on Wednesday. Both the victims drowned. Kothur inspector M Bhoopal Sridhar said that P Swarna was married to Raju, who used to physically harass her. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-jumps-into-quarry-with-1-yr-old/articleshow/78797682.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 302 Covid casualties in October, mortality rate dips below 1%||JAIPUR: Covid-19 toll in October breached the 300 mark as 14 more persons died 19 on Wednesday taking the overall fatalities to 302. Out of the total casualty count, 17% of the deaths took place this month. While 104 people each died in the first and second weeks, the third week saw 94 casualties. The overall toll currently stands at 1,788. The average number of persons dying of the virus daily in the state is 14 in October. Though 302 people have lost their lives due to the virus, the mortality rate remained just 0.7%. In all, 43,641 persons tested positive so far this month. “Our focus is to improve the recovery rate and to prevent mortalities. In October, the mortality rate is well below 1%. While it was quite high in past few months, the situation has improved as we are focusing on providing best treatment available. We have more ICUs and ventilators for Covid patients now,” said a senior health department official. The state reported 1,810 new infections on Wednesday taking the overall tally to 1,78,933. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (349), Jodhpur (303), Alwar (178), Ajmer (119), Sikar (93), Bikaner (83), Nagaur (78), Kota (71), Udaipur (65), Pali (64), Sriganganagar (64), Bhilwara (62), Dausa (28), Dungarpur (27), Barmer (27), Rajsamand (27), Bharatpur (24), Jalore (21), Chittorgarh (20), Dholpur (16), Baran (15), Hanumangarh (14), Pratapgarh (11), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Tonk (10), Sirohi (4), Jaisalmer (2), Bundi (1) and Banswara (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s toll rose to 355, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 171, Barmer reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 33, Bikaner 132nd, Ajmer 130th, Pali 74th, Udaipur 63rd, Nagaur 53rd, Sikar 48th, Dholpur 28th and Karauli reported its 14th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/302-covid-deaths-this-month-so-far/articleshow/78799258.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 302 Covid casualties in October, mortality rate dips below 1%||JAIPUR: Covid-19 toll in October breached the 300 mark as 14 more persons died 19 on Wednesday taking the overall fatalities to 302. Out of the total casualty count, 17% of the deaths took place this month. While 104 people each died in the first and second weeks, the third week saw 94 casualties. The overall toll currently stands at 1,788. The average number of persons dying of the virus daily in the state is 14 in October. Though 302 people have lost their lives due to the virus, the mortality rate remained just 0.7%. In all, 43,641 persons tested positive so far this month. “Our focus is to improve the recovery rate and to prevent mortalities. In October, the mortality rate is well below 1%. While it was quite high in past few months, the situation has improved as we are focusing on providing best treatment available. We have more ICUs and ventilators for Covid patients now,” said a senior health department official. The state reported 1,810 new infections on Wednesday taking the overall tally to 1,78,933. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (349), Jodhpur (303), Alwar (178), Ajmer (119), Sikar (93), Bikaner (83), Nagaur (78), Kota (71), Udaipur (65), Pali (64), Sriganganagar (64), Bhilwara (62), Dausa (28), Dungarpur (27), Barmer (27), Rajsamand (27), Bharatpur (24), Jalore (21), Chittorgarh (20), Dholpur (16), Baran (15), Hanumangarh (14), Pratapgarh (11), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Tonk (10), Sirohi (4), Jaisalmer (2), Bundi (1) and Banswara (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s toll rose to 355, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 171, Barmer reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 33, Bikaner 132nd, Ajmer 130th, Pali 74th, Udaipur 63rd, Nagaur 53rd, Sikar 48th, Dholpur 28th and Karauli reported its 14th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/302-covid-deaths-this-month-so-far/articleshow/78799259.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 302 Covid casualties in October, mortality rate dips below 1%||JAIPUR: Covid-19 toll in October breached the 300 mark as 14 more persons died 19 on Wednesday taking the overall fatalities to 302. Out of the total casualty count, 17% of the deaths took place this month. While 104 people each died in the first and second weeks, the third week saw 94 casualties. The overall toll currently stands at 1,788. The average number of persons dying of the virus daily in the state is 14 in October. Though 302 people have lost their lives due to the virus, the mortality rate remained just 0.7%. In all, 43,641 persons tested positive so far this month. “Our focus is to improve the recovery rate and to prevent mortalities. In October, the mortality rate is well below 1%. While it was quite high in past few months, the situation has improved as we are focusing on providing best treatment available. We have more ICUs and ventilators for Covid patients now,” said a senior health department official. The state reported 1,810 new infections on Wednesday taking the overall tally to 1,78,933. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (349), Jodhpur (303), Alwar (178), Ajmer (119), Sikar (93), Bikaner (83), Nagaur (78), Kota (71), Udaipur (65), Pali (64), Sriganganagar (64), Bhilwara (62), Dausa (28), Dungarpur (27), Barmer (27), Rajsamand (27), Bharatpur (24), Jalore (21), Chittorgarh (20), Dholpur (16), Baran (15), Hanumangarh (14), Pratapgarh (11), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Tonk (10), Sirohi (4), Jaisalmer (2), Bundi (1) and Banswara (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s toll rose to 355, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 171, Barmer reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 33, Bikaner 132nd, Ajmer 130th, Pali 74th, Udaipur 63rd, Nagaur 53rd, Sikar 48th, Dholpur 28th and Karauli reported its 14th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/302-covid-deaths-this-month-so-far/articleshow/78799260.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 302 Covid casualties in October, mortality rate dips below 1%||JAIPUR: Covid-19 toll in October breached the 300 mark as 14 more persons died 19 on Wednesday taking the overall fatalities to 302. Out of the total casualty count, 17% of the deaths took place this month. While 104 people each died in the first and second weeks, the third week saw 94 casualties. The overall toll currently stands at 1,788. The average number of persons dying of the virus daily in the state is 14 in October. Though 302 people have lost their lives due to the virus, the mortality rate remained just 0.7%. In all, 43,641 persons tested positive so far this month. “Our focus is to improve the recovery rate and to prevent mortalities. In October, the mortality rate is well below 1%. While it was quite high in past few months, the situation has improved as we are focusing on providing best treatment available. We have more ICUs and ventilators for Covid patients now,” said a senior health department official. The state reported 1,810 new infections on Wednesday taking the overall tally to 1,78,933. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (349), Jodhpur (303), Alwar (178), Ajmer (119), Sikar (93), Bikaner (83), Nagaur (78), Kota (71), Udaipur (65), Pali (64), Sriganganagar (64), Bhilwara (62), Dausa (28), Dungarpur (27), Barmer (27), Rajsamand (27), Bharatpur (24), Jalore (21), Chittorgarh (20), Dholpur (16), Baran (15), Hanumangarh (14), Pratapgarh (11), Jhalawar (11), Karauli (11), Jhunjhunu (11), Tonk (10), Sirohi (4), Jaisalmer (2), Bundi (1) and Banswara (1). With two more deaths, Jaipur’s toll rose to 355, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 171, Barmer reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 33, Bikaner 132nd, Ajmer 130th, Pali 74th, Udaipur 63rd, Nagaur 53rd, Sikar 48th, Dholpur 28th and Karauli reported its 14th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/302-covid-deaths-this-month-so-far/articleshow/78797726.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: All-women teams will be at pandals for Ashtami anjali||Kolkata: Puja organisers have decided to nominate names of women from households in their neighbourhood in the daily attendance list on Ashtami day so that they can participate in anjali in batches. The rest will offer the prayers from their home while listening to mantras being chanted by priests or watching it on a giant screen set up in the pandal’s exclusion zone. Most organisers have also decided against elaborate plans for sindur khela on Dashami. Some have decided they will allow only one individual to smear vermilion at the Goddess’ feet and avoid the high contact ritual. “ We have asked each household to submit names of women who wish to participate in anjali by Sashti so that the list for Ashtami is prepared accordingly,” said Saswata Bose, secretary of Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav. At Ballygunge Cultural in south Kolkata, women who break their fast only after the Sandhi puja anjali will be given priority. “We will ensure all of them are able to offer prayers and witness Sandhi puja before the Goddess,” said Ballygunge Cultural secretary Anjal Ukil. Maddox Square and Ballygunge Cultural had announced its decision to prohibit visitors during anjali and Sandhi puja days before the court order. Organisers of the Puja at Beliaghata Pally Unnayan Samity in east Kolkata even banned neighbours on Wednesday. “We’ve decided to suspend participation of locals,” said Amit Sen, executive committee member of the Puja organising committee. Instead of imposing a ban, Salt Lake AK Block Puja organisers have installed loudspeakers throughout the Block to relay the anjali mantra for residents. “Our volunteers will collect the flowers and sweets and place before the deity later,” said Raja Banik, an organising committee member. The involvement over planning anjali was largely missing with sindur khela with several Pujas deciding to forgo the ritual and simply conclude the puja with the Devi’s baran on Dashami. Tridhara has decided a senior citizen will be the sole person to do the honours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-women-teams-will-be-at-pandals-for-ashtami-anjali/articleshow/78797699.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||7 held for murder of history-sheeter||Hyderabad: Seven persons were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly murdering a history-sheeter near Jalpally lake on October 10. They were nabbed from a hideout at Pahadesharif. However, a 50-year-old woman, who gave them shelter, is on the run. The victim, Syed Waheed Ali, 30, a history-sheeter of Rajendranagar, was stabbed to death by the seven near Jalpally lake on October 10. After the investigation, police arrested seven accused — Shaik Ismail, 24, Syed Zaheeruddin, 35, Syed Abid, 19, Mohammed Shabaz, 20, Mohammed Omer, 20, Mohammed Khaja, 20, and Mohammed Ameer, 20. According to Pahadesharif police, Waheed and prime accused Shaik Ismail, met in prison about three years ago. About a year ago, Ismail started suspecting that Waheed was providing information about his criminal activity to police. To prevent cops from tracking him, Ismail along with the other, hatched a plan to eliminate Waheed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-held-for-murder-of-history-sheeter/articleshow/78797719.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||108 ambulance staff call of strike||Jaipur: Agitating employees of government-run 108 ambulance services called off their strike on the same day of starting it after fruitful talks with the health department officials on Wednesday.“We demanded that the state government should give 20% increment in our salaries from October, duty hours should be fixed for eight hours, incentives for working for Covid-19 patients. After the assurance from the government, we have called off our strike,” said Dr Virendra Singh, union leader of 108 ambulance employees.The patients had to face difficulties in Jaipur and some other parts of the state during the strike of the employees. On an average, 140 calls are attended by the 108 ambulance services in Jaipur, however, on Wednesday, only 70 calls were taken care of.“Rajasthan Essential Services Act is in effect so the strike was not logical. In Covid-19 pandemic times, we have provided services to patients. After successful talks with the government, the strike has been called off,” said Praveen Sawant, state head GVK-EMRI, a private company roped in by the state government for running the 108 ambulances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/108-ambulance-staff-call-of-strike/articleshow/78797710.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Police create no-go zones, question mark on some pujas in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Lalbazar on Wednesday sent its final communication to its personnel on the ground, asking them to implement the Calcutta High Court’s “no-entry into pandals” order in entirety. Police commissioner Anuj Sharma shared the HC order on the officers’ Whatsapp groups, asking them to comply accordingly. By evening, almost every major pandal in the city had shut its doors to outsiders. For the few that were left, cops said work was in progress on a war footing. For the cops, innovation seemed the means to implement the order. Cops from the Gariahat police station, for example, measured 10m around Singhi Park puja and effectively shut an important stretch like, Dover Lane. “Singhi Park organizers said they had already distributed car passes to locals. We will allow only residents to commute, using the pass. Government vehicles will use their stickers,” said an officer. At SB Park Puja in Thakurpukur, police have shut one lane of the Joka-bound flank. “We can’t shut the entire busy road,” said an officer, adding they would post cops to ensure there was no jam as cars stopped by. Police welcomed the plans of pujas, like Mudiali, Ballygunge Cultural and Tarachand Lane, to set up big screens outside pandals for visitors. Some other organizers, like Ahiritola Sarbojanin and Deshapriya Park, refused to manage the crowd at the last barrier. An organizer at Deshapriya Park said, “We have shut the doors of the park.” A senior IPS officer said their first target was to secure the barriers. “Lalbazar is bringing out an alternative deployment at the pandals, maybe from Sasthi. Till then, it was important to make pandals no-go zones,” he said. But there were cases, where the divisions sought clarification from Lalbazar on what to be done as demarcating no-entry zones was virtually impossible there. One was at Bhowanipore, which hosts big pujas, like 75 Pally and Abasar. “Residents of the area cannot even step out of their houses to SP Mukherjee Road if 75 Pally is cordoned off,” said an officer. With the high court explaining what constituted for a small puja and a big puja, police seemed relieved. “We have 60 pujas under our police station, but none is big. Several are located on congested roads. We were relieved we could carve out 5-metre distance without much trouble. Demarcating 10 metres would have been tough,” said an officer from Chitpur. Similar was the sentiment among cops at Jorasanko, where there are 13 pandals. At Chetla Agrani, cops are trying to create separate channels through which revellers can walk up to the barricade and take a u-turn to leave. Sources said they expected to place 40-60 cops in and around major pujas, like Chetla Agrani and Suruchi Sangha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-create-no-go-zones-question-mark-on-some-pujas/articleshow/78797743.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to act tough to check use of plastic carry bags||LUDHIANA: In the coming days strictness towards use of plastic carry bags is likely to be witnessed in the city as mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal after holding a meeting with councillors and officials, who had gone to Indore, have reached the conclusion of adopting zero tolerance towards the menace of plastic bags. On Wednesday evening, a meeting took place at the mayor camp office, where delegation members narrated the measures being taken by Indore MC to improve the sanitation condition in the city. In the meeting the councillors shared that Indore was far ahead than Ludhiana and they had taken strict measures to deal with door-to-door garbage collection, segregation of waste, solid waste management, etc. The main reason behind their success was strong political will power due to which they were able to take any step for the betterment of the city. After listening to the councillors the mayor and commissioner came to a conclusion that they should first of all impose strict ban on use of plastic carry bags. For this, the field staff will be told to conduct regular raids and there will be one nodal officer to take the required steps. The mayor, however, asked the officials to pay attention towards the manufacturing units of plastic carry bags. Congress councillor Baljinder Banty shared that they had reached one decision that plastic ban should be imposed strictly and it would help in solving many issues. He said the mayor had assured that there would be support from the authorities for making this drive successful. Meanwhile, another Congress councillor Pankaj Sharma said a few wards would be selected as model wards and first of all those wards would be developed into plastic-free zones. The vendors will be told to carry two dustbins along and door-to-door garbage collection would be ensured along with source segregation. He said when a few model wards would be selected and the trial becomes a success then other wards could be taken up gradually. The mayor said they had stopped raids against plastic carry bags during Covid-19 but now they would again take strict measures to curb its usage. He said the use of plastic carry bags choke the sewerage and it also gives an untidy look. Sandhu claimed that they would also take Punjab Pollution Control Board officials along for checking the manufacturing of plastic carry bags. “I request all the councillors to support this drive so as to curb plastic usage in city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-act-tough-to-check-use-of-plastic-carry-bags/articleshow/78796252.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Foundation to feed people||PUNE: The Mukul Madhav Foundation on Wednesday announced that it would feed more than 2.8 lakh people across states during the ongoing festive season under its “Give With Dignity” initiative. The foundation had, with the help from its donors, reached out to more than 70,000 families with basic groceries and hygiene kits, which would last for 21 days, in the early months of the Covid-induced lockdown. The programme was implemented in 24 states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foundation-to-feed-people/articleshow/78920939.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||HC dismisses plea by JK Lon hosp superintendent challenging his removal||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday dismissed the writ petition filed by government-run JK Lon Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Ashok Gupta challenging the order issued by the medical education department of his removal from the post. The medical education department had issued the order of appointment of Dr Arvind Kumar Shukla on September 4 as JK Lon hospital’s medical superintendent. Dr Gupta has decided to apply for voluntary retirement from the government service. “I have decided not to challenge the high court order. I have decided to apply for voluntary retirement. I had challenged the order of my removal in the court on the ground of an order issued by the state government on June 6 in which the state government had announced that the period of service has been extended by one year of all working medical specialist teachers,” said Dr Gupta.He said, “There are others who have completed 62 years and are still working on administration post on the basis of the June 6 order by the government, so why single out me? The application of law is not uniform,” said Dr Gupta. On September 10, six days after the order of his removal was issued, the high court had stayed the state government’s decision issued on September 4 of removing Dr Gupta from the post of medical superintendent of JK Lon Hospital.Gupta was appointed as medical superintendent of the hospital in 2015. During his tenure, in 2018, JK Lon Hospital was awarded the best hospital in Jaipur under Swachh Bharat Mission by Jaipur Municipal Corporation. Also, sub specialities such as nehpro, cardio, gastro were started, along with 150-bedded ICU and the Pioneer medical school programme on rare diseases was also established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-dismisses-plea-by-jk-lon-hosp-superintendent-challenging-his-removal/articleshow/78797736.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||16k have darshan on Moola Nakshatram||Vijayawada: Scores of devotees rushed to the Kanaka Durga temple from 3 am on Wednesday to get darshan on the auspicious Moola Nakshatram. Goddess Kanaka Durga is worshipped as Goddess Saraswathi on the eve of Moola Nakshatram, which is considered to be her birthday. Religious fervor marked One Town on Wednesday with huge number of devotees waiting in queues. It took around 2 hours for the devotees to get darshan. Though temple authorities issued 13,000 online darshan tickets, around 16,000 devotees got darshan as per a source in the temple. Officials issued spot booking tickets to facilitate the devotees. Voluntary organizations provided free food and water packets to the devotees who were waiting for darshan. Police and NCC cadets strived throughout the day to maintain order and physical distance. A few devotees expressed anger on the temple authorities for failing to maintain timeslot based darshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/16k-have-darshan-on-moola-nakshatram/articleshow/78797755.cms||Venu Lanka
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Core group formed at state level for Shudh Ke Liye Yudh||JAIPUR: Ahead of Diwali, a core group has been constituted at the state level and committees at district levels will be constituted for ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ campaign from October 26. Chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup issued the orders of constituting a core group having principal secretaries of home and health and secretaries of food and civil supplies and animal husbandary and dairy. The core group will remain in constant touch with committees at the district level headed by district collectors to ensure on-the-spot action against those who involve in food adulteration, such as manufacturers, wholesallers and retailers, and also to follow up the legal action against them. At the district-level committees, collector will be the head with SP, police commissioner (Jaipur, Jodhpur), chief medical health officer, district supply officer, managing director dairy, additional district magistrate level officer and legal advisor as members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/core-group-formed-at-state-level-for-shudh-ke-liye-yudh/articleshow/78797735.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||In 2019, Delhi saw lowest number of road deaths in nearly 15 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded the least number of road deaths in nearly 15 years in 2019, the year which also saw the sharpest year-on-year decline in numbers with 227 fewer deaths than in 2018. But the capital still continues to top the list of 50 cities with million-plus population. The road transport ministry’s latest data on accidents showed that 1,463 lives were lost in 5,610 crashes last year in the city. Nearly half of the fatalities were due to speeding and two-wheeler riders accounted for two-third of the victims. In 2005, road crashes had claimed 1,862 lives. The report, based on data from state police departments, also showed that 791 people killed in road accidents in Delhi were in the age group of 15-35. An analysis also showed that 1,103 of the 1,463 people killed were in the most productive age group of 18-45. Going by the category of crash victims, Delhi reported maximum deaths of pedestrians and cyclists among all big cities. It ranked second after Chennai in death of two-wheeler riders in crashes. The Tamil Nadu capital recorded deaths of 514 two-wheeler riders, followed by Delhi with 490. Delhi ranked sixth in the list of big cities regarding deaths due to potholes, while Allahabad topped the list with 103 fatalities, followed by Chennai (51) and Kanpur (61). Regarding fatalities caused due to use of mobile phone while driving, Delhi reported the fifth highest number of deaths at 53, while four cities of Uttar Pradesh — Kanpur, Varanasi, Allahabad and Agra — reported 172, 149, 102 and 89 deaths, respectively, in 2019. Despite the huge presence of traffic police, Delhi recorded 178 fatalities of two-wheeler riders due to not wearing helmets and 97 car occupants died for not wearing seatbelts. In both the cases, most of the victims were drivers. However, officials said the sharpest dip in road deaths had met the goals of Delhi Road Safety Policy, which stated that the capital should achieve a 30% reduction in crashes and fatalities between 2018 and 2020, and an 80% reduction by 2025, with at least a 10% reduction on a year-on-year basis. A senior traffic police officer said that road conditions had improved in the last two years, which was one of the reasons for the reduction in the number of road accidents and fatalities. “Our staff has been sensitised and their widespread presence has ensured that traffic violations are fewer. Since most of them are prevented timely, the effect was seen on the declining number of road accident cases,” said a senior traffic police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-2019-delhi-saw-lowest-number-of-road-deaths-in-nearly-15-years/articleshow/78797813.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Tenkasi: Beneficiary rents out green house for gambling, to pay back||TENKASI: The Tenkasi district administration has embarked on a process to recover money from a beneficiary of the chief minister solar powered greenhouse scheme in a village near Vasudevanallur, after an activist brought to light that the house has been rented out to a gambling club for the past three years. Officials said the beneficiary, Murugan Thangasamy, was allotted Rs 1.8 lakh under the scheme in 2015-16. Thangasamy constructed the house in Naranapuram village, a small residential settlement near Vasudevanallur in Sivagiri taluk. “Thangasamy was staying elsewhere after renting the house he got under the government scheme. A notice has been sent to him asking him to pay Rs 1.8 lakh back to the government,” said an official. Tenkasi collector G K Arun Sundar Thayalan told TOI that there have been incidents of people renting houses to other families, when they migrate from the village. But, in this case there was gross violation of government welfare measure. “After the complaint, a check was conducted throughout the district to find out whether any other house has been rented out for commercial activities. So far, this is the only such incident in the district,” he said. T Suresh, a social activist from Vasudevanallur, who brought the issue to light, said the particular house is located away from the main village, and hence gamblers found the place suitable. He had been taking the issue to the notice of officials for the last two years, but action was taken only now. “Many villagers are daily wagers and they lost their hard-earned money playing gambling in the club. Some of the villagers approached him to take it to the notice of the officials, so he started sending petitions to various officials,” he said. Welcoming the move to recover the money, Suresh said, “It looks like the club is registered with the district administration. An inquiry should be conducted to find out who gave permission to run the club in a government sponsored house.” He also sought action against officials, who sat on his complaint for so long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/beneficiary-rents-out-green-house-for-gambling-to-pay-back/articleshow/78797778.cms||V Devanathan
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||‘I am being targeted because I opposed CLU charges’||The issue of collecting change of land use (CLU) charges from Ghumar Mandi shopkeepers has led to a rift among the ruling party leaders who have opposed this move initiated by MC officials. Congress councillor from ward number 76 and chairman of PSIEC Gurpreet Bassi Gogi has openly showed resentment against this step by saying that it will not only put financial burden on the shopkeepers but also damage the image of Congress government, especially when elections are not far off. Gogi claimed since he had raised voice against this decision, Ghumar Mandi area, which falls in his ward, is being targeted. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation between Gogi and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj. Q:Why is there a hue and cry over CLU charges being recovered from the shopkeepers in Ghumar Mandi, whereas notices were served in other markets as well? A: We are still fighting with pandemic and public businesses are ruined and at this moment if the MC will ask them to pay exorbitant taxes or CLU charges, then raising a hue and cry is natural. The notices were served in other areas as well but why sealing took place in Ghumar Mandi only, why not in Model Town or any other area. I am being targeted because I had opposed the move. The civic body officials come for sealing early in the morning and not in working hours as they are aware that public will not let them seal any shop. Q: The CLU charges should be recovered from commercial establishments, why shopkeepers or you are against it? A: We are not against CLU. We are against the way the MC officials have served the notices and imposed the CLU charges on the shopkeepers who have been running the business in the market for over 20 years. The market was set up in 1983-84 and in 1995 the local bodies department had issued a notification for CLU recovery from eight markets, including Ghumar Mandi. In that notification it was mentioned that CLU should be charged at the rate of Rs 25.32 per sq yd. At that time nobody bothered to issue notices or recover the amount from shopkeepers. Then again in 2006 one notification for recovery of CLU charges came but it did not superseded 1995 notification, which still exists. And again officials remained silent about implementation. Then why suddenly they are reminded of taking action against the shopkeepers. Besides, the rate which they have fixed is Rs 5,670 per sq yd and that is too much. I have handed over the copies of notifications to the MC commissioner for taking suitable action. Q- You had met mayor Balkar Sandhu over this issue. Why he did not listen to you? A- I had organised a meeting between the shopkeepers and mayor Sandhu at a park in the area and even at that time shopkeepers had asked only one thing, whether MC house had given any approval to the recovery of CLU from commercial establishments or was there any government notification about it. And the mayor had assured to take up this matter in the MC general house meeting. Still notices were being served and to create pressure on shopkeepers the sealing practice was started in the market. I cannot say why the mayor did not listen to me, but one thing I can say before implementing anything one should go through previous notifications. In this matter officials are equally responsible for this chaos. Q- The mayor is saying shopkeepers have now understood the value of CLU and they are paying money to the civic body. What you have to say about it? A- If civic body officials will come in the dark and put seal outside anybody’s shop, then he will have no other option but to make payment. The shopkeepers are being forced by the officials to take this step. The officials cannot see illegal under construction buildings inthe city and they have to recover the money from those shopkeepers who are sitting in markets for more than 20 to 25 years. There is no attention towards defaulters. Q- Now after approaching the mayor and commissioner, what will your be next step? A- I am not fighting against any person, rather my fight is for those people who gave me a chance to remain an elected representative for past several years. I am not afraid of anybody and for the public cause I am ready to even meet CM Amarinder Singh as well. I will let him know what is happening here and how officials are damaging the image of government in public. I will not let them create unrest among the public. I will wait for a few days for the commissioner to take any step, after that I will go to the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/i-am-being-targeted-because-i-opposed-clu-charges/articleshow/78796274.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Katora Houz in Golconda Fort barricaded||Hyderabad: After the north-eastern retaining wall of the centuries-old Katora Houz of the Golconda Fort was damaged in the recent flooding, authorities have barricaded the water body. The wall completely collapsed, even as several other parts of the Golconda Fort have sustained damage. A survey, led by INTACH convenor Anuradha Reddy, found several reasons behind the damage. “The heavy rains and load of cars on the wall has led to its collapse,” she said. She also said that the road level had been raised to a level that affected the distribution of the water flow. The Katora Houz used to store water for the fort making it self-sufficient. The lake has been in a state of neglect with water hyacinths covering it and sewage being let into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/katora-houz-in-golconda-fort-barricaded/articleshow/78797751.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||MC officials told to take action against illegal hoardings||LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation officials have been directed to take action against the illegal hoardings installed outside shops, malls or other commercial establishments. They have been given 10 days time to survey illegal hoardings and then take action against those concerned. They have been also asked to submit an action taken report in this regard. The major areas under scanner are Mata Rani Chowk and Kochar Market against which the officials have also received the complaints. Recently, replying to an RTI query, the MC officials claimed that from January 1, 2019, till February 29, 2020, they had issued around 11,750 challans for illegal hoardings and a maximum challans of 5,150 were issued in zone D. Due to Covid-19, the challaning drive had come to standstill in February, so now they will resume the drive once again and challaning will be done. The superintendent of advertisement branch (headquarters) while issuing a letter to all superintendents of four zones has told them to check the violation of Outdoor Advertisement Policy-2018 and take suitable action. As per norms, a shopkeeper is allowed to display a 3-foot high board outside his shop just to display the name of his shop. But on the contrary, it has come to light that shopkeepers are clearly flouting the norms by displaying a large number of boards around their shops. The superintendent (headquarters), Harvinder Dhalla, said the officials concerned would check irregularities and take action in the next 10 days. He said they would have to issue challans against the defaulters and illegal hoardings would also be removed. A city-based activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had raised this issue and he had complained against illegal hoardings on October 12. He had mentioned in the complaint that due to negligence of the civic body, illegal hoardings had covered the city markets and it was causing loss to the exchequer. As a consequence the officials were told to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-officials-told-to-take-action-against-illegal-hoardings/articleshow/78796297.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Trend to keep bodies for negotiation on the rise||JAIPUR: The trend of using bodies to demand compensation is a violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased to decent cremation or burial, legal experts have claimed. In less than a week, at least three incidents were reported where the deceased’s families refused cremation till their demands including monetary compensation were met. In all instances, the state government agreed to most of their demands. TimesViewThe state government needs to come up with a policy to ensure that a deceased person is given a decent cremation/burial and the body is not disgraced in any manner to negotiate over demands. Despite the fact that the State Human Rights Commission had asked the state government to work on this, a law banning the use of bodies for monetary negotiations was yet to be framed. There also needs to be a clarity about the parameters under which the kin of the deceased can claim compensation.Experts claimed that action should also be taken against politicians and those who instigate the families of the deceased. Advocate A K Jain told TOI, “Every deceased has the right to decent burial or cremation and keeping bodies in this manner is a clear violation of basic rights. While there is no law against this, action can be taken against protestors and political leaders who instigate such things.” In Dausa’s Lalsot, the family of a teenager who was killed in an accident refused to cremate him till their demands were met. On an earlier occasion, the family of the temple priest who was killed in Karauli had refused to cremate him till they were assured financial compensation and arrest of the accused. In another case, the family members of a pregnant woman in Churu, who died during delivery, agitated for three days before cremating her. They also received monetary compensation. Police said such demands need to be discouraged. IGP (Jaipur Range) S Sengathir said, “There is a need to discourage people from keeping bodies to fulfill demands. There are no sections under the IPC under which they can be booked for refusal to cremate the deceased.” Officials claimed while in most cases families agree to final rites, it is the external factors such as local leaders who create the fuss. In 2019, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) had asked the government to frame a law to tackle the tribal practice of ‘mautana’ to settle disputes over death by seeking compensation from the killer or the government. The rights panel said this practice had also been adopted by other groups to exert pressure on the government to accept their demands. The commission had said that bargaining over a body violates the rights of the dead and should be declared as a cognizable offence. This provision has been given in the Rajasthan Police Act 2007 under Sections 29 (human rights) and 71 (public nuisance).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/trend-to-keep-bodies-for-negotiation-on-the-rise/articleshow/78797760.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Three injured after boulders roll down Indrakeeladri hill||Vijayawada: Three temple workers were injured after huge boulders loosened and fell down the Indrakeeladri hill on Wednesday following heavy rains in the past week. The tragedy could have been a major one had the police not cleared the area for security reasons ahead of the visit of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Kanaka Durga temple. Only a handful of people were at the spot when the landslide occurred. The injured were admitted to hospital. The incident occurred at 2.59 pm when authorities were waiting to welcome the chief minister. Huge boulders fell near the shed erected beside the media point. A part of the shed caved in. Fire, police and disaster response forces rushed to the spot. “We are fortunate that the landslide happened when there was no crowd. Usually hundreds of devotees gather at the place beside the media point to take the prasadam. But police didn’t permit anyone today due to security restrictions in view of the chief minister’s visit. This has saved many lives. Fire and police had to struggle to clear boulders as they are quite large,” said temple trust board chairman Paula Somi Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-injured-after-boulders-roll-down-indrakeeladri-hill/articleshow/78797792.cms||Venu Lanka
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Kalighat garbha griha to be shut during Puja||KOLKATA: The Kalighat Temple committee on Wednesday decided not to open the garbha griha to devotees during the Puja days, reversing its former announcement of letting 10 people inside the sanctum sanctorum at a time from 6am to 1pm and from 4pm to 11pm. A letter from the district and sessions judge of Alipore, also the chairman of the committee, advised against the opening. A meeting of the trustees was held on Wednesday and a final call was taken against the opening, said vice-president of the committee, Bidyut Haldar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kalighat-garbha-griha-to-be-shut-during-puja/articleshow/78797817.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||AP CM presents silk robes at Durga temple||Vijayawada: Keeping up with the age-old tradition, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy offered silk robes to goddess Kanaka Durga on Wednesday. He also directed officials to immediately release Rs 70 crore for the implementation of master plan for the temple’s development. The CM released the temple calendar for year 2021. Temple authorities and vedic scholars accorded ceremonial reception for the chief minister from the temple entrance. Jagan reached the temple in traditional attire and offered silk robes to goddess Kanaka Durga adorned as Maha Saraswathi. Later, the chief minister discussed various long pending development activities in the temple. Trust board members and temple authorities requested the CM to allocate funds for development of temple as per master plan. Jagan’s visit got delayed by two hours due to a landslide incident in the afternoon. He inspected the landslide area and directed officials to immediately clear the place. Jagan asked officials to ensure that no devotee suffers while getting darshan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cm-presents-silk-robes-at-durga-temple/articleshow/78797815.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||NGOs, Oppn denied access to flood-hit areas, says Inquilab||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Inquilab-e-Millat (AIMIM) has criticised local leaders for failing people in flood affected areas and not allowing NGOs and other parties to do their bit. The party urged state government to take corrective steps to save the city from another catastrophe. AIMIM president Syed Taraq Quadri alleged it was incompetence of local leadership and land grabbing in water bodies and nalas led to the misery of the people. “Asaduddin Owaisi, quoting democratic rights, contests all over India, while denies opposition parties to enter Old City,” Quadri said. “Despite GO 192 of 1994 & 111 of 1996 & POB, farmhouses are being built. I have written to CM, chief secretary & DGP for booking cases,” he added. — Omer bin Taher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngos-oppn-denied-access-to-flood-hit-areas-says-inquilab/articleshow/78797818.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||T cops kept Hyd free of communal violence: HM||Hyderabad: Complimenting the state police for keeping communal violence at bay in Hyderabad since inception of Telangana, home minister Mohd Mahmood Ali has attributed the success to usage of modern technology in maintenance of law and order. The home minister along with DGP M Mahendar Reddy and other senior officers participated in Police Flag Day event organised at LB Stadium on Wednesday. Remembering the sacrifice of martyred police personnel, the home minister said through hard work and usage of modern technology, police have ensured there were no communal clashes during the past six years in the state. “Crime rate in Telanagana is less than other states,” the minister added. DGP Mahendar Reddy said 264 police personnel in the country had lost their lives during the past year while fighting against terrorists, extremists and criminals. However, no police personnel from the state had lost their lives while fighting extremists this year.  “Chief minister has provided sufficient funds for modernisation of police force. We are implementing people-friendly policing and we have installed CCTV cameras in the city and other districts. With about six lakh cameras, Hyderabad has the highest number of CCTV cameras in the country. We have taken special measures to control cyber crime during the period of pandemic and Telangana police have performed exceptionally well in saving people’s lives during the floods,” the DGP added.  All police and para military units in the state observed Police Flag Day on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cops-kept-hyd-free-of-communal-violence-hm/articleshow/78798485.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Double murder case: Accused also raped victim’s wife||SHIVAMOGGA: A day after the Shivamogga police shot and injured the prime accused in the Ikkeri double murder case, it has now surfaced that he had raped the deceased’s wife and fled the scene. Accused Bharath Gowda allegedly killed the victim and his mother and sexually assaulted the victim’s wife, superintendent of police K M Shantharaju said on Wednesday. The police arrested another accused in the case,Shruthi,26, from Kunnikodlu village located close to the crime scene. The police probe has revealed that a love triangle led to the crime. The victim and Shruthi had an affair earlier, and the victim allegedly shot some videos of Shruthi in a compromising position. After some years, they got separated, and the victim married someone else. Shruthi went to Bengaluru for work. She joined a private company where she met Bharath Gowda. They wanted to marry, but the victim blackmailed Shruthi with the old videos, police stated. Shruthi reached out to Bharath for help, the police stated. The prime accused came to Sagar on October 10. Shruthi joined him and guided him to the victim’s house. Bharath Gowda allegedly used pepper spray to attack the victim. When the victim’s mother tried to stop him, Bharath Gowda allegedly stabbed both mother and son to death. Later he gagged the victim’s wife and raped her, and left the scene, the SP stated. The cops enquired into the victim’s activities, and got to know that he had an affair with a girl before his wedding. The investigating team collected information about Shruthi and her relationship with the victim, and interrogated Shruthi, which led them to Bharath’s involvement in the crime. They then went to Dasarahalli in Bengaluru, and took him into custody. Both the accused were produced before a court, which remanded them in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/double-murder-case-accused-also-raped-victims-wife/articleshow/78794981.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Breakdown: 749 traffic cops doing the job of 2,857 in Nagpur||NAGPUR: It is always difficult to manage unruly traffic on busy roads when a large number of drivers are disobeying rules. Things become doubly difficult if there is huge shortage of staff. This is exactly the problem facing the Nagpur traffic police. The Bureau of Police Research and Development — a central government agency — says there should be one traffic cop for every 700 vehicles. By that yardstick, Nagpur traffic police should have had 2,857 personnel for about 20 lakh vehicles on city roads. In reality, it has only 749 personnel, a shortage of almost 75%. Commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar said, “I plan to increase the number of traffic police personnel. I have recently attached around 40 young men in the traffic branch and will increase the strength further. I am also trying to work out how best we can strengthen the manpower and resources.” The city has over 500 junctions, including 158 major ones and all are being manned by a workforce comprising 12 inspectors, 13 assistant inspectors, six sub inspectors, 68 assistant sub inspectors, 163 head constables, 122 naik constables, and 246 constables and 118 woman personnel. Maintaining discipline on the busy roads is becoming a challenge with the rising traffic, admitted a traffic cop deployed at one of the busy junctions. Apart from traffic management, the traffic police are also engaged in VIP security duty as the city is home to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, Maharashtra power minister Nitin Raut, state home minister Anil Deshmukh, state animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar and former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Frequent visits of these and other ministers forces them to discharge their duties for more than 12 hours a day. “Almost 20 days a month, we work beyond duty hours,” said a constable requesting anonymity. Besides 20 lakh vehicles registered with city RTOs, vehicles registered with rural RTO and neighbouring states and districts too ply on city roads. “It’s too difficult to bring discipline on the roads with a fewer traffic police personnel,” said retired ACP Jameel Ahmed. In addition to the challenges in managing traffic, this also means difficult working conditions for the constables who man our roads. Imagine standing 12 hours in Nagpur traffic, not following a regular timetable of shifts, with weekly offs not always available and it explains all the health problems personnel suffer from, he pointed out. Though city does use technology, like CCTVs cameras installed at over 800 places to overcome manpower shortage. “But technology cannot substitute for human resource,” pointed out Ahmed and stressed upon the need to not only increase the manpower but also increasing patrolling of traffic police on city roads. Even with available manpower, traffic police have booked 2,500 violators every day. Traffic experts feel the state should enforce enhanced penalties under amended Motor Vehicles Act to prevent violations. In 2018, the traffic police penalized 3.01 lakh motorists for violating traffic rules. In 2019, the number increased to 4.55 lakh motorists. In current calendar year, till October 15, the traffic police have penalized 4.10 lakh motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/breakdown-749-traffic-cops-doing-the-job-of-2857-in-city/articleshow/78796338.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Akali councillors give ultimatum over holding of MC meeting||LUDHIANA: The councillors of Shiromani Akali Dal have given a 15-day ultimatum to mayor Balkar Sandhu for calling an MC general house meeting, or else they will be forced to start a protest against him. The leader of opposition and senior Akali Dal councillor, Harbhajan Dang, met the mayor on Wednesday, along with his councillors, and requested for a meeting again. However, the mayor assured them of fixing a meeting as soon as possible but they would be allowed to hold a meeting after getting tested for Covid-19. The Akali councillors had met the mayor earlier also with the same demand and even at that time the mayor had promised to call the meeting shortly, but it could not take place. The councillors rued that their Congress counterparts with the support of their MLAs conduct regular meetings with the mayor and commissioner but nobody takes care of development works in wards of opposition party councillors. They claimed that in this year not even a single meeting took place where councillors could share issues of their respective wards. One meeting was held in March before coronavirus spread and it was for the discussion of annual budget of the MC and it did not last for long. The councillors claimed that a meeting could be held in an open place. Dang said, “Now, we have given a final 15-day ultimatum to the mayor for fixing the meeting so that councillors could share their views and speak on civic issues being faced by the public.” He said in case the mayor did not listen to them and call a meeting, they would be forced to start an agitation against him. He said they would not mind in sitting on a protest outside the mayor’s office because they have to face the public and reply them about their pending works. He said when there would be a house meeting they could at least ask about the reasons for not getting the works done in their wards, as officials do not respond to their queries. However, the mayor claimed that he would fix a date for a meeting shortly as earlier due to a large number of Covid cases it was not possible to hold a meeting, but now they can go ahead with holding a meeting. He said they would call it after following all precautions and after testing councillors and officials for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/akali-councillors-give-ultimatum-over-holding-of-mc-meeting/articleshow/78796310.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Criminal, 31, murdered in Tuticorin||TUTICORIN: A 31-year-old history-sheeter was murdered by a gang in Tuticorin. Police on Wednesday arrested there people and were on the lookout for four others. The body of K Kathiresan, 31, of NGO Colony in Tuticorin, was found among bushes near Meelavittan on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday by a group of boys who went there to play. Superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district visited the location to conduct preliminary investigations. Inquiries revealed that B Suntharraj, 28, of Muthayapuram was the prime accused in the murder. It is learned that rivalry had prevailed between Kathiresan’s gang and Suntharraj’s gang over observing the birth anniversary of former Tamil Nadu chief minister K Kamaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/criminal-31-murdered-in-tuticorin/articleshow/78797794.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||N corpn proposes new charges, hike in desealing fees||New Delhi: Residents of north Delhi may have to pay compensatory regulatory charges and increased desealing costs if the proposal of the standing committee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation is approved by the House. These were among many new charges and rate hikes approved by the standing committee in its meeting on Thursday. The regulatory charge would be levied at the time of sanctioning of building plans. It would vary on the categorisation of the area and circle rates. The impact would be double for industrial units and triple for consumers applying for sanctioning building plans for commercial units. The new charge would be 0.2% of circle rates for properties with an area above 50 square metres and 0.1% for smaller plots. The charges would be Rs 159.8 per sqm for C-category colonies and Rs 23.2 per sqm for H-category colonies for plots smaller than 50 sqm. Similarly, the charges would be between Rs 319 per sqm and Rs 46.5 per sqm for plots above 50 sqm, based on which category the colony falls in. It was argued in the proposal that such a charge was already being levied in Mumbai, Kolkata, Nagpur and Pune where it was called development cess, FSI charges or drainage development charges. Owners of properties sealed for unauthorised construction would have to pay Rs 20,000 in C and D category colonies and Rs 10,000 for those in lower categories for desealing. The standing committee also cleared the proposal of outsourcing maintenance work of community toilet complexes and starting Aadhaar card registration centres in municipal offices and health facilities. In the first phase, these units would be opened at seven locations. The plan states that one such office would be opened in every ward. UIDAI had also asked the civic body to nominate birth/death registration officers so that the documents could be linked with Aadhaar. Meanwhile, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak claimed that the BJP-led north corporation wanted to waive taxes on advertisements and parking and compensate it with a hike in house tax by 34%. “BJP is proposing to waive crores in taxes that can be utilised in paying salaries of front line heroes working in hospitals,” he added, alleging that the parking and advertising contractors had close relations with BJP and were pressuring them to waive the tax. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor rejected Pathak’s remarks and said none of the three corporations had approved any proposal to raise house tax. “The relaxation in advertising and parking fees were proposed for the lockdown period when there was no business,” he added. BJP stated that the proposals for increasing the base unit rates for property taxes by 34% and relaxation for parking and advertisement contractors for the lockdown period were placed before the standing committee, but both were not passed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-proposes-new-charges-hike-in-desealing-fees/articleshow/78817639.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Electrocuted man falls on road, truck runs over him||PUNE: A 45-year-old electrocuted man was run over by a truck as he fell on the road after coming in contact with a live wire of a pole on a median at Dhavade Vasti in Bhosari along the Pune-Nashik highway around 6.30pm on Monday. Police said victim Ravi Mahadev Jogdand of Ajanthanagar in Nigdi was crossing the highway near Roshal Garden. “As he reached the street light pole in the space between two railings of the median, he came in contact with the live electricity supply wire and was thrown on to the highway. The driver of the truck coming from Nashik Phata could not anticipate the fall and his vehicle ran over the victim,” assistant inspector Padmabhushan Gaikwad of the Bhosari police said. Gaikwad said, “We arrested the truck driver, Vithhal Rathod (34) of Satara, on Tuesday for negligent driving and registered an offence against unknown employees of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) because the doctors who conducted the post-mortem told us that the victim had also suffered an electric shock. The street lights are maintained by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s electrical department.” Nitin Deshmukh, the executive engineer of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, told TOI, “We visited the site and tested for any kind of current in and around the pole. Everything was fine. If one person gets the electric shock, other passers-by too would have experienced it, but that is not the case.” Tejas Wagh, who runs a tea stall bang opposite the accident spot, said, “The victim and his family members were crossing the highway. He fell on the road as his leg got stuck in something. The truck driver noticed the man lying near the median. He honked and screamed but was unable to control the heavy vehicle before it ran over the victim. The truck stopped at some distance. The man’s relatives, who were with him, were in shock. There was major traffic congestion on the highway.” Wagh said in October 2018 one person was electrocuted at the same spot while crossing the median. (With inputs from Piyush Bhusari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/electrocuted-man-falls-on-road-truck-runs-over-him/articleshow/78797797.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 22, 2020||---||Parties & candidates violating Covid norms, warns poll panel||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Wednesday, taking a serious view of “laxity” on part of political parties and candidates in ensuring adherence to Covid-19 safety norms while campaigning for Bihar polls and other bypolls, reiterated its October 9 instructions asking parties and candidates to maintain crowd discipline and advised them to demonstrate utmost vigil and care during electioneering. The poll body on Wednesday also said it expected the chief electoral officers and district machinery concerned to invoke penal provisions against candidatesand organisers for violating safety protocols. Stating that instances of public meetings where large crowds had assembled in “utter violation of social distancing” and political leaders/campaigners were addressing the gathering without wearing masks, had come to its notice, the poll panel warned such conduct was not only flouting its guidelines with impunity but also exposing the campaigners and public attending the rallies to risk. "During election political parties/entities are the most important stakeholders in the electoral process and duty bound to observe the norms determined by the Commission for electioneering,” the EC said. “Observance of the preventive measures, including wearing mask, use of sanitiser, observance of social distancing, is a duty cast upon all the stakeholders in the larger interest of public health,” it said. “As representatives of public, this responsibility rests with political parties to ensure that they not only cooperate with the district machineries in following the norms..., but also instil a sense of discipline for civic behaviour in their cadre while doing ground management during campaign times,” it had stated in the advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/parties-candidates-violating-covid-norms-warns-poll-panel/articleshow/78799160.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Goa||Gram sabha meets may resume from mid-November||Panaji: Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho on Wednesday said gram sabhas are likely to resume from mid-November. “Instructions will go to the respective block development officers (BDOs) to instruct panchayats to hold gram sabhas as was the normal practice. They must not use the excuse of Covid-19 to avoid having gram sabhas. We will be issuing a circular shortly,” he said. Ever since the lockdown in March, gram sabhas have not been held in Goa in keeping with social distancing norms. A few panchayats, however, held a special gram sabha online on October 2. Anticipating the organisation of special gram sabhas on the day, the directorate of panchayats had instructed panchayats to ensure that the number of people at the meet did not exceed 50. With the gram sabhas resuming next month, Godinho said he will ask the block development officers to closely look at the decisions arrived at at these meets. Ever since the lockdown in March, gram sabhas have not been held in Goa in keeping with social distancing norms. A few panchayats, however, held a special gram sabha online on October 2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gram-sabha-meets-may-resume-from-mid-november/articleshow/78798525.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||PMC nod to start weekly markets, libraries||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to allow weekly markets, libraries and meditation centres outside the containment zones to resume operations with social distancing and sanitization norms in place. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued an order on Wednesday stating that government-run and private libraries can function from 8am to 5pm. They will have to follow guidelines issued by the state government. The weekly markets, including cattle markets, and meditation centres will have to strictly follow social distancing norms, the order mentioned. Operators of libraries and weekly markets are happy about the development. “We were waiting for long for permission from the state government. Entry to the library will be restricted. We will keep sanitizer bottles and check visitor’s body temperature,” a library owner from Shivajinagar said. A coordinator of the weekly farmers’ markets in the city said, “We have restarted operations in some areas located out of the containment zones since the last few months. The operators have been told to maintain adequate distance between two stalls and regulate the footfall to prevent overcrowding at markets. We will also tell farmers to arrange sanitization of the marketplace.” Weekly markets are held at over 60 places across the city, where farmers set up temporary stalls to sell their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-nod-to-start-weekly-markets-libraries/articleshow/78797820.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||With 3,686 Covid cases, highest single-day rise in Delhi since September 25||NEW DELHI: The daily tally of Covid-19 in Delhi touched a 26-day high with the city reporting 3,686 fresh cases of the viral infection on Wednesday. Before this, Delhi recorded a maximum of 3,827 cases of Covid -19 on September 25. Deaths due to Covid-19 also rose significantly with 47 fatalities recorded on Wednesday, taking the toll to 6,128. On October 10 and on September 29, too, 48 fatalities were reported in the city, which was the highest number of deaths recorded in a day since July 16 when Delhi saw 58 fatalities. The fatality rate of Covid-19 in Delhi is 1.8%, fifth-highest in the country after Punjab (3.2%), Maharashtra (2.6%), Gujarat (2.3%) and West Bengal (19%). Officials said maximum fatalities involved people with comorbidities. “The increase in cases may be due to rise in the number of tests being conducted through RT-PCR, which is considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing. In the last 24 hours, 59,064 tests were conducted. Of this, record 16,629 tests were conducted using RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat. The rest, 42,435 tests, were conducting using rapid antigen test kits,” said a senior official. The rise in Covid-19 cases is also pushing up the number of active cases. Latest data shows there are 24,217 active cases. As of now, most Covid-positive patients (14,227) are recuperating in home isolation, 5,081 are admitted in hospitals, 845 in Covid care centres and 278 in Covid health centres. On Wednesday, 10,632 Covid beds were vacant in hospitals, 6,301 in Covid care centres and 249 in health centres. However, 961 beds in Covid care centres were occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers of Vande Bharat Mission and air-bubble flights. “The next few weeks are going to be very critical in the fight against Covid-19 outbreak. We have to ensure that people maintain social distance and wear masks while going out during the festive rush,” say experts. Many European countries and even the US, where the Covid-19 cases appeared to be on the decline till last month, are again witnessing an increase in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-3686-cases-highest-single-day-rise-since-sept-25/articleshow/78797863.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 22, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP achieves 95% Covid-19 recovery rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reached a major milestone in its battle against Covid-19 on Wednesday by achieving over 95% recovery rate. AP is the first state in the country to chart such a remarkable turnaround after May, when Kerala nearly managed to flatten its curve before it saw a resurgence again. Of 7,93,299 cases recorded, including 3,746 fresh infections on Wednesday, 7,54,415 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital. Kurnool and Nellore touched 98% recovery rate, while the discharge rate was at least 90% in all the districts. Experts say that a combination of factors might have helped the state in better management of the disease, such as extensive and targeted testing, contact tracing, door-to-door surveys, community surveillance measures and augmenting treating facilities and infrastructure. But if a certain factor needs to be singled out, the state’s large-scale testing stands out from the rest. Despite posting a steep surge in the daily infection numbers, particularly in July, August and September, the state continued its aggressive testing to occupy first place among all states in the country in terms of testing. However, anticipating a second wave of infections with the proposed reopening of educational institutions and resumption of other commercial activities in November, the health department is bracing for a new flare-up. There has been an increase in daily infection numbers in districts like Krishna for the last few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-achieves-95-covid-19-recovery-rate/articleshow/78797861.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 22, 2020||Shimla||Two escalators for easy access to Jakhu temple, Ridge in Shimla||SHIMLA: Two escalators will soon provide easy access to Jakhu temple from its parking lot and to the Ridge from Lakkar Bazar, near the ice skating rink, with the Ridge, as part of the proposal under Shimla Smart City project. The city, as part of the proposal, intends to install a series of escalators for vertical mobility at various locations just like the ‘mid-level-escalators’ in Hong Kong. These will have protection against rain and snow and the roof will be made with of solar panels to ensure each escalator generates its own power for back-up during emergencies. The contract for installation of an escalator and two elevators between Lakkar Bazar and the Ridge has been awarded and would cost around Rs 11.37 crore. The project will have two stages — from the site near the ice skating rink up to Tibetan Market and from Tibetan Market to the Ridge, said Shimla Smart City Project Limited general manager (technical) Nitin Garg. A foot over bridge will also be installed at Tibetan Market to connect two stages of the project. Ropeway and Rapid Transport Development Corporation will construct the FOB and has already started investigation of soil. The work on two escalators is expected to finish by 2021 year-end. The Jakhu escalator, the is expected to cost around Rs 8 crore. Vertical mobility options like escalators, lifts and travellators are being incorporated at 15 locations along Circular Road in Shimla under the Smart City proposal. Shimla has already pedestrianized its core areas, including its historic Mall Road, and its market streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/two-escalators-for-easy-access-to-jakhu-temple-ridge-in-shimla/articleshow/78797829.cms||Anand Bodh
October 22, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 26, accuses PAC cop of rape; SP orders probe||PILIBHIT: A 26-year-old woman of a village under Bisalpur kotwali had lodged a written complaint, charging a constable of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) with rape, following which superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav ordered an inquiry into the allegations by Bisalpur circle officer Lallan Singh. The SP ordered the CO to submit the inquiry report to him for further action. The SP said appropriate legal action would be taken against the constable if the charges levelled against him were found to be true. In her complaint, the woman stated that the PAC constable, a resident of Pokhara village under the same police station, and she were in a relationship for the past two years. The constable raped her many times on the pretext of marrying her but retracted from his commitment, alleged the woman. The woman further alleged that the constable had warned her of serious consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. The SP added that any legal action in this connection would be based on the findings of the inquiry officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-26-accuses-pac-cop-of-rape-sp-orders-probe/articleshow/78793861.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Ludhiana||Sutlej Club polls: Campaign intensifies after fear of low turnout||LUDHIANA: Day after five committee members of the Sutlej Club were elected unopposed as no one filed nominations against them, the candidates in the race who are contesting for other posts, have intensified their campaign as they fear less turnout of voters after the office-bearers of prominent posts like Sanjeev Dhanda as general secretary, Jatinder Marwaha as vice-president, Sachin Kapoor as bar secretary have already been elected. Meanwhile, keeping in view the ongoing fear of coronavirus the contenders are making sure to minimise physical visits for canvassing and are only using social media and phone calls to approach the club members to vote for them in the October 24 elections of this elite club. Wednesday being the last day for withdrawal of nominations, only one withdrawal took place as Baljeet Kaur Chawla withdrew from the race of election of two executive members, leaving three candidates Subodh Batish, Balwinder Bhanwra and Dr Arun Dhawan in the triangle competition for the two posts. On the remaining posts of joint secretary, finance secretary, mess secretary and cultural secretary there are two candidates each. Speaking to TOI, Gurinder Singh Kairon, who is contesting for the post of joint secretary, said, “I am thrilled over the huge response from the club members. I have been flooded with hundreds of calls and messages from them, assuring me of their support to me and advising me on what works should be done or the welfare of the club after I get elected. According to Subodh Batish, who is contesting for the post of executive member, “Due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, I and my well-wishers are taking every precaution possible in our campaigning and therefore we have restricted our campaign only to phone calls, social media and the entire canvassing is going on through the online mode only. So far, the response has been quite amazing and I am thankful to everyone for their support and love being showered upon me.” Speaking to TOI, Rattandeep Lati Bawa, who is running for the post of cultural secretary, said, “Regardless of the fact that five office-bearers have been elected, the enthusiasm among members for elections is not down and we are hopeful that people will turn out in large numbers to vote on October 24 as there is always huge craze among the club members to exercise their voting right as they get this chance after two years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sutlej-club-polls-campaign-intensifies-after-fear-of-low-turnout/articleshow/78796320.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||UIDAI official sent to 2-day ACB remand||Kota: The assistant director general of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) arrested by the Kota ACB for bribery was produced before a special judge at his residence here on Wednesday. The judge sent the accused to two days of interrogation by the ACB.Initial interrogation into the matter revealed a possible nexus of officials and touts. The ACB Kota has claimed evidences against one tout identified as Hemraj Tanwar of Jaipur, while role of other officials of UIDAI and touts are being verified. The ACB seized papers of property, bank accounts and FDs.“ADG of UIDAI Pankaj Goyal, 43, was arrested from his office in New Delhi on Tuesday after he accepted a bribe of Rs 1 lakh for issuing Aadhaar franchise,” said ASP (ACB Kota) Chandrasheel Thakur.Goyal was in-charge of five states, including Rajasthan, and was posted at regional office of UIDAI in South Delhi’s Pragati Vihar area.A complainant, who is a local service provider in Ajmer and had applied for Aadhaar kiosk franchise, approached the ACB a few months ago saying that the ADG was demanding Rs 15,000 on an application file for sanction of Aadhaar franchise kiosk and alleged the official had held back at least 14 such application files demanding a bribe of Rs 2 lakh, the ACB official said.The ACB verified the complaint and accordingly laid a trap to nab the accused official from his office in New Delhi on Tuesday, he said.The negotiations between the complainant and the ADG generally took place on WhatsApp and the bribe amount was settled at Rs 1 lakh for sanction of nine applications for franchise kiosk, he further said.In the initial interrogation with Goyal, evidences against a tout, identified Hemraj Tanwar, who was in good connection with senior officers of the department at New Delhi, have surfaced and role of other officials and touts is being analysed and verified, ASP Chandrasheel said while not ruling out significant role of several other officials and touts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uidai-official-sent-to-2-day-acb-remand/articleshow/78797862.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||SC panel to inspect illegal sand mining areas in Raj from today||Jaipur: A central empowered committee (CEC) will start a three-day inspection of illegal sand mining areas in Rajasthan from Thursday.The committee was formed after a Special Leave Petition was filed in the Supreme Court stating that illegal mining on riverbeds was continuing despite a ban by the apex court in November 2017.Following this, the court empowered the committee to submit a report on the problems related to sand mining that are faced by traders, consumers, transporters, the state and other stakeholders. It would be necessary for the CEC to suggest measures for stopping illegal mining.The CEC will submit its report along with recommendations in six weeks. The court had observed that illegal sand mining is rampant in Rajasthan. Directions were issued to the collectors and superintendent of police of each district to take action to check illegal mining.The petitioner also alleged that after the Supreme Court restrained large sand mine lease holders, the state government issued leases on agriculture land reasoning that environmental impact will be minimal. However, the lease holders are digging sand in uncontrolled manner after deploying heavy machinery on riverbeds.Sources in mining department claimed, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) has made a mandatory provision even for small lease holders to carry out a replenishment study. But, none of the holders in Rajasthan has conducted the study.“There are approximately 350 sand mining leases on agriculture plots in Rajasthan. If survey is conducted, majority of these leases are inside the river. The department issued lease deeds when the applicants produced a NoC issued by the water resources department that they are 45 metre away from the riverbed. However, it’s different on ground,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-panel-to-inspect-illegal-sand-mining-areas-in-raj-from-today/articleshow/78797847.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Marksheets delay to hit physical education applicants||JAIPUR: The final exams of universities, which were delayed by three months because of the pandemic, has created problems for students to sit for other examinations. Around 4,000 students who filled forms for Pre.B.P.Ed examination, the two-year course in physical education, are facing problems as their marksheets haven’t arrived yet. Since most of the universities have recently completed their final examinations, they are not in a position to provide the marksheets at such a short notice. This means students have to wait for another year to get selected for Pre.B.P.Ed. Vedika Jain, who wants to sit for the exam, is finding it difficult as her final examination got over just five days ago. “My result will not be announced any time soon and I have to submit the marksheet by October 25. It will not be possible for me and it seems I have to drop a year,” said Vedika. Pre.B.P.Ed course is important for selection of physical training teachers. In the last few years, two such vacancies have been announced. This year there are 1,500 seats in all the universities and colleges of the state. Rajasthan University is the nodal agency to conduct the examination. “Around 10,000 people have applied for the exam and as per our calculation, 6,000 have marksheets. The remaining students must write to higher authorities and the government. It is injustice to students but it’s not in our hands. According to the orders of Supreme Court, we have to finish the process by October 31. So, any decision has to be taken by government,” said a professor of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/marksheets-delay-to-hitphysical-edu-applicants/articleshow/78797858.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Aundh ITI opens in three shifts for its students’ safety||PUNE: Students’ footfalls at the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Aundh have been muted after it reopened on October 15. The state government’s directorate of vocational education and training circular on October 15 follows the circular from the directorate general of training, ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship. It is an advisory to ITIs regarding reopening of colleges. Precautions include students being segregated into three batches to come in shifts, half-an-hour intervals between every entry, compulsory use of masks and sanitisers and a strict no-loitering policy on the campus after classes. Principal Prakash Saygaonkar said 30% of the students have returned to classes from Monday, and they expect more in the next few days. “We have a total strength of about 2,200 students. The three shifts means they come in a staggered manner. The first shift will start at 7am, the second at 11.30am, and the last shift will be from 4pm. Regular classes would have 5-hour practicals and two hours of theory. But all the theory is being taught online so the four hours spent on campus are for practicals. We have told the students that practicals would be conducted even on Saturday and Sunday if required,” he said. Masks are compulsory, and every workshop has a sanitiser. Students have to carry their own sanitisers and water bottles. There are no breaks between the four hours. When the shift ends, students must leave the campus immediately. When the previous batch leaves, the next batch is allowed in. Another official from the ITI said just 5-10 students had returned to the hostel. “We will reduce the student capacity of rooms to 50%. Many students from far off places have not come back. Transport is a problem, and parents are hesitant to send their wards to Pune,” he said. Trupti Tapkir, a student, said the 7-8 students in her class sit far from each other. “We eat alone and return home as soon as classes end,” she added. She and her brother, who is in plastic processing operator course at the same ITI , reach the college around 9.30 am and leave by 4pm. “Our body temperatures and the oxygen levels are checked at the college gate. We carry our own sanitisers. Since ITI is a practical course, the lockdown affected our education the most even when teachers taught online,” she added. Sarala Mahanor, in-charge of the cosmetology department, said from a batch of 30 students, eight women have joined, so far. “Many don’t have transport to come to college. Some women have children at home and do not want to risk exposure. One of them is pregnant, and cannot join. Online videos and online classes are going on, but cosmetology requires physical proximity. More students will join once they feel safer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aundh-iti-opens-in-three-shifts-for-its-pupils-safety/articleshow/78797855.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: 10 face MCOCA in Shiv Sena leader murder case||PUNE: The city police on Wednesday invoked Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) provisions against the 10 men arrested earlier in the Deepak Maratkar murder case and nabbed Swapnil alias Satish Chocolate Modve from Karad. A police team comprising inspector Sunil Takawale and sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad of the crime branch arrested Modve from Karad on Wednesday after intercepting his SUV. Modve’s name surfaced after it was revealed that some of the men arrested in the case were members of the Bapu Nair gang. Nair runs a crime syndicate in and around the city. Shiv Sena office-bearer Maratkar was fatally assaulted near his house around midnight intervening October 1 and 2 at Gavali Ali. Ashwini Kamble, Mahendra Saraf, Niranjan Mhankale, Prashant Kolte, Rahul Ragir, Rohit Kamble, Rohit Kshirsagar, Sandeep Kolte, Lakhan Dhaware and Chandrashekhar Waghel were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-face-mcoca-in-sena-leader-murder-case/articleshow/78797866.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||Pardi flyover gets land, to be ready by December 2021||NAGPUR: After a long wait, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has finally got land for the Pardi flyover and the project’s new completion deadline is December 2021. The Covid-induced lockdown has delayed the project by some months, according to project officer NL Yeotkar. The flyover is a five-arm structure having four arms towards east Nagpur and one towards Bhandara Road beyond Pardi. The other four arms are towards Kalamna APMC market, Old Bhandara Road, Central Avenue and Ring Road. These arms will intersect on Ring Road and there will be a rotary atop the flyover. The bhoomipujan of the project was performed by prime minister Narendra Modi in August 2014. However, work began after 22 months in June 2016. At that time the project completion deadline was June 2019. However, it was delayed due to various reasons, including land acquisition. NHAI needed land to maintain the standard width of service roads. However, despite several rounds of negotiations, 63 property owners refused to part with their land. NHAI then sent an application to the district administration for compulsory land acquisition. According to Shekhar Ghadge, sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Nagpur, about Rs35.82 crore in compensation is being provided to the 63 land owners for about 4,000 square metre of land inside the city. This amount has been provided by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). “The award was passed in August and we have issued notices to the owners. Many have collected their dues. The lands, which are in dispute, will be referred to the tribunal. However, their land has been acquired. The owners have time till November 7 to collect their compensation,” said Ghadge. The then chief secretary Dinesh Kumar Jain had in December 2018 asked the then collector Ashwin Mudgal and municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangad to complete the land acquisition by January 15, 2019. This deadline has been delayed by over 18 months. Meanwhile, the new Khapri railway overbridge (ROB) of NHAI is stuck due to lack of permission from Central Railways (CR). Project officer Abhijit Jichkar said that the CR head office had sought a compliance for which NHAI had approached the Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT). “Once we submit the document prepared by VNIT, we hope to get the green signal from CR. Then the remaining work on the ROB will be done,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pardi-flyover-gets-land-to-be-ready-by-dec-2021/articleshow/78796400.cms||Ashish Roy
October 22, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Udgam School to cut salary of teachers by 10%||AHMEDABAD: Amid Covid-19 crisis, the management of Udgam School for Children has decided to cut fees of at least 10% for teachers till September 2021. While there is a blanket reduction of 10% in gross salary of teachers, those with a monthly salary of Rs 35,000 or more will face additional 5% cut, said sources in Udgam School. “2020 brings lot of uncertainty to everyone, education sector is also not left apart. Since we were occupied with coping ourselves with challenges of new era of education, government has come out with GR of blanket 25% reduction in fees,” said a school official. After FRC came into existence, we believe schools have not been allowed a surplus as high as 25%, the official added. “Moreover, the government has also informed us not to increase 5% fees as suggested by FRC earlier. There is a loss of 30% in current academic years fees collection. Then there is an increase in loss due to fixed costs due to transport/optional activities - since no amount is to be charged from parents,” he said. The school authorities had anticipated reduction of 15% in annual fees and had planned their expenditure through the year accordingly. But 25% reduction in fees suggested by government forced us to take unprecedented steps for cost-saving for survival of schools, according to the Udgam school official. To support parents who are finding it tough to pay school fees despite the 25% cut announced by the state government, Udgam School had earlier this week launched a social media platform for parents who can afford to can let go of the 25% relief in favour of those facing financial difficulties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/udgam-to-cut-salary-of-teachers-by-10/articleshow/78777463.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Public not to be allowed to visit Thevar memorial for Guru Pooja||RAMANATHAPURAM: The Ramanathapuram district administration has said that public would not be allowed to visit the Thevar memorial in Pasumpon village this year for the 113th Thevar Jayanthi and 58 Guru Pooja, due to Covid-19 restrictions. Arrangements for the festivities to be held on October 30, were reviewed by collector K Veera Raghava Rao on Wednesday. Later, speaking to reporters, the collector said that in view of the lockdown measures that are in place, only representatives of political parties and community leaders would be allowed to the memorial on October 30, in groups of five. Public would not be allowed to visit the memorial on that day. All those planning to visit the memorial should obtain prior permission from the collector by submitting their applications to the district administration, on or before October 26. Vehicle passes should also be obtained. Maintaining physical distance and wearing masks is mandatory for visiting the memorial, he said. Barricades would be erected to regulate the visitors to the memorial and 8,000 police personnel would be deployed on duty on that day. Eleven medical teams with equipped facilities would also be stationed near the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/public-not-to-be-allowed-to-visit-thevar-memorial-for-guru-pooja/articleshow/78797857.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Shimla||No takers for Dharamshala’s mega 3G aquarium project||SHIMLA: The ambitious plan to set up a third generation (3G) aquarium in Dharamshala Smart City has run into rough waters as companies with expertise in such projects are not showing interest. The Expression of Interest was floated twice and each time, only one company from Chennai expressed willingness. Now, the department of fisheries, Himachal Pradesh, plans to float tenders for the third time. The 3G aquarium project was aimed at promoting fisheries-related tourism as well as knowledge about various fish species among the general public and tourists. This would come with ancillary facilities like tourism components, training school, hospitality facilities, interpretation centre, cafeteria and shops relevant to tourists like souvenirs. The 3G aquarium is to be developed through Public Private Partnership (PPP). The mode of development can also be Built Operate Transfer (BOT) or Design, Build, Finance, Operate, Transfer (DBFOT) or any other variant of PPP. The detailed project structure is yet to be decided. The mega aquarium project in Dharamshala Smart City is the first of its kind in the state. One hectare of land has already been made available to the department in the Smart City area for the project. After the Dalai Lama temple and HPCA Cricket Stadium, the mega aquarium, which is proposed to be built at Chaitdu near Dharamshala, is meant to be another tourist attraction. Its size would be decided once the company which will build it is selected. The idea of having a mega aquarium in Dharamshala was floated last February since the department of fisheries wanted to promote tourism related to fisheries and public awareness about the sector. Director, fisheries, Sat Pal Mehta said such an aquarium costs Rs 15 crore to Rs 1,000 crore. “We have one hectare of land available with us. Now, it will be up to the selected company to decide the size of project,” he said. Elaborating on the limited success of the expressions of interest floated so far, he said it is yet to be decided whether the project would be set up in public private partnership mode or at the individual level. A lot of exercise needs to be done for this project. “Once the company is selected, we will ask for a concept presentation to know how exactly this mega aquarium would shape up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/no-takers-for-dharamshalas-mega-3g-aquarium-project/articleshow/78797859.cms||Anand Bodh
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Declare Eturnagaram a tiger reserve: Activists||Hyderabad: Wildlife activists and conservationists on Wednesday demanded that the Telangana government declare Eturnagaram area a new tiger reserve as it has huge potential to host tigers moving in from neighbouring areas. A tiger was spotted near Eturnagaram wildlife sanctuary in Kannaigudem mandal recently. “Eturnagaram is part of a large forest in Godavari basin that is connected with Indravati and Kawal. It is also the centre of a huge forest complex on the eastern side extending up to Papikonda National Park,” Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society Founder Imran Siddique told TOI. Medaram Jatara, India’s largest tribal festival that sees the participation of over a crore people is held at Eturnagaram. “Tigers have been reported in Nagaram after a gap of 20 years. Eturnagaram should be proposed as a tiger reserve. It could be better than Kawal or Amrabad due to intact forests and a large expanse of old-growth forest. Tigers have started using these areas and there needs to be more financial and institutional support for ensuring that tigers start breeding in Eturnagaram,” Siddique said. Eturnagaram has a dense population of gaurs. “A major threat to Eturnagaram is from Muria Gonds or Gutti Koyas who have moved from Chhattisgarh and felled hundreds of acres of forest trees. The local tribes here are Koyas who feel helpless as their livelihoods and forest produce are being taken by those migrating from Chhattisgarh,” said Siddique. He added that another point of concern was the huge influx of visitors during the jatara. There is huge pressure for roads in these areas. Eturnagaram has rich biodiversity and about 310 species of birds. Local forest officials identified pug marks of a tiger five days ago in Kannaigudem. A tiger was spotted near Azamnagar village in Bhupalpally mandal in August and another was spotted near NTPC, Ramagundam in Peddapalli in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/declare-eturnagaram-a-tiger-reserve-activists/articleshow/78797871.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: DVAC finds Rs 1L cash in mines department raid; top official booked||MADURAI: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) booked five people including the deputy director of Tamil Nadu Geology and Mines Department, Dindigul after unaccounted cash worth around Rs 1 lakh was seized from the office functioning on the first floor of Dindigul collector’s office. The deputy director was identified as A Perumal and others as T Parvathi, assistant, V Selvamani, office assistant, temporary workers T Dineshkumar (accounts) and M Shanthi (computer operator). Inspector P Sundararajan booked them under a couple of sections of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. DVAC sources said they were tipped that officials from mines department were taking bribe from contractors and vehicle owners to issue trip sheets to quarry red soil and silt. A team led by inspector Sundararajan stormed into the office on Tuesday evening. In the search which ended late in the night, the sleuths seized Rs 1,00,150 from separate places from the two rooms where the office was functioning. All the suspects were quizzed by DVAC teams separately till late in the night. “The money was found at different places inside the office, but no official claimed them. It is suspected that the unaccounted money was collected from vehicle owners to issue trip sheets. The suspects could have thrown them due to the fear of getting caught red-handed. Based on the suspicion, a case has been registered,” said a police officer. Following the seizure, a team of officials conducted a search in the rented house belonging to the deputy director on Dindigul bypass road on Wednesday and seized Rs 4,10,000 in cash. Meanwhile, a team led by DVAC deputy superintendent of police Divya from Erode district conducted a search in the house belonging to Perumal in Bhavani in Erode district. Police sources said that 100 sovereigns of gold jewellery and some more documents were seized by the police team. Police officials said that the jewellery were seized since no proper documents could be shown by the family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dvac-finds-rs-1l-cash-in-mines-dept-raid-top-official-booked/articleshow/78797867.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||BSF on high alert in Raj||Jaisalmer: Considering the deteriorating internal security in Pakistan’s Sindh state, which borders Jaisalmer and Barmer, the BSF has been put on high alert along the entire international border in Rajasthan. The BSF has been directed to deal with any untoward action. Patrolling has been increased at the border. Border guarding is being done using gadgets and other technical resources. Activities across the border are being watched using night vision devices. Vigilance has been increased in the areas adjoining the border and watch is being kept on vehicles passing from those areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-on-high-alert-in-raj/articleshow/78797875.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB demolition drive continues||Secunderabad: Continuing their demolition drive, the engineering wing of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Wednesday razed the compound walls that enroached the open nalas. These structures, which were built on the nalas at Jyothi Colony and Vasavi Nagar, were removed as the the drive extended for the second day. Meanwhile, SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy inspected the open nala at Dhanalakshmi Colony in Bowenpally and identified illegal structures. “The width of the nalas should be 40 feet but due to a number of encroachments the width had shrunk to about eight to 20 feet,” said SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender. He added the demolition drive will continue on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-demolition-drive-continues/articleshow/78797865.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Teen, 2 camels die in car mishap in Barmer||Jaisalmer: A 15-year-old boy was killed, along with two camels, when a car going from Jodhpur to Barmer collided with two camels on the road in Pachpadra police station area of Barmer district late on Tuesday night. Five members of the same family were travelling in the car. The two animals were killed on the spot. While the teenager died, three other members were injured in the accident. One of the injured was referred to Jodhpur, who was in a serious condition. Pachpadra SHO reached the spot on Wednesday morning. SHO Pradeep Daga said that a family was coming from Jodhpur by car and on the highway in Pachpadra police station area, two camels came running in front of the car and after the collision, the car lost balance and was overturned. People from nearby areas took out the people stuck in the car and police too on getting information reached the spot and took care of the injured. He said that the four injured were brought to Nahata hospital in Balotara where doctors declared the 15-year-old Mukesh Jatol dead and referred one seriously injured to Jodhpur. Police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-2-camels-die-in-car-mishap-in-barmer/articleshow/78797870.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Operations manager among 4 held for Hanumangarh bank robbery||JAIPUR: More than a month after three persons robbed a private bank in Hanumangarh’s Sangariya, police arrested four persons including the bank’s operation manager in the case. Three of the accused had decamped with Rs 1.13 crore on September 17 while the operation manager informed the cops about the robbery. Susheel Kumar (28), who was the operation manager, hatched the plan with his 24-year-old cousin Nitish Kumar, who along with Satpal (31) and Sukhvindra Kumar (35) executed the robbery. On the day of the incident, the accused entered the bank and threatened the security guard and Susheel with weapons following which they took cash from the vault and locked the two individuals inside it. The accused made their escape in a vehicle used by the bank. Susheel and the guard were inside the vault for around 30 minutes and managed to escape after breaking a pipe and accessing the keys which the accused had thrown at some distance. “Susheel informed the cops that the robbers had threatened them with pistols and locked them inside the vault. They also took their mobile phones. We had always suspected that this was an inside job as the robbery took place just few minutes after the bank closed. Moreover, at the time of the robbery, no one pressed the security buzzer and did not cooperate with police in providing CCTV footage of the cameras placed inside the bank,” said an officer of Sangariya police. After the bank refused to share CCTV camera footage, cops seized it and sent it to FSL in Jaipur. According to officials, the bank had also delayed in registering the FIR which raised many red flags for the cops. Following the robbery, teams were constituted and sent to neighbouring states including Haryana, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh to find the accused. Cops finally nabbed the robbers using cyber and human intelligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/manager-amond-4-held-for-hanumangarh-bank-robbery/articleshow/78797868.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 22, 2020||Pune||‘Car thief’ molests, assaults woman two-wheeler rider in Pune||PUNE: The Wanowrie police are looking for a car driver seen molesting and beating up a call centre employee on the Handewadi road on October 8 in footage of CCTV cameras. The incident came to light after the police found a deserted sedan at Mohammadwadi on October 9 and investigated how the vehicle reached there. Studying the CCTV footage, the police realised that the car driver had molested and beaten up the woman soon after overtaking her scooter on the Handewadi road in the wee hours of October 8. “We have identified the car driver, who till recently worked with a businessman on Shivaji Road before taking away his car on October 7. The businessman lodged a vehicle theft case against the driver with the Khadak police,” said senior inspector Krantikumar Patil of the Wanowrie police. “The driver was probably irked over not getting side immediately for overtaking the scooter and even asked the woman if she did not see him (coming from the rear),” a police officer said, citing the investigation so far and the woman’s statement. The police traced the woman (25) in Handewadi and convinced her to lodge an FIR, which she did on Tuesday. Patil said, “The woman was in shock for the first few days after the incident. She agreed to register the FIR after we counselled her.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/car-thief-molests-assaults-woman-two-wheeler-rider/articleshow/78797873.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Duo behind chain snatchings held, valuables worth Rs 3.5 lakh seized||Pune: The Khadak police arrested two men, suspected to be involved in four chain snatching incidents in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad in the last few days, and recovered gold ornaments and a bike, collectively worth Rs3.45 lakh, from them. Police arrested Sachin Narhari Peshwe (36) and Prem Shalikram Khatri (29) after a chase at Khadi Machine chowk early on Sunday and made the recoveries. Both of them hail from Nagpur. They have a history of chain snatchings, robberies and property offences, police added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-behind-chain-snatchings-held-valuables-worth-rs-3-5-lakh-seized/articleshow/78797877.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Family members, relatives stage protest||MADURAI: The family members and relatives of Bharathi Raja, from Thirupuvanam in Sivaganga district, who was murdered by unidentified people while he was working in Villapuram in Madurai city on Tuesday, staged a protest in front of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), blocking the Panagal Road on Wednesday evening. The protest, which started at 4 pm ended only at 7 pm. Police personnel were deployed to prevent any untoward incidents. The relatives demanded a case to be registered under SC/ST prevention of atrocities Act since the deceased belonged to a scheduled caste community, disbursal of compensation as per the Act and immediate arrest of the suspects involved in the murder. Deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Madurai city R Shiva Prasad pacified the protestors and assured of taking appropriate steps. Meanwhile, four people identified as Manikandan, Pandivel, Ramkumar and Ravi surrendered in a court in Ramanathapuram district in connection with the murder. While the Keerathurai police had registered a case, the motive behind the murder is under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/family-members-relatives-stage-protest/articleshow/78797876.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Man arrested for marrying minor girl||MADURAI: A 32-year-old man from Madurai district was arrested on Tuesday for marrying a minor girl. The accused was identified as L Mariappan from Kenchampettai. His parents, Lakshma Perumal and N Annalakshmi were booked under sections of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Child Marriage Act.  The girl’s parents were also booked. Police said the girl has completed schooling. Her parents decided to marry her off to Mariappan and conducted the marriage in June. The girl was living with Mariappan. Recently, someone alerted Childline about the marriage. Based on the information, a rural welfare officer visited the house and conducted an inquiry. It was found that the girl had not attained 18 years. Police registered a case on Tuesday and arrested Mariappan.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-marrying-minor-girl/articleshow/78797885.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Major fire at Royal Enfield factory in Kukas||Jaipur: A major fire broke out in the Royal Enfield factory in Kukas on Wednesday afternoon, though no one was hurt in the incident.The FSL team will collect samples from the site to ascertain the reason for the fire. The company has also issued a statement saying that the cause of fire will be investigated. The fire started around 12.30pm and was brought under control after a few hours with the help of over 20 fire tenders.Jaipur North DCP Rajiv Pachar told TOI, “It was a major fire though fortunately everyone was evacuated. We are investigating the cause of fire and FSL team will collect samples following which we will find the reason behind the incident.”The statement issued by the company said, “A fire incident occurred at Royal Enfield’s Transit Stockyard facility at Kukas, Jaipur. All manpower and personnel have been evacuated from the area and emergency protocols have been followed. There has been no harm or injury to personnel working at the facility. The fire was in a small section of the warehouse, and the team immediately worked with local police and fire department authorities to bring the situation under control. As of now, the fire is largely contained and the damage to inventory is negligible. The building and inventory is adequately insured. The incident will not have any adverse impact on the company’s operations. The cause of the incident will be investigated, and the company will work with local authorities to assess this. Information and updates will be shared.”Officials claimed that the fire increased as the factory’s fire system did not work and the DCP added, “The electric fire system could not work as the flames damaged the wires because of which it became bigger.” Sources claimed that the losses incurred could run into lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/major-fire-at-royal-enfield-factory-in-kukas/articleshow/78797878.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Nadda’s CAA statement ‘unfortunate’: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday called BJP national president J P Nadda’s statement on implementing the CAA ‘unfortunate’.Gehlot said the BJP wanted to stoke communal tension at a time when the Covid-19 situation in the country is bad.Nadda, while addressing his party workers at Siliguri in West Bengal on Tuesday, said that the implementation of the CAA has been delayed due to Covid-19 situation.In a tweet, he says “It is the time to overcome the crises the nation is facing unitedly & not to disrupt the peace & communal harmony,” said Gehlot, who has been opposing the CAA since it was passed by the central government.Rajasthan was the third state to pass a resolution against the CAA and also government supported a major protest against CAA in Jaipur. Gehlot had termed the CAA ‘Dangerous game’ aimed to prepare a ground for Hindu Rashtra by the RSS and the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/naddas-caa-statement-unfortunate-cm/articleshow/78797882.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Shimla||Kullu Dussehra: Only 200 devotees to pull chariot of lord Raghunath||MANALI: Unlike previous years when thousands of people used to take part in the rath yatra of lord Raghunath, this year only 200 people will have the privilege to do so between October 25 and 31 as Section 144 of the CrPC will remain in force in the entire Dhalpur town of Kullu during the weeklong Dussehra festivities. Kullu administration has issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for Kullu Dussehra, an international-level event. Those pulling chariot of Lord Raghunath will have to undergo Covid-19 test. The devotees visiting the Dussehra venue to pay obeisance to deities will not be allowed to touch the idols. Elderly, patients and children below 10 years of age will also not be allowed to come to Dussehra. Kullu deputy commissioner Richa Verma said, “It has been decided that besides Lord Raghunath, palanquins of only seven deities – Bijli Mahadev, Hidimba Devi, Devi Tripura Sundari, Devta Jamlu, Adi Brahma, Lakshmi Narayan and Devta Bir Nath – shall be brought to historical Dhalpur ground for Dussehra celebration. No other deity has been invited. To check the spread of the Covid-19, it is felt essential to invoke the provision of Section 144 of CrPC.” The DC said only a limited number of people including musicians, priest, kardar and followers will be allowed along with each deity and their movement will also be restricted to an identified sitting place of respective deity. She said kardar of each deity will have to submit the list of the people accompanying the palanquin of the deity before October 23 so that health officials could lift their samples for Covid-19 test. “Only 200 devotees having Covid-19 negative report shall be allowed to participate in rath yatra with proper face masks, hand gloves and maintaining social distancing. Persons above 65 years of age, patients, pregnant women and children below 10 years are advised not to attend the festival. Nobody shall be allowed to touch palanquins and idols of the deities. Devotees and visitors will be allowed to enter the Dhalpur ground from earmarked entry and exit points,” the DC added. As there is strong possibility that many deities will reach Kullu to participate in the festivity without invitation, authorities are preparing to deal with the situation. Despite restrictions and SOP, thousands of devotees are expected to throng the Dussehra venue where all cultural programmes have been cancelled but the traditional rituals will be performed. Usually lakhs of people throng Kullu Dussehra every year where palanquins of over 250 deities used to camp for a week. Cultural troops from many countries used to participate in international folk dance competitions. Thousands of traders from different states of the country used to sell their products here. People will have to miss everything this year. Only religious rituals will be performed in presence of limited number of people. This was decided by Dussehra Committee after a series of meetings in presence of officials, politicians, kardars and priests. Dussehra committee used to pay nazrana to all the deities participating in the festivity. As shops, exhibitions and entertainment zones will be missing from the festivity, the committee will have no income from Dussehra. So, it has been decided that nazrana will not be paid to any deity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/kullu-dussehra-only-200-devotees-to-pull-chariot-of-lord-raghunath/articleshow/78797881.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Share copy of FIR with Umar Khalid, court tells Delhi cops||NEW DELHI: An accused must be informed about the bare necessary facts leading to his arrest, such as the grounds and the reasons, a court noted while directing Delhi Police to hand over a copy of the FIR, the remand application and medical documents to former JNU student Umar Khalid. Khalid — arrested in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots — was re-arrested on separate charges during his judicial custody, but was refused the documents by police, who claimed before the court that supplying these documents would “open a Pandora’s box” at this stage. The court, however, noted it was necessary that an accused be granted a copy of the FIR at the earliest to enable him the benefit of legal help. Chief metropolitan magistrate Purshotam Pathak observed: “There are certain judgments of various high courts requiring police to supply the copy of the FIR to the accused before filing of the chargesheet or immediately after registration of the FIR.” “It is a settled proposition of law that no person shall be detained in custody without being informed, as soon as may be, of the grounds for such arrest. Article 22(1) of the Constitution stipulates that no police officer can arrest an individual without informing the grounds of his/her arrest. Article 22 of the Constitution guarantees the fundamental right of protection against the arrest and detention,” the court added. The court also pointed out that Section 50 of CrPC stated that every police officer with authority to arrest someone without a warrant must inform the person of the crime and other grounds for it. Representing Khalid, advocate Sanya Kumar said that during the remand proceedings, Khalid had made categorical requests to the duty judge at Tihar Jail for the presence of his counsel, but his request was not entertained. Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary submitted that there was no provision in CrPC to supply the documents before the court took cognisance. He also referred to the IO’s reply to contend that Khalid had been informed of the grounds of his arrest. The court, however, allowed Khalid’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/share-copy-of-fir-with-khalid-court-tells-cops/articleshow/78797895.cms||Aamir Khan
October 22, 2020||Pune||Man attacked with weapons in Aundh||Pune: A 28-year-old resident of Bodygate police colony in Aundh was attacked with sharp weapons and tile blocks by six men near Spicer College on Tuesday evening. An officer from Chatushrungi police station said victim Prashant Dixit sustained injuries to the shoulder and chest. The victim is recuperating at a hospital and his condition is now stable, the officer added. The police have registered an offence of attempt to murder and are searching for the six men. The police suspect the men are close aides of Kshitij Vairagar, who was hacked to death with an axe at Aundhgaon on Monday night. The police had arrested Dixit’s younger brother Aniket on the charge of murdering Vairagar. The arrest was based on CCTV footage of the murder. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police station said, “The six men accosted Dixit on a road near Spicer College around 7pm and launched a brutal assault. The suspects, who were close to Vairagar, decided to seek revenge after his death. We are searching for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-attacked-with-weapons-in-aundh/articleshow/78797886.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Fraudster held for duping bizman||Hyderabad: Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths arrested a trickster who duped a city-based businessman of Rs 1.7 crore by promising to supply him gold for lesser price. The accused, K Rakesh alias K Hari Shankar alias J Suresh, was arrested from Bashettyhalli village in Chikkaballapur district of Karnataka on October 19 and brought here on prisoner transit warrant on Wednesday. On August 17, 2019, K Koteswara Rao Guptha of Ameerpet lodged a complaint with CCS police alleging that Rakesh has duped him for Rs 1.7 crore by promising to supply gold at a lower price. Police traced him to Karnataka and arrested him. During the interrogation, police found out that Rakesh, native of Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh, has duped several people in a similar manner at Vizianagaram, Vijayawada of AP, Karimnagar and Nalgonda. Several non bailable warrants are pending against the accused, who frequently changes his identity by opening bank accounts using fake Aadhaar card, Voter ID and PAN cards. Police seized several fake ID cards and other incriminating evidence from his possession. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fraudster-held-for-duping-bizman/articleshow/78797883.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Meerut||2 siblings, five & three years old, charred to death at jaggery-making unit in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A five-year-old boy and his sister, just 3, were charred to death when a pile of smouldering sugarcane fell on them at a local jaggery-making unit in Muzaffarnagar’s Jatwada village. The incident took place on Tuesday. The Kolhu owner fled from the spot soon after the incident. Police said that one Mohd Akhtar had taken a contract to stuff sugarcane waste into the furnace. On Tuesday evening, Akhtar’s 16-year-old daughter was doing the stuffing work and her younger siblings, Sahil, 5, and Sahiba, 3, were also helping her out. All of a sudden, a huge pile of sugarcane fell on the three and caught fire. While Tabassum was able to come out, the other two could not and died by the time help arrived. Soon after the incident senior officials including labour commissioner, SSP and DM reached the spot. DM Muzaffarnagar Selva Kumari J ordered a probe. Sub divisional magistrate Amritpal Kaur said, “We have sent a report to the government and recommend compensation for the family.” Sources said that the victim's family were poor and used to take contracts to stuff cane into the furnace at Kolhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-siblings-five-three-years-old-charred-to-death-at-jaggery-making-unit-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/78795080.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 22, 2020||Goa||HSRP centre at Porvorim suspends operations after 3 staff test +ve||Panaji: After three employees working at the high security registration plates (HSRP) fitting centre at Porvorim tested positive for Covid-19 on October 19, operations at the premises have been suspended for two weeks. The rest of the staff have been asked to home quarantine for 14 days. “Operations will resume in the first week of November,” sources said. While appointments are taken at the regional transport office (RTO) at Panaji for vehicles registered in the capital, the plates are installed at Porvorim. Temporary suspension of the operations has left owners of Panaji-registered vehicles inconvenienced, and in some cases, uninformed. “We went to Porvorim but could not locate the place as there was no signboard. After searching for some time, a good Samaritan guided us to the fitting centre, but it was closed. They could have informed us about this via text message and we could have avoided the unnecessary travel during the pandemic,” said Manguirish Pai Raikar, whose vehicle was due for fitting at the Porvorim centre on Wednesday. He shared a text message from the operators instructing him to bring his vehicle to the fitting centre at 1.35pm on October 21. HSRP operations had been suspended in March owing to lockdown restrictions. They resumed from May 18, with fitting centres permitting only limited installations at brief intervals in order to maintain social distancing. However, on June 2, installations at the Vasco-based centre were suspended after a rising number of cases were reported from the port town. Ten days later, seven other HSRP centres in the state also suspended operations as a precautionary measure. Fitments resumed in August, with the smaller centres catering to only 30 vehicles per day, while the bigger centres – like Porvorim — catered to 50 vehicles per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hsrp-centre-at-porvorim-suspends-operations-after-3-staff-test-ve/articleshow/78798574.cms||Nida Sayed
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||20kg ganja seized in Jhalawar, three arrested||KOTA: Jhalawar police seized around 20kg of ganja being illegally transported from two separate places on Monday and Tuesday nights. Three persons were arrested while one managed to escape from the spot. The accused were produced before a court that remanded them in police custody for interrogation. A patrolling team seized 4.65kg ganja from a motorbike-borne person, identified as Saddam, 21, a resident of Pedawa, from Borekhedi Circle on Tuesday night, Sunel SHO Mansiram said. A police team, during routine checking of vehicles at Borekhedi Circle, had stopped the bike rider and inquired him on which he could not respond satisfactorily following which police searched his motorbike and recovered 4.65kg of ganja packed in a plastic bag, he said. Similarly, Jhalawar city police seized 15.4kg of ganja being illegally transported by a car from Khandiya Circle late on Monday night and arrested two persons, identified as Abdul Raseed, 33, a resident of Jhalawar city and Abdul gaffer, 68, of Jhalrapatan city while one accused identified as Azad fled from the spot. A police team during the checking of vehicles on Monday late night at Khandiya Circle stopped the car and on inquiry the three persons in the car could not respond satisfactorily following which the team carried out a search and recovered 15.4kg of ganja packed in plastic bags and placed in the dicky of the car, circle inspector Balveer Singh said. Police lodged a case against the three and produced the two arrested accused before the court on Tuesday, he added. Efforts are under way to nab the third accused in the matter, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20kg-ganja-seized-in-jhalawar-3-arrested/articleshow/78797888.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mumbai||Kangana, sis summoned by police in sedition case||MUMBAI: Bandra police on Wednesday served a notice to actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel to appear to answer charges filed against them on an order from Bandra’s metropolitan magistrate court on October 17. The notice was served by police; one at her office, a copy was sent on their WhatsApp numbers and one through registered post. Police said they had to appear on October 26 and 27 respectively in connection to a case of sedition filed against them. An FIR was registered against them for allegedly promoting enmity between communities, hurting religious sentiments and sedition. The court had ordered Bandra police to probe the complaint, by Munawwar Ali Sayyed, a Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer, following their tweets and statements defaming Bollywood for two months by calling it a “hub of nepotism” and alleging “favouritism” through tweets and TV interviews. Sayyed said Ranaut also tweeted “very objectionable” comments, which not only hurt his religious sentiments, but also feelings of many artistes, and she was trying to divide artistes on communal lines. He said Kangana, in a tweet, referred to Mumbai as ‘POK’ (Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir), which led to a public spat with ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-cops-summon-kangana-sis-in-sedition-case/articleshow/78796909.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Garbage sliding tragedy: Rs 14 crore released||MANGALURU: The state government has released Rs 14 crore to compensate families that lost properties due to the sliding of garbage heaps at Mangaluru City Corporation’s (MCC) dump yard in Pachanady. Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath stated in a release that the urban development department has released the funds to the MCC. MLAs and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel had submitted a memorandum to the government seeking compensation to the tune of Rs 20 crore to compensate families that lost houses in the garbage sliding tragedy.  Following this, the state government has released Rs 14 crore through a special sanction under the SFC grant of 2019-20. The government had already released Rs eight crore for the purpose earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/garbage-sliding-tragedy-rs-14-crore-released/articleshow/78795082.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||PMPML to roll out feeder bus service ATAL this weekend||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will start the Aligning Transit on All Lanes (ATAL) service from Saturday, under which 42 buses on nine routes will ferry passengers over a distance of 5km at a charge of Rs5. The service will work on the lines of local trains, where one can switch trains at short distances in order to reach the destination. In addition, 28 routes on the city’s outskirts will have feeder bus service connecting the last mile at a fare of Rs5, senior PMPML officials said at a news conference on Wednesday. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol was also present at the interaction. “The service will play an important role when the Pune metro starts. If a passenger wants to go from Kothrud to Kondhwa, s/he has to wait for 15 to 20 minutes or even more for a bus. Once the service starts, the passenger will be able to get a bus from Kothrud to Deccan at five-minute intervals. From Deccan, the passenger will get a bus at the same frequency for either Swargate or Pune station,” said Rajendra Jagtap PMPML chairman and managing director. He added that the fare from Kothrud to Deccan and Deccan to either Swargate or Pune station will be Rs5. “Each of the routes are either five or six km long. Midi or mid-sized buses will operate along these special routes,” Jagtap said. The buses will mainly run in areas like Swargate, Poolgate, Deccan, Shivajinagar, Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune station. “The service will be formally launched from Shaniwarwada on Saturday by state BJP president Chandrakant Patil,” Jagtap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-roll-out-feeder-bus-service-atal-this-weekend/articleshow/78797893.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 22, 2020||Meerut||Cops raid Muzaffarnagar gyms, seize banned steroid injections & arrest five||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police from three police stations, in an operation conducted jointly with the drugs department, raided several gyms in the city on Tuesday, arrested five people and seized banned steroid injections from them. Police sources said the Muzaffarnagar senior superintendent of police (SSP), after receiving multiple complaints about sale of banned steroid injections at these gyms, formed several police teams to raid them. The raids yielded several types of banned injections and steroids like adenosine phosphate — which is used on animals — and AMP injections which are given to horses, as well as a large number of drugs that had been imported from Thailand, Cambodia, etc. Police arrested five people for selling them — Deepak, Shahid, Furkan, Arjun and Amir — all of whom used to run gyms in the city. SSP Abhishek Yadav said, “The accused used to provide these fatal drugs to the youth, promising that they help build muscles. The drive against such gyms is continuing, and other gyms will also be raided.” Sources said the accused used to keep the banned drugs in their premises after buying them from various sources including medical stores, and would sell them to patrons at a good price. They also sold medicine that raises blood pressure, claiming they were muscle-building steroids. According to an officer of the drug department, these drugs can cause kidney failure, bone weakness and restlessness. Police and the drugs department are now tracking the medical stores that had sold these drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-raid-mnagar-gyms-seize-banned-steroid-injections-arrest-five/articleshow/78795084.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 22, 2020||Chandigarh||NGT junks plea to check alleged illegal construction in Dharamshala||New Delhi: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has junked a plea seeking check over alleged illegal and unauthorised constructions of hotels and other buildings at Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the petition is absolutely vague and merely based on newspaper reports without any further verification or particulars. “No alleged violator has been made a party. The National Green Tribunal (Practice and Procedure) Rules, 2011 lay down procedure for filing of application. Rule 14 requires that the application has to be based on a ‘single cause of action’. Such ‘single cause of action’ has not been mentioned in the application. Omnibus allegations, without particulars and without relevant parties being impleaded, cannot be entertained,” the bench said. The NGT said the plea has many reference to many orders of the high court, without the orders being available. “Unless such orders are available, possibility of conflicting orders and multiple proceedings on the same issue may not be ruled out. The application is accordingly dismissed,” the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Delhi resident Rajeev Suri seeking control of alleged illegal and unauthorised constructions of hotels and other buildings at Dharamshala. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ngt-junks-plea-to-check-alleged-illegal-construction-in-dharamshala/articleshow/78797890.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Bainsla meets Governor, demands FIR againt CM, PCC chief; Governor says he will look into it||Jaipur: The representatives of most backward class (MBC) community, including Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla, met meet Governor Kalraj Mishra on Wednesday to submit a representation demanding an FIR against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Pradesh Congress Chief Govind Singh Dotasara and AICC general secretary Ajay Maken for violation of Rajasthan Epidemics Disease Act and Disaster Management Act during the lockdown. The Governor, according to Bainsla, said he would look into it.They also submitted a representation to DGP M L Lather at the PHQ on Wednesday demanding an FIR within 24 hours with respect to “equal crime, equal justice and equal punishment” rule.A statement issued by the Raj Bhavan said, “Governor Kalraj Mishra received a memorandum at the Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday, which was presented by a delegation on behalf of MBC community. The memorandum was regarding violation of rules and regulations in the state based on ‘equal crime, equal justice and equal punishment’. On behalf of the community, Vijay Baisla submitted this memorandum to the Governor.”In the memorandum to Governor, the community cited various violations with respect to Covid norms. It included shifting of the Congress MLAs and the independent MLAs to Hotel Shiv Vilas on June 19 by the chief minister, in violation of all the Covid norms.It also pointed out how Covid norms were violated when demonstrations were staged at the Governor’s residence by 103 MLAs on July 24. It also brought to notice of the Governor how Covid guidelines were violated when 100-150 people gathered at the party headquarters on July 29 on the occasion of Dotara taking over as PCC chief.It also pointed out how the chief minister (Gehlot), PCC chief (Dotasra) and Ajay Maken violated Covid norms by organising public meetings, Congress legislature party meeting at the CM residence and at a hotel and staging demonstrations, where more than 150 people were present.They demanded an FIR under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 270 of the IPC (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).An FIR was lodged against Gujjar leader and convenor of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti Kirori Singh Bainsla and 33 others at Bayana police station in Bharatpur for organising a Mahapanchayat on Saturday, in violation of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020 and Disaster Management Act 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bainsla-meets-governor-demands-fir-againt-cm-pcc-chief-governor-says-he-will-look-into-it/articleshow/78797897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR assures more govt help to flood-hit||Hyderabad: MAUD minster KT Rama Rao on Wednesday visited Lalapet in Secunderabad, Boduppla, Amberpet and Nallakunta. “Rs 10,000 will be given to each rain-affected families and we have formed additional teams for that,” he said. He inspected relief camps and arrangements for food and medicines. “This is only an initial aid for families whose houses have been partially demolished or completely demolished. Additional aid will be provided by government,” said Rao. He inspected Nalla Chervu and Nallakunat nala and ordered restoration work. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-assures-more-govt-help-to-flood-hit/articleshow/78797880.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||8k acres of canals encroached in T, govt begins filing plaints||Hyderabad: In Krishna and Godavari basin, around 8,071 acres of encroachments have been identified along the canals of major reservoirs like Nagarjunasagar, Sriramsagar and Nizamasagar by Telangana irrigation department. Canals passing through various towns like Nizamabad, Miryalaguda, Armoor, Bodhan, Balkonda are resulting in floods. The irrigation department has begun cracking the whip against the encroachments and filed a complaint with the revenue department regarding Nizamsagar canal encroachments in Nizamabad town. Around 2,311 acres of land has been encroached under Nizamsagar project. “Encroachments on NSP main canal in Nizamabad dist on existing Nizamsagar canal banks from 96km to 102km adjacent to Nizamabad town were encroached by constructing temporary huts and permanent houses. Around 406 encroachers have been identified,” said an irrigation department official. “Encroachments have been there over the years for which various government departments give electricity connections and all other facilities,” added the irrigation official. The irrigation department has addressed letters to district collector requesting removal of encroachments as per the provisions of the Land Encroachment Act (1905) and arrange to handover the land. As the Nizamsagar is an old project, no Pahani, ROR-1B copies are available but in village map, it is shown as acquired government land. Accordingly, the district collector was addressed for evacuation of encroachments. The revenue department has completed the survey and enumeration. The irrigation department has filed complaints with local police against the encroachers, asking for registration of cases under sections 441 and 448 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Principal secretary of irrigation department Rajat Kumar told TOI, “We have made an inventory of 12.7 lakh acres of land owned by irrigation department both at the reservoirs, canals and other office assets. We have done mutation of these lands largely in the name of the irrigation department.” “The network of the major canals is around 39,600 kilometres and there are decades-old encroachments. We are working on removing them so that the water flow is not obstructed and flooding can be avoided,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8k-acres-of-canals-encroached-in-t-govt-begins-filing-plaints/articleshow/78797942.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 22, 2020||Trichy||70-yr-old held for raping deaf & mute Tamil Nadu girl for five months||TRICHY: A 70-year-old man was arrested for raping a 12-year-old deaf and mute girl at Mannachanallur in Trichy on Tuesday. The all women police station (AWPS) at Jeeyapuram arrested R Kannan on charges of taking advantage of the mental and physical disability of the child, under four sections of protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso) Act, based on a complaint from her mother. The crime came to light after the girl signalled to her mother on Monday that she had pain in her abdomen. When she enquired further, the girl revealed the sexual assault she endured. On getting the complaint against Kannan, AWPS Jeeyapuram inquired with the girl and also detained the man based on the information she gave. The police said that the girl was a neighbour of the accused whose granddaughter was her friend.  She used to frequent the house where Kannan was residing with his wife and granddaughter. Whenever the girl visited his house for playing with her friend, the man raped her. The old man committed the sexual assault several times in the past five months. He also raped her whenever his wife was away from the house for coolie work. The police said that the girl had no idea how to bring out the issue. After arresting him, the police produced him in court which remanded him in judicial custody. The police also admitted the girl to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) for medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-70-held-for-raping-deaf-and-mute-12-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78797898.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Kidnapped child rescued , 5 held||HYDERABAD: Two days after a three-year-old was kidnapped, Bhuvanagiri police rescued the girl on Wednesday and arrested five people who tried to sell her to a childless family. According to police, U Maheswari (20), a labourer from Palem village in Mahbubnagar district lodged a complaint on Monday night that her daughter was kidnapped. The police scoured through the CCTV footage at the bus stations and identified the offenders. Acting on a tip off, we arrested five of them at the Yellamma temple in Bhongir on Wednesday,” the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnapped-child-rescued-5-held/articleshow/78797900.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Court slams two IAS officers for their ‘biased approach’||MEERUT: A court in UP’s Saharanpur district has slammed two IAS officers for allegedly ignoring important provisions of SC/ST Act while providing monetary help to the victims of 2017 clash between Dalits and people of the upper caste. The special court of VK Lal made some scathing observations, “This contempt is a matter of treason and calls for sedition charges.” The complaint filed in the court alleged that the two officers-- former district magistrate of Saharanpur Alok Kumar Pandey and the then chief secretary of social welfare development department Manoj Singh -- ignored norms in SC/ST Act. “The Dalit victims of the clash were given Rs 3 lakh by district social welfare department. But, according to the SC/ST Act, victims of dacoity, attempt to murder, rape and other serious crimes should be paid monetary compensation of Rs 8.20 lakh. The charge- sheet filed by police in a court says that the accused were booked under IPC sections 395 (dacoity) and 307 (attempt to murder) apart from other charges including relevant sections of SCST Act,” victims’ lawyer Raj Kumar said. As many as 90 victims got the Rs 3 lakh compensation. “Besides, a monthly pension of Rs 5,000 was also supposed to be arranged by the district magistrate which has not been done till date,” he added. The special judge, on the basis of the complaint filed by one of the victims, Dal Singh, took cognizance of “biased attitude of the officials towards Dalit victims of the violence.” “The contents of the complaint suggest the petitioner is well aware of the facts and has full knowledge about the case. Hence investigation by the police is not required and the court’s own investigation seems more justified. The court accepts the application and orders registration of complaint case on this issue,” the order read. The court has fixed the next date of hearing for November 19, on which the statements of the petitioner’s two witnesses will be recorded, the lawyer said. On May 5, 2017 clashes broke out between Thakurs and Dalits which left one dead and scores injured in Saharanpur’s Shabbirpur village. Playing loud music in a procession during Maharana Pratap Jayanti Yatra led to the clashes. Later, 56 Dalit homes were torched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-court-slams-2-ias-officers-for-their-biased-approach-in-giving-monetary-help-to-dalit-victims-of-a-clash/articleshow/78795088.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 22, 2020||Mumbai||BMC meet argues over BJP member, drops 647 items||MUMBAI: After a Bombay high court directive, BMC held a physical meeting of standing committee members at the general body meeting hall on Wednesday; but it was adjourned after two-and-ahalf hours of discussion on a nominated member attending it. No subject on the agenda was discussed, and the next meeting has now been called on Monday. It was the first physical meeting of committee members since Covid-19 lockdown in March, and members were to discuss 647 pending items related to public works. A virtual meeting was planned, but BJP objected, claiming it was not possible to discuss 650 item on one day, so they should be taken up in parts. BJP corporators, group leader Prabhakar Shinde and Makrand Narvekar, plan to approach HC with a PIL. Recently, BJP nominated a corporator and experienced hand, Bhalchandra Shirsat, to the standing committee from its quota, to take on the ruling Shiv Sena. No objection was raised at that time. But when the commitee meeting started on Wednesday, Sena’s Vishakha Raut took a point of order on legality of Shirsat’s nomination. Standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav (Sena) declared Shirshat’s appointment illegal and told him to leave. BJP members and Shirsat objected, stating that legally he was eligible and reminded the chairman that Sena had set a precedent and nominated a corporator for five years in 1997 but Jadhav did not entertain their request, stating that then no one raised any objection, but now since a member was raising the issue, he said he would only go by the rulebook. BJP group leader in BMC and standing committee member Prabhakar Shinde said, “Chairman has no power to expel the member. According to the rules, Shirsat can become a committee member. If needed we will approach court.” Shirsat added, “Instead of discussing pending agenda, for which the meeting was called, they discussed me becoming a member. Why are they afraid of me?” Jadhav said, “His appointment to the committee was illegal. I took legal opinion at the meeting and expelled him. I repeatedly requested him to leave so that we would take up agenda items for discussion, but he refused.” He added that as per rules he could not continue the meeting in the presence of a nonmember, so with a majority vote he adjourned the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-meet-argues-over-bjp-members-nomination-drops-647-items-on-agenda/articleshow/78796947.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||One detained in Murlipura robbery case||Jaipur: Cops have detained the main accused in Murlipura robbery case on Wednesday.City police had sent teams to Punjab and Haryana to look for the three persons out of which one had been identified.Jaipur West DCP Pradeep Mohan Sharma told TOI, “We found the main accused in Haryana and he is being brought to Jaipur following which he will be formally arrested. He will lead us to others who were involved in the robbery.”Three armed robbers barged into a jewellery shop situated at Naadi Ka Phatak area in Murlipura locality and executed the biggest-ever robbery of Jaipur this year on Saturday.The robbers intimidated the owner on gunpoint and decamped with jewellery worth Rs 80 lakh. Before leaving, they took the jeep that belonged to the owner to flee. By evening, the jeep was found abandoned in Vishwakarma Industrial Area.They took barely eight minutes to execute the robbery and leave the place. It appears to be an organised gang and was aware that the jeweller was having huge stock on the opening day of Navratri. Two robbers decamped on scooty they had used for their arrival while one of them used the jeep. After the incident, the jeweller informed police control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-detained-in-murlipura-robbery-case/articleshow/78797904.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot writes to Gehlot for irrigation water in Tonk||Jaipur: Congress MLA from Tonk and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot has written a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot seeking Bisalpur Dam water for farmers of Tonk district.In the letter, Pilot said that below-average rainfall in Tonk has made the situation terrible for farmers. He said several farmer groups have apprised him about the water scarcity problem in the district. “I urge the CM to provide Bisalpur water to the farmers in Tonk,” said Pilot. He recently visited his constituency and has been meeting various delegations from his constituency on a daily basis.The Bisalpur dam project is meant to supply water to Ajmer, Jaipur and Tonk. The central focus of the project remained Ajmer and Jaipur while supply lines for both irrigation and drinking have been running at snail’s pace.Mohsin Rasheed, a youth Congress leader, said that this year due to less rain the citizens might find it difficult to get drinking water soon after winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-writes-to-gehlot-for-irrigation-water-in-tonk/articleshow/78797902.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||Tulu actor brutally murdered in Bantwal||MANGALURU: Coastalwood actor and rowdy-sheeter Surendra Bantwal, 39, was brutally murdered inside his apartment in Bantwal taluk on Wednesday. His body with multiple stab injuries was found lying on a sofa. It is suspected that he was hacked to death over a financial issue. According to Bantwal Town inspector and investigating officer TD Nagaraj, a preliminary investigation suggested that he was hacked to death with lethal weapons. Financial dealing is suspected to be the cause of murder. Teams have been formed to investigate and examine the case from all possible angles. Forensic experts were pressed into action along with the dog squad, he said. Police said that Surendra had around 15 criminal cases against him. In 2018, the actor had been arrested for attacking two party workers of BJP with a machete. A video of the assault had been widely circulated on social media. Almost a decade ago, he was identified as a right-wing activist, but during the last election, he was seen in the Congress camp. Sources said he was a money lender. A person close to him is suspected to have committed the murder. Police are also looking into his alleged participation in a party last evening. As soon as the news spread about his murder, people gathered in large numbers near the apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tulu-actor-brutally-murdered-in-bantwal/articleshow/78795038.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Voters paid tribute to Ambareesh by electing Sumalatha, says AH Vishwanath||MYSURU: Former minister and BJP MLC A H Vishwanath on Wednesday said that the people of Mandya would have rejected former minister Ambareesh if he was alive, but voted for Sumalatha Amabreesh emphatically in the Lok Sabha polls to pay their homage to the late actor. Mandya has paid homage to Ambareesh by electing Sumalatha, Vishwanath said, after releasing a book which gives an account of the Mandya parliamentary polls, here in Mysuru. It was a victory against the JD(S), and a lesson to all political parties that think electorates are in their pockets, Vishwanath expressed. “Mandya’s previous parliamentary election was out of the ordinary. Voters revolted against JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda’s family. Voters literally dashed all the hopes of the family, that was claiming that the people of Mandya are with them,” he said. Vishwanath asserted that the collapse of the coalition government was not due to jumping ship of a few MLAs. He claimed it was an outcome of revolt of MLAs against their respective parties and their leadership. However, the rebellion has been falsely analysed that the MLAs took money and left for Mumbai. Overthrowing a coalition government is not easy, but it has happened because the disgruntled MLAs from both the parties rebelled against their leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/voters-paid-tribute-to-ambareesh-by-electing-sumalatha-says-ah-vishwanath/articleshow/78794155.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Mysuru||Tourist flow to Mysuru Palace gradually increases||MYSURU: One of the major tourist attractions of Mysuru is it’s palace. Due to Covid-19 cases being reported in large numbers across the state, the footfall to this iconic spot had come down drastically. However in September and October, the number of tourists has gone up drastically, raising hopes for a revival of tourism. According to the data, in the month of June, 2,012 tourists had visited the palace which came down to 725 in July. In August the number reached 10,537. However, in the month of September, as many as 30,425 tourists, including 32 foreigners, visited the palace. In October, till Monday, the total number of visitors touched 26,867. According to the tour operators, even though the number is encouraging, compared to the period before the Covid pandemic, it is still very less. C Narayana Gowda, president, Mysuru Hotel Owners Association, said that the hotel business which came down to 10% of its earlier turnover in July-August, is now recovering slowly. “The bookings reached around 25% in the city limits. However, in extensions, there is no demand for hotels,” he said. “Tourists who are arriving now in the city are locals. They prefer their relatives’ houses and don’t use hotel rooms. So, this slow revival is not helping us much,” he said. Jayakumar C A, honorary president, Mysuru Travels Association, said that it is the need of the hour to implement a system which is a win-win for both the industry and the government, to contain the spread of Covid-19. “Allowing the tourists to come in batches and online reservation system are a few of the options to ensure social distancing and implementation of all the Covid-19 SOPs,” he said. “I am optimistic that by summer, the situation will come back to normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tourist-flow-to-mysuru-palace-gradually-increases/articleshow/78794695.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 22, 2020||Mangaluru||St Mary’s Island jetty works to begin by Jan ‘21||UDUPI: The tourism department is confident of commencing work on the proposed jetty at St Mary’s Island by January, and completing it in the next three months. In this regard, an institute of national repute is conducting an Environment Impact Assessment study. Confirming the development, Chandrashekar Naik, assistant director, tourism department, told TOI that the jetty works will be taken up at a cost of Rs 4.2 crore. Last year the island recorded a footfall of around 25,000 people per month, he said. At present, the big boats that ferry tourists to St Mary’s Island from Malpe are made to board smaller boats 150m away from the island. The island is a geological treasure trove, as well as a hub of biodiversity and ecology. Meanwhile, the district administration has also submitted a proposal to the Union government under the Integrated Coastal Zone Management plan for development. This includes restoration of coconut plantations, solid waste management and provision of drinking water at the island. Before the lockdown, the administration had planned to develop St Mary’s Island, a geological marvel, and an upcoming adventure sports destination. In this regard, a team from Slack Mitra in association with Malpe Beach Development Committee, rigged Udupi’s first slackline. As a pilot project, a workshop was held in March, and the district administration promised to conduct more events frequently. “The maintenance of the island is planned through private participation, and fresh tenders have been floated. More activities, including the launch of a variety of sports activities, aero sports, dolphin sighting and angling are being planned. Several trails such as basalt rock trails, flora and fauna trails and island cycling trails have been discussed, and will hopefully be implemented by next year. Attempts will be made to reposition the island as an eco-tourism hotspot, and hence the focus will be on eco-tourism and geo-tourism for the responsible traveller, and all activities planned will focus on sustainable development goals,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/st-marys-island-jetty-works-to-begin-by-jan-21/articleshow/78794103.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP MLA Atishi slams NCW chief, says tweets ‘anti-women’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Wednesday demanded the sacking of National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma for her tweets, which were allegedly derogatory and against women. “The NCW chief has repeatedly tweeted foul, vulgar, cheap, hateful, misogynistic and derogatory language against women. I wonder how women can expect justice from an institution headed by her,” said Atishi at a press conference. While Sharma was not available for comment, she first claimed that her Twitter account was hacked, then locked her profile as outrage grew. She posted a tweet saying, “I have reached out to the platform to investigate some unauthorised tweets made from my account. The investigations are on and I hope some resolution can be found.” Reading a few of the controversial tweets, the MLA said, “In the Hathras case, we saw what happened to the victims when they approached the police station. Police did not even lodge an FIR. They faced misbehaviour from the policemen. In such a situation, National Commission for Women is the last refuge for our country’s women where they can go to demand justice. But it’s unfortunate that the NCW chief is herself making derogatory remarks against women. There are a series of tweets where she has used cheap language and expressed misogynistic ideas.” Pointing out that Sharma deleted many of the controversial tweets and also made her account protected, Atishi said, “On behalf of AAP, I demand that the central government immediately sack her.” The Kalkaji MLA wondered how someone making derogatory comments against women could protect their rights and provide them justice. “Will such a woman ever be able to take action against policemen refusing to file an FIR? Will she ever go against social media trolls who share abusive and cheap tweets against women? Will she ever be able to take actions against people who make cheap comments against women on the road?” asked Atishi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/atishi-slams-ncw-chief-says-tweets-anti-women/articleshow/78797935.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||PDKV clears land for Futala gallery multi-level parking||NAGPUR: Futala multimedia show, which was to be ready by December 2020, will now be open for public by mid-2021. Several factors have delayed the project, but things are finally moving now. A recent development is that Indian Air Force (IAF) will gift a defunct helicopter, which will be displayed beside the spectator gallery. Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) has sanctioned land for multi-level parking near the spectator gallery. The area of the land ayed for parking is 6,000 square metre. MahaMetro now has to take physical possession of the land. A Metro official said less than 10 trees would have to be felled for the parking. “We will try to save as many trees as possible. First priority will be to transplant the trees which need to be removed. If that is not feasible, then only we will seek permission from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to fell them and do compensatory plantation,” he added. The official was confident that the parking would be ready by March 2021. The spectator gallery is expected to be ready by December-end. Size of the gallery had been reduced due to decrease in funds sanctioned for the project under Central Road Fund. “Futala waterfront has a length of 600 meters. The gallery will be in the centre and 300 metres long. Some 50 metres will be taken up by washrooms on either side. The gallery will have a seating capacity of 4,000,” said the official. Earlier, the gallery was to be built across the length of the waterfront and a road tunnel was to be constructed beneath it. Now, the plans have been changed due to various reasons. The official said multi-level parking was also a part of the project. “It will have a capacity to accommodate 350 cars and 350 two-wheelers. We will construct 30 shops and 10 ticketing counters below the gallery. Allotment of shops will be done by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) or NMC,” he further said. The multimedia show will showcase history of Nagpur accompanied by music composed by Oscar-winning music director AR Rahman. It is being developed by Nagpur Improvement Trust at a cost of Rs50.75 crore. NIT executive engineer Pankaj Patil said script of the show had been submitted by the consultant. “The screening committee comprising senior officials and experts had suggested some changes. The consultant has accommodated the changes and a meeting will be held on Tuesday to approve it. After the script is finally approved, it will take five or six months for multimedia equipments to be ready,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pdkv-clears-land-for-futala-gallery-multi-level-parking/articleshow/78796517.cms||Ashish Roy
October 22, 2020||Aurangabad||Prohibitory orders in place in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Citing the upcoming festivals and the possible agitations and protests by different sections of the society, as well as the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, police commissioner Nikhil Gupta has issued prohibitory orders in the city banning gathering of five or more people until October 30. While issuing the orders under section 37 (1) (3) of the Maharashtra Police Act, Gupta said the police will ensure peace and maintain law and order during the festive period. Also, all types of gatherings have been banned to curb the spread of Covid-19. He said wedding ceremonies and last rites, too, cannot be conducted without the permission of police officials concerned. Gupta said that carrying of arms, including lathis or any explosive material and even stones, is banned. The police commissioner has listed agitations and programmes that might cause problems during the festive season. They include the agitation for opening of religious places, protests against MSEDCL for reducing bills issued during the lockdown period, the Maratha agitation in the wake of Supreme Court verdict, the Muslim Dhangar agitation for reservation and a probable stir by farmers seeking compensation for loss of their farm produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prohibitory-orders-in-place-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78795142.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 22, 2020||Delhi||Re-entry I: JNU to let science students submit PhD theses||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) will start calling back PhD students of only science schools and special centres, who have to submit their thesis by December 31, in a phased manner after Dussehra. JNU on Wednesday announced that the campus would open in a phased manner from November 2 for the scholars requiring laboratory access and project staff members. All scholars will have to submit a certification from their supervisor stating laboratory access is mandatory for them. Both day scholars and hostel inmates will be issued gate passes to enter laboratories. Everybody entering the campus will also have to download Aarogya Setu app. Only after the “successful implementation of phase I”, phase II of the reopening will begin after Diwali on November 16, the notification stated. In this phase, those residing in hostels will be allowed to access laboratories. The JNU administration will review the success of both phases before bringing back more students. According to a senior administration official, “The plan was always to do it in a phased manner. But we may take some time before bringing back masters and bachelor students as we are wary of the situation. Only recently one more student was found Covid-positive at the Periyar hostel.” JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) demanded that “there should be no discrimination between streams in the re-entry of final-year research scholars and all of them must be immediately allowed to return”. It also alleged that the committee set up by vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar on October 17 to suggest a re-entry plan does not include the chief medical officer (CMO). JNUSU will continue its dharna against “the culture of exclusion and discrimination”, said JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh. According to the notification, signed by JNU registrar Pramod Kumar, Covid-19 test camps will be organised on the premises at regular intervals with the support of the local district administration. JNU has asked the deans and the chairpersons of science schools and centres to submit their plan of action for the two phases in three days and set up a centre- or school-level monitoring committee for effective implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines. The schools and the centres have also been asked to prepare a roster and assess the feasibility of maintaining social distancing in laboratories. The notification stated, toilets should be disinfected thrice a day, common areas must be sanitised and thermal scanners will be set up. The central library and all canteens and dhabas will remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/re-entry-i-jnu-to-let-science-students-submit-phd-theses/articleshow/78797975.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: 37 nurses fired from Pimpri jumbo unit after job review||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A total of 37 nurses from the Pimpri jumbo Covid-19 unit have been sacked by the hiring agency MedBro for failing to meet quality standards. Dean of the unit, Sangram Kapale, told TOI that some of the nurses, who were also deployed at the jumbo facility’s intensive care unit, did not even know how to check for pulse in patients. The 37 nurses have now been replaced by trained medical workers from Kerala. Kapale said, “They were hired via a contractor when the Covid situation in the region was very worrying. During interviews, the nurses said they knew the basics of ICU care — we believed them. At the time, we could not test their skills or conduct an exam. But after a quality control review, it was found they were not adequately qualified.” He said their hiring had not impacted quality of care at the unit. “Medical care or operations of the jumbo unit were not affected by the decision,” he said. MedBro is the agency that has been tasked with overseeing operations at both the Pimpri and CoEP jumbo units. It’s also responsible for hiring of staff. On Tuesday, the 37 health workers had held a protest near the jumbo unit — located at the Annasaheb Magar stadium — demanding they be paid salaries for nearly one-and-a-half months of service. Kapale said payments to the nurses were stopped as the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) was yet to release the money to MedBro. “The nurses will be paid after the agency receives the funds,” he said. The dean said a drop in the number of new Covid admissions would result in more job cuts at the Pimpri unit, which currently has nearly 700 health workers. “This is going to happen,” said Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar. “If there is no occupancy, the firm (MedBro) will have to reduce staff strength.” An official from Sassoon said the hospital too has started reviewing service details of contract workers. The official did not rule out termination of service once these contracts expire. But experts in the region said authorities should not rush to save manpower costs. They warned that resources should be maintained at current levels to meet likely surges in cases after the festive season or during the winter. “The Covid patient count has dropped because of low testing. We think the numbers are going down, but that’s not the case. This drop may not continue for long,” said Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/37-nurses-fired-from-pimpri-jumbo-unit-after-job-review/articleshow/78797957.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 22, 2020||Trichy||Selection panel set to search for next vice-chancellor of CUTN||TRICHY: A five-member selection committee is all set to search for the next vice-chancellor of Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) Tiruvarur. N Gopalaswamy, chancellor of National Sanskrit University, Tirupati, who heads the committee, told TOI they are expecting to convene a meeting by the second or third week of November. The five-year tenure of A P Dash as CUTN vice-chancellor ended in August and the ministry of education had initiated the process of selecting the next VC before that. Applications were received in June by the ministry. Gopalaswamy, a former chief election commissioner of India, said they have asked one-page information about each candidate who had applied for the post. CUTN registrar S Bhuvaneswari has communicated to the ministry to get the details of each candidate to be sent to the committee. Other members of the committee are Nageshwar Rao, vice-chancellor, IGNOU, Sudha Seshaiyan, vice-chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr MGR medical university, Shiv Lal, former special director, General Health Services, government of India and Trilochan Mohapatra, secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The interview process is most likely to be online for the selected candidates this time considering the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/selection-panel-set-to-search-for-next-vc-of-cutn/articleshow/78797962.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 22, 2020||Pune||Onion prices soar to Rs 100/kg in Mumbai, Pune||Onion prices rose to Rs100/a kg in the retail market in some metro cities in Maharashtra, higher than a pack of most exotic vegetables. The price of the kitchen staple has been soaring in metros across the country after rates jumped this week at Lasalgaon wholesale market in Nashik district. Traders from Nashik district, which cultivates almost 60% onion produce in the state, said the bulb was selling at Rs80-100/kg in retail markets of Mumbai, and higher in Pune (Rs100-120) on Wednesday. Vilas Bhujbal, a commission agent at Pune agriculture produce market committee (APMC), said only 40-50 trucks of onions reached Market Yard on Wednesday, which is half the usual supply. “The shortage pushed up the wholesale price of onions to Rs80-100/kg and Rs100-120 in the retail market. We expect prices to keep rising. The new crop of onions will take a while to arrive in the market,” he said. Officials at Lasalgaon APMC in Nashik, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, said supply fell by 70% in two months. The market received around 22,000 quintals of onions a day in August, but has been getting only around 7,000 quintals for the past week. This relatively low supply is expected to continue for three weeks. The average wholesale prices are expected to range between Rs5,500-7,000 a quintal for few days at Lasalgaon. On Wednesday, onion prices hit Rs80/kg in retail markets of Nashik city. Lasalgaon APMC chairperson Suvarna Jagtap said supply of onions by farmers reduced due to heavy rainfall. Maharashtra State Onion Growers’ Association (MSOGA) estimates that 50% of 65,000 hectares of kharif and late kharif onion crops across Nashik district have been damaged due to heavy rain. “Usually, new kharif onions start arriving in the market by mid-October. The heavy rain delayed the arrival by around a month. Supply is expected to remain affected till November-end,” said MSOGA president Bharat Dighole. State agriculture department officials said farmers still have 2.5 lakh tonnes of summer onion in storage, which is 10% of total storage capacity. But summer onions harvested in March and April have also been damaged. “We are expecting the new kharif crop to arrive in the market by the first or second week of November. Onion shortage will prevail till then,” a senior agricultural official said. Imports may bring down pricesHorticulture Produce Exporters’ Association (HPEA) — an association of onion exporters and importers in the country — on Wednesday said 70 containers with 2,000 tonnes of onions have reached Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, Mumbai, and 100 containers with around 2,900 tonnes will reach there in two-three days. The landing cost of this onion is Rs40-45/kg and the cost in wholesale market will be Rs50-55/kg. “This will help bring down onion prices to some extent,” an HPEA office-bearer said. Traders have sold five containers of imported onions in Mumbai after they were released at JNPT over the last two days, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onion-prices-soar-to-rs100/kg-in-mumbai-pune/articleshow/78799595.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 22, 2020||Mumbai||Onion prices soar to Rs 100/kg in Mumbai, Pune||Onion prices rose to Rs100/a kg in the retail market in some metro cities in Maharashtra, higher than a pack of most exotic vegetables. The price of the kitchen staple has been soaring in metros across the country after rates jumped this week at Lasalgaon wholesale market in Nashik district. Traders from Nashik district, which cultivates almost 60% onion produce in the state, said the bulb was selling at Rs80-100/kg in retail markets of Mumbai, and higher in Pune (Rs100-120) on Wednesday. Vilas Bhujbal, a commission agent at Pune agriculture produce market committee (APMC), said only 40-50 trucks of onions reached Market Yard on Wednesday, which is half the usual supply. “The shortage pushed up the wholesale price of onions to Rs80-100/kg and Rs100-120 in the retail market. We expect prices to keep rising. The new crop of onions will take a while to arrive in the market,” he said. Officials at Lasalgaon APMC in Nashik, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, said supply fell by 70% in two months. The market received around 22,000 quintals of onions a day in August, but has been getting only around 7,000 quintals for the past week. This relatively low supply is expected to continue for three weeks. The average wholesale prices are expected to range between Rs5,500-7,000 a quintal for few days at Lasalgaon. On Wednesday, onion prices hit Rs80/kg in retail markets of Nashik city. Lasalgaon APMC chairperson Suvarna Jagtap said supply of onions by farmers reduced due to heavy rainfall. Maharashtra State Onion Growers’ Association (MSOGA) estimates that 50% of 65,000 hectares of kharif and late kharif onion crops across Nashik district have been damaged due to heavy rain. “Usually, new kharif onions start arriving in the market by mid-October. The heavy rain delayed the arrival by around a month. Supply is expected to remain affected till November-end,” said MSOGA president Bharat Dighole. State agriculture department officials said farmers still have 2.5 lakh tonnes of summer onion in storage, which is 10% of total storage capacity. But summer onions harvested in March and April have also been damaged. “We are expecting the new kharif crop to arrive in the market by the first or second week of November. Onion shortage will prevail till then,” a senior agricultural official said. Imports may bring down pricesHorticulture Produce Exporters’ Association (HPEA) — an association of onion exporters and importers in the country — on Wednesday said 70 containers with 2,000 tonnes of onions have reached Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, Mumbai, and 100 containers with around 2,900 tonnes will reach there in two-three days. The landing cost of this onion is Rs40-45/kg and the cost in wholesale market will be Rs50-55/kg. “This will help bring down onion prices to some extent,” an HPEA office-bearer said. Traders have sold five containers of imported onions in Mumbai after they were released at JNPT over the last two days, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/onion-prices-soar-to-rs100/kg-in-mumbai-pune/articleshow/78796915.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 22, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: 303 govt school students will join medical colleges, says K A Sengottaiyan||TRICHY: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan said that the government is expecting a positive response from the governor Banwarilal Purohit regarding the nod for the bill passed in the state assembly for 7.5 percent horizontal reservation for government school students in the undergraduate medical admission. The minister also said that that 303 government school students from the state will join government medical colleges this year. He was speaking after handing over recognition certificates to 519 self-financing, government aided state board schools across six central districts in an event held in JJ College of Engineering on Wednesday. The minister said that government school students have performed well in NEET this year and that good news would come soon from governor and there was no need for the opposition to carry out protests over the issue. The chief minister will soon announce the 40 percent reduction in the state board school syllabus. The Kalvi Tholaikatchi has been telecasting only 60 percent of the syllabus and the details on the omission of lessons will be released soon, he said. There is an increase in the number of students in government schools by 4.5 percent, he said, adding that 4 lakh students have joined government schools this year. Asked if the government would make it mandatory for government staff to get their children admitted to government schools, he said government cannot interfere in the democratic rights of individuals. Asked about the reopening of schools, he said government would take a decision at an appropriate time but the present situation was not conducive to reopen schools. He said that no decision had been taken regarding the cancellation of half yearly examination and any decision would be announced by the chief minister at an appropriate time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/303-govt-school-students-will-join-med-colleges-min/articleshow/78797958.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Focus now on survivors as scores report weak health||Pune: The state officials said they were now set to focus on post-recovery problems being reported by scores of Covid-19 survivors. Doctors have said that a substantial number of former patients are reporting health troubles such as fatigue, joint pains, dryness in the mouth, limited appetite and disturbed sleep. The state’s lead epidemiologist and disease surveillance expert, Pradeep Awate, said phase-wise counselling programmes that have already started at district hospitals and medical colleges across Pune, Mumbai and Thane — some of the worst-hit regions — will now be scaled up to include all affected districts in Maharashtra. “Post-Covid complications have been detected in 10% of those who were diagnosed with moderate to serious illness,” said Awate. “These problems were not prevalent among milder cases. Our post-recovery centres will offer physiotherapy and even counselling sessions to deal with psychological trauma,” he said.Five such centres became operational last month in Pune. A district official said, “Discharged patients have reported pulmonary problems, severe fatigue, psychological issues and side-effects from certain medicines. Many are currently undergoing counselling at these post-recovery centres. We have also set up helplines for post-recovery care.” Manish Kolge, a consultant with a private hospital in the city, said many young patients have reported tiredness and fatigue. “Counselling and reassurance will help some of these patients. Those who have recovered will also need adequate rest and a good diet,” Kolge said.Doctors said there have been instances of individuals with extensive lung scarring dying during physical exercises three to four weeks after recovery. The experts added that some patients, even months after recovery, continued to experience drops in blood oxygen levels after just minutes of speaking. “One chest specialist who is in his 40s is yet to recover completely from from lung fibrosis,” a state medical expert said.Similar problems were reported during SARS in 2002. A study of 55 patients in Hong Kong found that some who were hospitalised with the illness — also caused by a coronavirus — had weak lung function two years after onset.And as with SARS, researchers strongly suspect that many with post-Covid problems are, in fact, health workers who may have been exposed to high viral loads during the early stages of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-now-on-survivors-as-scores-report-weak-health/articleshow/78797968.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 22, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Railways to expedite posting of halt agents at converted stations||TRICHY: As part of converting prominent railway stations into halt stations, the general manager of Southern Railway has instructed the divisional railway authorities to expedite the process of inviting application for halt agents at Trichy Palakkarai, Manjathidal and Vridachalam town stations. Once the agents are appointed to issue tickets, regular commercial staff posted at these stations will be withdrawn. In a letter to divisional railway official in Trichy dated October 13, the GM has approved the proposals for converting three flag stations into halts. Out of the 159 railway stations in Trichy division, stations supervised by station masters are 122, remaining 37 stations are in rural areas. Of them, most stations had already converted into halt stations. Railway authorities are now busy converting the remaining flag stations into halts. Meanwhile, rail users opposed the move as passengers could not get long distance and cluster train tickets from these agents. They would only issue tickets for a certain distance, which they obtain from railway department since the halt stations would not be provided facilities such as computer system, rail net and UTI. “According to railway authorities, the train halt system is being implemented at the stations, which are not commercially viable. Manjathidal and Palakkarai are located in city limit. When compared to Palakkarai, the Manjathidal station has a good patronage. Instead of providing more amenities and facilities at the station, it is unfair to degrade a station,” M Sekaran, president of Air, Rail and Road Travelers Federation, said. H Ghouse Baig, a retired railway employee, alleged that the railways had already outsourced many works such as cleaning, housekeeping, parcel porters, and minor civil works. If the trend would continue, one day they privatize the ticket booking process even at the Trichy railway junction, he said. However, official sources said that no other facility would be reduced at these stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railways-to-expedite-posting-of-halt-agents-at-converted-stations/articleshow/78797973.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 22, 2020||Kolkata||Covid test for nine flyers from UK at Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Nine passengers, who took a 10-hour flight covering 8,000km between London and Kolkata, had to make a 2.5-km detour via VIP Road to travel from the international terminal to the old domestic one barely 300m away in a bus for their Covid test. They are the first lot of international fliers whose swab samples will be collected at the airport in the early hours of Thursday and sent to private labs for testing. They can proceed home only after a negative result arrives seven to eight hours later. The nine passengers were among the 77 flyers, who reached Kolkata on Air India’s London-Kolkata flight in the early hours of Thursday without a Covid negative report. The collection was conducted at a facility inaugurated by the airport authorities on Thursday at the old domestic terminal that had been lying unused and was converted into a quarantine centre for international flyers. The facility was created after the state issued a revised SOP for passengers arriving from London, allowing passengers from London without Covid negative report to come to the city but leave the airport only after a test was conducted. “The facility is being managed by the state government. Once the passengers come out of the airport after immigration and baggage collection, state transport department personnel are putting them on an air-conditioned bus and it will travel via VIP Road and the airport Road to reach the old domestic terminal,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. Since the initiation of the London-Kolkata direct flight from last month, there was a growing demand for a testing facility at the city airport to increase the load factor on the flight from London and enable more flyers, who had difficulty in conducting a test in London, to get tested in the city airport. “At the facility, two private diagnostic centres have set up their kiosks to collect swab samples from the passengers for an RT-PCR test conducted on payment basis. The passengers will have to wait at the facility for 7 – 8 hours till the report arrives,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-test-for-nine-flyers-from-uk-at-kol-airport/articleshow/78797972.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 22, 2020||Surat||No TV in net sensation’s house||SURAT: Shree Jadhav, 3, became an internet sensation due to his 4.26 minute viral video of Indian classical singing with his father Tanhaji. And one of those who shared the video included Amitabh Bachchan. In fact it was after senior Bachchan shared the video on his twitter and Instagram, the video reached millions. But Shree does not know the Shahenshah of Bollywood. When asked if he knows Bachchan, Shree said, “I don’t know him. I have never seen him.” In fact Shree has never seen any movie or cartoon. He enjoys listening and singing music. Same is the case with his elder sister Shreya, 12. She, too, spends maximum time listening or learning music. Jadhav family do not have a TV at their home. “We don’t have a TV at home and with a purpose. We don’t wish to keep it. Due to this none of the family member’s time is wasted on watching TV,” said Tanhaji. Family of musicians since generations, each of Jadhav family members have knowledge of Indian classical music. Shreya learns violin and she regularly practices with her father. “We are darbari singers who performed for royal families. And I am passing on the knowledge to children as well,” said Tanhaji, a music teacher in Tapi Valley School. Shree likes to play games on mobile phone. He understands Marathi, Hindi and Gujarati language and can also communicate in Marathi and Hindi. He took admission in school earlier this year and is currently in junior KG. Tanhaji shared the video of him singing with Shree on his YouTube channel that went viral on social media. Many noted musicians and celebrities have shared it online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-tv-in-net-sensations-house/articleshow/78795177.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Panipat’s air quality worse than Delhi’s||KARNAL: The rise in number of farm fires has worsened the air quality in Haryana and pushed up pollution levels in all its major cities. The air quality index (AQI) in many cities on Wednesday fell in the poor category, and Panipat was the most polluted in the state with an AQI of 350 (very poor). It was worse than Delhi, which had an AQI of 256, which falls in the "poor" category. According to the Central Pollution Control Bureau (CPCB), the AQI touched 302 in Faridabad, making it the second post polluted city in the state. The other cities in the poor category were Ballabhgarh (295), Charkhi Dadri (290), Hisar (291), Kurukshetra (289), Karnal (278), Fatehabad (267), Gurugram (263), Jind (253), Bahadurgarh (250), Ambala (248), Manesar (219), Bhiwani and Sonipat at 216 each and Yamunanagar 209. These AQI levels are a 24-hour average of the readings from 4pm on Tuesday to 4pm on Wednesday. The total number of field fires in the state between September 25 and October 20 were 3,016 compared to 2,048 during the same period last year. Karnal deputy director of agriculture (DDA) Aditya Dabas said several teams had been constituted to keep a vigil in every village to ensure that farmers do not set the crop remnants in their fields on fire. So far, a fine of around Rs 4 lakh has been imposed on farmers for the violation and two FIRs have been lodged in the district. Panipat DDA Virender Arya said HARSAC had reported 26 active fire location, of which 18 had been identified and a total of Rs 50,000 in fines has been collected from the violators. Six locations where the fires were detected were not agriculture land while the remaining two locations are being identified. S K Arora, regional officer, HSPCB Karnal, said factories must use only legal fuels and have submitted an undertaking of adhering to the guidelines of the HSPCB board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panipats-air-quality-worse-than-delhis/articleshow/78797965.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Amritsar||Balers wasted on Majha, max field fires in region||AMRITSAR/TARN TARAN: Giving crop-residue management (CRM) machinery to the Majha farmers was futile. Punjab Remote Sensing Centre’s satellites keep spotting the maximum field fires in these two districts of the region. Punjab Agricultural University’s farm advisory scheme specialist Narinderpal Singh told TOI how the farmers could gain from the CRM technology. He said: “Keen to get three harvests a year, farmers grow short-duration crops and then have to burn the last stubble when left with no time to prepare the field for next sowing. The early planting of the 1509 variety of paddy necessitates early reaping from September. In a rush to sow pea or potato, farmers burn the stubble instead of bothering to run the balers.” Putting residue into the soil, mulching (carpeting it over the soil as moisture-retaining material), and removal are the three main alternatives and all of these incur cost as opposed to burning the stubble. Easy rent and greater CRM subsidy don’t have encouraging results either. Farmer Balwinder Singh, who runs a custom hiring centre (CHC) at Makowal, said: “Instead of taking Happy Seeder, straw cutter-spreader, Rotavator, and mould board plough on rent, farmers prefer to torch the straw. Managing stubble has initial cost but, in the long run, it is more cost-effective that burning the stubble. Farmers also expect cash incentives over and above CRM subsidies from the government.” Tarn Taran chief agriculture officer Kuljit Singh Saini, who has the additional charge of Amritsar, said: “We motivated many panchayats to pass a resolution against burning crop stubble and yet there were more field fires than last year. The remote-sensing stations also pick up smoke from the jaggery furnaces and Gujjar campfires as farm blazes.” A farm unionist says on the condition of anonymity that the fines and police cases do deter the farmers but political pressure neutralises these efforts. He said: “The area legislator will intervene and use his influence on police to stop the action. The only way out is to hand out cash compensation instead of the CRM subsidy.” Farmer Manpreet Singh, who owns 12 acres at Thattha village near Fatehgarh Churian, has managed crop residue for six years by returning it to the soil. He said: “It not only supplies essential nutrients to the soil but also protects the environment from poisonous gases.” Manpreet makes ‘toori’ (hay) from wheat stubble and keeps the paddy straw as animal fodder. The Supreme Court has appointed a one-man committee of retired justice Madan B Lokur to coordinate with the chief secretaries to stop field fires in three states, including Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/balers-wasted-on-majha-max-field-fires-in-region/articleshow/78797969.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 22, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s Covid-19 indicators improve||Nashik: Most Covid-19 indicators in the city have shown marked improvement over the past few days. The doubling, recovery and mortality rates, as well as the active patient count and daily case tally, have all been encouraging. The doubling rate, which was 21 days in August-end, increased to 41.5 days earlier this month. Now, the rate has further improved to 44 days. The recovery rate has increased to 93% and the death rate has fallen to 1.4%. Till Tuesday, the city had recorded a total of 59,849 Covid cases with 842 fatalities. As many as 55,822 patients have recovered. While there were 6,252 active patients on September 18, now there are just 3,185. In September, when there was a spike in Covid cases, the city was recording more than 850 new cases per day on average. This average daily number too has dropped significantly in October — between October 14 and 20, the city recorded 293 new Covid-19 cases on average every day, said the NMC officials. NMC to procure 50,000 more antigen kits The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), which had earlier bought around 1.32 lakh antigen kits, has now decided to buy 50,000 more. The NMC standing committee recently approved the proposal of the civic administration to procure 50,000 more antigen kits at the cost of Rs 2.5 crore. NMC officials said around 1.20 lakh antigen tests of Covid-19 suspects have been done over the past three months. Of them, 15,654 patients had tested positive. NMC officials said they still have 12,000 antigen kits, but they also plan to get 50,000 more for early detection of patients. The state government has projected a second wave during the winter months of November and December. Some staff withdrawn from 3 CCCs Meanwhile, some employees deployed at the three Covid care centres (CCCs) in Deola, Chandwad and Malegaon talukas have been withdrawn following a drop in the number of Covid-19 patients. The Malegaon, Deola, and Chandwad talukas have witnessed a sharp fall in Covid-19 cases and more people here are willing to get themselves quarantined at home. As a result, many beds in the CCC are lying vacant. “We have decided to cut down on the staff in the CCC because very few people are taking shelter in these facilities now. We have moved some staff members from each of these centres to other places where they may be required,” district health officer Kapil Aher said. The DHO added these facilities would not be closed as long as there is even one patient in the taluka. “We may temporarily close the facility in order to use the staff optimally. But at no point will there be a situation that the facility is not available,” he said. It may be noted that in these three talukas, in the past few days, no patient has been admitted to the CCCs, while the Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) have around 8 to 12 people. The number of Covid-19 affected patients currently in Malegaon taluka stands at 168, while there are 28 patients in Deola and 132 in Chandwad. Data shows that of the 3,000 active patients in the rural areas of Nashik district, fewer than 300 Covid-19 infected people are currently in the CCCs. While some are admitted to DCHCs or private hospitals, almost 80% are quarantining at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-covid-19-indicators-improve/articleshow/78797966.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 22, 2020||Hyderabad||IRDAI issues guidelines for settling flood claims||Hyderabad: In the wake of the incessant rains and the subsequent floods that ravaged Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on Wednesday issued guidelines for insurers to ensure speedy settlement of claims of the victims. “There is an urgent need for the insurance industry to take immediate steps to mitigate the hardships of the affected insured population by ensuring immediate registration and settlement of eligible claims,” it said. The insurance regulator has stated that in case of death claims where death certificate is difficult to obtain on account of non-recovery of the body, the process followed in the case of the Jammu & Kashmir floods may be considered. As per the circular, insurers have been told to nominate senior officers at the state and district level to act as nodal officers and coordinate the receipt, processing, and settlement of all eligible claims. IRDAI has also asked insurance players to publicise the contact particulars of nodal officers in the press to enable immediate filing of claims and has also told them to start 24/7 help lines. Insurers have also been told to engage an adequate number of surveyors and ensure that payments are disbursed within the stipulated timelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-issues-guidelines-for-settling-flood-claims/articleshow/78797960.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Nagpur||‘Forest staff misguiding locals against Mahendri sanctuary’||NAGPUR: With opposition from territorial forest staff itself, the proposal for Mahendri wildlife sanctuary in Warud range in Amravati district is being derailed even before attempts are made to put it on the track. At a press conference held at the proposed sanctuary site, several villagers and stakeholders said they were told by the forest staff that all the villagers living near Mahendri will be displaced if the area is notified a sanctuary. They will be relocated by offering a Rs10 lakh package. The conference was addressed by Warud Aam Admi Party (APP) chief Sachin Anjikar. “At least 50 villagers and NGOs revealed names of forest officials who told them that sanctuary was not in their interest,” said Anjikar. “A lot of confusion has been created in the minds of people about the sanctuary proposal. Most of them were convinced after a detailed presentation by NGOs on Wednesday and wanted that such a meeting be held with local leaders,” he said. “Though the sanctuary is likely to be around 60sqkm with no villages inside, the territorial forest staff having vested interest are misguiding villagers. With the proposed area being declared a sanctuary, the staff will lose their illegal sources of income through grazing, bogus soil conservation, and plantation and other works,” alleged Anjikar. PCCF (wildlife) office on August 20 had sought a proposal for Mahendri from Amravati CCF but even after two months, it has not been submitted. There are “deliberate attempts” to delay the proposal by citing some or the other reason. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had given a go-ahead for Mahendri at the state wildlife board meeting held on August 7. He had also said that forest officials should work with a positive mind on these issues but forest officials reportedly want that the proposal is scuttled before it is submitted. BJP MP Ramdas Tadas has already given his consent for the sanctuary. Mahendri forest has the presence of leopard, sloth bear, sambar, deer, wild dogs, wild boar, fox, and other animal species. If declared a sanctuary, these animals will be better protected and will pave way for their safe passage to other forest areas. The sanctuary will act as an important corridor for tiger movement between Bor and Melghat tiger reserves. Anjikar said on Wednesday locals were told about how they will benefit from ecotourism by way of direct and indirect employment and implementation of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Jan Van Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-staff-misguiding-locals-against-mahendri-sanctuary/articleshow/78796560.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 22, 2020||Chennai||Gang hijacks truck with mobile phones worth Rs 15 crore in Tamil Nadu||KRISHNAGIRI: Ten men hijacked a truck carrying Rs 15 crore worth of mobile phones from Chennai to Mumbai after attacking and tying up the driver and cleaner near Krishnagiri in the wee hours of Wednesday. The gang members, all of them heard speaking among themselves in Hindi, later abandoned the truck after transferring the loot to their vehicle and dumping the driver and cleaner. “As many as 14,400 mobile phones in 1,440 boxes from a Redmi mobile phone unit at Poonamallee in Chennai were being transported by DHL Express,” said C Murali, Hosur DSP. K Sathish Kumar, 29, of Poonamallee was at the wheel and N Arun, 24, of Coimbatore was the cleaner. Sathish Kumar left Poonamalle around 3pm on Tuesday and after a halt for dinner at Vellore around 8pm resumed the journey around 10.30pm. Around 2am on Wednesday, when the truck neared Melumalai, a hilly area between Krishnagiri and Shoolagiri on the the Chennai-Bengaluru national highway, another truck blocked the way and six men got in. “They attacked Sathish Kumar and Arun before blindfolding them and tying their hands and feet. They then set out in the same truck,” the DSP said. A few minutes later, the gang stopped the truck on the road side and four others from the second truck joined them and the trussed-up driver and the cleaner were taken out and dumped in a clump of bushes some distance from the road. “The two trucks then drove to Azagupavi, 8km from Melumalai, where the DHL Express truck was found,” the DSP added. “The 10 men did not cover their faces and they all appeared to be from other states,” the DSP said, based on Sathish Kumar’s statement during inquiry. A little while later, Satish Kumar and Arun managed to cut their bonds and came on to the road. They stopped an ambulance of the 108 service and narrated their plight. The driver took them to the government hospital in Krishnagiri town. Later, he helped Sathish Kumar inform the Hosur town police of the heist. Soon Murali, Soolagiri inspector Saravanan and other officers arrived at the spot. Salem range DIG Pradip Kumar and Krishnagiri SP Bandi Gangadhar reached there. “We have formed 17 teams to nab the culprits,” Pradip Kumar told TOI. The gang members had left no clue but investigators were scouring footage from CCTV cameras at the spot in an attempt to identify the truck and the thieves.The Soolagiri police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-hijacks-truck-with-mobile-phones-worth-rs-15-crore-in-tn/articleshow/78797977.cms||Senthil Kumaran
October 22, 2020||Pune||Filmmaker highlights ordeals of corona warriors in two short films||Pune: City-based filmmaker Deepti Ghatge wanted to give a creative expression to her thoughts about the ‘Covid warriors’ and she decided to make two short films and a song as an ode to the individuals at the forefront of fighting the pandemic. The films highlight the challenges faced by the warriors.The alumnus of Savitribai Phule Pune University mass communication department said, “The recent times that we went through were certainly extra-ordinary. As a collective humanity, we have not experienced something like this all at the same time. What touched me was the way people stood up for themselves and went through this. At a time when we were all scared, certain essential services, especially health workers and the police literally had to put their own safety at risk to take care of others. Many lost their lives.”Ghatge said that, on a day-to-day level, the warriors continued to fight during the pandemic. She felt an urge to write and create something about the situation and what came out naturally was a couple of short films, as way to glorify the everyday soldiers, who have gone beyond their call of duty. Ghatge said that, along with her team, she chose to do something for the doctors, nurses, police, those working in the media and essential health services.Tanvi Kulkarni, an actor from the film, said, “Initially, I thought that there is so much about the coronavirus everywhere, now what more are we going to say. However, the script had a beautiful narrative and Deepti had woven it into a nice story, which made it different.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/filmmaker-highlights-ordeals-of-corona-warriors-in-two-short-films/articleshow/78797981.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 22, 2020||Pune||Pune: Non-Covid patients in Alandi forced to travel 8-14km daily for treatment||PUNE: Non-covid patients in the temple town of Alandi have to travel around 8-14km to reach the rural hospital at Chakan or the primary health centre at Shel Pimpalgaon for treatment after the Alandi rural hospital was converted into a dedicated covid health centre (DCHC) since September 30. Residents of Alandi and surrounding eight villages had demanded setting up of a DCHC, following which the authorities converted the rural hospital into a DCHC with 30-bed capacity. However, all beds remain vacant as there has been no Covid-19 admission. Dr Ganpat Jadhav, the DCHC in-charge, said, “Since the rural hospital has only one building, it is not possible to have covid and non-covid facilities on the same premises. Since March we were getting around 130 to 150 non-covid patients daily at the OPD. We will now submit a report on the situation to the Khed divisional officer.” Alandi has recorded a total of 851 covid cases since the outbreak of the virus. Of these, 819 have been discharged after recovery, 13 have succumbed to the virus, 19 are active cases. Dr Nanda Dhawale, Chakan rural hospital in-charge, said, “We are getting at least 10 to 15 non-covid patients from Alandi every day. Besides, we have to carry out post-mortem of bodies in medico-legal cases and medical check-up of people sent by the police here.” Dr Indira Parkhe, head of PHC at Shel Pimpalgaon, said, “Those who cannot afford treatment at private hospitals in Alandi come to our centre. If required, we admit non-covid patients here or refer them to the rural hospital, Chakan.” Activist-lawyer Vilas Kate said, “Many poor patients are forced to go to private clinics as they face difficulty in reaching the rural hospital at Chakan or the PHC at Shel Pimpalgaon.” Suresh More, a vegetable vendor and resident of Padmavati road in Alandi, said, "I had to admit my 70-year-old mother in a private hospital as the rural hospital couldn't admit her here. The authorities concerned should consider this aspect at the earliest and reopen an OPD for non-covid patient at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-covid-patients-in-alandi-forced-to-travel-8-14km-daily-for-treatment/articleshow/78797987.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 22, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab field fire tally approaches 10,000 mark||BATHINDA: A month into crop-residue burning and Punjab is racing to the 10,000 field fires mark. Wednesday’s 1,379 paddy-stubble blazes, season’s first four-digit score, took the count to 9,434. The burning of straw started on September 21. In just a month, the cases clocked three times the last’s year figure of 3,466, while there were even fewer fires at 2,589 in 2018. The border districts of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, falling in the Majha region, burnt most paddy stubble, and another border district of Ferozepur, this one in Malwa, is close next. Continuing the trend for the second day running, Ferozepur recorded the state’s maximum 242 cases, followed by Tarn Taran at 212, Majha’s border district of Gurdaspur at 145, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’ home district Patiala at 110, all this while the Supreme Court has appointed a one-man committee of retired justice Madan B Lokur to coordinate with the chief secretaries to stop field fires in three states, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh being the other. The central government also appointed a panel of 50 to check stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana. The more fires this year are attributed to an early start of paddy harvesting. Also, more crop is being reaped than the last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-field-fire-tally-approaches-10k-mark/articleshow/78797978.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to buy 8.5 lakh tonne paddy stubble this season||CHANDIGARH: Around 1.75 lakh tonnes of paddy stubble has been purchased by biomass plants in Haryana this year and it has been proposed to purchase 8.58 lakh tonne of stubble during the entire season, officials said during a review meeting, chaired by chief principal secretary to chief minister, D S Dhesi, on Wednesday. In the meeting held on stubble burning, officials said the state government has already made provision to allocate an amount of Rs 152 crore to provide machinery for stubble management at subsidized rates of up to 80% through the custom hiring centres. Besides this, 50% subsidy for such machines will also be provided to every individual farmer. For the same, a provision of Rs 216.21 crore has been made this year. Officials said 24,705 stubble management machines, including straw balers, hay-racks, super cutters and cutter binders, were made available last year whereas the bills of about 13,000 machines have been uploaded this year. The number of custom hiring centres will be increased from 1,031 to 3,831. It was also informed in the meeting that a new portal has been launched by the department on which the information of contractors and industries that will purchase the paddy stubble will be made available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-buy-8-5l-tonne-paddy-stubble-this-season/articleshow/78797974.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Nine more held in drug seizure case||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police have arrested nine more persons, including a Nigerian national and a man having links with the Chhota Rajan gang, and sealed a closed pharmaceutical unit at the Ranjangaon MIDC in connection with the recent seizure of 20kg mephedrone, valued at Rs20 crore in international market. Police said the Ranjangaon facility was being used illegally for manufacturing mephedrone (MD), which was then taken to Mumbai for distribution through the Nigerian national, Zubi Udoko (41), arrested on October 16. He is now in police custody remand till Oct 29. The police suspect at least 132kg MD has been manufactured so far at the illegal facility. Of it, a total of 20kg has been seized. The police are establishing the buyers and places where the remaining contraband material was distributed. The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, told reporters on Wednesday, “Of the arrested men, Tushar Kale (42) of Borivali West has links with the Chhota Rajan gang. Kale and Rakesh Khanivadekar (32) of New Mumbai are the kingpins of the racket. A team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), too, was tracing Khanivadekar. His brother is in their custody.” The police have recovered Rs85 lakh, including Rs60 lakh from Tushar Kale, and the documents of two acres of land worth Rs75 lakh in Palghar district. Rs25 lakh was recovered from Khanivadekar. In total, the police have recovered drugs and cash collectively worth Rs20.93 crore from the suspects. On October 7, the Pimpri Chinchwad police had arrested five suspects near Chakan and had seized 20kg MD drugs from them. The police had fanned six teams for the probe. The teams first arrested Kiran Rajguru (32), Ashok Sankpal (37) and Kiran Kale (32) and found that the MD was manufactured in Sankpal’s pharmaceutical unit at Ranjangaon MIDC, shut for many years. “The probe revealed that Kiran Kale, working as the director of a company in Ranjangaon MIDC, had helped Tushar Kale to make available Sankpal’s pharmaceutical unit for manufacturing MD. Kale had procured the formula of manufacturing MD while in jail in Mumbai,” Krishna Prakash said. Deputy commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad (crime), Sudhir Hiremath said, “The rate for manufacturing MD drug was finalised at Rs60,000 per kg..” The Nigerian national Udoko arrived in India in 2002. He served a 10-year sentence in the Kolhapur jail for conviction under the NDPS Act. “We are checking if his visa is fake,” said Hiremath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nine-more-held-in-drug-seizure-case/articleshow/78797984.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 22, 2020||Hubballi||Following spat between senior cops, rejig in Hubballi-Dharwad police||HUBBALLI: Close on the heels of a publicised airing of differences in the top brass of the Hubballi-Dharwad police involving twin cities’ commissioner R Dileep and deputy commissioner of police Krishnakant, both the senior cops have been transferred. While Dileep has been made the deputy inspector general of police for the Criminal Investigation Department’s economic offences wing, Krishnakant has been appointed the superintendent of police for Dharwad district. Meanwhile, Labhu Ram, a 2004 batch officer of the Indian Police Services (IPS) has been appointed the new Hubballi-Dharwad police commissioner. However, the outgoing Dharwad SP Vartika Katiyar has not been assigned a new posting. Dileep and Krishnakant had been at loggerheads following a letter written by the latter alleging that the former twin cities’ top cop had not given him an appointment to discuss a sensitive case. The exchange of letters between Dileep and Krishnakant subsequently became public knowledge causing much embarrassment to both police and the local leaders. Dileep’s stint at the top in Hubballi-Dharwad had been a rather controversial one, particularly over his reported failure to maintain law and order in the twin cities. There had also claims of Dileep’s inability to connect with the public, not to mention local elected representatives’ unhappiness with his style of functioning. In fact, home minister Basavaraj Bommai had urged Dileep to don a more proactive role. Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar had, in the wake of the public spat between the two senior cops, assured the public of resolving the issue. The two cops’ transfer follows Shettar’s announcement. Deputy commissioner of police Nagesh, who had also reportedly been unhappy with Dileep, had happily accepted a transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/following-spat-between-senior-cops-rejig-in-hubballi-dharwad-police/articleshow/78795121.cms||---
October 22, 2020||Pune||Lockdown delays Pune airport's terminal||PUNE: The new terminal building of the city airport is unlikely to be ready before March 22 because of a delay in the ongoing construction work primarily because of the lockdown. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had earlier stated that the construction of the new terminal building would be completed by December 2021. On Wednesday, the AAI stated that the building would be completed by March 2022. As per an AAI statement, more than 40% of the work has been completed. “There was a setback due to the months of lockdown. The monsoon slowed down work a bit. But the construction is on the right track and gathering pace,” a source at the airport said. Another source at the airport said, “We were earlier looking at the terminal building becoming functional by December next year and the multi-level car parking by December 2022. Now both the projects are expected to be completed at the same time. It will be an advantage.” The revamped terminal building will help the airport handle growing passenger traffic and ease congestion inside the terminal. The new building will be able to process 2,300 passengers (1700 domestic and 600 international flyers) during the peak hours. The build-up area of the terminal is more than 5 lakh square feet and the estimated cost of the building is Rs 475 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-delays-airport-terminal/articleshow/78797991.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 22, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic polls: ‘Can’t spend Rs 3,000 per month to get septic tanks cleaned’||JAIPUR: Like any other assembly constituency, wards in Sanganer are suffering from basic civic amenities. The major issue that the residents face here is lack of sewerage network. And the problem becomes more acute as the areas in which half of the people are living don’t have sewer lines. Every household is connected to a separate septic tank which has to be cleaned every other week. People are forced to shell out extra money for this purpose. Neeraj Shankar, a resident of the area, said, “I have to get the tank cleaned every week that takes around Rs 3,000 a month. We have written to every minister, MLA, officials, but this problem is yet to be solved.” Many economically weaker families are finding it difficult to survive in the area as they do not have money to clean the tank every week. As the municipal election dates are coming closer, people have started questioning the value of their vote if basic facilities are not available to them. “After sewerage, there are no roads in my area. I live in Ward number 90, but a few metre from our ward, new roads are being laid down. Our ward is completely neglected. There are no proper roads in the entire ward,” said Shakuntala Sharma. These areas have become unsafe due to no street lights. There are many places that are still in darkness and places where there are street lights, most of them are not functioning. Another issue that people raised is the problem of sanitation. For the last few months, garbage collection vehicles are not coming on regular basis creating unhygienic condition in the localities. After many complaints to the officials, vehicles come once or twice a week. Ashok Lahoty is the sitting MLA of Sanganer constituency and is also former mayor of Jaipur. Before delimitation, there were 13 wards in Sanganer which has been increased to 33 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cant-spend-rs-3k-per-month-to-get-septic-tanks-cleaned/articleshow/78797993.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
October 22, 2020||Chandigarh||NSUI submits memo, asks PU to look into students’ issues||CHANDIGARH: Members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) submitted a memorandum raising various issues, which the students have been facing after the lockdown, to the PU authorities on Wednesday. The memorandum states that there is no clarity among the final year students regarding their result. They have demanded that every exit semester student should get their result as soon as possible or the university should promote both odd and even semester students or give a special chance for every reappear candidate through online exams. Many students are facing problem in getting admissions to next courses as the admission process in most of the institutes is about to get over. They also raised the issue of hostellers, who were asked to vacate hostels immediately or pay Rs 1,000 as fine, which was unjustified. This fine should be revoked and there should be a time-bound for vacating the hostels. They also demanded that a provision should be added for clearing the dues on Saturday-Sunday as most students come to vacate hostels on the weekends. Rahul Kumar, former vice-president of the Panjab University Campus Student Council (PUCSC), said the university was not in a mood to take students’ problems seriously and if no action was taken on their demands, they would hold a mass protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nsui-submits-memo-asks-pu-to-look-into-students-issues/articleshow/78798000.cms||---
